Good morning.
My name is Lori and I'll be your conference operator.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the International Paper First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Tom Cleves Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Lori.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining International Paper's First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Our key speakers this morning are John Faraci Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Tim Nicholls Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Mary Laschinger Senior Vice President and President of xpedx will also participate in today's call.
During the call we will make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
These are outlined on Slide 2 of the presentation.
We will also present certain non-U.S.
GAAP financial information.
A reconciliation of those figures to U.S.
GAAP financial measures is available on our website.
Our website also contains copies of the first quarter 2011 earnings press release and today's presentation slides.
I'll now turn the call over to John Faraci.
Okay.
Thanks Tom.
And just before I get started you're moving off to another assignment shortly.
Thank you for your work with investors over the last 3-plus years.
Thank you John.
Okay.
For the first quarter we characterize this a good solid quarter for International Paper.
The momentum that we talked about with you last year that started to build in the second quarter of 2010 continues.
One of the things that really made a difference for International Paper it has made a difference and continues to make a difference is our global balance.
And as we talk about our performance during as Tim will you'll see that global balance really starting to pay off in our results.
First quarter were solid returns again in the cost of capital range.
Operating EPS of $0.74 versus $0.04 a year ago and up 18% sequentially quarter-to-quarter.
During the quarter as you know we also increased our dividend for the third time and increased it to slightly above prerecession levels.
And during the quarter we announced a strategic entry into the India paper and packaging markets.
So just turning to that slide here a brief financial snapshot before I turn it over to Tim.
Sales were up 10%; we improved EBITDA margins up 400 basis points over the first quarter 60 points -- 60 basis points over the fourth quarter; we continued very strong free cash flow; and a first quarter that always is and was seasonally weak.
And this time is impacted by quite a bit of bad weather in the January-February timeframe; continued debt reduction; and continue to have a strong cash balance on the balance sheet.
So with that I'll turn it over to Tim to take you through the first quarter in somewhat more detail.
Okay.
Thanks John.
Good morning everybody.
As John said we did have a very strong quarter in the first quarter but not without some headwinds.
Volume was seasonally weak.
We are typically slower in Russia slower in Brazil slower in North America.
But we did have the weather-related impact in North America that hit us as well and I'll speak more about that when I come to the Industrial Packaging business.
We also had higher input cost and I'll speak more about those in details.
But we were really carried by the strength of our operations and it wasn't just here in North America it was really around the world.
The other notable item on this page was the really strong results from Ilim and I'll share some more details with you in just a few minutes about their fourth quarter our first quarter reported.
If you turn to the next page we've got our normal input costs breakout and we had close to $50 million in the first quarter.
It was really in line with our expectations weighted towards North America.
We had about 80% of the increase in North America and then 20% in Europe.
The Packaging businesses were able to cover the input costs increases with operational improvements.
Printing Papers was hit disproportionately in the quarter by energy chemicals and wood and I'll talk a little bit more about that when we get to the Printing Papers segment.
So let me turn to each of the segments now and I'll start with Industrial Packaging.
We had a really solid first quarter even with the weather impacts and the rising costs.
We had purposely pulled back a little bit on export shipments towards the end of last year for the first quarter anticipating higher box demand in the U.S.
and then the weather got in the way.
But I think it was a real strength that the business was able to react quickly take the market-related downtime that they needed to.
And so if you look at the volume bucket there 10 million of that 14 million was really related to market-related downtime around North American box.
Had very solid operations really across all the mills and converting facilities not just here in the U.S.
but globally.
Turning to the next page we look at margins.
In North America the ability of the business to really react quickly led to the highest margins in the industry in the first quarter.
If you look at the blue bar.
And if you look at the shifts the delta between the green which was first quarter of last year and the blue first quarter this year we have the largest improvement year-over-year at over 900 basis points.
I think the real strength of the business and our ability to react quickly is highlighted on the next page where we are really different from most in terms of how we're positioned across multiple channels to market.
And you can see in the green boxes we're integrated to a level of about 80% that includes both the U.S.
channel and our box brands overseas.
And we have about 20% of volume going to the open market both here in North America and in the export channels.
And really what the business is doing is focusing on the right channel mix period-by-period to maximize value and that focus has led us to be a consistent long-term supplier in all of these channels over time.
Last slide on North American Industrial Packaging on the next page is just some data points to highlight the strength of the quarter.
It's not our seasonally strongest quarter it's probably our seasonally weakest quarter because of our heavy orientation to agriculture packaging.
And that's really a second quarter event.
But we had a really strong quarter with improved margins and part of that margin improvement has come from the realization of price increases from the announcements that we made last year.
If you look at it year-over-year first quarter-to-first quarter we've realized just over $90 per ton in price increases.
So we feel really good about that.
We also generated cost of capital returns in the first quarter running at an operating rate of 93%.
So the way we think about it we look at it and we say "Hey there's still some earnings runway here." We took almost 100 000 tons of market downtime in the quarter and still had a cost of capital return.
To turn to Printing Papers on the next page.
Another great quarter in Printing Papers and it was really balanced around the world.
Printing Papers incurred almost half of the total company input costs increases driven by energy and chemicals.
We have volumes up in North America and Europe in uncoated free sheet.
We're seasonally weak in Russia and Brazil as I mentioned.
It's really the weakest quarters they have.
And we had stable prices and a slightly negative mix impact.
That's kind of a normal occurrence in the first quarter given our customer mix in Brazil.
And again strong operating results in both Europe and Brazil.
Let me turn to Consumer Packaging now.
And I thought Consumer Packaging just had an excellent quarter.
They benefited from lighter outage quarter but even if you exclude that still had earnings up 30% in the quarter.
And it was really on the strength of all of the businesses.
John mentioned the global balance and this is a pretty good example of it.
Volumes in North America were up 9%.
Backlogs continue to be strong.
We're still running at 5-plus weeks.
Prices were up in all of the regions quarter-on-quarter.
And if you look at price levels year-on-year North America's up $92 a ton.
Our Asia business is up $80 and Europe we’re up EUR 130 per ton in Europe.
Operations again strong in all of the regions including North America where we struggled with mill performance over the past few years.
Our Augusta mill finally turned the corner and we had the first favorable operating results since 2006 in Augusta.
So if we concentrated first on North American Coated Paperboard.
Let me just show you some history on the improvement.
If you go back to 2008 we’ve had a 900-basis-point improvement through the end of last year.
And it's really a combination of 3 things: it's restructured commercial contracts and better performance there its improving operating results in the mills here and it's managing the supply chain better.
And now you can see we're at a marginal level in the first quarter a run rate of 23%.
Again it's a light outage quarter but I think the business has positioned itself to be able to achieve margins in the low 20s throughout the year.
Turn to the next page and I'll talk about what I call the other Packaging business.
We spent a lot of time talking about Industrial Packaging business but Coated Paperboard is a global business for us.
It's a large business at about 3 million tons globally and North America is a big part of that but it's only part.
We also have a very attractive business in Eastern Europe Russia and we have our Sun joint venture in Asia.
And you can see the margins for all 3 regions.
Asia looks low at 11% but all our earning cost-of-capital returns in Asia gets there by way of a lower capital base and higher turns.
So Asia's turning their capital roughly 2x versus a little over one in North America.
Now let me turn to xpedx where we had a slightly better quarter in the first quarter than in the fourth quarter of last year but we were well behind the first quarter of last year.
And really there's several major factors to that.
First of all paper pricing is increasing and so there's been a little bit of a margin squeeze from that.
But we've also seen higher freight and higher fuel cost that hit margins in the first quarter and then there was a negative LIFO accounting charge in the quarter that we didn't have last year.
So all in all a better quarter in the first quarter but not where we think the business will run on a more normalized basis.
And as I mentioned on our last quarterly call the business team has been undergoing a strategic review to dramatically improve earnings.
And today we have Mary Laschinger who is the President of xpedx with us to share some of those plans.
so Mary I'll turn it over to you.
Thanks Tim.
Good morning everyone.
We're going to use the next few slides to provide an overview of the xpedx profit improvement plan that was mentioned during the fourth quarter earnings call earlier this year.
Just a little bit of background.
Our Distribution business in North America is comprised primarily of independent paper and packaging distributors that were acquired by International Paper over the last many years.
Prior to the 2009 recession we were making significant progress and achieving the synergies from all of those acquisitions through increasing our sales revenue and most importantly improving the bottom line which is shown on Slide 17.
And we were showing great progress towards generating cost-of-capital return.
Then the recession hit in 2009 and our sales declined by more than 15%.
And demand in our primary segment Commercial Print was especially hit hard and our earnings dropped by about 25%.
And so the organization and the business went into aggressively reducing operating costs.
And you can see we started to see improvement in 2010 but we're still performing below expectations and what we believe to be our potential.
But this reset in the business in 2009 caused us to initiate a strategic review of the business.
So over the last 6 months we've been conducting that strategy review and we've confirmed that this business still has significant improvement opportunities.
Also as part of the study we benchmarked other distribution companies as shown in Slide 18.
And the data shows that although our asset turns are best in class our margins lag.
We're pleased with our position in terms of against other packaging and paper distributors but our goal is to become one of the best among all distributors.
The external benchmarking and the internal analysis confirmed that we have potential significantly to generate significantly better returns.
And therefore our plans are to accelerate the profit improvement plans that we had started prior to the recession.
Our strategy for the business remains the same.
We're committed to maintaining our position as the largest supplier to the print segment and we're going to continue to invest in the higher growth segments of packaging and facility solutions.
But to support the strategy and to achieve the step change in earnings we are going to be focusing our change effort around the 3 key drivers in the Distribution business which are outlined on Slide 19.
We believe by focusing improvements on these key drivers we can improve our earnings by over $140 million annually.
If you look at our Distribution business what we do is we buy products from mills and manufacturers.
We handle these products through our network of warehouses and our delivery truck fleet and we sell these products to a variety of customers.
In order for us to achieve significantly better returns we've got to be operationally excellent in all 3 of these functions and that's what our goal is.
For example in the buy function we have further opportunity to centralize our procurement processes and decision-making so that we can more effectively leverage our size and scale and most importantly provide a consistent product and service offering to our customers.
For example today in our Packaging segment we have about 150 tape suppliers and over 1 200 SKUs.
By rationalizing the number of suppliers to a few strategic suppliers and reducing the total number of SKUs we have the opportunity to improve our asset turns and improve our margins.
In the handle function we manage and operate over 100 warehouses across North America.
We have further opportunity to optimize our warehouse network and inventory around our customer demand which will allow us to streamline our operations with fewer more efficient facilities.
For example we recently announced our plan to consolidate 3 facilities in the Salt Lake City area to one larger more efficient facility which will be centrally located to support our customer needs.
We are also in the process of implementing world-class warehouse management systems and fleet routing and tracking systems.
With all of these initiatives we have the ability to further reduce our operating costs and improve service to our customers.
It is our intent to continue to service all of the geographic markets that we currently serve.
Finally in our selling function we have opportunities to increase productivity of our sales force and invest in additional field marketing capability for the higher growth Packaging and facility solutions segments.
For us to achieve the $140 million of earnings improvement we're going to incur about $100 million of net cash costs over about a 3-year time period.
We're very confident in our ability to implement the plan and improving the earnings and most importantly generate greater than cost-of-capital return over the next 3 years.
So with that Tim I'll turn it back to you.
Thanks Mary.
Let me turn to Ilim and talk about what was a great quarter.
Again this is Ilim's fourth quarter our first quarter because we report on a one-quarter lag but -- volume was up slightly price was essentially flat on Pulp and operations had a record quarter.
So all in all Ilim turned in the result we expected and we expect that result to continue to improve as we go into our second quarter their first.
And just to recap for you we did -- John mentioned the dividend we received in the first quarter that now brings the total dividends received from Ilim over the history of the joint venture to right at $200 million on a $650 million investment.
So if you look at Ilim's results today and we recorded on an equity accounting basis but if we were consolidating Ilim would have the highest return on investment in the company at right at 25% with 30%-plus EBITDA margins.
So one last slide before I turn it back over to John and this is really a summary slide.
We look at the transformation plan which happens 3 or 4 years ago what we say that that transformation plan is really working.
And if you go back to 2008 we thought we were on pace to have a cost-of-capital year in 2009 before the crisis had.
So as we come through 2010 and recover faster than probably what most expectations were we positioned ourselves in the second half of last year to have a cost-of-capital year in 2011.
And in the first quarter we're in that zone and we see the momentum continuing.
So we expect that in 2011 we'll have the year we expected to have in 2009.
And with that I'll turn it back over to John for the outlook.
Hey Tim thanks.
I'm going to start the quarter by just repeating what Tim just said.
The momentum continues.
Despite the input cost headwinds that we got we got the right businesses in the right places with good discipline and focus execution.
And what that's leading to is continued strong earnings per share results free cash flow and ROI.
So I'm now on the chart that shows all the red yellow and green that is really how we think about the outlook going forward.
Near term is more of the same.
We're going to get some seasonal volume improvement.
That's around the world not just in North America.
Some sales pricing improvement.
Another solid quarter at Ilim.
We got 2 significant changes in the second quarter one internal that we managed and that's -- we're going to the second quarter with a lot of outages that were planned as the -- our heavy-outage quarter.
So that's going to cost us about $0.11 a share kind of quarter-over-quarter.
And we see more input cost headwinds specifically transportation.
As Tim said we had $50 million in the first quarter this year versus the fourth quarter.
And the second quarter we don't know how it's going to turn out but it could easily be another $50 million.
So with that though we still expect the second quarter to be solid.
We expect good operations.
We expect strong cash flow and we expect good solid return on investment across the International Paper portfolio.
And with that I think we'll -- I'll turn it back to you Tom for questions.
Thanks John.
Thanks Tim and Mary.
One personal note this'll be my final quarterly earnings call as the Head of Investor Relations at IP.
I've enjoyed working with the investment community over the last 4 years and I appreciate your support.
I'm turning the IR reins over to a good friend of mine Glenn Landau.
Glenn has been with IP for more than 20 years.
He has worked in our U.S.
and European Container businesses.
He headed up strategic planning for our Forest Products business and for the last 4 years he's been running our Containerboard and Recycling businesses.
I look forward to introducing Glenn to many of you in person.
Glenn and Emily and I will be available after the Q&amp;A for follow-up questions.
With that I'll turn the call over to Lori for the first question.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Chip Dillon of Credit Suisse.
I had a question actually about Ilim.
You mentioned how you pulled almost $200 million out of that investment.
And could you just remind us how the footprint of Ilim has changed since you made the investment in '07 and I know that's going to continue into '12 with the pulp expansion and what have their balance sheet changes been? Well the footprint Chip hasn't changed a whole lot.
It's in the process of changing.
We did sell an interest in a bleached board mill that we had that was part of Ilim but the 3 big assets that we purchased the uncoated free sheet and containerboard facility in the north northwest to Kotlas and the 2 Siberian pulp mills are -- they're still in the portfolio.
We built a box plant.
That's new.
And we're right at I'd say the first third of the modernization strategy that was part of the whole acquisition that where there's a project going on at Kotlas in the northwest at a paper machine and a coater.
The paper machine was relocated from a mill that IP shut down Inverurie in the U.K.
And then the big pulp modernization and expansion project in Bratsk is underway.
So the footprint is in the process of changing.
Ilim is funding that capital project through its own balance sheet and through the free cash flow they're generating.
So their debt their balance sheet debt is going up but it's on their balance sheet and it's well within Ilim's financial capability to service that debt.
And then just a quick follow-up on Consumer Packaging.
It's nice to see the bleached board business coming back to levels like we used to see it back in the '80s and '90s and I've noticed the improvement is mostly in the U.S.
I saw that Europe did well is up as well.
But as you look ahead as you look at the Asian number which seems to be stuck somewhere in the 10 million per quarter range in terms of it's operating income how could that improve going forward consistent with what we've seen recently in North America and Europe? Or is it sort of at its potential right now? Chip it's Tom Kadien who oversees the bleached board business around the world is here.
So I'll just let him take that question.
Our business in China the JV is essentially sold out.
So we're capped on through-put.
If you look we're selling about 200 000 somewhat 220 000 tons a quarter I think.
We were flat year-over-year in terms of output.
It's a nonintegrated facility.
We have to manage our margins there and we did a great job recovering our margins in the first quarter after the runoff in pulp prices hit us in the second half of last year.
We had about an 11% ROI on the business in the first quarter.
If you look at the first half of last year I think we were at our high point of about 15% ROI.
And that's the range that we're going to be in until the new machine starts up which will be about the fourth quarter of 2012 the next machine.
Got you.
And let me just say thanks to Tom who I think has been terrific in helping us understand your company better.
Congratulations Tom.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Skidmore of Goldman Sachs.
John just wanted to spend maybe just a minute on Containerboard and how you see your inventories trending through the quarter given the amount of maintenance downtime that you're expecting to take? Yes Rick.
This is Carol I'll take that question.
Clearly as you can see we have a very big outage quarter coming in the second quarter.
And then that will be combined with what we'll see as the seasonal uptick in box demand mainly driven by the seasonality of agriculture of which is a significant part of our portfolio.
So the expectation for us is that our inventories will come down due to that imbalance through the quarter.
We entered the quarter at about where we need to be.
I'm hopeful that the challenge will be for us if there's an uptick in demand that will create a challenge but that will be fine.
We'll manage through that.
So that's the phenomenon that we're going to face as we go through the second quarter.
And Rick our inventories are down 30 000 tons in March compared to February and also down compared to the end of last year.
And then just sticking with Containerboard.
On Slide 11 you showed the slide where your prices on boxes were $91 Q1 '11 versus Q1 '10.
How do you reconcile that with pulp and paper weight showed if you look at -- that you had pulp and paper weight prices up up essentially $110 over that time period? Rick this is Carol again.
That's a great question.
What we have to remember is these are quarterly averages.
And so as you recall prices were rising through the first quarter of last year.
So we could average those.
If you go from -- if I extract the data on a monthly basis the high point -- from the low point to the high point on box pricing for us is about $107 a ton.
So you have to just take that in consideration.
That's a quarterly average.
We think -- Rick this is Tim.
We felt like we got the full increase.
And then just one last question John if I might just on the India acquisition.
Can you just talk about that business a little bit more and how you see that impacting 2011 and sort of your strategy within India given that recent acquisition? Well we don't know how it's going to impact 2011 because we haven't closed on it yet and we don't know when we're going to close.
But we expect we will close at some point in time during the year.
I'll let Tom Kadien talk to that because he's the one who spent all the time in India over the last year getting us to the point where we said we're ready to go.
Right now we're in a 90-day approval period where we have to get approval of both the Bank of India and Security Exchange Bureau of India (sic) [Securities and Exchange Board of India].
We expect that will end around the end of June.
So we're hopeful to close.
We've got no indication of any issues so it could close early third quarter.
The first phase for us is really to optimize the assets that are on the ground.
We think that we can get about 20% productivity improvement out of the existing pulp mill and paper machines that are at the 2 locations and we think we can do that inside of 2 years with really no capital.
After that sort of what I would call Phase 2 2 years down the road we'll be looking at expansion projects as we have when we got into other emerging markets.
So I think it'll be incrementally positive.
The business has got good EBITDA margins right now 23% and we think we can improve on that the next year or 2.
I'd say we'll talk more about India once we had the business closed.
But this looks to us like Poland looked with Kwidzyn like Ilim looked very attractive opportunities to build out what's there in a market that's got a lot of growth ahead of it both in paper and packaging.
The next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub of Buckingham research.
Inc.</strong> Thank you and thank you for that presentation on xpedx.
I thought it was really clear.
There are a couple of follow-up questions I did have.
One is the $140 million can you give us a sense of timing on when you're hoping to see that improvement flow to the bottom line.
And if it's possible perhaps to give us a sense as to which of the buckets would it come from if it's the buy the handle the sell or how you might think about from a kind of bottoms-up perspective to how to get to the $140 million? That'd be a great start.
Mark Mary Laschinger.
First of all in terms of the timing of the $140 million we would begin to see those benefits impact the business as early as next year and would hope to see the full benefit within a 3-year time period.
In terms of where those benefits come from from the key levers of the business.
They're across the board on all 3 of those and they're fairly well equally weighted.
Inc.</strong> And then just shifting gears.
In the Containerboard business you mentioned you had taken about 100 000 tons of market-related downtime primarily I guess weather related et cetera.
Order of -- wouldn't that cost like $25 million or $30 million? So is that a partial offset to the step-up in the maintenance downtime we'll see in the second quarter? Mark this is Carol again.
I would say that your number's a little high.
If you think about it from an unabsorbed fixed cost perspective it would probably be in the -- probably $12 million range.
And then in addition to that one of the things that we've gotten pretty good at is we actually like our flexibility.
Our ability to match our supply to our demand where that used to be kind of a big headwind now we're pretty good.
So we optimize the system optimizing low-cost fiber.
So I don't think we had much of a consumption penalty with that downtime.
But Mark since that comes up pretty quickly and we planned outages well and ahead to schedule contractors in we can do a little work.
But we can't do the outage work when we have market-related downtime because we're doing that on the fly not planning ahead for it.
Inc.</strong> I understand that $12 million for the unabsorbed fixed -- presumably though perhaps you were then you using the fact that you'll have more tonnage to make profits on.
You'd throw that into the seasonality bucket and that will also be a partial offset to the maintenance downtime is that the way that you're thinking of it? I just want to make sure that I'm not undercounting the kind of offset to the maintenance downtime.
Yes I think the big offset that we would see for ourselves will be the seasonal uptick in volume.
So we will see a stronger second quarter on volume than the first and that's the lever that we've got to offset the increase in costs due to the outages.
And you've got the uncertainty of what input costs are going to do Mark.
That's a bit of a wild card at this point.
But they're probably headed up.
And if the wild card is...
The wild card is how much.
Inc.</strong> I think you mentioned $50 million might be a read for the overall company.
Yes.
[indiscernible] $50 million -- first to ForEx [ph] though.
It could be another $50 million first to second.
Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos of the Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
And Tom and Glenn congratulations on the new roles.
And you guys do a wonderful job on Investor Relations so keep it up.
I guess the first question I had and maybe piggybacking off of Mark's question hopefully not putting too fine a point on this.
I mean at this juncture given what you can see would it be unreasonable to expect a sequential drop in 2Q earnings versus 1Q or is it too hard to call that at this juncture? George you know we don't give guidance.
I know but I always try.
I will take that and duly note it for next call.
Okay maybe a question for Carol.
Carol as we think about the Industrial Packaging business and the opportunity that you have to improve returns over the next 2 to 3 years and here I'm thinking mostly about North America do you see more opportunity within the box business improve returns? Or do you see it more in the way of mill optimization and further integration there? How should we think about that? George it's a great question.
And my learning from being in this business for the time I've been in it is it's a large business.
And if you want to move the bottom line you got to have a systemic approach.
And in my opinion it needs to be a fairly broad-based approach because one thing is not going to move the needle.
So we have still opportunity to get better there's no doubt.
We have a very systemic approach on our mills side.
We have focus on consumption fiber energy chemicals.
We have focus on reliability which then ends up impacting our spending.
And we've got capital projects which I've referenced in the past relative to some very high return targeted.
We're talking in the million-dollars range not 50 or 100 by project.
Box plant is equally important and the great part about the box business is you got to play offense and defense.
Meaning you need very good competitive facilities and so we're focused there on waste productivity throughput.
Bricks and mortar.
We closed 3 facilities last fourth quarter because we can get more through the bricks and mortar we have.
But simultaneously with that we've got to be focused on our commercial effectiveness.
This is a game that you're selling and it's a broad-based selling effort.
So we've got a lot of effort there around making sure that we sell value that we price well that we do the right things there.
And then the other thing we've got is supply chain.
I mean we move 10 million tons across the globe.
And there's a lot of opportunity to keep getting better and smarter in that and we are making that probably the last piece of our Weyerhaeuser work.
We're putting our operating model in the Weyerhaeuser mills right now and that's going to allow us to really make a step change in how we operate that part.
All that said at the end of the day the key theme that we've got to do is build low-cost mills for competitive advantage and manage supply to demand.
I mean this business has to be run well from that perspective and then have a great box system to take it to market.
And then as we put in our presentation leverage our global reach to find the best markets and optimize.
So we've got a really great hand to play and I'm convinced we've got more opportunity to make it better.
And George we talked about shifting from integrating the business to optimizing it.
As Carol talked about optimizing a $9-billion business doesn't happen in 12 months.
The supply chain capability we're going to have across the mill systems as we go into 2012 is going to enable us to really take another chunk of working capital out because we're going to have less rolling stock moving around the system because we're going to have much better visibility into how to schedule mills and get the right rolling stock to the right box plants.
John I realized it's a bit of an oversimplification but given that you're now at cost of capital or higher return to within Industrial Packaging and I'm presuming within North America -- perhaps one strategy might be to as you optimize to also perhaps shrink some of your capacity either in converting or in production so as to preserve and grow the returns from that avenue.
What is in your view wrong with that thinking or what are the opportunities down the road perhaps for that to occur? Well as Carol said we're going to match our supply to demand.
We made a major shift footprint when we decided to permanently close 2 big facilities Albany Oregon and Pineville Louisiana.
The box business is recovering but not fully recovered.
I mean we're going to get back to 2000 levels of box consumption and I'm talking about the industry now.
It's just a question of how many years is it going to take but that's going to happen.
So we're not looking at a business that's got a shrinking demand and as Tim pointed out we have -- our strategy is to serve all 3 markets: the independent market in the U.S.
the integrated market and the export market.
And the global demand for virgin linerboard is growing at 3% a year where the U.S.
is the low-cost producer.
And we're the low-cost producer in the U.S.
So we're not going to go build another linerboard mill but we're not looking to shrink the business because we don't see the market shrinking.
Last question and I'll turn it over.
With Augusta can you remind us what have been some of the issues with that mill in terms of turning around? I think you said you had your first up quarter I forget exactly how you phrased it but the comparison was versus 2006.
I recall wood fiber being one of the factors and so if that was the case would it take so long to turn the mill back to where you'd wanted it to be? Thanks.
Good luck on the quarter guys.
Much more of the wood costs.
I think Tom can talk to that.
Yes it's really -- we under-invested in Augusta for a couple of years going back 5 years.
And it was more about maintenance and reliability of the whole process from the back end through the machines and we've just gotten our process back under control.
We've invested more than our usual share of maintenance capital over the last 2 years and we worked our way from the back end to the machines and have improved for reliability.
So we're seeing significantly better quality and throughput and we don't have the upsets that we're managing from weekend or month in and out.
It's all about reliability.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly of CLSA.
Two things.
John Mary gave us a pretty clear rundown of what you're doing within distribution to get that back to where you had it headed before.
Can you just walk us through and remind us what the strategic benefits of being in that business are? It's been a long road obviously but I think that you guys believe pretty deeply in that business and maybe a little more deeply than some of your investors do.
We do.
80% of what xpedx sells IP makes.
They're heavy into the paper merchant channel and they're heavy in the packaging.
And that's International Paper's core business in North America.
And the merchant channel happens to be a big channel for paper companies because a lot of paper gets sold to the merchants.
And xpedx happens to be our largest merchant customer but we have a lot of very good and very strategic independent customers.
So we don't run the business on an integrated business we run it as a standalone profit center.
And it's a great window to the market for us around paper and packaging.
If xpedx was in the plumbing supplies business we wouldn't be in it because that's not our core business but paper and packaging is.
And we're figuring out ways also to go joint the market with xpedx and some of the other IP businesses where we have a capability to do something having distribution and manufacturing that the competition just has distribution or just has manufacturing doesn't have.
Now having said that xpedx has got to earn its cost of capital on its own capital.
It's a different kind of business.
As Mary said it's a buy-handle-sell business not a capital-intensive process business.
So the linkage the strategic linkage is what xpedx sells.
Very helpful.
And just one more question on container.
It seems to me that you not only offset your cost in the quarter but as I look at the cost themselves it looked like you managed the input costs a little bit better than some of the competitors did this quarter too.
So I'm wondering if Carol if we could just ask you one more time what specifically were you doing this quarter that you think drove your performance to look so much better? Well once again I would say we had a very good quarter.
We did operate well.
And I think the fact that believe it or not that we possibly had matching our supply to our demand we had that downtime.
We were able to flex our fiber where we ran.
And we backed out some of our highest cost fiber the OCC and leverage virgin which was good.
We continue to see the modest growth which was helpful.
So I think those are some of the things that we -- we've got a great system.
And one of the things we're building in to our mindset and to our operations is flexibility.
And so we have operators by control room Mark that are focused on how to get gas out of boilers how to optimum-ly run based upon the demand we've got.
So I think that's a real competitive advantage we've got.
It's a big system.
And if you can get your hands around it you can really leverage it for benefit.
And commercially Mark if you look at our results I mean they speak for themselves we've gotten $90-plus of price improvement in the box business year-over-year and we're still getting price improvement in the box business through the first quarter.
I mean we've managed -- we're managing the business very well in the commercial side.
Your next question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman of UBS.
I was wondering if we could talk a little bit about underlying demand trends and help us see through some of the seasonal noise that happened in the first quarter and what you're seeing kind of early in the second quarter.
I think we're seeing what we would expect Gail.
Seasonal improvement in the U.S.
in the face of -- the GDP number just came out was 1.8%.
March feels a whole lot better than January and February for obvious reasons.
And April is feeling like it's the usual kind of April and call it at 2% GDP environment.
So we're feeling pretty positive about demand in the U.S.
but not euphoric.
On the paper side -- I mean the underlying structural issues haven't changed.
We just got a recovering economy.
I think March was the first month that we had fairly strong paper shipments.
So even if we get a couple of months of positive I mean year-over-year paper shipments we still think the underlying demand trends are slightly down.
We'll have to see how that plays out.
Around the world it's a different story.
I mean Brazil paper shipments were up 7% quarter-over-quarter.
Our box business including Turkey which we do equity accounting we've since take the volume for our box business.
And in Europe it was up 11% quarter-over-quarter.
So those kinds of numbers are indicative of the fact that the world outside North America is growing at pretty healthy rates and we're in those markets.
And that's kind of one of the IP differences.
So the bleached board business looks quite solid.
That business came back faster than Containerboard.
In terms on the demand side it fell very sharply in the first quarter last year.
That was the low watermark but we're back to sold out with strong backlogs.
So it feels like a recovering but not a fully recovered economy in North America.
And outside North America it feels like the rest of the world.
Even places like Europe where we think we really have problems are showing some pretty good growth for us especially in packaging.
Okay thanks.
That's helpful perspective.
Not to deliver the issue too much but just going back to the operating issues you might have had because of the weather in the first quarter.
Is that separate from the $10 million $12 million downtime incremental market downtime that you had? And if so is that something you could quantify? I'll let Carol speak to it.
But what I was talking about Gail was that we had stepped back from the export market's a little bit anticipating higher box shipments in North America and then weather hit.
And so we had to react to -- we had to react with the manufacturing system to what we were experiencing in the market.
Gail I would add that I think the hit in the quarter from the weather was mainly a volume hit.
I think we managed the cost side of that extremely well.
And it didn't hit on mills other than as Tim said little less demand which we actually I think to some respect took advantage of and our box business responded very well.
So I don't see the weather as a huge cost hit in the quarter.
I see it as a volume deduct.
It was more around converting plants in xpedx locations that weren't running because people couldn't get to work or people could get to work customers couldn't take product.
It wasn't as Carol said impacting the operation of our big mills which has happened before when we get cold weather.
This is more unusual and it hit the converting plants in the markets where we're shipping to customers.
That said for those plants that were impacted there was a headwind there and they worked very hard to make that back up so.
Okay that's helpful.
And just going back to the India acquisition.
You mentioned the market feels a lot like kind of Poland and Russia when you went in.
I know you are acquiring some plantations with those assets but Poland and Russia actually has a pretty good fiber base for your operations.
I'm just wondering kind of how you view that in India or is the plantations there something you can build on or not to support growth? Yes they are.
We're excited about APPM.
It is not unique but it's one of the a few -- not every paper and packaging company in India has plantations that they can get fiber from.
And we think the -- to kind of the farmer forestry program that APPM has is a good one and can be expanded.
Gail just to be clear though.
We do not own those fiber plantations.
Those are owned by private landowners about 40 000 of them who grow trees and provide them to APPM.
So you just have contract agreement for the volume then.
And Gail I wouldn't characterize Poland as having a great fiber base.
Some of the most expensive wood in the world for us.
Russia is different story.
And just one last question just broadly speaking.
The dividend is back say way above where it is.
You're making some acquisitions that is kind of approaching target.
Just any update on how you view capital allocation over the next year or 2.
I mean would we expect to see more return to shareholder more acquisition? I think you'd expect to see more of the same.
We've been balanced and we said we wanted to be balanced.
And so I think if you look at our actions over the past year you see that balance and how we're thinking about it has not changed.
Our final question comes from the line of Mark Wilde of Deutsche Bank.
Congratulations it was a good quarter.
I just want to also add my compliment to Tom Cleves.
I think he's done an outstanding job.
And actually I think the disclosure that the company is putting out today is just light years ahead of where we were 10 years ago.
The questions I had -- first of all in the Industrial Packaging business can you just talk a little bit about how the performance is from a profitability standpoint in Europe and in Asia? I think you're not integrated in both of those areas.
I'll start with the Asia piece Mark this is Tom Kadien.
We're in the middle of integrating the SCA box plants that we acquired less than a year ago.
And we're also really focused on pushing our prices as we've had significant OCC pricing increases that flowed through to the recycle containerboard that we buy.
We've caught up with the SCA plants.
We were breakeven in the quarter but much better than that in the month of March and we're seeing progress on the acquisitions there.
But it's been a tough environment to raise box prices in.
In Europe Mark our Industrial Packaging business makes double-digit returns.
I mean if you take the first quarter and annualize it they were at double-digit ROI.
And then also in the Containerboard business I'm just curious maybe from Carol's standpoint could you envision a scenario where you might look at shutting down some smaller machines here in North America and maybe putting in something that was a larger machine or potentially a machine that gave you the ability to run lighter-weight products? I think Mark we'll always be evaluating our footprint and seeking ideas to unlock more value.
And if ideas like that had a stellar return from an investment perspective I mean I think that would definitely be something we'd consider.
I'm not sure I've seen the math that would tell me that we're there yet.
We don't -- our system is pretty good today so it's not like we've got some low-hanging fruit to go eliminate the real high-cost inefficient facility.
But we will always continue to evaluate our mill footprint to match supply with demand and make it lower cost.
And then just finally on the cost side.
I wondered -- have you put in a freight surcharges? And could you just talk with us about any contracts or hedges that you might have in place that might mute some of the cost pressures in the near term? We really haven't Mark.
It's really difficult to do it on the transportation side.
And surcharges to the extent they exist are really business specific business to business.
The only place we really have them to a small degree is in xpedx but it's really very small.
So it's an exposure that we pretty much take it as it comes and then look to decrease miles.
So our hedge against higher transportation cost is through the supply chain operating model and we can't offset it all when we have these spikes.
The hedges use less of it.
So what about just contracts whether it's for chemicals or whatever that might be -- might provide you a little near-term protection? Well we in terms of our contracts we leverage the size of the company.
As you should.
And so there's not really any hedging out there from a financial instrument standpoint but we use the buying power of International Paper globally to look at how we supply inputs and try to maximize that leverage.
Mark you go across the whole spectrum of commodities and raw materials that we buy we're not buying everything on a truckload by truckload railcar by railcar basis.
But we're not buying anything on multiyear basis either.
So we've got some agreements that re-price every quarter.
We've got some that are coming out every month.
We've got some that are 6 months.
but by and large we're going to see input cost increases if they're out there.
And then finally Tim you mentioned in terms of capital allocation just sort of more the same.
One of the things we haven't seen recently is share repurchase activity.
Is -- now with the dividend back up at $1.05 is it possible that we'd see a little more focus on that over the next 6 to 12 months? Well it's something that we look at but I think that what we want to do is be balanced in terms of how we return cash to shareowners versus other uses of cash.
And we have options around how we do that so I'll just leave it at that.
I'll now return the call over to Tom Cleves for any closing remarks.
Thanks Lori.
Thanks for joining our call today.
And Glenn and Emily and I will be available via telephone for follow-up calls.
Thank you for participating in today's International Paper First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Misty and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the second quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Glenn Landau Vice President of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you Misty.
Good morning and thank you for joining International Paper's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Our key speakers this morning are John Faraci Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Tim Nicholls Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call we will make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which are outlined on Slide 2 of our presentation.
We will also present certain non-U.S.
GAAP financial information.
A reconciliation of those figures to U.S.
GAAP financial measures is available on our website.
Our website also contains copies of the second quarter 2011 earnings press release and today's presentation slides.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
John Faraci.
Thanks Glenn and good morning everybody.
Thanks for calling in.
What we're going to do from here is as we typically do Tim and I will summarize the quarter and then we'll take questions on the quarter.
Then I'll make a couple of comments on the Temple acquisition proposal and if we have time we'll take a couple of questions on that.
So we'll do it in that order.
So let me just start off talking about the second quarter.
International Paper had a very strong second quarter in a recovering but obviously not fully-recovered economic environment here in North America.
Our results were driven by a couple of things: a balanced segment and global portfolio of businesses around the world; very strong contributions from Printing Papers in North America Coated Paperboard in North America and the Ilim Joint Venture; really outstanding operations and cost management that's continuing; good maintenance outage execution during the quarter; some seasonal improvement in demand and we offset significant input costs escalation that Tim will talk about.
This next chart here just shows you the segment and global portfolio balance.
It's part of International Paper's business platform today.
As you can see on the left the good balance in terms of where the earnings came from by segment and on the right good balance in terms of where the earnings came from by geography.
Turning to the financial snapshot page strong revenue growth revenues up 8%.
EBITDA over $900 million in the quarter up 16% from the second quarter of last year a run rate of $3.6 billion.
Our free cash flow amazingly exactly equal to the first quarter but I would say that that also has $40 million of additional capital spending in the second quarter.
So our free cash flow is actually up around 10% if you normalize for capital spending during the quarter.
Really if you look at this next slide here which is the EPS over the last really 10 years you can see there's a step change in our EPS performance.
That’s just the result of the transformation plan.
The 2009 period you're looking at there is the global recession that is now in the rearview mirror.
But importantly our earnings over the last 4 or 5 quarters are not from land sales as they were in the prior years.
So they were really operating earnings from our businesses and as you can see we've achieved here on the step change in terms of the capability of International Paper to generate earnings and free cash flow and we think there's more left on the runway as we go forward.
In terms of return on capital 8% return -- over an 8% return on capital over the last 4 quarters into the cost of capital zone which is important in terms of one of our key metrics.
So with that let me turn it over to Tim to summarize the quarter.
Okay.
Thanks John.
Good morning everyone.
As John said we did have very strong performance in the second quarter.
Volume contributed $0.08 to the change in results from the first quarter.
And I would say that while volume here in North America is really moving sideways and we'll talk about that a little bit in more detail as we go through the slide deck in other parts of the world we're continuing to see growth whether it's Russia or various parts of Asia.
So volume price strong operations and a great results from Ilim more than offset the heavy maintenance outage schedule the heaviest of the year in the second quarter and the impact of the Vicksburg's flood which cost us about $20 million.
Input costs were up in the quarter $31 million in line with expectations about 75% of that in North America and 25% in Europe which has been kind of a theme this year and it's really fiber and energy costs in Europe.
All the businesses industrial and consumer packaging and printing papers also higher costs.
So let me turn to the segments now I'll start with Printing Papers.
And Printing Papers I thought just had an excellent quarter.
We've got a business in North America for the first half.
It's running at a 14% of return on investment.
EMEA first half running at a 17% ROI.
But in the quarter pricing was up across all regions.
Operations were really outstanding big improvement over the first quarter in all regions but especially strong in North America and really good cost management.
We did have the IR outages that I mentioned that was mainly in Europe and Brazil and we had really good execution around all of those.
We did have one issue at the Svetogorsk mill in Russia where we found some things that required us to take a little bit more time and spend a little bit more money probably cost us about $7 million in the quarter.
Let me turn to Industrial Packaging now.
And I thought Industrial Packaging again had a good quarter still running at a 9% return on investment.
Box price was mostly flat down about $5 quarter-on-quarter.
Volume was seasonally stronger up about 170 000 tons but not as strong as we had expected and I'll talk about that a little bit more in a slide or 2.
Operations were really good and again good cost management out of the Industrial Packaging group.
Outages the heaviest quarter of the year but we had great execution across the outages and we also had great execution around the Vicksburg mill.
I think most of you know that we had to take the mill down for 49 days due to the flooding that was experienced on the Mississippi River.
But the manufacturing team the business did a great job protecting the mill.
We had no damage to the mill at all.
It's now back up and running but we did lose about 80 000 tons of production during the quarter.
If you look at margins for Industrial Packaging in North America IP had the highest margins in the industry in the second quarter at 17.6% again in a heavy maintenance outage quarter and year-over-year a solid increase up 180 basis points.
Let me come back and talk about demand for a moment.
As I said we see demand really moving sideways.
And it feels kind of like what it should feel like in a 1% to 2% GDP environment.
The second quarter for us is normally our strongest quarter of the year because of our exposure and weighting to agricultural packaging out on the West Coast.
And we had a much lighter season in the west region around agricultural packaging than we expected mainly due to weather.
So what you've got on the chart here if you look at the blue bars those are total shipments.
And then the gold bars we've pulled out the western region to show what the rest of the country looked like from a demand standpoint.
And as I mentioned we were disproportionately impacted in the quarter relative to the industry because of our weightings.
But just as a couple of examples the strawberry season came late.
So in the quarter we were down almost 6% year-on-year.
Cherries were hit by weather.
I think there was damage from hail and storms and so we saw the cherry production almost cut in half on the West Coast and avocados were down as well.
So it was a number of factors on the West Coast that really hit us hard in the quarter.
Turning to Consumer Packaging another great performance by Consumer Packaging.
Stronger price favorable ops offset by outages and input costs but really solid performance across the businesses.
Price and operations and cost management covered -- nearly covered $20 million in outages and another $9 million in input cost increases and continued to have really strong performance for coated paperboard in all the regions of the world Europe China and the U.S.
And when you look at North American coated paperboard performance for the first half we've got a business that in the first half of 2011 has already earned more than in all of 2010 in the first half of this year is running at a 12% return on investment.
Turning to the distribution business xpedx saw only a slight improvement in earnings quarter-to-quarter really due to pressures from fuel costs and transportation costs.
We did see a bit of a bright spot in packaging which is about 25% of xpedx's business which posted a 9% growth rate quarter-on-quarter.
The Ilim Joint Venture just had a great quarter.
Again we report on a one quarter lag but Ilim's earnings increased in the quarter from $44 million to $57 million.
Volume was up price was up and it was up both for pulp and containerboard.
Operations ran well and just another very strong quarter turned in by the joint venture.
So if you look at margins the first half of this year versus the first half of last year strong performance across all the businesses.
Different sets of challenges region by region business by business.
Different sets of opportunities but business management completely focused on margin management and delivering the earnings and cash flows that we need to across all of the businesses.
And I think if you turn to the next slide and look at returns that's what's really making the difference in terms of our return on investment over the past 4 quarters.
We're now in that cost capital zone and have been across each of the last 4 quarters.
So with that I'll end my summary and turn it back over to John for an outlook on earnings.
Okay.
Thanks Tim.
Before I do that let me just summarize the quarter quickly.
I'd say we got the right assets in the right places.
We're managing aggressively and we're executing well.
The seasonal demand in North America arrived as expected.
But as Tim said the demand is not robust in North America.
Outside North America demand is good.
Latin America China Russia in places like Turkey where we have a big presence in the corrugated packaging business healthy demand.
We've got some flow through on pricing during the quarter.
Our input costs were not as we expected and OCC continues to move up as we look into the third quarter.
And then Ilim delivered just a spectacular quarter.
The Ilim accounted for 18% of our EPS during the quarter.
So let me move on to the third quarter outlook.
That’s the Page 21 for those of you who following along.
The U.S.
economy is growing at 1% to 2%.
And from a demand standpoint it feels like a 1% to 2% GDP economy.
Export demand in containerboard is good but domestically whether it's paper coated paperboard containerboard or xpedx it feels like 1% to 2% GDP growth.
Demand is not up it's not down.
I'd characterize it as moving sideways.
Outside North America as I said demand is solid year-over-year and we think that will continue.
The biggest area of concern as we move into the third quarter is input costs.
And while our outage costs are going to be down $65 million quarter-over-quarter we could easily see that get chewed up all of it gets chewed up by input costs and the biggest headwind we have on the input cost side is OCC.
That could end up accounting for almost half of the input cost increases that we can see on the horizon.
The quarter is not over yet but we can see on the horizon as we look out to the third quarter.
So I will just stop right there and turn it back to Glenn and we'll take your questions.
Misty we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Regarding the Temple-Inland bid there's been a second data request from regulators.
And I was wondering if you could talk maybe with a broad brush about what you're expecting in terms of a timeline for a response from regulators? Yes.
We're going to come back and take Temple questions in just a few minutes.
What we wanted to do was really talk about International Paper's earnings in this Q&amp;A session.
Okay.
Maybe moving to containerboard you discussed the impact of the western region and the agricultural difficulty we've seen there.
Given -- you gave us some color on one of the slides.
Can you talk about to what extent that tonnage has been lost versus maybe just pushed out and when you would expect to see some of those volumes come through in the third quarter if at all? Carol why don't you take that? Anthony the only commodity that I think we get a chance to get back is going to be strawberries.
Strawberries got pushed out.
They're going to come but I think a lot of the other commodities they were just poor harvest and they're gone.
So I think we'll see some strawberries in the third quarter but outside of that I view it as really most of it lost.
I think that's the ag business.
We're having a great fruit and vegetable season in Southern Europe in Morocco and Turkey.
And we didn't have a great one in California we may have a great one next year.
And then maybe outside of ag and containerboard can you talk about how demand trended in the 3 months of the quarter and maybe what you're seeing in July? Yes I would say as we all know after 6 very solid quarters of year-over-year growth in the second quarter for the first time the industry saw a decline.
And I would characterize our performance relative to that similarly.
But when you look inside the quarter Anthony you had April was okay.
May was the low point and then June bounced back to what I would categorize as mostly flat year-over-year.
And it feels like July is trending in that same direction.
Kind of moving sideways as I would call it.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Just 2 questions.
First in containerboard with your outages and other people saw some outages we're not hearing that customers are having difficulty getting boxes.
So would you describe the current inventory situation as healthy or tight? And I'm curious whether you incurred extra costs at your box plants to deal with customer demand this quarter? I will only speak for our situation and I would call our inventories very very tight in May and June.
Obviously when you lose that many tons out of Vicksburg that we intended to use we got way below where we needed to be.
So behind the scenes there was a tremendous amount of juggling extra freight moving things around.
We've made a few box customers nervous.
So one of our challenges Mark is we've gotten so good with juggling that it gets pretty low and pretty tight and the market doesn't necessarily see it.
So I would categorize inventories as on the low side.
And for us we've got to replenish those inventories in the July-August time frame to get back to a reasonable level.
Carol did those extra costs actually clip earnings? Yes absolutely.
Any sense of -- was it a meaningful number? Well it's in the $20 million that we called out for Vicksburg.
So we...
Okay so it's all in there.
Yes we kind of put it all in that bucket Mark.
Okay that's fair.
It's grade substitutions Mark.
It's extra freight as we move rolls around from one box plant to another or ship from the mill we don't want to ship from.
Right right.
And just one more question in white paper the trade rags keep talking about weakness.
You haven't reported any -- we don't hear it when we talk to the big retailers.
So is there a significant difference in the market right now between cut size and rolls the way you're thinking about it? Or is this just noise around the edges? Well we had 2 very good months of cut-size shipments and I characterized maybe it's noise around the edges.
We're a big enough player in the market we're going to see all parts of the market.
It's down 2% to 3% year-over-year.
Supply and demand are in balance our inventories are in good shape.
So we think -- and I think our earnings kind of supports just what I said we're in pretty good shape.
Your next question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman with UBS.
On industrial packaging can you talk a little bit about the export markets? And then maybe following on to Mark's question can you talk about how easy it's been to kind of secure trade tons in the market? Just giving a sense of how tight things have been? In industrial packaging? Yes.
Gail the export markets have been very healthy.
I mean I think it shows up in the data.
The demand is good the mill nets are solid.
So I would categorize the export markets as solid steady at a healthy rate.
And the second part of your question Gail? Just trying to get a better sense of the market like did you try to seek incremental trade tons push-forward tons to make up for Vicksburg and if so how easy or hard was that? The trades kind of get locked in.
It's really hard to move them in a meaningful way.
So certainly we attempted to get more but I wouldn't say we were able to -- it didn't mean -- it wasn't a meaningful shift in our order patterns with our trade partners in the second quarter.
Okay.
Can you guys give an update on your Industrial Packaging business in Asia and when we might start to see that turnaround? Tom you want to talk about that? Hi Gail it's Tom Kadien.
In the second quarter we saw some improvement and I'll say consistently profitable operating results.
We also took down a facility that clipped us for a couple million dollars and that was really the final step in our integration plan from the acquisition.
So our volumes are up about 7%.
But the real story that we've been working on is getting our margins up.
The business we inherited in the acquisition was much below our expectations and we've gotten prices up well into the mid-teens from when we closed on it.
So we'll start to see cleaner numbers in the third quarter and it’ll be profitable.
Okay.
And just one last question can you give an update on the India acquisition.
I guess getting the approvals there is taking perhaps longer than expected? Remember Gail it's India.
Yes we're still waiting on government approvals.
It's slow but it shouldn't be a surprise because as John said that's India.
We have our management team on the ground as of August 1 and we're looking to close early in the fourth quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> Two quick ones.
First the $129 million asset impairment what was that for? Well it was in our consumer packaging business.
It was Shorewood.
We just looked at performance against planned.
And as we looked at it we realized the business was underperforming so we took the charge in North America.
It's primarily the North American business not the international locations that we have.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then on xpedx last last quarter you gave us that the kind of overview and I realized it's a 3-year project I think.
But when do we start potentially seeing benefits from xpedx start flowing through? Well we've already started to see some of the benefits flow through on the footprint side.
We'll wait until we get to year-end Mark because while it's a 3-year program we'll have some meaningful progress to -- we're expecting some and we'll get some.
And we'll probably summarize that at the end of the year but we're not going to try to do it every quarter.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly I realize mix can make this difficult to analyze.
But it looks based on that slide you showed on the box shipments and then taking out the West Coast it looks like you may have lost share on the West Coast and maybe a decent amount of share on the West Coast.
Is there something going on on the share side on the West Coast for you? Mark we have a disproportionate share.
We have a higher supply position in ag than the average.
So we're more predisposed to that.
What I would say about our approach to the box business in general our objective is to maximize profitability and to make the most money we can.
And we are continuing to make choices around where we sell and what we sell and the decisions we make commercially.
So I think you see a combination of all of those things.
I'll just add to that Mark when you lose a customer you’ve lost share.
When a customer doesn't get some business you haven't lost share.
The customer doesn't have the business.
And in the ag market if the crop is half of what it was and that was cherries that doesn't mean we lost share.
It means our customer base didn't have the business but in the ag business they'll get it the next time around in the next season.
Inc.</strong> That's fair.
Can you give us a sense roughly what percentage of your West Coast business is ag? Well if you think about the industry 7% to 8% of the total industry is ag.
Granted that's not all California.
And you know we are -- 10% of our total business is ag.
So that doesn't sound like a lot but if you'd look at the percentage 7% to 10% that's a much higher degree of concentration.
And obviously with Weyerhaeuser our ag position became a much more important part of our business.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Atkinson with BMO Capital Markets.
Question about Ilim would you be able to give us an update as to the project at Bratsk and Kotlas? Sure.
We got 2 projects going on a $300-million project at Kotlas which is the addition of paper machine.
That project is on schedule on budget.
Scheduled to start up on the first part of next year.
The other project is at Bratsk pulp mill.
That's a very extensive project $700 million.
We expect that to start up in the latter half of 2012.
We're a little behind on schedule and so far so good on the cost side.
So we're well into construction on both of those.
And the Bratsk project is probably the biggest project in the industry in 40 years in Russia and we've got a really – it’s really a global team over there.
I think there are 900 people on site now and that will peak out at probably a couple thousand as we get into the heavy construction period next year.
Would there be any benefit like my understanding is you're putting in the recovery boiler first and would there be any benefit before the latter half of next year? No.
Don't expect to see any meaningful benefit out of that until we get to the latter half of the year.
Although on the paper machine it should be starting up sooner than that so we'll start to see some benefit from that.
Okay.
Second thing I know you provide guidance on corporate charges of $175 million to $200 million.
You did $36 million in the second quarter.
Are you moving down towards that level like would that be a target that we can annualize down the road? No.
I think our -- the forecast that we gave at the beginning of the year continues to be the range that we think we'll be in.
And would you be able to update me a bit on the flat pulp market? Fluff pulp market? Yes.
Fluff pulp market continues to show pretty healthy growth and outside some of the emerging markets 5% to 6% a year year-on-year.
We like that business.
We announced we're converting or re-purposing the uncoated freesheet mill that we closed in Franklin Virginia to fluff pulp that’ll be coming online next year.
And while not a core business to International Paper it's a segment of our paper business because because we produced Fluff at the mills where we produce uncoated freesheet that we find quite attractive and we've got a good position in it with a solid customer base.
And the order backlog is still good? Yes.
Your last question for this portion comes from Peter Ruschmeier with Barclays Capital.
John I wanted to see if you could elaborate on you mentioned the second quarter.
I think you said the second quarter felt like 1% to 2% kind of GDP in your business.
A number of companies pointed to a bit of a slowdown as the quarter progressed with some of that continuing in July.
I'm curious if you can try to help us a little bit with a little more granularity of was it even in the quarter in terms of the demand trends you felt? Or was it skewed? And any initial read on July would be really helpful.
I think Pete it's all over the map in our different businesses whether it's -- Carol said May was the low point for industrial packaging.
But just look at any of the economic reports: housing is still weak there's been somewhat of a slowdown in manufacturing in the durable goods side.
The economy is I think it's going sideways not up not down from our perspective as we see it.
There's going to be some seasonal pickup in some of the businesses but not all of them because we're in a lot of different segments when you look at xpedx Coated Paperboard Industrial Packaging and Printing Papers.
The Commercial Print side of xpedx is still a struggle.
Okay that's helpful.
Shifting to fiber costs Timber Mart-South showed a 9% sequential drop in pulpwood costs on a stumpage basis.
I guess delivered basis wasn't as much.
But I'm curious if you saw any benefit from that in the second quarter and if you anticipate any benefit in the third quarter? Yes.
We're seeing the logging conditions are excellent in the south.
We've gone from too much water to not enough in a lot of places.
So stumpage costs are down.
But then you remember diesel is almost $4 a gallon.
So surcharges kick in when you get over somewhere between $2.30 to $2.50 a gallon.
So a lot of that stumpage is getting eaten up by fuel surcharges and you still got this issue that's a big issue across the South with housing at 600 000 starts sawmills are curtailed and we're still having to go longer distances to get wood than we normally would in anything close to an average kind of housing environment which is probably several years away.
Okay.
And obviously in the quarter you had the Vicksburg outage.
But as you look forward do you have any ability to flex your system more toward virgin away from the rising recycled fiber costs output that you have? Or are you more or less maxing out your virgin capacity at this point? I'll let Carol talk about the industrial packaging system.
Yes Pete that's one of the advantages I think we have is the fact that the current operating rates that we're running and how we're running our system we do have some flexibility to move a little bit.
Even -- take a mill like the Valliant when we shut that third machine down we have more back-end than we have paper machine.
Therefore we can push our virgin limits to our advantage and back off OCC and vice versa.
So we fell like we're in pretty good shape.
Our mill inventories on OCC are in good shape.
Our wood inventories are in good shape and we'll do everything we can to optimize that for the best benefit.
Okay.
And just lastly if I could maybe for Tim on working capital.
Looks like there's a big drag in the first half.
How do you think about working capital in the second half in terms of its impact on cash flow both on a second-half basis and a full-year basis? I don't think it's going to be a big drag on cash flow.
We were up in the first quarter.
We unwound the AR securitization program that we had in Europe which had an impact on that.
But if you look at our operating working capital percentage of sales we're running around 14% or just north of 14%.
It's some of the best performance that we've really ever seen across all the businesses in terms of really being focused on working capital inventories receivables and payables.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
I got couple questions for Carol if I could just back to the containerboard market.
Carol I wondered did you have any fallout from all of that produce upheaval in Europe? Yes.
Our colleagues in Europe had some loss of some volume and of course we supply them their craft liners.
So I mean that was definitely a bit of a hit but they still ended up having a pretty good quarter over there.
Okay.
And then also on that there was a report in one of the trade papers a couple of weeks ago that European I guess German test liner prices had fallen this created some concern.
Do you have any insight into what's going on over there in terms of European containerboard prices? We do know that test liner prices have dropped a little bit Mark.
So that report I think is accurate.
But my outlook on craft liner is it's been fairly stable still.
So they're kind of moving a little bit in opposite directions but there was some price reduction on the test liners side.
Okay.
And then just one other question for John a little bigger picture question.
I think the restructuring of the company really has made you a better operating company.
But I'm just -- I'm curious with the dollar so weak right now whether you're concerned at all kind of going forward if for some reason we were to get a real rally in the dollar how defensible your earnings and your margin levels are? Historically currency's been a big swing factor for the U.S.
industry.
There's no question that it's helping our customers Mark be more export-competitive.
And it's kind of hard to – with us -- the big customer base even though we have a more focused portfolio we've got a very diverse customer base.
But on balance when you look at the macro numbers exports from the U.S.
are up which is I think something good.
They’re still a small part of the economy so they're not going to overtake consumer spending as the economic driver.
So a material and sudden strength in the U.S.
dollar would probably hurt our customer base.
But if it -- it was also reflected in a weaker currency in some of these emerging markets we’d get some help and we were getting hammered in Brazil on currency as the real continues to get very strong as a result of a weak U.S.
dollar.
So there's some offsets there.
And on balance I think as we become a more global company that's how we're going to look at currency there'll be some pluses and minuses and that's how you have to think about it because you're always going to have some currencies moving against you.
But in the U.S.
I think a materially stronger dollar would impact our customers from the ripple effect of exports.
Your last question for this portion comes from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
A couple things quickly.
Could you just remind us you look at Ilim and it's earning I guess after tax for you all over $200 million annualized.
What is your net investment in Ilim at this point? $450 million.
We put in $650 million to start with.
We've taken out about $200 million in dividends.
[Indiscernible] Ilim Chip is something that is probably unappreciated by many of our investors in terms of its earnings potential to International Paper.
I mean they're going to be -- it's the pulp business but it's also when we finish with Kotlas we're going to have a much bigger domestic presence similar to what we have in Svetogorsk with our paper business.
So we're pretty positive on the outlook.
Remember to recognize it is a pulp business so it's going to have a cycle to it.
We're just coming off the -- probably what was a -- may not be the high point of the cycle but a high point.
But even underlying that demand for pulp in China is going to be -- continue to be robust going forward.
We're going to have the lowest cost soft wood pulp mill on the planet delivered to China at Bratsk.
Got you.
And on that point though we all know that you're going to report in October what Ilim did in the second quarter.
Should we -- and of course pulp was rising through the quarter.
Is there any -- are there any other factors we should take into account as we think about Ilim in terms of what they do between what you just reported and what you'll report in October? Well you're going to have some currency moving around you're going to have probably a heavier maintenance outage schedule.
So yes it's not going to look drastically different but there'll be some puts and takes.
Okay.
And then just lastly quickly.
I've noticed that -- it appears that bleaks board [ph] backlogs have gone from being quite super strong to maybe just more normal.
Is that your experience and does it concern you at all? Is it still at a healthy level? Chip it's Tom Kadien.
I'd characterize them as seasonal.
This is the slow time of the year as we look at our system.
We didn't build any inventory throughout the second quarter and we're expecting a seasonal pickup here shortly.
So it has come down from 4 weeks to 3 weeks.
But that's about where we were this time last year.
We have reached the allotted time for questions and answers for this portion of the call.
I'll now hand the floor to John Faraci.
Thanks.
As I said I'd like to stop here for a moment and provide all of you with an update on our offer to acquire Temple-Inland.
Then as I said if we have time we'll take a couple of questions.
And I'd say first is as we said from the start of this process we're very committed to seeing this transaction through to completion.
We believe the industrial logic of the combination is solid and I don't think there's any debate there.
We haven't heard any from anybody.
It makes a very good business at IP.
They're our industrial packaging business an excellent one and it creates a powerful cash flow engine that will continue to drive free cash flow and ROI improvement in International Paper.
It strengthens our portfolio and it's consistent with the objective of our transformation plan which is focusing on solid cost of capital returns in all of our businesses throughout the cycle.
Importantly it's meaningful accretive to IP shareowners that synergies are realized and that is an acquisition requirement.
As far as the price goes we believe we have a very strong offer on the table which deserves serious consideration.
We believe our offer is highly compelling on a present-value basis and reflects the future outlet for Temple for both containerboard and for building products and has a reasonable split of expected synergies.
At $30.60 a share in all cash it represents almost a 20% premium of Temple's all-time high and a 46% premium to their prior day close and it's also priced significantly above their 52-week high.
As all of you know we've attempted to engage Temple in negotiations.
We told them that a negotiated process with us having an opportunity to [indiscernible] due diligence would lead to the best value.
We strongly prefer to negotiate this directly with Temple but we are prepared to let Temple shareowners decide the compelling nature of our offer.
On the regulatory side just one update that we posted yesterday.
As expected so we expected this we received a second request from the Justice Department yesterday.
We've been working with them for several weeks to help them understand the economic benefits of this transaction.
And of course we'll be continuing to cooperate with the Justice Department and their process and expect to be able to address any questions they have quite promptly.
So with that I would be happy to take a couple of questions if we have some time on Temple and if any of you have any.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos with BoA Merrill Lynch.
John I guess the question I had and I think a lot of people have is then what are the next mile markers for you in this process? You've put an offer out Temple-Inland has refused and it seems that at this juncture to the outside observer it's a bit of a stalemate.
Do you consider your offer depending on what facts you get back from the Justice Department? Are you waiting for perhaps additional certainty on the strength of the economy or capital markets based on what happens with the debt ceiling? In other words help us understand what the next steps are in your view to the extent that you can and what the mile markers are behind that? Well as I said we'd like the next step to be a negotiation.
We've made what we believe to be a serious offer 20% above Temple's all-time highs since they became the new Temple several years ago.
[indiscernible] having discussions we've got to continue with the process.
We're serious we're committed intend on seeing it through.
And we had 2 conditions in our proposal one was regulatory approval and the other was the withdrawal of Poison Pill and our next step is to go get regulatory approval.
Okay.
John do you potentially see this then taking as many as 3 years to complete the process? I don't want to speculate George about how long it's going to take.
It's going to take a while to get regulatory approval.
That's not going to occur overnight.
So I think we just take it one step at a time.
We're committed to the process.
We believe this is a good transaction for both Temple shareowners and for International Paper shareowners.
It has to be for it to work.
Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
John as you go through the process I know with the second request which was totally expected does Temple have to do anything? Can they be compelled by the government to provide information? Or is the onus completely on International Paper? As I understand it Chip Temple will also get a request to supply some information and they'll have their discussions with the Justice Department and ultimately they as we will will have to provide the information the Justice Department requests.
And the timeline that they'll be on is one that they'll work out with the Justice Department and the timeline we'll be on is one we'll work out with the Justice Department.
Will either of the side if you can answer this have access to the answers of the other party? Pardon me? Will for example you be able to find out what Temple says to the Justice Department and can they find out what you say to them? I believe those submissions are confidential Chip for both parties.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Chercover with D.A.
Davidson.
My question was for the previous section if I may and it was the $20 million expense that was taken from Vicksburg is that reflected in your kind of the pro forma numbers for the containerboard segment? We won't make you wait until next quarter to ask that question Steve.
But was it reflected in the pro forma numbers for...
We had a charge.
Think about it this way Steve we had a charge of $20 million from all the lost production and the other things we had to do to move volume around that hit us in the second quarter.
We moved a couple of outages because of these complications out to later in the year.
And so we won't have the Vicksburg impact as we go through the rest of the year but we will have more outages that were moved from second quarter to third and fourth.
Sure.
So the $279 million reflects the impact of Vicksburg? I'm sorry.
Say that one more time? The $279 million of operating earnings reflects the impact of Vicksburg? Yes that's right.
Yes it does.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
John is it possible for you to just recap for us kind of the marching orders you've given Carol in terms of continuing to manage her business while this is going on? I think there's been a lot of concern about particularly around pricing-type issues? And I think with your costs going up what a lot of people are concerned about is if costs continue to go up would you be unwilling to try to recoup those through a pricing initiative as long as this deal is under review? First of all we don't give marching orders at International Paper.
But we do agree on priorities and then we go out and execute and that's not only Carol but all the other leaders in the company.
And I'm not going to talk about pricing on this call because I can't and I shouldn't.
We just don't talk about pricing in a forward-looking way.
But John just in terms of is the focus in industrial packaging just to manage the business kind of as you would under normal circumstances or does this deal change anything? Absolutely.
I mean the focus is on International Paper everywhere from Shanghai to Memphis to Brussels to São Paulo is run your business.
I mean the reason we can consider something like Temple is because of the cash flow we're generating the balance sheet we put together and the business performance we put together.
And I feel pretty pleased with how the organization is responding to that.
And without asking you to kind of predict or make any call about what you would do on pricing.
Is it fair to say that if you thought the market conditions were right you would be willing to consider a move on price in the midst of this bid or not? I'm just not going to comment on pricing Mark but I think we have talked -- what's important in any business in any of our businesses around the world as it relates to pricing.
Inventories got to be in good shape supply and demand needs to be in balance operating rates need to be high and demand needs to be consistent with supply.
And we're not in a cost-push business where automatically when costs go up prices go up.
And wood side works too when costs go down automatically prices don't follow.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> I think when -- originally you were talking about Justice Department review you bracketed it as if it might be a 6- to 7-month process as a guess.
Do you have an updated view on that? No we don't Mark.
We're just getting the in-process started with DOJ and that time frame is going to be absent any meaningful discussions with Temple that time frame is going to be one of the gates.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Ruschmeier with Barclays Capital.
I guess 2-part question if I could.
Two different questions if I could.
First I'm curious John how you think about whether there's an opportunity cost related to the deal dragging on over time? And I'm really thinking about the type of response and behavior that Willamette had in reaction to the Weyerhaeuser bid over the 2-year period and whether or not you view this as something that could be disruptive which potentially has a true cost to your business? So how do you think about the opportunity cost of a deal that could drag on? Well in terms of our business performance Pete I don't see any opportunity cost.
We're focused on running International Paper as it is all across the company as I said from Memphis to Shanghai to São Paulo to Bratsk in Russia.
In terms of time frame I think there's an opportunity cost to Temple shareowners.
We've made a serious offer that's 20% above their all-time high and we think the right thing to do is to sit down with Temple and have a serious discussion.
The world moves on and we're committed we're serious we're patient we're disciplined.
If things change at some point in time and we think the right thing for International Paper is to do something else we'll make that call.
But we're serious and we're committed to this and we'll be disciplined.
Okay.
And John as we all try to figure out the next steps here what appears at the moment to be a standoff.
One point that I'm not clear on is it even possible for Temple to have a confidential conversation with you at this point or doesn't the hostile nature of the deal at this point preempt that from happening? Well now that we've launched a tender offer there are some things we have to comply with.
And I guess I’d just leave it right there.
We've got plenty of advisors at least International Paper does.
I presume Temple does.
And there's always a way to have a discussion if we choose to have one.
But I'm not going to get into what we have to do under any circumstance.
Okay.
Maybe just lastly on the tender itself with the date coming up shares of Temple trading roughly at the bid.
Can you remind us on the flexibility you have with that tender? I guess you'll cross the bridge when you get to it.
But can you extend that tender offer in an effort to try to facilitate a higher participation rate? Sure we can extend it a number of times.
We've launched a tender process because we weren't having meaningful discussions we're serious and we wanted to get the kind of the train rolling.
So that's where we are but we can extend the tender offer and expect that we will do that.
Okay operator I think that wraps it up.
So thank you very much for tuning in.
We're pretty pleased with the quarter and look forward to talking to you on the next quarter.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Lori and I will be your conference operator.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the International Paper Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Glenn Landau Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Laurie and good morning and thank you for joining International Paper's third quarter earnings conference call.
Our key speakers this morning are John Faraci Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Tim Nicholls Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call as always we will make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which are outlined on Slide 2 of our presentation.
We will also present certain non-US GAAP financial information and a reconciliation of those figures to U.S.
GAAP financial measures will be available on our website.
Our website also contains copies of the third quarter 2011 earnings press release and today's presentation slides to follow.
I will now turn the call over to John Faraci.
Thanks Glenn and good morning everybody.
Yes let me just start by saying we're pretty pleased very pleased with our third quarter results.
I think the $0.92 a share reflects the global balance of International Paper.
Our focus businesses continue to produce strong earnings and free cash flow.
Basically it was steady volumes and a weak economic environment stable pricing outstanding operations very strong contributions from our joint venture in Russia.
We also set input cost escalation and achieved costs of capital returns.
And if you think about our earnings they're substantially up from the second quarter.
And adjusting the third quarter 2010 for a land sale they were up 11% relative to the third quarter of last year.
This next chart here just shows what I mean about balance in the global portfolio.
We had strong contributions from both our Paper and Packaging businesses.
And as you can see 30% of our operating earnings are coming from the platforms we have outside North America that have a lot of volume revenue and earnings growth in them.
EBITDA margins improved across all of our global manufacturing businesses up strongly 300 basis points from where they were in 2010.
And again that just sets the stage for -- I think underscores International Paper's ability to perform in a challenging economic environment.
So with that it's just a brief introduction.
I'll turn it over to Tim to go through the businesses.
Okay.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
I'm on Slide 7 and I wanted to start out by saying that we had as John said really strong results in the quarter in what's been a difficult environment.
The third quarter of last year has been adjusted for the land sale.
You can see revenue is up nearly 2% versus same time last year.
Margins continue to remain very solid and cash has been strong up from the second quarter and very close to the third quarter of last year even with $130 million more in capital investment in the third quarter of this year than last year.
Cash balance grew from the end of last quarter this quarter by another $300 million.
If you look at the second quarter versus third quarter earnings performance a strong quarter in a tough environment price and volume basically flat despite the weak backdrop.
Volume was weaker earlier in the quarter and then showed some improvement as we moved toward the end of the quarter.
Operations continued to improve after a very strong performance in the second quarter so the facilities are running extremely well at the moment.
We did have a lighter maintenance outage schedule but we executed it extremely well.
And the tax rate was slightly lower because of a couple of discrete items in the quarter that won't repeat in the fourth quarter.
Just turning to our year-over-year performance and I think this is a real story of improvement.
If you take out the land sales from last year $0.83 versus the $0.92 that John mentioned price offset softer volume.
And really as I mentioned on the operations operations and cost management have completely offset the higher input costs that we faced year-over-year.
Lower interest and taxes along with another quarter of really strong results from Ilim added headroom.
If you look at the next slide I think what's even more impressive are the year-to-date results from continuing operations: top line growth of 7% EBIT  growth up 56% a doubling of EPS and a 50% improvement in cash provided by operations.
And if you look at the cash balancing again these numbers from last year have been adjusted for land sales but $1.2 billion in cash last year and up to $2.7 billion this year 125% improvement.
Of course the building of cash in part because we're looking to bring cash to the Temple close.
So all of that what it's meant is 5 quarters now of really strong improvement in terms of earnings starting in the third quarter of last year.
And we've put together 5 quarters that are really in the cost of capital zone and feel good about where we are as we go into the fourth quarter and 2012.
So now let me turn back to the quarter itself.
Input costs the increases have moderated.
In most categories we did see the exception in OCC during the quarter but in most other categories chemicals or energies we saw smaller increases than we've seen in previous quarters and that was not only here in North America but in other parts of the world.
But because of the OCC nearly 2/3 of the increase in the quarter was felt in Industrial Packaging.
So now I'll turn to the segments and start with Industrial Packaging.
Even with that increase it posted another strong quarter with EBIT  moving from $269 million to $301 million in the quarter.
North American prices were relatively stable in the quarter.
We did see a little bit of erosion in export Containerboard.
Volume was down slightly and I think it is a slight decrease and it was roughly split half in North America where we saw a slight decrease in box shipments and a slight decrease in domestic Containerboard shipments.
And the other half was in Europe where the third quarter is seasonally a weaker quarter in Europe.
we've seen a little bit of softness in the Industrial segment but fruit and vegetable continues to perform well.
The third quarter's earnings were favorably impacted by the lower mill outage scheduled.
But as I mentioned we executed that very well.
And it was also impacted by the avoidance of the Vicksburg  charge that we had in the second quarter although I would say that there's still some small residual supply-chain cost impacts as we tried to recover from that downtime and get product back in the right places.
And then as I mentioned the OCC costs were up and that was about $14 million of the negative impact in input costs.
So another quarter IPG  posted the highest margin in the industry again this quarter and it has for the entire year as well as 8 out of the last 11 quarters.
On a sequential basis quarter-on-quarter we added 200 basis points by executing well and taking advantage of the lighter maintenance schedule and the spread between competition in the quarter was 280 basis points.
That's the largest we've had in over 2 years.
Turning to Consumer.
Consumer Packaging had another very good quarter a string of quarters that they're putting together now.
On steady volume improved price realizations associated with the pass-through of previous announcements.
Operational performance was down slightly in the quarter but again off of a very strong second quarter so they continue to perform at a very high level.
And this business also benefited from the lighter maintenance outage schedule.
If you turn the slide to the next one just to highlight where some of this operating performance is coming from it's really being driven in significant part by outstanding manufacturing and supply-chain performance.
You can see that this year we've generated $30 million of cash cost savings.
That's roughly $20 a ton in the manufacturing operations and it's coming from improved reliability and energy usage better uptime availability and basically just running a more consistent manufacturing operation.
The supply chain improvements are really -- all the metrics are moving in the right direction as you can see on the slide.
And the result is we're generating nearly $1 million a month of savings.
So the business is operating very well the key levers that it can control.
What that's resulted in is business results that are continuing to be strong and consistent and in the cost of capital zone now for the last 5 quarters.
And year-to-date the business has earned 75% more in the first 3 quarters of this year than in all of 2012.
Additionally our North American Coated Paperboard business is realizing the benefits on the commercial side from our Foodservice business.
It's not a business that we highlight very often but just sharing some history here if you look at the next slide Foodservice basically makes paper cups and food containers.
And the business sources roughly 100% of its board from the North American business.
We saw a significant decrease in demand during the economic crisis but this year the business is on pace to return to prerecession volume levels.
And it's doing it really on innovative products like the ecotainer and the Hold&amp;Go hot beverage cup.
So with those products margins are up.
Year-to-date margins are up 250 basis points from the low of 2008 it's up 60 basis points year-over-year and now higher than what we had before the economic crisis.
Printing papers a great quarter.
We had exceptionally good quarter in North America.
Our operations in Europe were basically flat quarter-on-quarter.
Brazil was roughly flat quarter-on-quarter mostly because of seasonality and how the seasons slow in those 2 businesses.
North America really lifted results by posting strong manufacturing operations.
Now turn to xpedx.
And while year-over-year revenue is down clearly we saw xpedx bounce back in the quarter nearly doubling its earnings on a seasonal demand lift and good volumes around printing and packaging quarter-on-quarter.
And if you look at the next slide you'll see really we are getting some help from the market but we're also seeing the beginnings of the benefits from the strategy implementation that Mary took you through a quarter or so ago.
Average daily in shipping rates on printing were up 8% on strong seasonal rebound in the publishing grades.
We've also been managing our costs effectively and have good realization of S&amp;A costs and headcount reductions with headcount being down 7% year-to-date.
So we think the strategy is starting to take hold.
And as we promised Mary will be back at the end of the fourth quarter to update you on the strategy and how the implementation is going.
Now turning to Ilim.
Another strong quarter from the Ilim Joint Venture.
And just as a reminder it's their second quarter our third quarter as we continue to report on the lag.
So in their second quarter prices were higher for both pulp and Containerboard.
We did see lower volumes and we had higher outage costs than input costs in the quarter.
We did receive another dividend in the quarter.
It's our second dividend from the joint venture this year and it brings our total cumulative dividends to $234 million since the beginnings of the joint venture.
So we've roughly recovered a little bit more than 1/3 of the original investment through dividends.
One item that I would note about what will be our fourth quarter the joint venture's  third quarter we did see a significant weakening in the quarter of the ruble.
And because the joint venture has dollar denominated debt it had to mark that to market.
And so we'll see about a $50 million charge in their third quarter our fourth quarter reported.
It's a non-cash charge and we really like the movement in the ruble as it weakens because it makes the business more competitive and enhances margins over time.
Just an update on capital expansion.
A couple of pictures here.
One from the Bratsk Mill where we're putting in the new pulp line and see the digester coming out of the ground there.
And right now we're still on track for a startup in 2012.
Again as a reminder this is about a $700 million project so its projected return is above 20%.
The other picture you see is from the Koryazhma Mill and it's for uncoated freesheet capacity.
Although we will also have an opportunity to become the first producer of coated paper in Russia by putting installing a coder at the end of the line.
This also is scheduled for 2012 startup.
And again nearly $300 million in capital being invested with a greater than 20% return.
So we've talked about this for a few quarters now.
I thought it'd be interesting for people to see that there's structure coming out of the ground at this point.
So just summarizing third quarter I think John covered this is at the beginning but we do feel very good about a very strong quarter in the third quarter.
The global balance is paying off and will continue to pay off as we go through the balance of this year and into next year.
Volumes pricing steady we continue to operate our facilities extremely well and manage costs tightly.
The strong contribution from Ilim that I mentioned will decrease in the fourth quarter because of the non-cash currency charge but in terms of their operating performance they continue to operate very well.
So again 5 quarters now in the cost of capital zone and we feel good about where we are.
Even though inputs are up we're managing so far to offset them with our cost management and operating capabilities.
And if you look at the last slide just showing you ROI.
So far year-to-date we are at 8%.
In the quarter we are actually over 9%.
So we feel very good about posting a cost of capital results for 2011.
With that I'll turn it back over to John for the outlook.
Okay.
Thanks Tim.
I'm on Page 26 for those of you who are following along with the slides.
The fourth quarter outlook and what this says when you look at it is volume is going to be seasonally slower.
It always is as we get into the fourth quarter.
We've got more maintenance outages.
More of the same in terms of the overall economic environment.
Pricing looks to be stable with the exception of lower pulp prices which had been occurring over the last several quarters.
As Tim said we've got the currency hit of $55 million because of the 12% weakening of the ruble.
We're also going to start incur some start up costs as we get ready to complete the project in Franklin Virginia which is going to convert that mill into a pulp line.
But I think more importantly looking beyond the normal seasonal slowdown in the fourth quarter I'm very positive that International Paper going into 2012 for a number of reasons.
We've got India which Tom Kadien we'll talk about in a minute.
That is coming online.
We've got major investments in Russia that Tim talked about.
And remember those are being financed off the Ilim balance sheet not by International Paper but by the joint venture that will begin to contribute to results toward the end of next year.
And we've got the importantly Temple coming on either late this year early next year which is going to significantly contribute to our ability to further take costs out of our important North American Industrial Packaging business.
So all in well the fourth quarter is going to be the usual kind of fourth quarter and the economic environment is more the same.
We're very positive at thinking about International Paper as we end this year and go into next year.
So Tom Kadien do you want to give everybody an update in India? Sure John thanks.
We closed on our transaction on October 14 and we're now owner of 75% of the shares of Andhra paper company.
We had day-one activities with employees at both mills with government officials with over 200 of the tree farmers that supplies fiber to the mill and reactions have been really good thus far.
We're in the process of establishing governance over the company.
We have a team of IP folks on the ground in Hyderabad since July really led by Paul Brown who's one of our most experienced global executives.
We have integration plans that are at full tilt right now in finance and capital buildout plans manufacturing excellence as well as IT forestry environment health safety and compliance.
In their most recent quarter or last quarter APPM had a good quarter.
Revenue is growing 10% and as we look forward to '12 we think we're looking for double-digit increases in tons earnings and we feel like we've got a lot of runway in front of us.
Some of you have asked Glenn about the dispute I guess over the non-compete fee and $25 million that's held in escrow right now.
There is a date set of November 16 with the Securities Appellate Tribunal that'll make that decision.
And again our advisors think that we are on strong ground and it'll go in our favor.
That said in India nothing happens quite as scheduled.
So we're hoping it comes off on November 16.
And then I guess the last thing we're still evaluating when we're going to report out on results and how we can sync that up.
And you'll hear more about that on future calls.
Okay.
Thanks Tom.
Let me just give you a quick update on where we are with Temple.
We continued to move forward to a closing date.
We think that it's likely to be towards the end of the year or early in 2012.
Two gates remain regulatory approval and a final vote by Temple shareowners.
And they've refiled their proxy based on the comments they get back from the initial filing.
Our internal integration steering teams are working on postclosing plans.
And with the leadership and management of this integration are an experienced and capable bunch of IT people they know what to do and we're getting good cooperation from Temple.
So this chart just shows you on the top the regulatory timeframe and on the bottom the merger timeframe.
Before we open up to your questions I'd just like to make a couple of comments on the people moves we announced this week.
We have a very strong and deep and [ph] capable management team at International Paper.
And I think our results over the last several years going through the Transformation Plan coming out of it managing through the downturn and now the slow recovery demonstrates that.
These moves are really the result of a lot of discussion a lot of thought on my part and making them now gets us ready for 2012 and beyond.
So I've got absolute confidence that going forward what you're going to see from International Paper is IP-style execution and IP-style results.
So with that why don't we just open it up for questions? Okay John.
Operator please begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I was a little curious about the comments about demand actually getting stronger towards the end of the quarter.
That's a little bit in contrast what we've heard from some other companies.
I was just wondering if you could give a little bit more color on the demand environment? And also maybe specifically touch on the exports on the Containerboard front? Carol you want to comment on that? Yes Gail and I guess stronger it's all around the expectations of what you're expecting them to be.
And so I think what I would say is boxed demand continues to move sideways.
And relative to some of the headlines and the bad news you read that's actually pretty good news.
So I feel like boxed demand's pretty stable and that continued really through the quarter and into October for us.
How's October looking? October's looking okay relative to the -- well we're almost done the month.
Compared to last year it's looking reasonable.
And sequentially from September it's down slightly but you would expect that seasonally.
So October box demand is continuing to hold and I feel pretty good about that.
Relative to exports the export market has got a combination of 2 things going on.
In the export market I mean there has been some slowdown in boxed demand in some of these markets.
That's combined with the pipe for exports.
It's kind of along pipe so orders get placed and it takes 2 3 months for them to get there.
So that combined with some extra supply that's hitting those markets has caused a little deterioration in pricing but I think that's just a temporary supply chain activity and I don't see any real decline in demand in the export markets through time.
Mark would you make a comment on Printing Papers? Yes I'd be happy to.
So for North American Printing Papers in the third quarter we saw demand relatively stable.
The published data says the market's down a little over 3% year-over-year.
But the combination of some capacity shuts and some temporary interruptions that occurred early in the year.
With exports up and imports down it's been pretty well imbalanced.
I guess Gail overall we don't see -- things definitely in the second half of the year got a little weaker relative to the first half from a macro standpoint and that showed up in our businesses.
But from here it just seems like more of the same.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Mark can you talk a little bit about on kind of appreciated [ph] pricing? There's been an awful lot of noise in some of the trade press and it doesn't seem to be showing up in your numbers and I'm just wondering if you're experiencing any of the weaknesses that's being reported? Yes.
We have seen a pretty stable pricing environment.
Pricing announcements went out earlier in the year and depending on the grade the channel and the customer there's all kinds of different realizations schedules.
But we've seen pretty stable pricing on the paper side.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last question.
Can you talk a little bit about interest expense? You continue to be guiding towards the pickup and it's not showing through.
Has there been something unusual going on this year? Is there any real reason to think it is going to pick up? And maybe also can you just give an update on potential financing costs just associated with the Temple deal? Yes.
I mean I'll start there.
We've talked about it for a couple of quarters now.
It moves around.
But with 10-year money it looks like it's roughly 5.3% to 5.5% and 30 years probably going to be 6.7% 6.8% to 7% but it's so volatile right now it's changing day-to-day.
And we have seen base rates move up a little bit of course and credit spreads tightening a little bit.
So on interest expense we did benefit a little bit.
We were able to put some swaps on and we saw a little bit of benefit from our floating debt.
But you've seen 3 quarters now I don't expect it to be dramatically different in the fourth.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 things.
Ilim has actually been in the news quite a bit lately over in Russia and recently they've been highlighting their Containerboard performance.
You've talked about Russia as an attractive place to potentially expand Containerboard to.
I'm curious if that's still your opinion? That's the first question.
And second question is there anything changing in your outlook for capital spending x Temple as you start thinking about 2012 in this new economic environment? Well we like Containerboard in Russia.
In Siberia we're going to make less containerboard and make more pulp.
That's what the Bratsk expansion is all about.
But we continue to make containerboard in Kotlas and the Russian packaging market is growing.
So that's a business that you'll see us continue to try to take advantage of our low cost position in Russia.
On the capital side I think we've outlined what our capital spending plans over the site will be about $1 billion a year.
We've been well under that for a couple of years.
We're likely to be able to over that as we go into 2012 because we've got the paper machine in China that we're building.
But roughly over the 5-year period we talked about a couple of years ago our capital spending when we get to the end of the day will still be about $1 billion a year.
But we'll be a little bit over that next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you're not pulling back any of your spending plans at this point given economics? No.
I mean our spending plans we're generating a lot of cash our spending plans in North America are aimed at taking costs out of the system.
And very selectively around the world we're adding capacity or modernizing capacity where markets are growing.
And it's generating a lot of cash and we're going to use it in a balanced away.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Atkinson of Bank of Montréal.
First of all really wanted to thank Tim for all his time spent.
It was much appreciated.
In terms of the -- what I was looking at in terms of China where I'm reading about slowdowns and so on can you talk about where you're at in terms of your Bleached Board business and your box converting business? Tom do you want to comment on China? Sure.
Steve we have seen a slowdown in China from 10% growth to 9% growth or 8% growth.
The box business has slowed down but we still -- we're growing our box business.
I think in the third quarter we were up 4% or 5% on volume year-over-year.
And there's a lot of price on that year-over-year as well.
And in our joint venture with Sun on Coated Paperboard we really haven't seen a slowdown manifest itself in volumes at all.
There is some pricing pressure because of the pulp prices that are coming down in the market and we're nonintegrated and that kind of rattles around the market.
But we remain fully sold-out on the coated board side.
And we're actually having a very good year.
We've got cost of capital returns so far year-to-date.
Our new machine were under construction as John said and we expect to start that up in the fourth quarter next year.
It's interesting people talk about slowdown in China.
It is slowing but 8% growth on a $5 trillion economy is the same as 10% growth on a $4 trillion economy.
So I think we need to remember that the Chinese economy has been growing at a very large rate.
The economy is getting bigger so the aggregate growth in GDP is still significant which is what we're seeing.
Okay.
And in terms of India I know you're just starting.
Are you able to talk about the paper business in India? Sure.
The Andhra Pradesh is an uncoated freesheet company.
On the slide you see the Rajahmundry mill  is integrated.
And then the other mill the coastal mill has recycled lines and makes recycled papers.
The market over there has been growing 10% to 15% probably cut-sized it's growing at 15% a year.
We think that we can continue to grow with that market.
It's a huge country 1.2 billion people.
The government's committed to educating folks and a lot of them don't have access to electricity.
So we think the uncoated freesheet future is very good over there and we've got a great position with the foreign forestry program in the state of Andhra Pradesh where most of the fiber in the country lies.
So we're pretty bullish about that but it's also -- we're 2 weeks into this so we have a lot of work to go.
But it's a great market with I think a strong future.
Yes we look at India from a paper and packaging standpoint it's probably where China was 10 to 15 years ago.
And one of the really interesting things about Andhra Pradesh is India like China is going to be a net fiber importer probably for as far as we can see.
But Andhra Pradesh Paper's got not the only but one of the few successful foreign forestry programs which gives us a real advantage over import of pulp.
And as we build out that program we'll be able to take advantage of that.
Okay.
So I expect in the near term you're going to optimize the existing production and that's why you are able to get a double-digit growth in production and then down the road work on shall we say the integration? Yes that's right.
The market's growing double digits.
So we certainly think we can optimize the existing manufacturing operations.
There's a lot of talented folks over there but they're not quite sure what excellence looks like in manufacturing and we're pretty confident we can show them.
Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions here.
First you mentioned that the mills ran well and certainly the operating performance was better than we were forecasting.
Congratulations on that.
You are taking more maintenance downtime this quarter.
I don't know if you have a beat on that yet but so far how is it progressing? Any unforeseen issues? Or are things progressing fairly smoothly there? Well I'd say overall outage execution continues to be very good.
And International Paper's got over 30 mills around the world and we intensely plan for these outages.
We track the costs the time we're down the work to get completed and the ramp-up.
And we spend close to $400 million in maintenance outages a year.
So a 10% shortfall a 10% improvement on getting the work done in the time and at the cost level makes a big difference.
Research Division</strong> And John aside from the planning and maybe this isn't the reason but what do you think IP does differently than other companies if anything at all in terms of planning in the maintenance outages? We invest in technologies and engineering we call it the improve organization.
And as we've brought some other paper and packaging companies into IP most of them have what we call a run organization.
They have people that run the mills and they do that very well to the best of their abilities.
We also think it makes sense to spend some money and we'll make more money by having resources that really go around the world with just -- some are in India right now and are already helping as Tom said on Andhra Paper that are early subject matter experts and can work on the improved side of the business as well as the run side.
So when you put those 2 together a capability to run very well but also an experience and people that can plan for improvement I think you get the best of both worlds and something that International Paper frankly does better than a lot if not all of our competitors because we invest in it.
Research Division</strong> Two last questions.
Again the on same theme you've done a wonderful job over the last number of years in improving performance in uncoated freesheet and the Printing-Writing Papers segment overall.
Obviously demand has been a headwind at times.
We've talked about that in our research.
Do you feel that if you have to manage the manufacturing footprint yet again at some point in the next few years that paper machine or mill might be the straw that alters the camel's back and perhaps leads to a lower profit per ton on a going forward basis because whatever logistical or other issue that would arise from that? Or do you feel pretty comfortable about being able to manage the capacity and at the same time managing the profitability trend where it is right now? This is Mark.
That's a tough question to answer obviously because you really are speculating about what you might do in the future.
But I think at a high-level we found a way to change our footprint in the past where in some cases costs temporarily go up.
And using our supply-chain tools and some other operating tactics we've been able to mitigate a lot of that.
And I feel like we can probably do that again.
Our mills are where they are and our customers are where they are.
And there's not a dramatic geographic change that would happen if we had to take additional capacity out.
Research Division</strong> Okay last question.
On the mills -- or let me back up.
In Containerboard in North America in particular where do you feel you have more opportunity to improve returns from here on the mill side or on the converting side? Yes.
George this is Carol.
I think there's opportunity on both sides of that business.
And the mills the key to getting superior results is you've got to have a low-cost system for a competitive advantage.
I mean you can't just be low cost but you have to be lower and so we continually work.
And the great news for us is we've got a good fleet of mills with options to make it better.
And I'm very hopeful post Temple-Inland we'll have even more opportunities there.
That said we sell boxes and the box business is very important.
In the box business you've to be good.
My sports analogy's both sides of the ball.
You've got to have low-cost box plants that do whatever they're going to do well.
And so we call that competitive and profitable box.
So you've got to have these facilities that do the job well effectively better than the competition but at the same time you've got to sell it effectively.
And that means you're getting paid for the value you bring.
So we really believe there's opportunity on both sides and clearly we're excited after Temple-Inland we'll have more opportunity to drive more cost out of the business and make it even stronger.
Yes.
I would just add there's another area where we've got a lot of runway that frankly our competition doesn't have because they don't have the Temple opportunity and that's on the procurement side.
OCC we've gotten really good at OCC procurement because Weyerhaeuser bought us the capability we didn't have.
We already wood fiber opportunities with Temple.
And then again on transportation we've got a huge logistics system shipping containing containerboard to box plants and boxes to customers.
We've got a lot of savings out of Weyerhaeuser and over time we'll reload that system and we'll flush out more supply-chain savings as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari of Citi.
Research Division</strong> On the uncoated freesheet side I had a question on the Brazilian market.
You've seen some strengthening in the real which I guess makes the market more attractive for importers and you saw some domestic price erosion in the quarter.
And I think some local producers have talked about this year maybe being a tougher comp year because I guess they had an election last year.
I was wondering if you could just kind of give us some color on the current state of the market in Brazil and sort of what you're seeing in October? Anthony this is Mark.
Yes I think your summary is pretty accurate.
The market is actually up demand-wise in a decent way.
Cut-sized much better than offset.
However given the currency changes and just the sort of global price levels the market has attracted more imports and that's eaten up some of the growth.
So the local producers aren't enjoying all of the growth that they might have had a couple of years ago.
But I think the market's still very healthy and strong and we view it very positively.
And we are looking at a fourth quarter that's going to be what we expect seasonally.
So far I think we're pretty pleased with the overall development.
It's naive to think a market that's growing like that is never going to attract an import so we try to plan for that in our thinking.
We did see currency move in our direction during the quarter Anthony.
I mean if memory serves roughly around the beginning of August the real was trading in the mid $1.50s and it weakened almost all the way to $1.90 before carving some back.
So that was some help.
Research Division</strong> Right you got some movement that way.
Our synergy in Brazil is not just a Brazilian one it's a regional one.
I mean we really have a great footprint in Brazil but we can serve the region more cost effectively than anybody else in the region can.
So if you look at Brazil by far and ways the biggest market in the region obviously.
But our strategy down there is to build a leading position in all of the markets and supply those markets out of Brazil.
And if you think about the World Cup being in Brazil and the Olympics being in Brazil there's going to be a lot of activity over and above elections for the next several years.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes that's very helpful.
And then maybe switching gears and following up on Mark's question on Ilim does it make sense for Bratsk to maybe expand its footprint into fluff and sell fluff into China? And maybe what are the potentials there over the near midterm? This is a trial that Ilim is experimenting with.
I'd say we're a long way from having a commercial operation of fluff pulp in that part of the world.
If we end up there that'll be a good outcome because we'll be right on the doorstep of the biggest tissue market in the world.
So that'll be a good outcome for International Paper.
But I'd say it's really early days and if we can make good quality fluff at large that will be a real breakthrough.
Research Division</strong> So that's something that would be maybe years away? Yes that's down the road.
Our next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon of Vertical Research Partners.
When you look at the situation in some of the emerging markets I mean China for one we've heard about one of the big board producers and I know you've got a big presence with the SCA box plants deferring some of their capacity expansions.
We're also hearing rumblings in Latin America that some of the pulp projects might be pushed out too all because of financial strains.
And without naming names are your people on the ground getting more evidence that some of the board in China and pulp in Latin American capacity might be pushed out or even postponed indefinitely? Well let me just make an overall comment and then Tom Kadien can chime in on China.
I think as global growth slows the stretching out of capacity additions is a logical thing for companies to do especially ones that had capacity plans in excess of market growth.
So if you remember a number of years ago when all this pulp capacity is getting out in Latin America and everybody was worried about where it was going to go.
And China growing at the rate it is having a fiber deficit basically took most of that capacity up in a shorter period of time.
But global growth outlook is not going negative but it's slowing and I think people adjust their capacity plans accordingly.
And Tom would you want to comment about what we're seeing in China? Yes Chip clearly we read and we buy from some of the folks who've slowed up the capacity expansions.
I think as a buyer of recycled containerboard over there I don't think their slowing regional capacity is going to impact the market that much.
I mean frankly the biggest suppliers over there have been taking downtime and slowed back for quite a while.
I mean there has been excess capacity in containerboard but they're managing supply and demand pretty well.
So I think what we're more sensitive to when we've seen a little bit of price coming down in the recycled containerboard is the OCC price when it goes into China.
And that's probably -- has more impact on pricing of containerboard in China than on the machine slowback although certainly that's probably a good thing for the market overall.
Got you.
Okay.
And then shifting gears it may be a little early and I'm not sure if this is for Tim or Carol I'll let you guys decide.
But you all had entered 2009 as you know with I think something like a $7 share underfunded pension position and you'd done a lot of hard work on getting that down.
And I guess given that the long-term corporate rates are down a bit and hopefully this market keeps going up on the asset side but any early look as to how you think the funded position might look at year-end and what your change in the expense will be for next year? And if you cover that I apologize you're dueling calls here.
No no no we haven't covered it.
So I mean basically we'll update all of those with harder numbers when we report fourth quarter.
But I mean you've seen the volatility both on the asset side and on the interest rate side.
And so if we market today we would have a larger gap than we had at the beginning of the year and I don't think that's a big surprise to anyone.
It's still manageable and we still feel very confident about how we're managing our pension assets.
And we'll update you in the fourth quarter but you can -- I think it's pretty reasonable to assume that there will be -- not to the degree we did last year with the $1.2 billion contribution that we made but there'll be additional contributions on a smaller scale that'll get made over time.
After the first of the year is what you're saying right? Potentially yes.
Okay.
Got you.
And then the last one.
Just so we're all in the same page you mentioned the Ilim charge because of the currency the ruble is that something that when you report you'll count as a special item? Or is that something that will kind of flow through as a normal item? No it'll flow through as a normal item.
Got you.
The flagship will get the -- will also flow through as normal item is the benefit of that as we sell pulp in U.S.
dollars going forward.
Yes.
I mean we don't -- the joint venture and it would really be for the joint venture to do they don't really hedge currency because there is a natural hedge in terms of the dollar denominated sales that John just mentioned.
So you get some of these short-term dislocations in terms of currency movements.
But longer term we like a weaker ruble because of the margin benefit.
And just to be -- so we're on the right path obviously you're reporting the operations on a one quarter lag.
Does the adjustment for the currency also happen on a one quarter lag or is that more concurrent? It does.
That's why I was pointing it out.
It actually happened in their third quarter which will be reported on our fourth.
Got you.
We know what the number is.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub of Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> First just quickly following up on the currency in Ilim.
But presumably after you see that hit in the fourth quarter that essentially goes away? And so essentially the Ilim report earnings would then be up by that $55 million the next quarter is that the way to think of it? Well you wouldn't have the $55 million -- assuming no movement you wouldn't have that charge.
That's right.
Inc.</strong> Right.
Okay.
And I know it's kind of petty but is that an after-tax -- the $55 million is that the way you're going to run it through your -- the P&amp;L or...
Right.
Because we report it on an equity accounting basis.
So yes.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then lastly you're talking a little bit about OCC waste paper.
Where are those costs now and do you have any insights as to where they look like they're trending through the balance of the quarter? Mark this is Carol.
Yes they're trending down some and I really think that's a result probably less of the U.S.
phenomenon because as we look at operating rates at U.S.
mills they've been running fairly strong.
And although the OCC mills are going to be the higher-cost mills so there'll be some pulling back of OCC there.
I really think it's probably more of a China effect of just slowing down of a point in time.
So they are trending down some.
Boy if I could predict OCC prices out 3 4 months that would be a great crystal ball.
I don't have that.
But I do think they're trending down and we'll just see where they go.
Inc.</strong> And can you guys say where are they today versus say the third quarter average? I would probably not comment on it today because folks are going to publish in a few days and I might get it wrong because it's unclear.
But I would say that it's going to definitely move down from October to November.
Our last question will come from the line of Mark Wilde of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if we could go back to Brazil for a minute or 2.
I think that you've got that decision to make on the second machine down there at some point.
I wondered if you could just update us on that particularly in light of the strength of the currency down there.
And then also talk to us about any plans or thoughts about being in the Packaging  business in Brazil or elsewhere in Latin America? Well I'll let Mark Sutton talk about the second paper machine and then I will just comment about packaging markets.
Mark we have a couple of years before we have to make the final decision on that additional capacity.
And obviously the way we're thinking about that is based on market growth and the other dynamics on how that market's served if we need the additional capacity for not only Brazil as John said earlier but for the greater Latin American region that would be an attractive thing for us to do.
But we do have a little more time on that and we're monitoring the market.
The currency is obviously a factor but we would make a decision like that obviously for the long-term.
And I think that's the important point Mark as Mark Sutton said about the long term.
This would be a 20-year investment so you don't want to make it just on the spot currency at a point in time and currency in Brazil then from $1.50 to $3.
None of them are smart enough to figure out what it's going to be in 2025 but the investment we make will be around in 2025.
So we could be dealing with that as the time comes.
From our packaging perspective we will have a stronger packaging presence in Latin America with Mexico.
We've got one box plant in Chile.
We like to be in the packaging business both in bleached and unbleached packaging in Latin America and if the right opportunity against all that valuation and create value for International Paper we'll consider it.
If it's not the right valuation it's a place in the world we'd like to be but won't be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And John can we just -- with what Tom Kadien is working on now in India you've kind of -- you're hitting all the bricks at this point.
And I wondered if you could just give us thoughts on how you'll allocate capital in all of those different countries? And then when we think about your CapEx budget how much of that is really going to be focused just in ballpark terms in the U.S.
and Western Europe? And how much of it will be allocated to some of the emerging markets that you're in? Well that's a very good question and I think we've talked about a balanced allocation of cash and that includes our approach to CapEx and we're going to continue the balanced allocation of cash.
Cashback to shareowners cash reinvested in our existing business a strong balance sheet and selectively reinvesting.
Russia is a great example of being able to do that aggressively on -- not on IP's balance sheet but on the joint ventures which have got that capacity.
India we're going to need to get in there and figure out how to grow with the market both in paper and packaging.
And we're going to continue to spend only on cost reduction in North America.
And on regulatory capital we've got some of that coming down the pipe with Willamette.
So we are going to force -- there's going to continue to be capitalizing in IP and we're going to skew the capital to where we think the strategic investment's ought to be made but we'll keep our North American -- the right assets in North America competitive and modern and I think we've been able to do that with this $1 billion spending over the last couple of years and going forward for the next couple on average.
With Temple we've got a little more capital spending so we'll be updating you on kind of the next 5 years how you should think about CapEx relative to depreciation.
But in some places of the world it'll be a lot higher in some places of the world it'll be a lot lower.
Okay.
Well listen let me just wrap it up by saying International Paper's pretty pleased about the fourth quarter.
It was on flat revenues.
It was -- third quarter rather quite strong relative to where it had been.
And we're pretty positive I'd say quite positive how we're looking at it in 2012 even though the macro environment kind of feels to us like it's going to be more of the same.
But with what we have on our plate we think International Paper's best days are still ahead of us.
So thanks for tuning in on the call we'll talk to you next quarter Thank you for participating in the International Paper's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Christy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the International Paper Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Glenn Landau Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Christy and good morning.
And thank you all for joining International Paper's Fourth Quarter and Full Year Earnings Conference Call.
Our key speakers this morning are John Faraci Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Carol Roberts Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During the call we will make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which are outlined on Slide 2 of the presentation.
We will also present certain non-U.S.
GAAP financial information.
A reconciliation of those figures to U.S.
GAAP financial measures are available on our website.
As always our website will also contain copies of our fourth quarter 2011 earnings press release and today's presentation slides.
I will now turn the call over to John Faraci.
Thanks Glenn and good morning everybody or good afternoon depending where you're calling in from.
Over the next 20 to 30 minutes Carol Roberts and I will review our full year and fourth quarter 2011 results and the performance of our individual businesses.
We've also got Mary Laschinger Senior Vice President and President of xpedx here to give you all an update on the progress we're making in transforming our distribution business.
And I'm going to start just by talking about the full year and set that up for Carol to go into the quarter.
We had stronger full year results for International Paper.
Actually it was the best financial results in almost 2 decades.
Margin expansion where we needed it; price realization stayed with us throughout the year; great operations and cost management outstanding results from Ilim which we'll talk about; and excellent cash generation.
Looking at International Paper in North America and around the world.
This is now on Slide 2 volumes in North America were down slightly but sales revenue was up slightly reflecting the fact we've got price flow through and strong margin expansion in our North American businesses of 200 basis points.
Outside the U.S.
we improved earnings but it was in a different way.
Margins which were high stayed high but we've got good strong volume growth up 6% and as a result of that a plus in sales price improvement.
Sales were up 17% outside North America including the Ilim Joint Venture.
So we're going to the next slide looking at all for 2011.
Sales moved up from $25 billion to $26 billion strong improvement in EBIT from $1.8  to $2.3.
EPS up by close to 50%.
Cash from operations again very strong solid free cash flow even though capital spending was up year-over-year.
Year-end debt up some because of the pre-funding or pre-borrowing for the Temple acquisition and very strong cash balance even when you take out the debt that we put on the balance sheet for Temple and we funded the pension plan as well.
Yes this next slide I think just shows the journey that International Paper has been on.
The transformation plan is over.
It was all aimed at putting International Paper in a position.
From a portfolio standpoint we've earned good [ph] returns and the cost to capital zone.
And with the exception of 2009 which is now in the rearview mirror the worst recession we had in 80 years we've steadily been on that margin in 2011 which is still a challenging economic environment we got to that 80% return.
So we feel very good about the year feel we had a strong quarter to end a very strong year.
I'll come back at the end and talk about how we're looking in 2012.
So Carol? Thanks John and good morning everybody.
Let's take a look at the financial bridge from 2010 to 2011 where IP earned an incremental $1.20 per share from continuing operations and before special items.
While volume in our consolidated businesses was down slightly I think it's worth noting that our Ilim JV provided $0.21 of additional contribution mainly driven by year-over-year revenue growth of 26%.
I think the other main story that John mentioned in 2011 was the significant margin expansion driven by year-over-year price realization and mixed improvements as well as excellent operations and cost management and both of these more than offset the higher input cost of $0.61 a share.
In summary as John stated earlier this result marks the best year that IP's had financially in almost 2 decades.
So moving to the next slide to the fourth quarter.
Earnings per share were $0.66.
These results were in line with our expectations for the quarter as we experienced what we would see as the normal seasonal weakness in North America and we did see some downward price pressure in market hold and exports from North America in both paper and packaging.
Additionally we had significant negative currency impact at our Ilim JV in this period which did reduce their earnings in the quarter.
These headwinds were somewhat offset by our global balance.
We saw seasonally stronger demand in paper sales in Brazil Russia and Eastern Europe as well as stronger box volumes and improved margins in Europe.
And we did see some input costs relief in fiber and energy.
I think it's worth noting that as we exited the quarter our inventory did remain in balance as we continued to balance our supply with our customers' demands.
So taking a quick look at the fourth quarter financial snapshot that you can see on Slide 10.
During the quarter we did generate greater EBITDA year-over-year and we did improve our margins by 100 basis points despite the headwinds that we just talked about.
Importantly the resulting free cash flow remained strong at $328 million.
Going to the fourth quarter to third quarter slide looking at the bridge from the third quarter the seasonal headwinds on costs and volumes you can see them there and you can also see the impact of the lower prices for pulp and exports.
And it did offset the positive on input costs.
And also on this bridge you can see the Ilim earnings impact which was down $0.12 a share due to the currency impact that I've already mentioned.
Let's just take a moment on the next slide and take a look at global input costs.
As you can see on Slide 12 input costs in the quarter did provide some relief primarily at fiber and that was primarily OCC; a little bit of energy.
And so this was down and combined for a $42 million improvement in earnings from the third quarter.
If I take you to Slide 13 I'd like to comment on our North American business operating rates.
In North America our mills ran at 91% operating rate in the quarter and 94% for the full year.
And as you can see on this slide our Packaging businesses did take nearly 240 000 tons of downtime in the quarter and we did this quite simply to balance our supply with our customers' demand.
As a result of these actions our inventories are in good shape entering the new year.
I will note that in containerboard we do have a lot of outages coming up in the first and second quarter and then seasonally strong ivy [ph] season So we will plan to build some inventory early in the quarter to get through the second quarter.
Moving to Slide 14 let's touch on Industrial Packaging.
Industrial Packaging operating earnings in the fourth quarter of '11 were $316 million compared to $301 million for the third quarter of '11.
The current quarter's earnings were favorably impacted by very strong mill operations.
We did talk about the lower recycled fiber costs in the U.S and we do have a seasonally strong box volume in  Europe and improved margins in Europe.
Partially offsetting these positive variances were higher maintenance outages.
We did see lower export prices in containerboard and we do have just a seasonally slower U.S.
box business in the fourth quarter.
If I take you to the chart on margins.
This puts our Industrial Packaging results in perspective.
Slide 15 shows our North American EBITDA returns for both '10 and '11 relative to the competition and it's worth noting that in 2011 our EBITDA margins were above 20% and importantly 250 basis points better than last year and 350 basis points better than our next competitor.
Just a quick comment regarding the Temple-Inland acquisition.
As we announced last Friday we have agreed to an extension until February 13th to provide time for the parties to complete the binding documentation to resolve the DOJ concerns with respect to the transaction.
We anticipate entering into the definitive agreement on terms acceptable to all parties within this timeframe.
We continue to work internally on our integration plans and importantly over the last several weeks our teams did get a chance to visit all the mills and if I remember quite energized with what we saw in terms of assets and potential synergies.
And we remain very confident in our synergy target of $300 million.
Moving to Consumer Packaging on Slide 17.
Operating profits were $62 million in the fourth quarter of '11 compared with $103 million in the third quarter of '11.
Increased maintenance outages seasonally weaker U.S.
in export demand for coated paperboard and lower pricing in China and Europe nearly partially offset by the lower input costs in the quarter.
Relative to our competition if you look at the total year in North America the business continues to outperform in this space improving EBITDA margins by 440 basis points greater than our next large competitor in 2011 versus '10.
And logically not surprisingly this would amount to a record year for our North American Coated Paperboard business.
And on Slide 19 we show that we nearly doubled our earnings over 2010 and achieved an almost 11% return on investment.
Moving to Page 20 there's so many good things going on in our Coated Paperboard business but an area that's worth mentioning is a portion of the success can be contributed to our supply chain initiative which really are enabled by our associated enterprise-wide operating model.
Things like schedule integrity improvements make-to-stock functionality have enabled the business to reduce inventories by greater than 5% while increasing terms to close to 9 times.
So this is a good outcome in a complex business which shows the results we can get.
Another great success in 2010 was our Foodservice business.
As we discussed last quarter this business closed an outstanding year finishing above pre-recession volume level and increasing earnings by nearly 20%.
The key for this business has really been about aligning our sales with growing and winning customers as we introduce innovative new products.
In 2012 our new Hold&amp;Go insulated hot cup product line is going to roll out with a number of market leaders in the quick service and convenience store segments driving further profitable growth and mix improvement.
Moving onto Asia.
Just a quick update on our capital expansion in our Sun JV.
Construction is underway on our new coated paperboard machine PM26.
This project remains on schedule for our fourth quarter 2012 startup.
And importantly it brings on an incremental 550 000 tons of new annual capacity of very high-quality coated paperboard.
Moving to Printing Papers on Slide 23 operating earnings were $190 million in the fourth quarter of '11 versus the $238 million that we saw in the third quarter of '11.
Higher manufacturing operating costs really primarily associated with the unfavorable seasonal energy used increased maintenance outage expense and lower export and pulp prices in the quarter more than offset lower input costs and seasonally stronger papers sales in Brazil Russia and Eastern Europe.
So the way I would talk about Printing Papers is we had strong results in Russia Europe and Brazil.
And in North America we had a solid quarter.
Third quarter was outstanding but we did see some of these headwinds in the higher maintenance expenses.
If you look at North America Printing Papers for the full year you can see that we finished the year with a record return on investment of nearly 13% and improved earnings over $45 million.
Moving on to Slide 25 an exciting piece of work that we want to mention is Franklin Virginia where work continues on our fluff pulp repurposing project with very exciting crews opened the gates for the first time in nearly 2 years as wood began to flow and to arrive in preparation for our planned midyear startup.
IP is currently -- we're the third largest global supplier of fluff pulp and this investment is going to give us greater participation in a market that's growing 4% plus.
The mill will be capable of producing 270 000 tons -- metric tons of high-quality fluff pulp for our customers across the globe.
Moving to Page 26.
Let me touch on IP India.
As you know in India integration is underway and best practice transfer is underway post our closing of Andhra Paper last quarter.
And although it's still very early we can clearly see that we've got a great opportunity for incremental opportunities to expand production leveraging our global expertise in uncoated free sheet to take part in what's our very fast growing market with uncoated free sheet growth of 7% to 15% in India.
Andhra Paper noteworthy increased our revenue per ton by 12% in 2011 and operated at EBITDA margins of greater than 20%.
First quarter had some noise in it but going forward I think the first quarter and beyond will give us a better indication of the progress and the success of Andhra Paper.
So let me touch on xpedx.
Xpedx had a strong fourth quarter with operating earnings of $33 million compared with $27 million in the third quarter of '11.
The fourth quarter costs did decrease primarily associated with the transformation initiatives and more than offset lower printing paper volumes due to fewer shipping days.
And at this point I'd like to turn it over to my colleague Mary Laschinger Senior Vice President and President of xpedx to share more news about the progress we're making in transforming our distribution business.
Thank you Carol.
Good morning everyone.
Last April we shared with you that xpedx had just finished a strategic assessment in our business and that we would launch that work in 2011.
And today I'm going to provide an update on that work and the outlook for the business.
But first I wanted to take an opportunity because I believe it's important to provide some background which helps explain the opportunity available to us in the distribution business.
On Page 28 you can see that xpedx had many acquisitions over the years and during that time we continued to progress and had improved earnings through 2008.
But it's only just been recently that we've actually achieved a single operating system to take advantage of those capabilities.
On the next page you can see that we had improvement up until 2008.
2009 not only brought a general economic decline but it also was the beginning of a structural demand decline in print especially in the coated grades and that still has not recovered to pre-recession level.
So 2010 we took the time to assess our options to reposition the business.
And 2011 was all about building capabilities on how to win and making choices on where to win.
And we believe through centralizing strategies with local execution we can deliver more than $100 million of improvement over the next few years taking the EBIT to over $200 million.
The next few slides that I'm going to cover further explain the 3 key levers of buy handle and sell and how the benefits are achieved with some specific examples to show this success.
And I'll finish to share with you the impact on our second half and fourth quarters specifically and the long-term outlook.
The buy part of this business is all about building a robust capability around strategic sourcing and replenishment.
We are thoroughly assessing our suppliers' capabilities.
Were matching those to our customer and product needs and then making some tough choices.
We're also currently in the process of upgrading our technology around our replenishment capabilities which will improve service levels and provide robust inventory management capabilities.
On the left-hand side of this chart I've shared with you where we've highlighted a category within each of our focus segment of print packaging and facility solutions and the outcome of our first phase of work.
You can see we have fewer suppliers and fewer SKUs all of this resulting in better service to our customers with improved product availability better total value at a lower total cost to the enterprise.
This first phase of work is just now being implemented in the 1st and 2nd quarter of 2012.
The second key lever in our business shown on Page 31 is all about optimizing our supply chain.
It's matching our warehouse network to our customer demand and the service levels required in each segment.
We are also installing warehouse and fleet management systems to optimize our national footprint.
All of this resulting in better service higher order fuel rates and lower fixed and variable costs.
The chart on the left shows our progress and our plan on revenue per square foot throughout our warehouse network which is a productivity measure and you can see we are making significant improvement in productivity.
The example on the right is the success story in the repositioning of our Salt Lake City operation where we took 4 locations 3 brands consolidated into one and you can see the outstanding results.
Again this handle initiative is all about fewer larger facilities with best-in-class capabilities leading to better service and lower cost.
The last key driver in our business is about making choices on where to focus and investing in growth.
As you can see from the top part of this grid we have opportunities in this business to grow and we are investing in those segments.
For example in our Packaging business we have invested in packaging design centers to support growth in specialty packaging and we coupled that with a commodity product offering.
You can see our results in 2011 have been significant with great improvement year-over-year.
But we also recognize that the commercial print segment is in decline but we have a very large position with many strengths to win and we're going to continue to support that segment as a core part of our business.
Lastly we did make some tough choices in 2011 and we are in the process of exiting some markets or segments due to either market dynamics or our assessment of our ability to win.
Page 33 the last picture shows our progress in 2011 and the long-term outlook.
As I've stated earlier 2011 was all about building a plan and capabilities and we began executing in late 2011 with some impact in the fourth quarter.
We do have seasonality in this business but our fourth quarter results were significantly better than prior years.
This is a multiyear program and we're about 3 to 6 months into the execution.
But we're very confident that this business has significant potential to add value to International Paper.
With that I'm going to turn it back to Carol.
Thanks Mary.
Appreciate it.
So one final update before I move on to the outlook and then John provides the wrap up.
I wanted to comment on our progress at the Ilim joint venture specifically our Bratsk and Koryazhma mills and those projects continue on schedule.
As you can see from these pictures on Slide 24 we essentially have passed the halfway mark and remain on plan for startup in late 2012.
And just to remind you of the scope of those projects in the Bratsk project we'll bring on 500 000 tons of bleached soft wood pulp leveraging our low cost export position to China.
And our new paper machine in Koryazhma will add 155 000 tons of uncoated free sheet which will support our domestic market growth in Russia.
So very exciting and on track and on plan.
So let me take us to Slide 35 and move in to the summary of the fourth quarter and then to the outlook.
As we said we had a solid fourth quarter despite the seasonally weaker demand environment in North America that we normally experience in this timeframe.
All things considered we continue to feel more positive about the demand trend in North America about our ability to expand margins globally and to grow our business in the emerging markets that we've invested in.
So let me take you through a detailed look of our first quarter outlook on Slide 36.
Looking ahead the first quarter is always a seasonally slower period.
With that said we do expect modest increases in volume in North America versus the fourth quarter primarily in Packaging -- that's primarily due to 4 more box shipping days.
But we do expect an increase in exports in our paper business.
Through January good news is that U.S.
box demand held up to what I would consider quite nicely.
Although we are working with a fairly weak year-over-year comp our box demand is up nearly 4% versus January of last year.
Moving on to pricing.
The continued pass-through of previously negotiated export price reductions really in packaging containerboard and in paper and pulp will materially impact realizations in the first quarter.
And additionally in Brazil seasonally weaker domestic demand -- that will result in us shipping a greater percentage of lower-priced paper exports which will be a drag on earnings.
As to inputs we see slightly higher costs in North America primarily wood energy and chemical which will largely offset the benefit of some lower outage expense.
And it's fairly new news today but OCC just came out today and it's up anywhere from $10 to $15 for February.
Xpedx earnings will decrease as the quarter is just seasonally a slower shipping period for the distribution business.
On a positive note contribution from our Ilim joint venture will improve and that's really based largely on the absence of the negative currency impact that we experienced in the fourth quarter.
I would point out that our run rate earnings coming out of this currency issue will reflect about the half of the peak level that will be saw earlier in 2011 which is a result of the full impact of the pulp price erosion for the period.
And lastly I'd like to point out that manufacturing operations and all other costs associated with the businesses will be impacted in the quarter versus the fourth quarter.
Essentially there's 4 major buckets each worth between $10 million to $25 million of incremental expense in the quarter and let me take you through those.
First we do expect one-time cost in the first quarter associated with the pending startups later this year at both Franklin and our Sun joint venture.
The second we talked about it but there are seasonally higher costs related to the consumption of energy fuel primarily due to the colder weather that will create some headwind for our manufacturing operations.
Third one-time annual true-ups that we experienced in the fourth quarter largely related to company-paid benefits.
We do not expect that to repeat in the first quarter.
And finally the company's favorable experience related to last year's inventory reevaluations will not occur -- will not reoccur in the first quarter impacting first quarter earnings.
So at this point what I would like to do is turn the call back to you John.
Good Carol thanks.
Carol just covered the outlook.
So let me talk more about just extending the outlook beyond the first quarter and the full year.
Looking at the U.S.
economy I think recovering but far for from fully recovered.
The economic growth we've got some growth but it's still a lot slower than we'd all like to see.
So we see modest demand growth in IP business segments mostly continuing to be driven by the growth in emerging markets.
None of us have a great crystal ball in input costs but as far as we can see -- with what we can see I'd say our view on input costs is more or less stable.
There's certainly is moderate inflation in the U.S.
economy.
Inventories are in good shape.
We're going to get the realization of high-return cost reduction projects most of that in the second half of the year and I'll talk about those in a minute.
The major earnings runway drivers that kind of ramp up in the second half of the year the most significant one being Temple-related synergies.
We are going to have some higher pension costs during the year and interest in tax expenses which are covered in the appendix.
So let me go and just talk about capital for a minute.
We discussed -- if you look at this chart it shows our capital spending over the last 7 or 8 years and then the 2008 to '12 average which is how we think about capital over a cycle.
We're going to spend more money in 2012.
The $1.3 billion before Temple probably close to $1.5 billion with Temple fairly close to depreciation whether it be big capital spending year.
The 2008 to '12 capital spending -- cycle spending will be below depreciation -- well below depreciation as we said about 75% over that period.
So we've got an impressive backlog of high-return projects and we're going to begin to fund those.
We'll start funding in 2011 aggressively we're going to continue to fund those aggressively in 2012.
And if you go to the next slide what you see are these projects and they really fall into 4 categories the biggest one being energy consumption.
No matter where we are whether it's Russia Brazil or the U.S.
reducing energy consumption are really high payback return projects.
As you can see we're going to spend close to $190 million this year on cost reduction projects.
Turning to Slide 42 the major earnings run rate drivers we see as we look out not only in 2012 but beyond are first the Temple acquisition.
As Carol said we're very confident about the $300 million of synergies more confident now that we've been in the Temple facilities.
That's going to start to impact us right away after closing which we think is not too far away.
The Franklin soft pulp conversion is also going to start to impact the company positively in the second half of the year and in 2013.
You heard Mary talk about the xpedx transformation which is starting to produce results and those will accelerate as we get to the back half of 2012.
The capital projects that are coming on in the markets where we need capacity Russia and China are going to be coming on stream at the end of the year and really start to impact International Paper in a positive way as we move into 2013.
And finally the APPM acquisition which we'll talk to you more about probably at the end of the first quarter on our Investor Day we think is a terrific opportunity for International Paper to build a platform that will give us earnings sales and expansion over the next 5 years.
So summing up our priorities as we think about International Paper before we kind of take your questions remain very consistent.
We're going to continue to grow strong sustainable free cash flow be very disciplined in how we spend money to do that.
Our objectives are to extend our margins and earnings in all of our businesses achieving cycle average of returns above the cost of capital maintain a strong balance sheet and continue to use that free cash flow in a balanced way to fund good cost reduction projects delivering on our strategic initiatives paying down the debt associated with Temple to maintain a strong balance sheet.
And finally but importantly increasing the dividend over time as sustainable free cash flow permits.
So with that I think I will turn it back over to all of you to ask your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of George Staphos of Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question on exports in containerboard.
I think earlier in the slide deck you show about $6 million of price reduction for the Industrial Packaging business.
Should we assume that most of that was related to exports? And can you comment at all what type of trend you're seeing more recently terms of export pricing in containerboard.
George so most of that was export related and I'll let Mark Sutton who's here who runs the Industrial Packaging business now just comment on what we see in the marketplace today.
It was all export.
In the fourth quarter we lost about $28 a ton in export and we've seen that continues a little bit more into January.
But we believe it's pretty much hitting a bottom and firming up.
There are even a couple of cases with some export markets where we've actually -- we see price increases as we go through January.
So I think we hopefully are seeing the bottom of that.
Research Division</strong> Mark would it be fair to say that you're seeing some pickup in South American export pricing? Or is that too simplistic? Probably too simplistic.
We're still -- we're still working through our customer activity in South America but the one area we have seen firming in somewhat of a reversal is more in our Mediterranean basin region.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Two last ones and I'll turn it over.
If we think about the bleached board market certainly it would appear from the data that you shared you're comfortable with your performance versus the market.
It is a smaller market though say versus containerboard.
And you are seeing capacity coming on not necessarily in North America obviously but around the world.
The decline that we saw in the fourth quarter how comfortable are you that's really more seasonal and/or cyclical and not the beginning of a more structural issue you need to deal with within coated paperboard.
Tom you want to comment on that? Tom Kadien runs our Consumer Packaging business which includes coated paperboard.
Yes we saw the industry backlogs here in North America start to fall in October and I would say they kind of bounced along the bottom in October and November.
But we've actually seen some improvements in backlog since then and I'd say for the last 3 weeks we felt very good about the demand.
So I think from a North American perspective the demand I'll say softness is behind us and we feel much better about the first quarter.
I guess from a structural standpoint I think I don't think we have a structural issue.
I think we just had an inventory correction and some slowdown in the segments that we participate in but it seems like we're headed in the right direction this year.
We export about 20% of what we make in Coated Paperboard and we're very targeted and selective about putting that volume to customers that need an SDS product.
So while yes there is capacity being added around the world we think we got the right customer base in the export markets to support that kind of position going forward.
Research Division</strong> Carol last question.
On the appendix you note the tax rate guidance is trending higher interest expense and corporate expenses well versus 2011.
Can you give us kind of a quick overview why those are trending higher? Yes the tax rate simply just geographic mix post Temple and then we're just going to have more of a U.S-based business-based relative to the Corporate.
And I know Glenn can take you guys through more detail but that's simply pension expense is going to be high.
The biggest driver is pension expense is going to be higher.
And of course the net interest expense is all around our Temple-Inland work.
But Glenn can take you through any other details you might need on that.
And remember that pension expense is not cash.
Your next question comes from Mark Wilde of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wondered if we could start out.
I noticed in Containerboard really you took a lot of downtime -- market downtime in the fourth quarter.
And I wondered if you can give us a little color where you're taking it and whether that's continuing in January or whether you're running a little fuller as you try to build those inventories that Carol talked about? Mark this is Mark Sutton.
On the market downtime as you know we run to our customer base the needs of our customer base and we took what we took in the fourth quarter simply to match what our customer demands were.
And really we tend to take it based on our flexible system so we take the downtime in the most cost-effective way as one of the benefits of having a system as flexible as ours.
So we took some of that downtime in some of the recycled mills.
And we are running stronger in the beginning of this year so far.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Mark you mentioned in the release a couple of times the improved performance in European container.
Is that simply a result of European containerboard prices having fallen so much in the fourth quarter? Yes what that is Mark is you've got board prices fell and with the customer base we've had we've gotten some margin expansion because prices haven't.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just John just a couple of questions about some of these offshore operations.
First of all it seems like there's a lot of restructuring going on in the European containerboard and corrugated business.
And I wondered if we could get your thoughts on your business in Europe and your strategy.
Well we've got a great corrugated business in Southern Europe North Africa and Turkey.
It's focused on fruit and vegetables.
It's not insulated from what's going on in Spain and Italy.
We have an industrial business there.
It's not integrated in the sense that we buy all our containerboard.
A lot of the virgin linerboard that we need for fruit and vegetables comes from International Paper so to that degree think of it as an extension of our integration here in North America.
There is some consolidation as you pointed out but I think is -- we'll see how that plays out.
Our business over there is a $1 billion business.
And we like it; we'd like to grow it if the right opportunity arises.
But we're not focused on growing our business in Western Europe either in packaging or in paper.
Our tilt is more to the east in Russia.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then down in China in the Sun JV the EBIT margins there continue to be quite low despite you guys having built a lot of new modern equipment over there.
I wondered if you could just talk about the sort of the year outlook for where margin should trend in China over time.
And also talk about how your funding this latest machine within the JV.
Well let me just comment on margins and then Tom or Carol can talk about how we're funding it.
I mean the China business model is different than for just about every business we're in different in the rest of the world.
The margins are lower because it's the most competitive market we're in anywhere but the capital turnover is a lot higher.
we're building capacity over there for in some cases less than 50% of what it would cost in Brazil or Europe or North America.
We've got a great example of that.
We built a paper machine in Brazil the same time we built a coated board machine in China and we saw the difference in the capital cost.
And that's what that means is you can make good returns with lower margins.
And fortunately that's the case because China is just so competitive.
These markets are big and growing that margins are lower.
Research Division</strong> And would you expect those margins to improve from where they're at right now about 4%? The margins are better I think in the Bleached Board business with 4% maybe an aggregate.
Therefore I don't see anything changing in China to make China less competitive than it is.
Every time I go there I see more competitors.
Mark this is Tom Kadien.
What we see is coated paperboard prices in China do tend to follow pulp because there's a fair amount of nonintegrated capacity over there.
Margins came under pressure in the second half of last year for that reason as well as a lot of extra capacity coming online.
So I would say we're kind of -- we're probably a little bit past the bottom on the margin side at the Sun JV.
And for the full year we had a very good year a double-digit ROI on the investment.
And to John's point about the capital turns they're over 3 on the JV.
So the margins don't tell the whole story.
That's our new capital so you'll be looking at capital turnover probably 0.8 here in North America.
From a funding standpoint we own 55% of that joint venture so our partner contributed real estate and infrastructure and we contributed cash.
And we're generating cash in that business up until a point in time we had to put some -- and put the capital out to fund the project which is roughly..
It's under $300 million.
$300 million.
For the whole project.
And then the JV borrows the majority of the funds.
Your next question comes from Phil Gresh of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> In terms of containerboard it sounds like you are running a bit more full here in the first quarter but if I add it up last year there's about 380 000 tons of market-related downtime.
So I guess I'm just kind of curious how you're thinking about that flex capacity at this stage.
Obviously it's upside as markets recover but is there a point where you consider that as more of the cost-reduction opportunity considering you have capacity creep every year through your own productivity? So Phil this is Mark.
I think the way we think about it is this system is pretty large at International Paper and last year as you quoted it was 380 000 tons.
When you look at the flexibility of our system and the size of it and the constant work we do to select customers across the globe especially for the kraft linerboard we view that as something we can do at an ongoing way.
And demand as you said in North America would take a big hit out of that.
But we already tried to optimize how we take the downtime and actually we've gotten pretty good at it in terms of doing it in the most cost-effective way.
Phil let me just add to that.
If you think about our channel access our market access we've got a big position in export markets.
That's a 4 million-ton market.
It's growing faster than North American box consumption.
And that's where we're targeting our virgin linerboard.
And we're more than willing to take temporary downtime because we think the U.S.
market is growing over time.
We are going to get back -- box demand will get back to pre-recession levels.
And as Mark said with the flexible system we have more flexible system now the cost of taking temporary downtime as opposed to kind of long-term downtime -- or structural downtime is a cost that is quite low.
So I think we're well advantaged to having this multiple market strategy to be able to manage through times when there's a bit of excess capacity.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my second question is over the past 2 quarters the domestic demand on containerboard has held up a lot better than the domestic demand for bleached board.
And as the industry leader in both I was wondering if you could share any observations as to why that might be perhaps by certain and markets or otherwise.
We've been asking ourselves that question and we frankly we don't have a real good answer.
In some inventory destocking we think in the bleached board business but yet there's no question.
If you look at corrugated shipments you look at bleached board shipments you'd say the 2 in the fourth quarter didn't really move in the same direction.
As Tom said we're feeling more optimistic about the paperboard backlogs and shipments as we go into 2012.
The other observation Phil is if you take it over a longer period of time they start to look closer.
And the Containerboard business is just a much shorter-cycle business.
So you see the changes in the supply chain.
It reacts much faster because you can't store corrugated.
And in the Coated Paperboard business as any of these markets the cycle time and the supply chain is just longer.
Your next question comes from Gail Glazerman of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Carol I apologize if you quantified these numbers but you had mentioned something about those true-ups in inventory adjustments that seem to benefit the fourth quarter.
I was wondering if you could quantify them if you haven't.
Gail this is Carol.
As I stated there's kind of buckets of those and some of those buckets were in the $10 million to $25 million of expense range.
So that kind of gives you a range.
And what I'd do I'd say that we could follow up just with Glenn to see if there's any more detail in that.
But I think that kind of gives you the directionality of those in the magnitude that you need.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you just remind us what your policy is on natural gas hedging and to what extent the recent declines may or may not flow through? It's been pretty good shape to see the steady downdraft of natural gas hit the bottom line because for all intents and purposes we're just about 100% spot now.
But we're hedging in the past and we've let those hedges run off Gail.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I think a new competitor had a favorable ruling from the IRS in terms of fuel tax credits.
And I'm just wondering if you could give us an update if there's any kind of incremental potential benefit that could come to you? Yes Gail this is Carol.
We also filed our amended return for the summer and we booked a reserve against that.
So the ball is kind of in the IRS court and we're waiting on their determination.
So in the meantime we just wait and see and I think that was -- we've disclosed that.
I think it was in the $660 million range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last question.
I guess you're seeing OCC move up a little bit and I'm just wondering is that a driver -- is that being driven by I guess pickup in China? And maybe some insights into what you're seeing in your Chinese box business and what that might mean for OCC moving forward? This is Mark.
That's definitely a part of it and we expected to see that because what happened in the drop off really was a lack of Chinese demand.
So we are seeing that pickup and seeing the expected rise in OCC cost.
Tom do you want to comment on how you see box demand in China? Yes we saw box demand slow down in the second half of the year kind of mirroring everything you read about economic activity over there.
On the other -- and what we didn't see what we normally see is a bit of a buildup before Chinese New Year in inventories and folks did not do that over in China.
Now we're out of Chinese New Year now and I think we expected it will start to pick back up again.
But it was slower in the second half more like a plus 5% then plus 10% in the box market that we have been experiencing.
Yes.
We still think that China is going to grow at 5-plus percent in terms of box consumption and it's a 40 million ton market.
So those are big numbers even though it's not the kind of numbers we're looking at maybe 2 years ago.
Your next question is coming from Chip Dillon of Vertical Research.
One thing that we're noticing is that depreciation and amortization seems to be coming down which is obviously a benefit to earnings.
I noticed in the quarters year-over-year it was down $40 million like 10% and you're guiding to 1.2x Temple versus 1.5x in 2010.
Could you give us give us a little color as to what's causing that? I guess maybe some runoff of previous acquisition accelerated depreciation? And sort of how we could expect that to progress with or without on a post-Temple or a pre-Temple basis? Well Chip this is Carol.
I think what you're seeing is you're seeing that depreciation is coming off from warehouse or where that's coming down.
Depreciation coming down from there.
You'll also see the result of the capital spending and we've been spending less in the last few years.
So I think it works itself out over time.
But I don't think there's anything more extraordinary or dramatic from that than that.
And Chip we'll have to go through kind of the whole asset allocation issue with Temple which probably is going to result in step up of assets which will lead to higher depreciation again.
But if you think about our capital spending our target had been 75% depreciation over the last cycle and we're not going to be over depreciation in this coming cycle.
But we'll share a bit more of that with you when we get to Investor Day.
Got you.
And sort of on that score we are seeing sort of above your average level this year as you've guided us.
And we have another player out there that just recently made a big acquisition that sort of stepped up the CapEx for a year after that closed.
It seems though that your situation is a little different.
Should we expect sort of post-Temple for your CapEx to still sort of be kind of at a peak-ish level in '12 and '13 and then likely come down a little bit all things being equal? Well in '12 we got these projects we're talking about the Franklin project we've got the Sun project that are expansion projects.
Plus we have $200 million of cost production projects which don't have any volume associated with them.
You'll have to see how the Boiler MACT regulations get played out but that's the wave of capital that is going to hit the industry that we haven't had in the last 5 or 6 years.
And we'll quantify that for you and share with you on Investor Day.
At that point in time we'll know more.
Got you.
And one last one.
With the increasing corporate expense of about $75 million is most of that tied to the pension increase? Or I'll ask it differently: is any of the pension increase going to be allocated to the segments? Most of that is the pension increase Chip.
But some of the pension increase will also show up in the segments is that fair? No this particular part of the expense we keep on that corporate line.
Your next question comes from Al Kabili of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I've been bounced around calls so I apologize if some of these have been addressed.
But I guess first is on bleached capacity in China we're seeing a meaningful ramp I guess there.
One is how are you feeling about the returns on the expansion on the Sun JV.
And then two if you could talk about maybe any risk you see or addressing the risk of some of that coming into North America.
It's Tom Kadien.
Relative to the returns our business at the Sun JV really plays in the higher-end higher-priced more technical grades around food and beverage and antiseptic.
And I think where we're at where we've positioned ourselves purposely because of the excess capacity is to move as much of our mix up there where others typically don't play.
So 60% of our mix at the JV is up at the higher end.
And mostly I'll say insulated from a lot of that capacity that's coming in folding boxboard.
Now that said there's still kind of a second effect the pressure.
So we saw some of that in the second half of last year but I think long term we still look at the investment on PM26 as being a double-digit kind of return and we have to work through some of this excess capacity in coated board.
But the market is still growing 8% to 10% over there and that will chew up a bunch of that pretty quickly.
Relative to the impact on the U.S.
I think it's relatively minor.
We see some of it coming in and I'll say in sheet form for commercial printing applications but not a lot of tons and it shouldn't impact our business much here in the U.S.
at all.
I'm talking about the excess in China capacity.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could ask a question for Carol.
I don't know if you could quantify the pension expense is incremental pension expense this year and also what that means.
How should we be thinking about corporate expense this year? Yes Al.
And just to clarify that what we keep at corporate is the investment performance and the service cost which is much more of a flatter number stays out of the business.
And I think if you look in the appendix I think on Page 43 there is some data or 44 and I think the majority of the increase in the corporate item is in that pension expense which is investment performance related.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And for 2012 how should we be thinking about corporate expense? On that chart it's $220 million.
Research Division</strong> $220 million.
Okay.
All that stuff is in the appendix.
So there's even some more detail.
And if you have any questions of course you can follow up with us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I apologize I missed it.
That's okay.
No problem Al.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess the final question maybe for John.
Again I apologize if you've addressed this already.
But the inventory levels and industry inventory levels in the U.S.
on containerboard how are you feeling about those and your own inventory? I feel good about them.
But I let Mark Sutton talk how he sees from his perspectives since he's running the business.
Yes I think I would agree with John's comment.
The inventory levels are in the normal range both measured and absolute in the number of weeks.
What rise we've seen has been pretty clearly discussed as bills for outages and specific needs.
So I think we feel pretty good about the overall level.
Our inventories were flat in the fourth quarter.
And as Carol mentioned we do have some maintenance outages in the first 2 quarters obviously and we will have some bill to deal with that.
And we're expecting based on the way the weather has played out a stronger agricultural fees and so we want to be prepared for that to be successful there even though we have some maintenance outages.
Research Division</strong> Your next question comes from Anthony Pettinari of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Looking at 2011.
I guess U.S.
uncoated free sheet volumes were down 3% industry-wide.
As you look at 2012 is there any reason to think that those volumes could be materially better or worse than 2011? And just a follow-up on the quarter it seems like you're free sheet volumes were flat year-over-year which I think is a little bit better than the industry.
Would you give a little color there as well? Anthony it's Tim.
Most of the third-party forecasts that I've seen for this year are showing about a 3% decline forecasted.
We'll have to see what impact the election and some of the other 2012 events how they impact the market.
But we're not seeing anything dramatically different for 2012 than we saw in 2011.
One of the things is it's structural.
It won't last forever but as unemployment comes down one of the biggest drivers of cut-size consumption which is the biggest segment of uncoated free sheet is white-collar employment.
And that's still then strictly high.
And if that comes down you would expect to see some offset to the structural decline in uncoated free sheet be offset a bit.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then on the containerboard side you've had competitors that have announced or completed large projects that are going to try to move them down the cost curve.
And I was wondering if you could discuss your overall cost position in North America and maybe what steps you can take.
You referenced the $190 million in capital projects the Temple integration.
What steps can you take to protect your cost advantage and just sort of how you think about that? Well I'd say that there's no company that's got the opportunities that International Paper has.
If you think about opportunities to improve the cost structure with the Temple integration there's $300 million there that we can see just in integration opportunities.
And then as we deal with the warehouses the whole re-optimization platform that's significantly different fast-forward in 2013  than the one we have today.
So I think International Paper because we made these opportunities for ourselves it's got far more leverage to pull than anybody has in the world to kind of manage our own cost structure and improve it.
And whether that's in Ilim with the Bratsk project the Temple integration we've got a big energy project going on in Brazil that's going to make Mogi Guaçu totally non-dependent on fossil fuel.
It would be all wood fiber or biomass.
Those types of things we've got going on all around the world.
We're just about to start up a new turbine project in Svetogorsk which is going to significantly reduce our energy costs.
So we're pulling those levers everywhere and we got more from the pull than anybody else does.
Research Division</strong> Can you give any kind of guidance about what portion of that $190 million would be going towards North American containerboard? It's probably in -- I don't have that exact number -- this is Carol.
But it's probably in the $40 million range.
Our final question will be coming from the line of Mark Weintraub of Buckingham Research.
Three clarifications.
First on the black liquor question which Gail had brought up.
I believe in the case of Capstone they basically would be reversing a liability so there wasn't going to be any cash coming to them.
I don't see that you have a liability.
So in your case if you were to get _ a similar ruling would that actually mean that you would get cash coming to you? We basically paid the taxes on the gain we got when we had the black liquor credit and therefore we've kind of believed in the beginning that it was not taxable.
But we did indeed paid the tax on it.
And so now we're coming back and saying we're amending the tax return.
Gee that shouldn't have been taxed.
And so how that comes back to us in the form of either refund or deferred -- another tax credit in other way it will come back to us over time.
Okay.
Second Carol when you were referencing Page 36 you threw 4 items that you were truing up.
You zipped through those pretty quick.
It sounds like 2 of them were positive 4Q to 1Q and 2 of them negative.
Did I just hear that right? I don't think you've captured that correctly Mark.
Sorry.
They're all negative.
They're all going in the opposite direction in the negative direction.
More costs for the startups higher costs for the consumption of energy and fuel and there were some positive in '11 that do not repeat in '12.
Got it.
Okay.
And then lastly in terms of the $300 million synergies that you reiterated.
Again I take it that that's is that not that dependent on the specifics of the pending binding documentation with DOJ? I'm thinking about both of those synergies are Mark they're related to eliminating duplication combining 2 companies that have a lot of duplication.
And the other part are we said that having fewer box plants at the end of the day.
So that's what we see as the main portion of the synergies.
And based on what we've seen in Temple because we put together an estimate without having visited any facilities.
Now we've been to all the mills.
We feel very good about that $300 million number.
Okay.
Well listen.
That wraps it up and let me just summarize.
I think International Paper finished a very good year.
In fact last year we had almost 2 decades on a strong note.
We're in a seasonally slow time of the year.
But we're very positive about the prospects for International Paper to flow through 2012.
Having said that we're looking forward to talking to you about the Temple integration on our next conference call.
So thank you.
Thanks John.
And of course Investor Relations and Media Relations are available on the phone numbers on our website after the call.
Have a good day everyone.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the First Quarter 2012 International Paper Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Glenn Landau you may begin your conference.
Good morning and thank you for joining International Paper's First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Our key speakers this morning are John Faraci Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Carol Roberts Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call we will make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which are outlined on Slide 2 of our presentations.
We will also present certain non-U.S.
GAAP financial information.
A reconciliation of those figures to U.S.
GAAP financial measures are available on our website.
Our website also contains copies of the first quarter 2012 earnings press release and today's presentation slides.
So with that I will now turn the call over to Mr.
John Faraci.
Thanks Glenn and good morning everybody.
As we usually do over the next 10 to 15 minutes Carol Roberts and I will review our first quarter results with you performances of our individual businesses then we'll open up for your questions.
And we've got several of our business leaders here today to take some of those questions.
So let me start right in.
To start off International Paper earned $0.57 a share in the first quarter.
It's the second best first quarter we've had since 2000 the best being last year.
We continue to generate strong free cash flow and importantly got off to I think an excellent start integrating Temple operations where we closed in mid-February.
And we've accomplished a great deal in the first 6 weeks.
While our results were in line with -- slightly favorable for our expectations we experienced a normal seasonal weakness that you always have in the first quarter coming out of the holidays in our U.S.
businesses.
And it's -- the first quarter is also slow in Latin America.
The main driver for year-over-year as Carol will explain were lower pulp paper packaging prices primarily in export markets.
And we supply those export markets out of North America out of Brazil and through our Russian joint venture.
With that said all the global markets really bottomed in the quarter from a pricing perspective and on average we're trending up as we exited the quarter and moved in April.
So the pricing actions in the export markets are beginning to take hold.
We really bottomed out in the first quarter.
We've also made very good progress on our strategic initiatives during the quarter.
The Temple-Inland synergies began to improve from day one allowing us to basically get through the first quarter with Temple being EPS awash.
And we also continue to make a lot of progress at many initiatives we have in the pipeline which will be completed this year and will produce results next year.
The Franklin fluff pulp project the new coated board machine and the Sun joint venture in China; the 2 big projects in the Ilim Joint Venture; the Mogi Guaçu boiler which is going to reduce our energy cost in Brazil; and the xpedx strategic initiatives.
All those will impact earnings in a positive way next year.
So let me move to the next slide Slide 5 in your deck.
Revenues for the quarter were up 5% versus last year in the fourth quarter mainly due to the Temple-Inland acquisition.
EBITDA margins were in line with expectations.
Free cash flow -- International Paper's free cash flow story remains strong at almost $360 million for the quarter roughly equivalent to the first quarter of last year when you normalize for capital spending levels.
So before I turn the presentation over to Carol I would just like to once again welcome the employees of Temple-Inland who -- many are listening in to International Paper and reiterate how encouraged I am with the early progress that we're making integrating the businesses and just reinforce our vision of aggressively building and operating the best corrugated packaging business in the world.
And we measure that a couple of ways: by our results versus the competition the quality of our employees and the quality of our customers and the returns we generate for our shareowners.
So good first quarter and I'll turn it over to Carol.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
Let's take a look at the first quarter financial bridge and we'll move from first quarter of '11 to first quarter of '12.
As John just shared we earned $0.57 a share from continuing operations before special items.
And the good news is volume was up slightly but we did see price erosion of about $0.20 year-over-year and that was associated with the pass-through of market pulp price declines as well as paper and packaging export price declines mostly negotiated in the fourth quarter of '11.
Some came into the first quarter of '12 and we'll talk about that a little bit more at the end.
We did see modest relief on input cost at $0.02 per share which did help cover the higher pension-related corporate expenses.
Relative to Temple-Inland as John spoke to partial quarter earnings including synergies fully offset the incremental interest associated with the acquisition.
So definitely a very good start.
And finally our share of the Ilim equity earnings adjusted for the elimination of the one-quarter lag in reporting was down year-over-year on lower pricing.
But we did have a favorable impact due to currency exchange rates in the quarter.
So moving to Slide 7.
Let me just touch on input costs for a moment.
Input costs in the quarter versus last year were modestly lower $12 million total for the company with fiber and energy being the positives offsetting higher chemicals and freight costs.
Our Industrial Packaging business was the beneficiary of most of this due to lower OCC and energy costs and that amounted to $27 million upside for them while our Printing Papers and Consumer Packaging were all $15 million and even [ph] accordingly.
And that was driven by higher chemical and freight cost offsetting the positive.
If I take you to Slide 8 as you can see our North American mills ran strong at 95% in the quarter and that was up from 91% in the first quarter of '11.
It was a good quarter for North America.
And we continue to match our production to our customers' demand while closely managing our inventories.
And so our inventories are in good shape and I'll talk a little bit about that piece of the business [indiscernible].
So let me continue.
I know there's a little noise on the line but hopefully you guys can hear me fine.
I'm on Slide 9.
Let me move to Industrial Packaging.
Industrial Packaging posted a strong first quarter in '12 generating $278 million in earnings.
And that compares very favorably to the $274 million that we posted in the first quarter of '11.
The quarter's earnings were favorably impacted by Temple-Inland as we discussed.
We did have the lower input cost.
And very encouragingly we had very solid box and export shipments.
Partially offsetting this was the lower export price that we've talked about higher maintenance outages and we did have a bit weaker mill operations in the first quarter relative to the fourth and last year with some one-time events that are behind us.
If I take you to Slide 10 I want to talk about our EBITDA margins in the Industrial Packaging business to put our results in perspective.
This slide shows that our North American EBITDA margins and this does include Temple-Inland remain better than the best of the competition set prior to achieving the merger benefits.
So this is really a nice outcome.
This is what we expected but it just points to the real exciting opportunity we have of combining International Paper's corrugated packaging business with Temple-Inland's business to really create a superior operation.
This is a little bit of detail on Temple-Inland for the partial quarter that -- post close.
Temple-Inland operations delivered $33 million in earnings and that does include about $10 million of synergies which were mostly attributable to overhead reductions.
Factoring in the incremental interest expense associated with the November bond offering the term loan the rollover debt pretax income from operations was neutral to slightly accretive.
And that is definitely a good outcome.
So moving on to '12.
As John stated we are off to a very good start and we have a tremendous amount of work going on to capitalize on this opportunity.
In the next 90 days we'll continue to accelerate versus our synergy realization timeline and further assess more potential that this transaction brings to us.
So stay tuned.
I've got to give a good plug here for Mark Sutton who on Investor Day which is May 24 will provide a thorough update on the progress to date and our most current view on any potential headroom we're finding as we work together to uncover more opportunity.
On a parallel course to this discovery process I think it's very important that we point out that we remain very very focused on maintaining and improving the customer experience throughout this process.
We're off to a good start there but that's clearly a high priority.
So while we're going to make significant strides with our box plants our mills our supply chain optimization that's going to definitely positively impact the bottom line our cost structure.
I think it's equally important that our efforts are also going to result in improved quality and service.
And if you think about it we will have an expanded product offering.
Put that all together that is going to allow us to extend to our customers both domestically and globally the best value proposition in the business.
And finally on Temple-Inland we are making good progress on the sale of the mills and are preparing for the sale of the building products business.
So let me move on to Consumer Packaging.
Consumer Packaging is on Slide 13.
Operating profits were very solid at $96 million in the quarter of '12 compared to $101 million in the first quarter of '11.
We did see lower prices but this was driven largely by export mix and some margin squeeze that we experienced at the Sun JV.
We did have weaker year-over-year volumes and some of this was offset by the absence of the Shorewood results in the quarter.
In North America relative to our competition the business continues to outperform in this space.
As you can see on Slide 14 the EBITDA margins actually improved and we're well ahead of our competition.
Another great story is our Foodservice business.
And as we discussed last quarter they continue to reach new highs finishing the quarter with record earnings and excellent returns.
The key for this business has clearly been aligning with growing customers the best customers in the space as well as introducing new and innovative products.
One thing that we've got going on that's very exciting is our Hold&amp;Go insulated hot cup product line and that is currently being rolled out by a number of market leaders in the quick service restaurant space as well as the convenience store segments.
What we like about this most is that it's effectively replacing foam cups with an environmentally sustainable solution which drives new demand profitable growth mix improvement.
And it's well suited for integrating back into our Consumer Packaging business and our mills.
Let me move now to Printed Papers.
Printing Papers' operating earnings were $145 million in the fourth quarter -- or first quarter of '12 versus $209 million in the first quarter of '11.
Lower pulp and export prices did more than offset the benefits of the lower maintenance outage expenses the improved volume and the stronger mill operation.
I think Slide 17 though is really a great view of what's happening inside the business.
And most of the headwinds in our Printing Papers business are from pulp.
So you can see in our North American uncoated papers business it performed very well on a stand-alone basis.
It delivered a great return on investment of 14%.
And actually earnings in our Paper business were up $12 million on a year-over-year basis on volume growth of 4%.
So a good outcome on the Paper side.
India touch on India for a moment.
We did finish almost our second quarter in India.
I guess we closed in October of 2011.
So we finished our first full quarter of operations and we had record volumes.
It was up actually 15% year-over-year.
So while it's still early we remain energized by what we're seeing to date and the opportunities we have to expand production leveraging our global expertise the knowledge we have in uncoated freesheets how to run mills.
It's going to be great and we're excited about the chance to participate in this fast-growing market.
Moving to xpedx on Slide 19.
xpedx fought strong headwinds in the quarter and they were related both to seasonality and really the secular decline that we're seeing in the coated freesheet market.
But we did see improved earnings year-over-year and this speaks to the progress we're making on the cost reductions associated with our strategic transformation which we will continue on with.
So let me move to Slide 20 and kind of summarize.
As Slide 20 illustrates I would categorize definitely the first quarter as solid results despite seasonally weaker demand environment in the Americas and lower price realization in our pulp and our export grades.
But all things considered although it seems to be a bit saw-toothed we continue to feel more positive about the demand trends in North America and our ability to expand our margins globally and importantly to grow our business in the emerging markets that we've invested in.
Clearly a theme that's been resonating throughout the presentation has been what's happening with our pricing.
So before I turn it back over to John I just wanted to point out some of the underlying trends in the first quarter relative to pricing because it's a very important topic.
As John alluded to earlier almost every grade across our global platform is exiting the quarter with stable or improved pricing versus our average pricing in the quarter.
So that clearly indicates that we've reached and moved away from the recent bottom.
And I think that's obviously good news and it bodes well for the quarters to come.
You can also see the list of announced price initiatives on the right column.
So we expect further realizations in the second and third quarter as these increases are implemented.
So I think it bodes well for the rest of the year.
So at this point John let me turn it back to you.
Yes.
Thanks Carol.
And I'm on the slide that's got a lot of yellow with a little bit of red and some green on it which is basically framing up our outlook for the second quarter and then I'll talk about the rest of the year.
So looking ahead to the second quarter we're going to be moving into a seasonally stronger period of the year.
That said the GDP growth numbers this morning weren't all that impressive.
It did feel like closer to 2% GDP growth but we are going to see some seasonal improvement because the first quarter is one of the seasonally slow ones.
We'll see that in North America and we'll see it in Brazil.
In Brazil that'll give us a more favorable domestic export mix.
So far in April U.S.
box demand is I'd say modestly outpacing last year on an average-day basis.
And we expect that trend to continue throughout the quarter.
Additionally though Industrial Packaging earnings are going to be impacted by both the full quarter of Temple-Inland as well as increased synergy capture which will start to fall through to the bottom line in a much bigger way as we come out of the second quarter.
Moving to pricing as Carol just shared we expect further price realizations throughout the quarter associated with our announced increases for papers in North America and Brazil and Russia containerboard exports from our North American operations as well as global market pulp and fluff pulp exported out of North America.
That said the second quarter is our heaviest maintenance outage quarter of the year.
It's about 40% of our global annual spend in the second quarter.
That's an incremental $105 million or about $0.16 a share versus the first quarter.
And think of that as equally split between our Papers and Packaging business but it's also all around the world.
We're right in the middle of our annual outage in India right now.
As far as input costs go we expect to see higher costs in North America.
Probably close to $25 million if you just look at the exit rate coming out of March and April across OCC chemicals and freight.
That's $25 million in total.
Most of but not all of that will be offset by lower natural gas prices.
So input costs were a tailwind in the first quarter.
It'd be a bit of a headwind in the second quarter.
And lastly we had an FX gain in Ilim of $30 million in the first quarter and we're assuming that's not going to be repeated unless the Russian ruble continues to get quite strong.
So just turning to I think more importantly the full year outlook and I'll kind of use that as a ramp to talk about how we see 2013.
Because we got some -- a lot of things going on inside the company that aren't really macro demand-related.
We see a positive trend in the underlying business results in the second quarter.
It's going to be offset as I said by big maintenance outages.
But those will be behind us so we won't have those outages in the third and fourth quarter.
The global economy is uneven.
We've got a recession going on in Western Europe.
The growth is slowed in China and India but still remains robust.
And we've got great paper demand year-over-year in India but the economy has cooled off a bit.
And North America's -- it's a recovering but far from a fully recovered economic environment.
We have a lot of confidence in our full year earnings and free cash flow outlook.
Temple is going to have a growing impact on the year as we go through the year.
And we're really setting the stage I think for a big step up in 2013.
Again driven off a lot of projects which we're spending money on now which will be completed during the course of this year's start up and have an impact on next year's results.
And as I said those are the Franklin fluff project; the big energy project in Brazil which will make us totally self-sufficient; Mogi Guaçu; the Ilim expansions; the Sun paper machine; the xpedx strategy; and finally the Temple ramp-up on merger benefits and full integration.
You'll hear more about all of that on Investor Day.
I think it's March 24.
And additionally our business leaders in Investor Day will have -- May 24 excuse me not March 24.
Additionally we're going to have Paul Herbert the CEO of Ilim attending Investor Day in May.
So we'll talk more about Ilim as well.
So I'll stop right there and we'll open it up for your questions.
Thanks John.
Operator we're ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question is coming from the line of Steve Chercover with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> First of all I just wanted to ask did your results in the first quarter surprise you at all? Were they perhaps a bit better than you might have thought? I don't think we have -- it always turns out Steve that you -- we got there probably in a slightly different way than we thought we would.
I think we left a little money on the table in terms of our mill operations.
We had a great running quarter in Printing Papers in North America.
We ran really well in Russia.
We left a little money on the table in Industrial Packaging and some of the IP legacy mills the Temple mills.
So with the global balance we have we're always going to have pluses and minuses relative to expectations.
But I -- we're pleased with how the quarter came out and again looking at free cash flow I think that's the -- kind of the important number for us.
Research Division</strong> Indeed.
And then with respect to the expenses associated at Franklin and the Sun JV did they peak in the first quarter? Are they behind you or just going to trend down? They're pretty much flat.
We're running with -- more like a couple of million dollars a month at Franklin.
Research Division</strong> Is that mill producing commercial grade now? No.
No.
We'll start up mid-year.
That was Tim answering the question.
[indiscernible] But we can trade back and forth.
Your next question is coming from the line of Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Research Division</strong> A quick question on corporate expense.
The first quarter was a lot higher than I would have expected unless I'm missing some adjustment and it's a huge percentage of your overall annual guidance.
Was there something kind of unusual driving that? And what would drive it back down? Gail I think we had spoke to -- the corporate expense is higher due to pension expense.
And so it's on Page 26 if you look at the -- in the appendix it shows the corporate expense.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
But it's looks like $69 -- $65 million or $69 million for the first quarter which would be a lot higher than that run rate.
I mean I kind of would assume it would come back down then.
Yes.
It should even out through time.
So there could be a little timing there on things but the $220 million is the good estimate to use for the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just looking at the demand environment a little.
When you look at industrial production performance in consumer nondurables is significantly underperforming.
And it seems to be reflected in overall box volumes as well as Consumer Packaging volumes.
Is there anything structural that you think is going on? Is there anything you're hearing from your customers? No I'll let Mark comment on what he sees in corrugated but we've -- the GDP numbers are a little over 2%.
That kind of feels like last year.
It's slowed a bit from the fourth quarter with box demand was up 0.5% last year.
And we're kind of going along that path sideways.
Yes John.
I would agree with that.
I mean we are seeing nothing really structural in that.
I think some of those nondurable categories quite honestly are affected by short-term issues like gasoline prices and other things.
But we aren't seeing anything structural and we are pretty much tracking -- our box business is tracking with the market which is our strategy.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last one.
Given the performance of Temple -- the Temple assets in the first quarter is there any change to kind of the original guidance that you gave that would be kind of a slight drag or a neutral this year? Well if we're neutral in the first quarter on 2 months of financials with $10 million of merger benefits I think you can do the math yourself.
We'll talk more about that at Investor Day at the end of May but we're pretty pleased with where we are.
Your next question is coming from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Looking at 2Q outages in Industrial Packaging in terms of downtime obviously last year you had a little bit of a unique comp with the Vicksburg flood.
When you add Temple's downtime and you kind of you look at it apples-to-apples would you expect to take significantly less tons down or kind of a similar number? Or maybe more tons based on what you're seeing in the market? Well I think -- I'm not sure if you're asking about last year's second quarter.
I mean what we have in the chart here is really what we forecast all-in both IP and legacy and Temple mills for maintenance outages.
And I think -- is this the third quarter? Is this the second quarter for...
Last year.
Last year.
So it looks to be pretty similar.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
In terms of total tonnage it would be sort of a similar number to 2Q last year.
Okay.
And then I was wondering if you could maybe give a little color on what you're seeing in terms of domestic box markets.
It looks like pricing was flat.
And I'm wondering if your -- if you think you're in a position to gain a little box business given that you have sort of an expanded product offering or you may be losing a little business with customers who maybe bought from IP and Temple and are trying to diversify suppliers.
Or sort of what are you seeing in the marketplace in boxes? Good question Anthony.
I mean there's -- the box business is always moving around given the size of the market and the diversity of the segments.
But we pretty much are tracking with the market.
So we win some and we lose some.
We had -- 1/2 of our business was in -- was actually exposed to segments that actually grew quite nicely in the first quarter.
And the other half was in segments that didn't grow as much.
We don't see any specific issues around businesses trading hands just because of the Temple-Inland merger.
Obviously customers at both companies shared and we're working real hard to keep that business where we can.
And if we lose any we're going to replace it.
But our strategy is to grow with the market and our performance in the first quarter is pretty much tracking that.
Yes Anthony.
On Page 30 and you probably already caught up with it we were very pleased and this is with Temple-Inland in.
We were up with the market 6/10 of a percent and importantly our box pricing from the fourth quarter to the first quarter was flat.
So we feel good about that part of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe just one last question.
Is there one specific segment maybe in agriculture where Temple gives you some capabilities that you didn't have before? I think there's a couple of segments that come to mind.
Temple adds to our capability in sort of the fast-moving consumer goods.
And that's big companies big customers and smaller customers.
And we will be a lot stronger in the retail packaging segment as well with a lot more capabilities than we had before.
To add to that we've got a much more expansive footprint now in Mexico.
And we got into Mexico with Weyerhaeuser.
We've now added to that with Temple.
We like that.
And our ag business particularly in California is substantially bigger now.
It's a seasonal business but this year is going to be a good season out in California on the fruit side.
Your next question is coming from the line of Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions one just on Ilim.
As you plan to bring this capacity on line wondering how you think about the dependence on China there.
I mean it's obviously not a big piece of global softwood supply but it's a reasonably sized piece of China.
And with China a bit overstocked right now just wondering how you're thinking about managing that over the long-term.
China is going to be a net importer of fiber for as far as we can see.
And with 8% growth in the economy there's still incremental demand.
I mean it's basically all about supply and demand.
But China is importing fiber now and I'd say probably 80% to 90% of their incremental demand is going to be on imported fiber.
That either going to be logs chips pulp or wastepaper.
So we really like our position.
We're the lowest-cost softwood delivered to northern China on the planet and that's not going to change.
And so over the long term with a low-cost facility making high-quality pulp we like our position right next to the biggest market in the world.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on wood fiber cost they ticked up a little bit in the quarter.
I'm assuming some of that's just seasonal.
But just wondering how you think about that longer term let's say in an environment where housing comes back you get some more residual wood chips which is a positive.
But are you at all cautious around potential for higher wood costs longer term if housing comes back? Or how do you guys think about that? We think of it as the opposite.
When housing comes back you get 2 things: you get the residual chips which take pressure off roundwood that comes in the long-distance; and you get what we call the pulpwood spin-off.
80% of harvest an acre is saw timber 20% of it is pulpwood.
That pulpwood is not getting harvested now because housing is still pretty depressed.
So what's going to happen when the housing market comes back is we'll end up tightening our drain area.
And so we won't go as far for fiber which will be good.
And fiber costs always go up in the fourth quarter because it's seasonal.
We can't get into the hardwood lands we're taking wood out of inventory.
So we're doubling handling it.
That's just a normal seasonal trend.
I'd say structurally we're positioned probably for flat to lower fiber costs on the virgin fiber side going forward which we think is an advantage for our virgin-based businesses particularly in containerboard.
Your next question is coming from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
Wanted to ask you about Ilim.
I know you report Ilim on a 1-quarter lag operationally but was the foreign exchange gain actually something that occurred during the first calendar quarter and that's why the line item is a lot stronger than we thought? Or was it something that you would have known back earlier say in January February? Chip this is Carol.
Actually we closed the quarter lag this quarter.
So going forward and from starting with this quarter we're reporting Ilim current.
So the results that we reported for Ilim were actually what we achieved in the first quarter.
Relative to the currency it happened in the quarter.
And it's -- the end of the quarter how you get to it how it's happening through the quarter.
And you just don't know how currency is going to come out but the ruble strengthened and then stabilized.
So it happened in the quarter.
It's -- right now the ruble is kind of flat so kind of hard to predict what it's going to be at the end of the next quarter.
So I guess when you look at the quarter you just reported I guess net of the gain it's roughly $14 million.
That's actually 2 quarters of results right? But it also includes the low point of the first quarter which I would imagine.
So how does that shake out going to the second? I mean obviously it's a better environment but you're only going to be reporting one quarter's results.
Is that correct? No Chip.
What we do is you actually go back and you -- you go back in '11 and you push all the quarters back to the appropriate -- so the results we reported were just for the first quarter of '12.
Got you.
That's very helpful.
And then secondly on the Temple situation...
We restated '11.
So as part of doing all this we restated the '11 numbers to put them all on the current quarter.
Got you.
And then just moving on to Temple-Inland.
I know it's only been a couple of months or so but are you seeing anything incrementally especially on the box plant side with transportation that might give you either greater confidence and the ultimate synergy number or maybe even cause this to be greater than you originally thought? Mark do you want to comment on that? Sure.
Chip we are seeing what we thought we would see which is tremendous opportunity when you put these 2 networks together.
And I think in this specific area you're asking about in-freight.
I would say yes we are seeing more than we had originally modeled and we're just putting the finishing touches on kind of estimating where that's going to be.
And I'm going to share that as John said on May 24.
That and a number of other synergy areas on -- during our Investor Day.
There are huge freight [ph] opportunities Chip.
Your next question is coming from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Kurt Schoen filling in for Mark.
SO it's interesting to see the white...
Can you speak up Kurt? Research Division</strong> So it's interesting to see that white paper margins are holding up well in Europe and Brazil given recent economic weakness in those markets.
What is your outlook for margins in those businesses going forward? And how does that differ from your U.S.
white paper outlook? Tim you want to comment on that? Yes I'll comment.
No I think -- actually our margins in North America are holding up pretty well too.
The biggest impact on margins in the quarter -- I can't really speak to Europe but I'll speak to North America and Brazil is really around export paper pricing.
Export markets started decreasing in the fourth quarter and then continued that into the first part of the first quarter of this year before starting to rebound.
So we look at Brazil and you've got about 50% of the capacity that's exposed to export markets between Latin America and Europe primarily.
So those margins will recover in the second quarter and we think they'll be strong in the balance of the year.
Our business in Europe -- our Paper business has really tilted to the east most of our paper productions in Poland and Russia.
We've got one mill in Western Europe and France.
So we really don't see the impact of the slowdown in Western Europe as much as in -- as much in our Paper businesses as we see in our corrugated box business which is France Italy Spain and then Turkey and Morocco.
Research Division</strong> And just following up in white paper.
Over the next year do you expect your mix of cut size and roll to change in any meaningful way given the shrinkage in the roll market? I don't know.
I -- no expectations at this point but I wouldn't want to speculate on what we might do or where we might do it.
I think -- we just looked at demand in the first quarter and thought demand looked a little bit better than we had expected coming into it.
So here in North America we feel pretty good with the mix that we've got today.
Your next question is coming from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> John I want to just go back quickly first to the comment on input cost.
So is the $25 million using current run rate negative variance in 2Q versus 1Q the total that one could calculate right now? Or would nat gas prices offset most of that? What's the appropriate interpretation of that? Nat gas is going to offset some of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
Second question and you touched on this a bit we had heard from our own freight contacts and you mentioned today that the mills within industrial this last quarter didn't run as well perhaps as normally they do within International Paper.
You called out I think $20 million year-on-year variance.
And if we look a little bit later on the slide deck I guess on Page 41 it was actually a fairly steep sequential drop off.
$75 million.
And I guess to the extent that you can comment what was driving that negative variance either year-on-year or sequentially in mill ops within Industrial Packaging? Mark you want to comment on that? Sure.
George on this sequential that $76 million that you'd talked about a big portion of that was really related to the way we revalue inventory and manage that inventory reserve.
But from an operational standpoint we did move a few things from the fourth quarter to the first quarter just timing of certain jobs.
But cutting to the chase on how we ran the big difference between sequential and last year's first quarter was at 4 of our mills and as John mentioned they happen to all be legacy IP mills we had one-time reliability events that we've solved and they're behind us ranging from problems with a boiler to some mechanical problems.
So nothing chronic.
One-time reliability events.
But they're expensive.
And we've got them behind us.
Research Division</strong> So would it be fair that as we look to 2Q versus 1Q most of that variance is therefore turned and basically to nil.
Would that be fair? I think we've got -- our objective obviously is to recover from some of that but we've got a few things that are lingering into the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question and I'll turn it over.
Just stepping back on Ilim you've obviously now synchronized the results to be in line with the rest of International Paper.
You are going to have Paul Herbert also presenting at the Analyst Day coming up in May.
It seems like perhaps you're trying to highlight Ilim a bit more to investors.
Maybe you agree with the premise of that maybe you don't.
But if you do kind of what are the implications of the moving up of the timing of the results and again trying to maybe increase our appreciation for Ilim within International Paper? George we think investors don't fully appreciate the inherent value of the Ilim investment and its impact on International Paper and we understand why.
We haven't -- it's equity accounted.
It's not a consolidated joint venture given the structure that we have which is a 50-50 structure.
We're kind of at the back end now with a $1 billion of capital spending that's not on Ilim's balance sheet.
IP didn't fund it.
We think this is a great story.
We've invested $650 million taken out close to $250 million in dividends over the last 5 years.
We're coming up on the 5-year anniversary of the Ilim joint venture and poised to add another paper machine and significantly expand our market pulp production.
So if we think about International Paper right now for the next 5 to 10 years we think Russia's going to be an important part of our future.
It's an emerging market so it's different than the rest of the world.
But we know how to operate there.
We operate the way we need to.
And I think giving investors more clarity on that from the people running it is -- will be a good thing.
Research Division</strong> Could you see it being consolidated John in the next 5 years? We're happy with the joint venture structure.
And with the joint venture structure we have with 50-50 ownership of that joint venture it will not be consolidated and no reason to believe that will change.
As you know our partners have a put agreement that they chose not to exercise.
And we're glad we have partners.
We're well aligned strategically.
The business is commercially successful and we're running it well.
We're adding value and I think IP is adding value and our partners are adding value to the JV.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
It shows from the results.
Your next question is coming from the line of Mark Wilde of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> John just curious.
There have been some reports domestically and offshore about you guys looking at acquisitions.
Without getting specific I wonder if you could just tell us how you're thinking about sort of acquisitions versus debt reduction over the next 12 months? Well first of all I'll let Tom Kadien comment on India because it's a -- I think that's where some of that stuff was coming from.
There's not a lot of validity to the -- what's been coming out of the papers in India.
We're evaluating the business that we just closed on about 4 over 4.5 months ago.
We're pleased with how it's going so far but we're not ready to go off and do anything else in India other that improve what we've already got.
I think that people try and create expectations for evaluation for themselves.
But back to the overall cash allocation strategy Mark it continues to be one of balance.
We'll talk a lot more about that on Investor Day.
We've took on some additional debt with Temple.
We've financed that in a way that we're going to -- we can pay it back quite quickly; most of it is term debt.
And obviously with the sale of the 3 industrial packaging mills that we need to sell which are part of the consent decree to get the approval to close plus the sale of building [ph] products plus the strong free cash flow we're generating in the company we've got enough cash to do what we want to do on the balance sheet side and to consider other things which will be a balanced use of cash with -- acquisitions we're not on an acquisition hunt.
We're on a -- make International Paper as it is the best company it can be and generate some value for shareowners.
And some of that will come by returning cash to shareowners.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just turning to kind of a broader view of the company you've really done a tremendous amount over the last several years to turn IP into much more of a packaging company.
And if you look across the packaging market it seems like whether it's cans or plastic bottles or folding cartons or flexible packaging a lot of those businesses have all moved to more of a cost pass-through model.
And the model for containerboard which is maybe a $12 billion business for you guys is still largely based on one journalist's estimate of market prices every month.
And I just like to get your thoughts on whether you can change that model in your biggest business whether you could see that changing over the next 3 to 5 years.
First thing I'd say we're still International Paper.
We're not International Packaging.
And the company isn't going to change.
With respect to pricing I don't think it's probably a good place for us to be commenting on this call or -- I mean this is kind of a forum on how prices are determined in the marketplace.
It's really -- at the end of the day it's all around supply and demand.
And overtime the shape and the cost structure does have an impact on pricing.
And I think when -- we think we're advantaged on that because we see OCC prices buy us up over time.
65% of our capacity in North America is virgin-based and we're going to benefit from that.
So in a world market that's OCC short and with China being so fiber short pulp for paper and softwood for packaging we like where we're at.
So the -- it may not be that our month-to-month pricing is triggered off cost but over time it certainly is.
And the cost curve is changing and we're -- I think we're advantaged by that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
Then the last question I had is just going back down to Brazil.
When you first started the corporate transformation we were -- you were highlighting EBITDA margins down in Brazil of somewhere between 35% and 40%.
We're significantly below that now I think largely because of currency issues.
But what's a reasonable bogey for that business John? What are you thinking about for the business? Well we'll share more about this when we have Investor Day.
But I think mid-30s is still a reasonable target and that's what we're going to be focused on over the next couple of years.
Currency has had an impact.
Export exposure especially out of the region has had a big impact.
And what happens over the next couple of years is -- volume comes back into region at higher margins and we'll see where the currency goes.
Little we can do about that.
But I think mid-30s is a reasonable target for that business.
Margins have come down but really what we're doing is we're -- we've built a business there that is really I think well positioned to be the leader in the Latin American paper market as the Latin American paper market which is growing at 4% to 5% a year continues to grow.
The Brazil that we bought with Champion was basically a Brazilian business.
And what we're doing is we're using Brazil as a platform to serve Latin America because it's a low-cost place to serve Latin America.
And our EBITDA in dollars is growing quite a bit.
Our margins have come down but as Tim said selling more in the region is going to improve our margins.
And this boiler project we've got going just that by itself is I think a $40 million impact on our bottom line.
Yes.
It's a huge impact.
So more details when we get to May.
But yes cost structure and geographic mix improvement are big levers in terms of getting to a higher more sustainable margin in the business.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And Tim just any thoughts.
I think you have to make a decision on that option around that second machine down there at Tres Lagoas over the next 12 months.
Any -- just any thoughts about that? Well we like what we got with the first machine and we're currently going through the evaluation process on economics and financials.
But the market growth dynamic is very good in the region as John just said in the 4% to 5% range.
So we haven't made a firm decision.
But assuming that it'll look similar to the first machine we've built it's something that we're very excited about.
Your final question is coming from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
It's going to be a pedestrian [ph] one to start but one of your big competitors had talked about the first part of April being pretty strong in the box business.
Can you share what you've seen? Sure Mark.
This is Mark Sutton.
April is I think John mentioned it earlier is starting off pretty decent.
It's above March but it's very similar to last April.
And I think last April probably the tougher comp than we've had recently.
But we've improved through the quarter.
We exited the quarter mimicking the market.
But we would say April so far is up over March and very similar to last April.
Okay.
And then on a different line of inquiry your U.S.
pulp business is not a big business for you but it kind of stood out there because you were actually EBITDA negative in the business.
And I realize it's cyclically it's not as strong in a position as it might be.
But prices don't look like they've been that low.
And it's kind of strange where you do so well in so many of your business competitively to have that as such an outlier.
Any thoughts on how that can change? And is there a wide dispersion of profitability from facility to facility? Or is it pretty similar across the board? No.
We do have disparity across the board.
And as we grow the fluff mix we're going to see higher more consistent types of margin across the business.
The big -- one of the big drivers in the quarter was just Franklin's start-up cost which was roughly $9 million in the quarter that we did not fully anticipate.
One of the things I would say is that mills don't age particularly well when they're sitting idle even though you do things that try to preserve the asset.
And so when we got in we found pumps motors valves things that's just needed attention.
And the right thing to do is deal with it now so that we have a really good start-up.
And when you look at those EBITDA margins I think you're looking at the appendix on Page 35 those are fully loaded with all the business and corporate overhead as well.
So don't think about it as negative cash.
It just -- we try to allocate much of our corporate cost or overhead cost to the businesses as we can.
Still on a number we like.
There are no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the floor back to Mr.
Landau for closing remarks.
Well thank you for joining us for our first quarter conference call.
We'll officially close the call now.
Any follow-up questions can be directed to myself or for Media Tom Ryan at phone numbers in the appendix.
Thank you and good evening.
Thank you for joining today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Christy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the International Paper Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Landau you may begin your conference.
Thank you Christy and good morning.
And thank you for joining International Paper's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Our key speakers this morning are John Faraci Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Carol Roberts Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
On Page 2 during this call we will make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which are outlined on Slide 2 of our presentation.
We will also present certain non-U.S.
GAAP financial information.
A reconciliation of those figures to U.S.
GAAP financial measures are available on our website.
Our website also contains copies of the second quarter 2012 earnings press release and today's presentation slides.
Lastly given our expanded disclosure around our Ilim JV Slide 4 provides some context around the joint venture's financial information and statistical measures.
So with that I will now turn the call over to John Faraci.
Thanks Glenn and good morning everybody.
And thanks for calling in.
Okay let me just start off by saying the second quarter was a solid result for International Paper.
Temple is -- the integration is going very very well.
The acquisition was meaningfully accretive in the second quarter.
That's only 3.5 months -- 4.5 months into the acquisition.
The world is going sideways in terms of the environment we're operating in.
I think kind of everybody understands that.
But the good thing is International Paper isn't done.
We've got a lot of headroom a lot of levers we're pulling.
We're running our business and executing well but we're laying the platform and the groundwork and we'll talk about the during the call for things that are going to meaningfully improve International Paper as we move out of 2012 and into 2013.
Just looking at our results for the quarter we increased our EBITDA in the second quarter to close to $880 million continued to generate strong free cash flow from operations.
The biggest single lever during the quarter was the impact of the Temple integration.
And as Carol will outline shortly we're well ahead of plan and exceeding our targets on most all metrics.
In the 5 months since closing we can say the acquisition is meaningfully accretive.
We've got all of our peak outages behind us.
Second quarter was a peak quarter.
We executed just about flawlessly during the quarter on those outages and operated our assets well saw some modest price recovery that was in line with our expectations.
Didn't see much change in the demand environment you all [ph] netted out.
The Franklin fluff pulp mill came up as we expected it would late in the second quarter and we continued to make a lot of progress on a number of strategically important projects which will meaningfully impact earnings as we move out of 2012 and in 2013.
And we'll cover those later as well.
So given a largely balanced input cost environment no real changes there other than seasonal outages the only other headwind we had during the quarter was a very large unfavorable noncash foreign exchange swing associated with the Ilim joint venture and that's really what happens when the ruble weakens.
It impacts our joint venture earnings but as Carol will show you on an operating basis Ilim results were about the same as they were in the first quarter and we're off the lag now.
So with that let me just turn to Slide 6 which is the financial snapshot.
Revenues were up 6% in the quarter mainly due to the Temple acquisition.
We saw a slight bit of EBITDA compression year-over-year.
More than half of that was explained by the higher outages second quarter this year versus second quarter last year the onetime startup costs that we incurred in Franklin during the quarter which were meaningful and lower pulp prices which were largely offset by the Temple accretion.
But as I said earlier cash from operations before special items continued to grow both on a quarter-over-quarter basis and a year-over-year basis and that's what's really important.
So Carol let me turn it over to you to talk about the businesses.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
Let me move you to Slide 7.
And taking a look at the second quarter financial bridge from the first quarter we earned $0.46 per share from continuing operations before special items.
While volume in our consolidated businesses was flat we did see modest price improvement of about $0.05 per share across our global Paper and Packaging business.
This was largely driven by the partial pass-through of our announced North American Printing Papers increases as well as successful paper increases that we implemented in Brazil and Russia.
And on a positive we also saw the pass-through of our announced export containerboard price increase which was very much in line with our expectations.
If you take a look at the operations and cost line we did have higher startup costs at Franklin and I'll come back to that on a later slide but they were more than offset by what I would characterize as very good global mill operations and some lower corporate expenses.
A key point that John mentioned and is going to be a theme of today is relative to Temple-Inland full quarter earnings were really meaningfully accretive as we added $50 million in synergy or $0.08 per share in the quarter.
Two headwinds that we had that stand out pretty clearly were the incremental outage-related expenses and this was our peak quarter for that as well as our share of the Ilim JV earnings which were unfavorably impacted by currency exchange.
And I have a very good chart on Ilim that will really clearly lay that out.
If I take a look at the global input costs on Slide 8 costs were largely balanced quarter-over-quarter and we saw clearly the benefit of lower natural gas prices which were offset by higher recovered fiber costs.
As the quarter came to the close everybody sees these 2 things switching.
So what we've got now is we've got some upward pressure on natural gas fiber is coming down.
And as we look forward we see those 2 basically canceling each other out into the third quarter.
Let me move now to Slide 9 and talk about Industrial Packaging.
Industrial Packaging posted a very strong second quarter in 2012 generating $367 million in earnings and that compares extremely favorably to the $278 million that we posted in the first quarter of '12 and also the $269 million that we posted in the second quarter of '11.
The quarter's earnings were favorably impacted by a full quarter of Temple-Inland earnings and synergies solid operational and seasonally improved demand.
We saw our box demand up about 1% versus the first quarter.
The other thing that we saw in the second quarter which we will see for us ongoing in the second quarter is a seasonally strong mix for us given that we are a fairly significant player in the fruit -- fresh fruit and vegetable market.
In addition to the U.S.
seasonal demand global containerboard demand for us remained strong throughout the quarter and our open market export shipments were up nearly 15% versus the first quarter.
The business met this total demand by running our system at about 94% capacity and we also managed our inventory down through the quarter by about 40 000 tons.
And finally domestic containerboard prices have been stable.
As I mentioned earlier the business did realize the pass-through of our previously announced export containerboard price increases in the quarter.
As always a great metric to look at in the industry is our EBITDA margins.
And so to put our Industrial Packaging results into perspective Slide 10 shows that our North American EBITDA margins improved versus the best of the competitive set again this quarter.
And this I think is the ultimate measure that demonstrates the progress that we are continuing to make running our operations both operationally and commercially as well as no doubt the tangible impact of bringing Temple-Inland synergies to the bottom line.
And I just want to kind of make the point you have to -- if the history was here we would know that the Temple-Inland margins that we inherited were well below International Paper margin.
So I think this is the clear evidence that the synergies have made their way to the bottom line.
Slide 11.
As we shared in the first quarter depicts Temple-Inland's post-close EBIT and this is of course after step-up depreciation before special items and onetime costs.
What's really exciting about this chart is with the $50 million of incremental synergies achieved quarter-over-quarter we clearly are accretive in the transaction and this is only 4.5 months into the integration.
On another note going forward while we'll certainly continue to keep everybody posted on synergy progress we'll no longer be breaking out the EBIT of the former Temple-Inland facility.
And this is quite honestly due to the fact that we have integrated so quickly that the systems have become blended.
We're moving board around we're moving customers around we're moving grades around.
And as we view it we have 1 business today.
On Slide 12 you can see that while significant progress has been made on all 4 key synergy buckets really over 80% of the total synergies today are reductions in overhead and box business improvements primarily associated with efficiencies cost and system streamlining.
So just to reinforce where we are our annualized synergy run rate is now $240 million as measured against our upwardly revised target that we told you about of $400 million.
And we said that that $400 million would be achieved by the end of 2013.
We're very positive we were more than halfway there in the very early months of the integration but we've got more room to go.
And I would call this a truly impressive start for the newly combined team led by Mark Sutton.
Let me move off of Industrial Packaging and move to our Consumer Packaging segment where operating profits were $63 million in the second quarter and that compares to $96 million in the first quarter of '12.
You can see the big item is the peak maintenance outage expenses which really were a large factor in the quarter somewhat compounded by as I would categorize continued soft consumer demand and this combination resulted in a bit higher cost.
On a very positive part of our Consumer Packaging business is the Foodservice business which had a strong quarter driven by seasonality.
And what's probably the best differentiator is the continued growth in the new product line primarily our trademark Hold&amp;Go insulated paper cup that is used for hot beverages.
Even in spite of some of those headwinds relative to our competition the North American business continued to outperform the best of the competitive set in the quarter.
Moving on to Slide 15.
Let me talk now about the Printed Paper segment where operating earnings were $106 million in the second quarter of '12 compared to $145 million in the prior quarter.
Printing Papers like Consumer Packaging was also disproportionately impacted by heavy maintenance outages in the quarter.
And it's worth noting that in this chart there was actually higher startup costs at Franklin actually sequentially $10 million more from first to second quarter.
And as you can see these costs were offset by what I would categorize as a very solid operational quarter in the rest of the business.
I think it will be worthwhile to take a look stepping back at the Printed Paper segment and taking a look at what's impacting it from a year-over-year basis.
And so this chart is first half '11 versus first half of '12.
And as you can see the biggest driver of the year-over-year change is the weaker pricing environment for pulp so pulp is $105 million negative swing year-over-year of which about $60 [ph] million of that is pricing and the balance of it is the cost for the startup the ramp-up of Franklin.
So I would talk about the Printing Papers like this.
Outside of the pulp and the outages I would categorize North American papers as performing in line with last year and -- as well as Europe and Brazil.
So really a very solid performance underneath the pulp statistics and the outages.
Moving to Slide 17.
As John stated earlier we're very pleased to announce that on June 29 the fluff pulp began at Franklin.
And what's very positive there is that we once again are a meaningful employer in the region.
And we've had a very positive ramp-up which I'd like to talk about on Slide 18.
And this depicts our expectations.
Given some very early indications of the productivity that we're seeing the excellent initial product quality the team is targeting an accelerated fluff pulp ramp-up in the second half of '12.
And this is one of the good earnings runways that we have in the business.
Moving on to distribution xpedx we did see year-over-year margin improvement driven by a more profitable segment and customer mix as well as cost savings.
And those cost savings are associated with both our procurement efforts as well as the asset utilization transformation initiatives which have been underway.
And the good news is these have more than offset the challenging demand environment for commercial printing.
With that said it's clear the job's not done and our team in xpedx expects to achieve further cost and margin improvement over the next 18 months in line with the plan outlined at Investor Day.
In keeping with our commitment to provide a very transparent view on Ilim here are the Ilim JV financials as we approach the completion of the capital buildout.
This shows the JV's consolidated results on an IFRS basis.
We have the operating results the operational EBITDA before FX as well as the FX impact that takes it all the way down to IP's after-tax earnings.
And clearly the results here are mixed.
We have very solid shipments year-over-year more than offset by lower softwood pulp prices in China.
And although pulp prices did recover briefly in the second quarter they receded again during the quarter.
I think pulp prices seem to be finding their bottom now but it'll take some months for steady growth in China to pull down the demand until pricing starts to recover.
So Slide 20.
Let me summarize before I turn it back to John.
I would say that we clearly had a solid second quarter in large part due to our excellent progress integrating Temple-Inland and despite being a peak maintenance outage quarter.
John is going to talk about it but as our strategic projects come online and add to our earnings engine we continue to feel positive about our ability to expand our margins globally and to grow our business in the platforms that we've invested in.
One other note that's not on the chart that I think that's worth mentioning we did have a positive impact from the highway bill as we talked about in Investor Day.
And we had pointed out about a $500 million required contribution to the pension plan for '13.
With the highway bill this looks like it will be less than $100 million allowing us to take those funds and work on reducing balance sheet debt versus putting it into the pension plan.
So now what I'd like to do is turn it back over to John to talk a little bit about the strategic earning drivers as well as our outlook for the third quarter.
Thanks Carol.
Let me just go through some of these strategic projects because I think they are as I said are setting the stage for more levers for International Paper to pull to improve our business as we move out of 2012 into '13.
And I'll talk to what we expect to be happening during the third quarter.
First Franklin we're up and running as Carol said.
In xpedx which is not a big capital project it's more of a strategic repositioning we're making -- starting to ramp up on both the procurement side and the realignment of warehouse side.
The sales side is a struggle because of what's happening in commercial print but Mary Laschinger will be on the call at the end when we do the third quarter to give you an update on that.
But we're starting to see -- get some traction there.
We've got a big boiler project going on down in Mogi Guaçu which moves us close to energy self-sufficiency at that facility in Brazil.
And as we move into the third quarter we're on schedule and are ahead of schedule and on budget.
We may be able to bring that up before the end of the year.
At the Sun JV where we've -- building our fourth coated board machine the project is well underway.
There's a picture on the next page that shows what's happening there.
As you can see we just about got the machine built.
We'll be starting that up on schedule during the third quarter.
At Ilim where we got 2 big capital projects going on one a new paper machine at Koryazhma in the third quarter we'll be running the converting equipment.
The fourth quarter we expect to be starting up the paper machine.
At Bratsk where we're building a new fiber line and basically upgrading that mill in a lot of areas the woodyard is complete and we'll be starting up the recovery boiler in the third quarter and getting ready to bring on the pulp dryer in the fiber line toward the end of the year.
And in India we've got the first major outage they've ever had at the facility under IP ownership behind us 34 days long and we're already seeing a 10% improvement in pulp production per day.
And the good news about India is we can sell all we can make so that's a good place to be with -- in that business.
So I think on the strategic project front execution is going well and these initiatives are started -- we can see the light at the end of the tunnel and they're starting to get to the completion point.
So let me move now to what is the third quarter outlook changes from the second quarter.
It's mostly yellow and mostly stable.
The big changes there we will have less outages during the quarter by about $130 million.
We've got the divestiture impact of the 3 mills that we sold.
That's roughly $30 million Carol in a quarter.
There is some green here.
We don't expect a currency impact.
Again we don't expect the Russian ruble to continue to weaken.
As I said a lot of the maintenance outage stuff is green.
And Franklin should start to contribute cash now that we're running and start to ramp up the fluff pulp line.
And basically everything else is kind of more of the same going sideways.
So I think I'll just stop right there and not go through all these -- all the yellow boxes.
But again just to summarize International Paper is going to continue to outperform.
Looking at our margins as Carol pointed out the key businesses in North America I can see -- I think you could see that margins are -- number one they're strong; and number two we're doing better than our competitors.
The synergies from Temple are coming more and faster and they're not CapEx-driven.
They're really execution-driven.
We feel good about the -- and positive about the containerboard and box price increase that we announced earlier in the week.
That's going to start to show up in the fourth quarter.
And I think I'll end just where I started.
I think it's -- IP is very well-positioned and the message here is we aren't done.
We've got lots of levers to pull as we approach our potential even in a global demand environment that's a lot more sluggish than we'd like it to be.
As we look at the world we don't see a repeat of 2008 and '09 but we see pretty sluggish growth.
But as far as we can see which isn't very far but we're prepared to outperform in that kind of environment.
So I think we'll stop right there and open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from Phil Gresh of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just on Temple-Inland synergies obviously off to a great start here.
The $400 million that you've talked about how conservative would you say that is at this stage just given what you've been able to do so far? I know you talked about the $200 million in optimization opportunities later on but is there upside to the $400 million as well? Or should we be shifting to the optimization from here? Well I'll let Mark Sutton talk about how he feels about that because he's sitting right across from me and is running the business.
But I'd say we revised our target up.
We had Investor Day in May and we feel pretty good about -- we feel very good about where we're at.
And we'll take a look as we go through the quarters where we're at.
And if we have more good news to tell you about we will.
Yes.
Phil if you remember what we said at Investor Day when we broke out the $400 million in synergies some of those synergies were -- we had line of sight to and we thought we could do it in 24 months and we happened to be doing it a little bit quicker than we thought.
But there were some other things we talked about that have either mill outages tied to them on the manufacturing side or it could be in the commercial area where you just take -- it takes more time.
And so we talked about that being in the post-synergy but merger benefit and optimization time period.
I think that's where we still feel it'll be.
Carol mentioned 80% of the synergies are in -- so far in our overhead reduction and fixed cost and operating improvements in the box business.
And so of course that overhead reduction is not going to continue limitlessly.
We've done a lot of that a lot quicker than we thought because we were able to execute for example pulling the supply chain teams together but faster than we thought we could.
Research Division</strong> Okay helpful.
And then just again on containerboard maybe you could talk about the trends you're seeing here in July both from a demand and from a supply standpoint for your own system.
Would your expectation be in July that inventories will be up or down? Just kind of how are you progressing here? And also are you seeing any demand pull forward as a result of the announced price increases? So with respect to what we've seen so far in July it's about what we expected for our business.
Carol mentioned earlier that we have a pretty big position in fresh food and produce and of course that strong season is in the second quarter.
So we see some seasonal changes in our mix and demand.
We expected that and we're seeing that.
As far as how we're looking at inventories most of our outages are behind us so we don't see any reason to build inventories.
And we're going to continue to make the board we need for the orders we have in the box system.
And what we see is about what we expected as we start the third quarter.
Do you want to comment about export demand? That's a good point John.
Export demand I would say has been a bright spot.
We had a very strong second quarter.
We see export demand for kraft liner I'm speaking about actually continuing to improve pretty much in all the regions we serve: Latin America Europe and the Mediterranean region and Asia.
And pricing is also improving in those regions.
So we feel good about the export demand.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And this is my last question for John.
Things have slowed a bit since -- even since the Analyst Day just globally.
I'm just kind of wondering if this makes you think at all -- think any differently at all about growth CapEx moving forward particularly in emerging markets where some of that slowing is occurring.
Well most of our growth CapEx Phil is just what I talked about is currently underway.
I mean we're at the -- probably 80% done at the Sun JV 70% done at Bratsk and somewhere -- probably 70% to 80% done at Kotlas.
We need paper in Russia.
The Russia paper market is growing at 5%.
So we're sold out both at IP and at Ilim.
So we need that capacity.
The Sun joint venture is -- we're going to bring on a lot of capacity.
We've done that before.
We'll sell that over time ramp up maybe a little slower than last time but we're not worried about that.
And the project in Brazil is really a cost reduction project.
It's not aimed at more capacity.
So we don't have a big agenda of a repeat of these growth projects right behind what's currently underway.
So don't be thinking about that we're going to continue to be piling on these projects.
We've got a number that are underway now that are either ramping up or going to ramp up.
And in the fluff pulp area we're basically sold out -- as we can get the fluff pulp qualified with customers we're sold out because most of that product is going into the export markets where fluff pulp is growing at a faster rate than it is in North America.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just to be clear I was talking kind of more of the 2013 to 2015 that you talked about in the Analyst Day but I'll turn it over.
Yes we still see.
Remember there's not a lot of growth CapEx going in there but there's more CapEx in that 2013 to '15 period because of Boiler MACT.
Your next question comes from Gail Glazerman of UBS.
Research Division</strong> To follow up on the pension comments are you just not looking at the change from the highway bill as a reduction in debt at all and you're still sticking to the $3 billion 24-month target but it's just going to be weighted more towards fixed actual debt versus pension? Yes Gail.
Yes.
Clearly the highway bill it only changes the funding requirements.
It doesn't change the accounting.
So we recognized that.
But rather than putting the money into the pension plan we'll just push it towards the balance sheet debt.
And that's a little bit of a shift of what we had talked about.
But we still have our target of getting to 3x so debt repayment is our goal and -- but we'll move it towards the balance sheet debt versus the pension.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you talk a little bit about I guess the price trajectory during the second quarter? There were a lot of movements.
I guess a couple of specific questions.
You referenced some improvement on coated freesheet.
Can you talk a little more specifically about what you saw? And in terms of the export containerboard price increase initially you were expecting that to be a little bit weighted towards the end of the second quarter and I'm just wondering what that would imply for third quarter pricing.
Yes Gail I'll give you a generic answer because I know in the Appendix we provide the information by the segments.
And so I'm not going to paw through the pages.
But I think in the paper segment I think we saw a $17 improvement in paper prices.
We saw a pulp improvement.
We don't specifically call out containerboard in the Appendix.
We do actually do boxes there.
But Mark I don't know if you want to comment about containerboard.
Sure.
Gail on containerboard on the export market we saw an exit rate from the second quarter that was about $40 a ton higher than what we exited the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just one last one.
Can you give any update on the status of the marketing of the building products business? We're going to be going out in the market with offering the building products business very shortly.
And at this point it's too soon to say what's going -- what the response is going to be but we've had a lot of interest.
So that'll be in the market in the third quarter and very shortly.
Your next question comes from Chip Dillon of Vertical Research.
Question on the Wood Products business.
And I just want a quick one is when you look at the discontinued operations' results it looks like it did quite well.
Can you just give us an idea of kind of how it did in the second quarter? It did a lot better than we thought it was going to do and we put it in discontinued operations.
Yes Chip this is Carol.
John Balboni who is heading up the overall integration for Temple-Inland from the corporate side and system side and also looking after building products it was a positive quarter and he would categorize it as all 3 segments were a bit better demand was better pricing was better and we ran well.
And there's a very good team over there that's been running that business well.
It's a Temple-Inland team.
They're onboard.
They're aligned engaged.
So it's been a positive outcome for us.
[indiscernible]...
And can we infer that EBIT was around $25 million? Yes the EBITDA is -- I think the run rate in the second quarter is about $80 million in that range.
And if we can be doing that in a 700 000s housing start environment that business is very well positioned for an improving housing environment over the next several years.
Got you.
And then looking back at the -- your target adjusted debt ratio maybe I missed this in the past but you've added this $1.2 billion operating lease adjustment.
Is that something you've had for a long time? And I guess more importantly you're down to 3.7x and we would expect with the sale of the Wood Products business that would push that down lower.
But we wouldn't expect you to be below 3 until I guess well into next year would be my guess depending on how fast EBITDA comes up.
Are you going to wait until you get to 3x before you would consider a dividend increase or a buyback? Chip let me answer the first part.
That operating lease adjustment has always been there.
The metric we use for this is we generally use the Moody's metric.
So this is just the Moody's methodology so it's always there.
And yes the goal is 3 and if you do the math it's going to take into next year and it's going to take a little bit of time to do that.
The good news is we're generating strong cash.
We sold the mills we've got the building products.
Relative to timing as we said at Investor Day we don't view these things as sequential.
We view them as in parallel and we'll continue to look at our cash and capital allocation strategy and keep everything in front of us at all times.
I don't know John if you want to add anything else.
You said it very well.
So in other words you don't have to get to that level but if you're moving close to it it might give you -- you'll feel the flexibility to do what I mentioned either a dividend increase or a buyback? It's all around your trajectory and the outlook and where you're going.
And given the positive trends we see in some of the businesses as well as the levers we have we feel good about our cash flow generation potential going forward.
And then quickly on the Boiler MACT I know you and I believe you're the only major company in the industry that actually included it in your projections of CapEx in future years but we're still I guess a ways from when you actually have to commit to those funds.
Or should I read something differently? Is it something you're going to do no matter what? Or do you think as regulations could evolve into next year there could be some change in that guidance? We pretty much have our arms around what it's going to be.
EPA hasn't come out with the final regulations.
They probably won't until after the election.
But at this point in time I think based on the conversations we've had with EPA and the association has had we can put a pretty close set of parameters around the capital we're going to spend.
And the time frame is really going to be 3 to 4 years depending upon the states for when the regulations get issued.
So it may get pushed out a couple of months but we know what we're going to need to do.
And when those regulations come out we'll start to do it.
Okay.
And last quick question.
In Latin -- in Brazil where you have an option I believe to build another uncoated machine down there I believe that option is stated to have to be exercised by year-end.
But given you're probably the only option for the other party is there a chance you might be able to push that out? Or are there any further thoughts you can give us about the possibility of that next machine? Well I would just say this Chip it's premature to kind of speculate on what we're going to do there but we've got a very good relationship with Fibria.
They're running the pulp mill.
We've got the paper mill right next door.
And so we're having an ongoing dialogue with them about their future plans and our future plans.
And I think we're looking -- whatever we do will be in the best interest of both parties.
Your next question comes from Mark Wilde of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Carol just a couple of questions for you to start off.
Can you just help us think about the delta at Franklin going from the second quarter to the third quarter? And then can you also just clarify what you mean with that sort of greenlight signal on Ilim and FX going from the second quarter to the third quarter? Yes.
And I know Glenn can follow up with some more of the specifics but think about Franklin as a cost in the second quarter with no revenue and then think about Franklin now running and producing revenue.
So it's this nice positive swing and I think I'm getting the signal that it's okay to talk about it in the $0.03 range from second to third.
Yes there's a cumulative impact there Mark.
If you look at their ramp curve we're not going to be making much fluff pulp in the third quarter so we've got to qualify it with customers.
So you'll start to see Franklin really swing as we move into the fourth quarter and first quarter of next year.
Relative to Ilim Ilim is just assuming that the ruble stays where it is.
We just don't have to pay for the marking the debt to market again.
So that just goes away.
We don't have the hit.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
Got that.
Another question John for either you or for Mark Sutton.
I'm just kind of curious with this containerboard hike out in the market.
Why is it that you wouldn't just announce the box hike at the same time? At the end of the day you sell more boxes than containerboard and at the -- or you sell mostly boxes.
If the containerboard hike is going in place aren't the boxes going up anyway? Well we announced I think the containerboard price increase late last week and the box price increase earlier this week.
So it wasn't -- I'll let Mark comment on that but I wouldn't say there was much time between the 2 of them.
We wanted to make sure we had a good plan to let customers know what was going on.
Yes I think that's right John.
And Mark the real concern is properly communicating to our customers in an appropriate way whether it's on the board side or on the box side.
And as John said we're only talking a few days' difference here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I wasn't aware you had the box hike out there in the market.
And then finally John can we just talk a little bit about sort of acquisitions? We've talked about the potential for further -- the likelihood of further debt reduction as well as buybacks and dividends but I know that you have been continuing to look at growth opportunities offshore.
I'm just curious with these emerging markets slowing down now whether that prospectively creates a little better environment for you in looking at where you want to grow long term? Well first of all Mark we don't [indiscernible] on acquisitions or investments or portfolio realignments.
And we're in the business for the long term committed to a balanced use of cash which we talked about at Investor Day.
So I don't think -- I don't want investors to think that we're on an acquisition -- on the acquisition hunt.
We're not.
We've still got very clear metrics about what we -- the criteria for making acquisitions.
We have made some and we've stuck to that criteria.
And then if we don't find anything that meets our criteria we won't do anything.
But we're committed to a balanced use of cash which means cash back to shareowners debt repayment a strong balance sheet.
And selectively and carefully where we think there's an opportunity and a good value to do something that improves International Paper improves our businesses we'll do it.
We'll look at it.
Your next question comes from Mark Weintraub of Buckingham Research.
And first of all congratulations really is a lot of visibility on bringing those Temple-Inland synergies to the bottom line and that's very impressive.
Couple of clarification questions.
One on the box price can you give us what the specifics are? Start there.
Sure Mark.
We informed our customers of a 8% increase on boxes and a 10% increase on sheets effective September 1.
Okay.
And second and I apologize I know you were saying something about $80 million on the building products is that what the -- was that the EBIT or the EBITDA run rate? And what is the EBITDA run rate of building products in the second quarter? That's EBITDA run rate Mark.
Okay.
That was EBITDA.
And then lastly you had mentioned that you are $40 higher on the containerboard export exiting 2Q versus 1Q.
Can you tell us what the difference was exiting the quarter versus the average for the second quarter? I think for the quarter the second quarter the average price second quarter to first quarter was up about $15.
Okay.
So you're -- I'm sorry.
So how much higher exiting the second quarter were you than the average for the second quarter? Do you know? Let me let Glenn follow up with that.
What I have on the top of my head is the exit-to-exit price.
What I don't remember is what the average was in the first quarter.
But we can get you that.
Okay.
And actually if I could just...
Mark this is Carol.
There's no doubt that the export price recovery is a very positive.
The only headwind we have there is when you're looking at price we have to also consider the exchange rate and how that exchange rate might move through the quarter.
And of course that does influence the pricing on a dollar basis a little bit.
Understood.
And then actually lastly John you had mentioned in your remarks that you thought that OCC and gas would neutralize each other yet on the slide it was green when you have the lower fiber versus higher energy.
Is that because of wood being down? Or can you just clarify that? I think what I was referring to was expectations for the third quarter.
The slide was showing the second quarter.
Your next question comes from George Staphos of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to go back to Temple-Inland a little bit in terms of the progress you've seen and congratulations with the efforts thus far.
When you think about what's gone better than expected you mentioned getting the supply chain teams together more quickly which in turn enabled maybe a bit more quicker reduction in overhead.
Are there any other things that have gone a bit better than expected relative to what you were talking to and seeing at the Analyst Day? George I think the number one thing I would highlight and I mentioned it at Analyst Day but we just know so much more about it now is the talent level that we have with the new Temple team members and their ability to get aligned with what is a different business model than they were used to.
And that has led us to for example operational improvements at a much faster rate than we thought.
I can think of waste improvement in our box system for example freight optimization and then the streamlining of the operations whether it was plant rationalizations and moving the business because of course when we rationalize a plant the goal is to keep 95% of the revenue and the customers.
And that's a tough -- a tall order to do and do it quickly and then also changing the scheduling concept of some of the larger plants so that we optimize what customers those plants serve.
That takes a lot of people alignment and I think that people alignment has gone better and faster than we probably anticipated.
George I was at a Temple a state where there were Temple and IP box plants and now they're all IP box plants the first week.
And the plant managers were already talking 3 days into it about how they were going to move business around after they inform the customers to take the logistics costs out.
And remember this is something I don't think people appreciate.
Our logistics costs are higher than our labor costs in the box business.
So we have huge opportunities on logistics that weren't available to us because we have a new system and we've gotten after those very very quickly.
And the waste reduction that Mark Sutton referred to has just been really remarkable.
The -- just getting those metrics out in front of people and they've jumped on that really quickly.
And Mark one more -- or George one more thing.
Mark is being a little modest too.
I mean the leadership that's been provided has been great but the depths of the bench at International Paper we didn't get a lot of the senior talent from Temple-Inland but the people down in the facilities are very aligned.
But we were able to come in with the team that we had and are running it and absorbed it very quickly.
Research Division</strong> On the waste issue was it a function that people just didn't have the data in front of them or it was not necessarily the focus of the prior organization? I know it's maybe not the fairest thing to talk about on a conference call but I nonetheless want to pose question.
Yes it's a fair question because -- I think it was in 2 areas.
One it wasn't a tremendously high focus but also the way that the business was run before had higher structural waste.
So part of it is improving the way the business is run.
And the principle there is what we talked about in our strategy and that is we believe a box business can be profitable and that each plant should have a P&amp;L focus.
And then you have to put as John said the metrics in front of people to see all the sources of waste in the box plant and they are many and then put systems in place which we already have and are easy to roll out and educate people.
And then it make sense when you look at the data and people get on board pretty quickly.
So that's really the 2 issues: focus and structurally running the business a bit differently.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate the comments.
I have one last one on Temple and then one for Tom Kadien if he's there.
It sounds like you're pleased with your share retention.
So it sounds like you're over your 95% goal.
I wanted confirmation on that.
And do you think perhaps you are because of the capability as you were in the first quarter perhaps gaining share from some of the other folks within the market? And then on the Foodservice side you're not the only company that's been talking about across all the packaging better Foodservice trends.
Do you think it's purely related to the new product offering? Or are you seeing some sort of secular trend either towards away from home replacement of at-home food preparation? Or is it just the fact that we had a hot first 6 months and people are drinking more soft drinks and that sort of thing? George I'll take the first one.
And Tom Kadien is here and I'll hand the Foodservice question off to him.
On share we're pretty much tracking very close to the market so I wouldn't say we're gaining share.
We're working very hard to keep the customers that we have.
And obviously the box business there's customers moving and business moving on a continuous basis.
So my comments about keeping 95% were specifically about rationalizing plants and consolidating business and changing schedules of plants.
But we're largely tracking the market.
And at a macro level not quarter-to-quarter but over a longer period of time that's sort of our strategy to grow with the market.
And the question is what customers and segments do we pick that might give us an advantage in a market? And that's the approach we take.
And with that I guess I'll turn it over to Tom.
Yes George our Foodservice growth is really a result of the innovation and the new products that we're bringing to market and being aligned with the right customers.
I think our volume was up 4% in the quarter.
That's significantly better than I'll say the overall market is doing.
And I think our customers are fighting food inflation and -- as it kind of rolls through their menu.
And they're putting a lot of emphasis on beverages as a place to make money and to innovate and that fits very well with our strategy around the new products.
Your next question comes from Al Kabili of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been asked but I guess maybe one for Tim on the uncoated free sheet.
Volumes North America you continue to outperform the industry.
And I was just wondering how sustainable do you think that is? And what's driving that? Al well I think what we're doing is sustainable.
And the way we look at it we have a North American customer base that we service and we also have export markets that we service.
So our feeling is that through the first quarter and second quarter we see the market as being stable and our mix in the market being stable over the next couple of quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And was exports -- I mean can you help us with what exports -- how much that helped the volume number there? Well they were down in the quarter because we had a heavy outage quarter and so we didn't ship as much and export in the second quarter as we did in the first.
But we're doing a couple of things.
We're anticipating the capacity that was asked about in Brazil earlier in the call and we're working between our Brazilian business and our North American business to look at markets and baseload volumes.
We're also backfilling some of the product that Brazil has been shipping into Europe as Brazil pulls back and grows in region.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate that.
And if I could just switch to the other just a quick question on the containerboard if we could switch to that.
Can you just help us with -- give us some parameters on the negative mix impact sequentially how we should be thinking about it maybe some more color there if there's any kind of quantification you could also give us in terms of dollars per ton or something headwind there? Sure Al.
The mix comment and what shows on the outlook heat-map chart is really designed to focus on the change in our agricultural business from the second quarter to the third quarter.
We're a lot bigger in that now post the Temple merger.
So it's in the neighborhood of $1 a ton on boxes.
So that's really what that comment is focused on.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
I appreciate that.
And then final question while we're on the topic of agricultural do you see -- well how do you see the risk of the Midwest drought to your volumes on the ag side? Are you getting any early indications there? I think most of the ag that I'm referring to tends to be on the coasts the fresh produce.
And if you look at what's going on in the Midwest drought I think our biggest potential impact is really the knock-on effect of cost.
Some of our customers are seeing their cost rise for feed corn feed for their animals.
That means they may have to deal with that and could affect their demand.
And then our own input materials like starch and others that are related to -- primarily corn is where we see a potential impact from the Midwest drought.
Your next question comes from Mark Connelly of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> This is Kurt Schoen filling in for Mark.
Can you give us some more color on how the Indian business has performed recently and relative to initial expectations? Did you say it was a question about India? Research Division</strong> Yes India.
[indiscernible] He just got back.
Yes.
Kurt I would say India is just like we thought it was going to be.
The Q2 was all about frankly for them a very large outage.
It was our first experience doing a very large outage in India and that really impacted April and May.
But we saw a very good June come out of India and demand.
While we're talking about it slowing in terms of uncoated free sheet as John said we can sell everything we can make and we're looking at double digit year-over-year increases in uncoated free sheet there.
So it's as I think I said at Investor Day it's everything we thought it would be.
It's got a lot of upside potential and it's hard.
So I'd say we're right where we thought we would be in India.
Tom do you want to comment about pulp mill running coming out of the outage? Yes.
We had a significant pulp mill outage and our hardwood pulp is up over 10% which is a real advantage for us in that marketplace.
And now that we've got frankly at this point a little bit excess mark -- or excuse me excess hardwood pulp now we can put the pressure on getting the paper machine productivity up.
So we think we're going to continue to grow and we've got a nice integrated mill over there in Rajahmundry that's got a lot of upside.
If we look at it in terms of people assets and markets we're pretty pleased with what we see.
Research Division</strong> And then has the weak monsoon affected demand there? Or do you expect it to? Boy I'm aware of the weak monsoon season.
I think kind of like what Mark Sutton just said it's probably going to impact food prices.
That may have a knock-on impact but I don't think it's going to hit our uncoated free sheet business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then going to the Sun JV can you give us some more color on how that's managed the downturn thus far? And given the downturn do you think you guys can expect to see any more opportunities to expand your footprint in China? Well on the Sun JV we're a largely nonintegrated producer so we follow pulp pricing.
It's been fairly volatile.
If you look at the page in the deck you can see pulp prices have come down on the input side for Sun and pricing has come down accordingly.
So it's all about managing margins over there.
We're sold out.
We're still solidly profitable and looking forward to having more capacity to sell starting up late in September and putting product out into the market probably in October.
So our Sun JV is running very well.
It's all about execution in the kind of market they're in right now and they run just a great operation over there.
And I think it's a volatile market right now but as long as we're managing our margins we're going to be fine.
I'm not going to speculate on further expansions into China.
Our box business over there we're starting to get traction and we have a lot of capacity in our box business that's not full.
So we have a lot of growth in China without putting in more expansion or acquisitions.
Kurt and one of the things that we talked about in the outlook page that heat map or I didn't talk about it but it's on there is we are going to incur the startup costs for the Sun paper machine this quarter.
We won't have a repeat of the Franklin costs but we're going to have some startup expenses out of Sun.
Your next question comes from Anthony Pettinari of Citi.
Research Division</strong> To move back to Consumer Packaging I was wondering if there was any noticeable trend either positive or negative on how demand moved through the 3 months of the quarter and into July.
And then on your outlook slide you reference packaging volume and pricing to be basically stable in the third quarter.
I was wondering if you were to kind of split that out into industrial and consumer would consumer be kind of a little bit weaker or in line or stronger than industrial? Any color you can give would be helpful.
I'll handle the consumer side.
I would say we saw some sequential growth second quarter better than first but it was really the -- the slope of the line was better right up until Investor Day and then it just kind of moved sideways.
So the back half of May and June was really moving sideways.
We'll see some sequential improvement in the third quarter again but I wouldn't call it a recovery.
I think we're kind of moving sideways and seasonality is going to improve.
Pricing I would say is stable at this point in consumer packaging.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the containerboard side it seems like the biggest chunk of synergies that have yet to be realized involve the mills.
And I was wondering as we look out to the work at the mills is there significant downtime or heavy engineering work that might bring some operational risk or some work that's maybe nonroutine? Or how should we think about that over the next year 1.5 years? Anthony the mill synergies as we discussed at Investor Day some of the work we've identified does require mill outages and based on when we closed the deal we missed the window for some of that.
So that's why some of those synergies are later in the time period.
But we're not looking at anything unique or things that we haven't done before.
There's a lot of projects some capital some just operational changes that have to do with energy reduction and consumption reduction better choices on how we provide fiber to the mills whether it's virgin fiber or recycled fiber.
And in some cases it's just operational changes that we're able to make while we're running to improve quality and cost.
So there's nothing out there that we've discovered in our GAAP analysis that is unique or things that we haven't done before.
I think the really important point to understand is those mill synergies aren't CapEx-driven.
There are things we will do when we have a regularly planned outage and we spend an incredible amount of time planning outages in International Paper because we spend over $400 million a year on them.
And we usually execute flawlessly.
That's the standard we expect.
Your next question is from Steve Chercover of D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quickies on freesheet and containerboard.
First of all Carol I think you said that domestic containerboard prices were stable.
Can you talk a little bit about how box prices have eroded over the last year or so? Well I think our chart shows that there's about a $7 erosion through the full year.
And there's the -- also is a little bit of mix in there so it's kind of hard to look at that.
So that's why we would categorize boxes as relatively stable.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And you did indicate how they're going to change on September 1.
How do you feel about your inventories presently and I guess going forward? And I will let Mark answer those questions relative to the business.
Yes we like our inventory levels right now based on learning how to operate our new system.
They're at good absolute level and under control.
And as I mentioned in an earlier answer as we look at the third quarter and where our orders are materializing given most of our big outages are behind us we are prepared to run the capacity that we need to serve those orders and don't see any reason to build any inventory whatsoever.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
The only red square on I think what was referred to as the color chart or the heat chart is the mill divestiture impact.
What did those 3 mills contribute in Q2? Was it maybe $20 million or so in EBITDA? John mentioned I think or Carol did closer to $30 million in Q2.
So we're just calling that out as an -- those earnings go away for the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> And the final question is on uncoated freesheets I guess for Tim.
The June statistics were fairly weak down 7.1% although I recognize you guys are outperforming.
Is that an indication of escalating demand erosion? Or were customers giving the highs [ph] into the price hikes? Well I don't want to speculate on price.
But what I would say about the demand is and I think if you go back to a number of the months at least 2 or 3 of them in -- so far in the first half of this year some of the months can be a little bit deceptive.
There were things that were going on last year.
And what we're -- we look at each month but we're continuing to pay attention to year-to-date numbers.
And those numbers look right in line with what we had expected in terms of demand decline.
So I saw the June numbers.
Yes it's a big decrease but when you look at it overall I think it's pretty much in line.
We'll have to see how it plays out over the third quarter.
And our final question is coming from Paul Quinn of RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question on the sale of the Temple building materials division.
Is that -- the structure of that sale is there going to be -- or are you thinking of it as 1 unit or a collection of assets? Paul it's 1 business.
It's operating 1 business.
We're going to put it out in the market as 1 business and there are some bidders that may be -- some parties may be interested more in lumber or gypsum panels.
And we'll just have to see how that plays out.
We've got really good options to try to realize the highest value but our preference is to sell it as 1 business.
But obviously we're going to be driven by where the value is.
And the businesses are set up where they can be if we end up there selling them as a gypsum business a lumber business a panel business.
LLC Research Division</strong> And what do you expect on the timing of the sale? Is that by the end of the year? It depends on how it gets sold if we're going to be out.
The -- we're already starting.
We'll be out next week with the information to prospective buyers.
And so we'll move as quickly as we can but our objective will be to maximize the value.
I will now turn the call back over to Glenn Landau for any closing remarks.
Yes.
So this just brings our second quarter earnings conference call to a close.
We certainly appreciate everybody's participation this morning.
Of course I along with our media contact Tom Ryan will be available today and as always for follow-up questions at the numbers listed in the Appendix.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Phillis and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the International Paper Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Glenn Landau Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Thanks Phillis and good morning.
And thank you for joining International Paper's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Our key speakers this morning are John Faraci Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Carol Roberts Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Tim Nicholls Senior Vice President Printing Papers the Americas.
During this call as always we will make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which are outlined on Slide 2 of our presentation.
We will also present certain non-U.S.
GAAP financial information a reconciliation of which will be found on our website.
Our website also contains copies of the third quarter 2012 earnings press release and today's presentation slides.
Lastly given our expanded disclosure around the Ilim JV Slide 4 provides context around the joint venture's financial information and statistical measures.
With that I will now turn the call over to John Faraci.
Thanks Glenn and good morning everybody.
As you all know this morning we announced our third quarter results.
I characterize them as strong results despite a challenging macroeconomic backdrop.
We increased our EBITDA sequentially by $100 million to over $975 million while continuing to generate excellent cash flow from operations.
And I'd note this is after the divestment of 3 containerboard mills which took about $45 million of EBITDA out of the quarter.
In line with our commitments around capital allocation we've reduced our balance sheet debt by $800 million in the quarter partially funded by the proceeds from the building product from the 3 mills sales containerboard mills.
As well as increased our dividend by 14% to $1.20 a share reiterating our confidence in our outlook for free cash flow into 2013.
And as Tim will speak about after we wrap up earnings we strengthened our global portfolio by announcing yesterday our strategic entry into the corrugated packaging market in Brazil.
Within our North America Industrial Packaging business during the quarter we successfully implemented a $50 a ton containerboard price increase and importantly achieved our original merger benefit target of $300 million 15 months ahead of schedule.
So the headline there is more and faster.
While maintenance outages were lower in the third quarter across really all of our businesses seasonally softer demand in our corrugated box business because of our heavy concentration of ag business in the second quarter coupled with overall slow growth in North America and in a lot of the markets we compete in around world our packaging businesses were a little slower and we took a lot more downtime in Industrial Packaging that you'll see during the quarter.
On the strategic front Franklin continued its successful production ramp-up and qualification of fluff pulp and the Sun joint venture started up the fourth coated paperboard machine in September.
Let me just move to the next slide which is the financial snapshot.
Revenues were in line with the last quarter and up more than 6% versus the third quarter of last year.
That's principally due to the Temple-Inland acquisition.
EBITDA margin compression was primarily due to lower pulp prices.
Pulp prices hit their bottom during the third quarter.
And lower export price realizations really in all the places where we make paper and export which is principally North America and Brazil and they were offset partially by the Temple merger benefits.
As I said earlier really the story in the quarter is continued strong cash flow from operations nearly $900 million.
Let me turn it over to Carol now to kind of go through the details.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
As John mentioned and as you can see on Slide 7 we continue to make significant progress on our balance sheet reducing our debt of further $800 million in the quarter.
And this brings our total debt paydown since the Temple-Inland acquisition to $1.5 billion and that puts us on track to meet our debt-reduction target by the year end of 2013.
Taking a closer look at the third quarter financial bridge on Page 8.
As you see we earned $0.75 per share from continuing operations and before special items and that's versus the $0.46 we earned in the second quarter.
The primary headwind we faced this past quarter besides the expected loss of operating profits associated with the divested mills was volume which was down sequentially by $0.05.
And as John noted this was largely due to seasonally lower box sales noted by our heavy mix of agriculture in the second quarter and as John said also impacted by continued overall slow growth across North American packaging businesses.
The operations and cost line while positive does include a couple of items worth noting.
There's $0.04 of downside exposure due to an unfavorable but noncash LIFO inventory valuation adjustment and a further $0.02 of Temple-Inland purchase accounting true-ups.
We were able to more than offset these items with good operations incremental Temple-Inland synergies of $15 million and the Franklin start-up.
And lastly as you can see on the bridge outages were lower in the quarter and our share of the Ilim JV earnings were favorably impacted by currency versus the negative adjustment we saw in the second quarter.
In terms of downtime we did have fewer scheduled outages which meant increased market-related downtime to effectively match our supply to our customers' demand in the quarter.
Across our packaging businesses this did result in increased market-related downtime quarter-over-quarter.
Conversely in our papers and pulp business we continue to run full leveraging higher export shipments.
Moving to global input costs on Slide 10.
Costs were largely balanced quarter-over-quarter.
Industrial Packaging did benefit from lower OCC but the upside was largely offset across the enterprise by higher natural gas costs as well as wood prices.
Looking at Industrial Packaging as we have already shared the business was impacted by seasonally weaker sales volume and associated incremental market-related downtime.
The unfavorable inventory valuation adjustments and purchase accounting true-ups in the quarter cost $30 million and these are reflected in the operations line.
We did offset this by fewer outages lower inputs and continued positive progress on our Temple-Inland synergies.
The net result was an operating profit before special items of $342 million in the third quarter versus $367 million in the second quarter of '12.
And I would like to note that the LIFO inventory valuation change is primarily a result of the containerboard price increase as we value our inventory at our box plant at the new price.
With that said and despite the downtime the impact of the LIFO and purchase accounting charges on Slide 12 it shows that our North American business compares favorably to the best of the competitive set once again this quarter.
And I truly believe this really demonstrates our ability to navigate seasonality and run our business both operationally and commercially extremely effectively.
Moving your attention to the synergy run rate ramp chart depicted on Slide 13 on a run-rate basis we have met our original target of $300 million in synergies within the first 8 months of closing the transaction.
An impressive achievement by Mark and his team with more to come as they capture the identified incremental opportunity of $100 million by the end of '13.
Relative to where the synergies are coming from with more than 75% of the synergies already achieved in overhead box and sourcing buckets the runway in '13 is largely about paper machine optimization and efficiency improvements at the mills and these realizations will be timed with our planned outages that are primarily in the first half of the year.
Moving on to Consumer Packaging.
Operating profit before special items were $67 million in the third quarter compared to $63 million in the second quarter of '12.
Continued weak demand and pressure on pricing primarily in Asia impacted the quarter.
But they were more than offset by lower plant maintenance outages expenses.
Earnings in the third quarter for the Foodservice business continued to be strong and were in line with the prior quarter.
Relative to our competition the North American business continued to outperform the best of the competitive set in the quarter.
Moving to Slide 17 as John mentioned earlier the new coated paperboard machine at the Sun JV started up ahead of schedule on September 19.
While we will begin qualifying the A grade products in the market over the next several months we do expect that we will have incremental ramp-up costs in the fourth quarter.
And as we start up and we line up the machine we will be making primarily the commodity of grades and we know that we're bringing those grades and those -- that volume into a softer market.
But we do expect earnings to gradually improve in '13 as the grade A premium product is qualified with our core customers and the markets begin to improve over the course of the year.
Moving on to Slide 18 Printing Papers and Pulp nearly doubled their earnings before special items in the third quarter delivering $201 million in operating profit and that compares very favorably to the $106 million in the second quarter of '12.
Volume improved across all geographic segments including export and Franklin added $12 million in the quarter as it began to produce and sell primarily commodity softwood pulp to the market.
We did see higher input costs primarily from energy and wood of $21 million that did offset the significant reduction in expenses associated with the lower plant outages in the quarter.
Looking at the year-to-date volume change on Slide 19 of our Printing Papers and Pulp business around the world our global demand is up just over 5% across all of our segments compared to the same period of last year.
So while uncoated freesheet demand is down in line with expectations in North America our emerging market businesses are growing at or above market.
And we've been able to take advantage of our global market access to increase our exports out of North America as opportunities arise.
And let me give you a great example of that.
When the export volume from Brazil is repatriated back into Latin America to meet our growing local demand we've been able to use our North American exports to fill the void for some of our core customers.
This synergistic opportunity to leverage our global footprint really does differentiate IP from our regional competitors and we believe that this will continue to afford us some advantages in the medium and the long term.
On the strategic front we continue to make progress at the Franklin mill as manufacturing and the sales teams work together to qualify our premium fluff pulp with our core customers.
To date the team is ahead of plan.
And as the chart on Slide 20 shows the current projection of the ramp-up of fluff pulp sales to our core customers will exceed our original expectations.
Now with that said we expect our customers demand to match our incremental annual capacity for fluff pulp by 2014.
So in the meantime given our swing production capability across the system we will continue to make and sell softwood commodity pulp until we reach the sense dates and match our supply to our customers' growing demand.
Moving on to xpedx the company's North American distribution business reported operating profits of $24 million in the third quarter compared to $17 million in the second quarter of '12.
Seasonal quarter-over-quarter volume improvement we experienced that across all segments but that was partially offset by lower commercial print margins while packaging and facility solutions margins improved.
Regarding our Ilim joint venture.
Operational results were impacted by the continued depressed pulp pricing and lower volume to the Chinese market in the third quarter.
IP's equity earnings were further impacted by an after-tax foreign exchange gain of $21 million in the current quarter resulting in total after-tax equity earnings of $33 million in the third quarter.
So let me summarize on Slide 23 some of the key points from the quarter.
We did deliver solid results in the third quarter despite a challenging global environment.
And there's a couple of things that I would like to highlight.
John said it we did generate excellent free cash flow from operations.
We continue to make great progress with the Temple-Inland integration achieving our initial 2-year synergy run rate target in month 8.
The building products sales process moves closer to the finish line and we're very pleased with how that is proceeding so well.
We signed a settlement agreement related to the Guaranty Bank litigation for $80 million that we are confident can be partially covered with some insurance proceeds.
And most importantly we successfully implemented containerboard price increase which will provide significant earnings runway for our Industrial Packaging business in '13.
So let me provide a little bit more detail on our outlook for the fourth quarter.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter we expect seasonally stronger volume in our EMEA box business and our Brazilian paper business which will offset some of the normal seasonal demand declines that we'll see in packaging in North America.
Moving to price.
Box price realization associated with the North American containerboard increase and mix improvements from higher domestic sales in Brazil were more than offset the negative North American paper mix due to a higher volume of export shipments in the quarter.
Operations will be relatively stable quarter-over-quarter with the exception of the modest benefit Industrial Packaging we'll realize from the non-repeat of a portion of the Temple-Inland purchase accounting true-up.
As input -- and also there will be an incremental ramp-up in cost that will hit the Sun JV in the fourth quarter.
Regarding inputs we do expect to see some higher wood costs in OCC and energy costs amounting to an incremental $15 million to $20 million of expense.
And lastly we are moving from the third quarter which was our lightest maintenance outage quarter to a more average quarter so our expenses for outages will increase by $82 million as we move to a more normalized level.
So with that let me turn it back over to John Faraci.
Thanks Carol.
So let me just summarize our fourth quarter outlook precisely is really a more of the same type of demand environment but it's going to be impacted by the normal expected seasonal slowdown in North America that we see every year after Thanksgiving and then it's either more of a slowdown if the weather is bad or the usual slowdown if it's not.
So with that let me talk to sort of high-level about how we're seeing 2013.
And at this point in time we still expect and are going to be planning our next year for a more of the same global economy.
I am quite positive and quite confident that our earnings runway will materialize in 2013 is quite positive.
It's going to by led by the trajectory of the North American Industrial Packaging business with year-over-year earnings improvement due to pricing increase Carol talked about as well as continued synergy realizations.
And we've also got other strategic and cost savings projects and initiatives in Brazil Russia China and North America that we've talked to you about.
They're all going to turn from cost this year into contribution next year.
We do expect higher fiber and energy costs in that new year probably $100 million to $200 million as well as a noncash pension expense which is going to be sizable of $250 million to $300 million as a result of lower discount rates start of return on assets and amortization of gains and losses.
So net-net as we look at 2013 and again I'd say with the continuation of slow growth around the world we think IP is very well positioned for significant improvement in EBITDA free cash flow and return on capital as we get into 2013.
Before I turn it over to Tim to talk about the announcement he made yesterday he got us in the corrugated packaging business in Brazil let me just take an opportunity to underline our commitment to the balanced use of cash that we think drives our shareowner value creation and talk about what we've done over the last year.
So over the last 9 months International Paper has used its free cash flow in line with what we shared to investors on Investor Day in May and we'll continue to do so.
We've returned more cash to shareholders in the form of a 14% increase in the dividend which we plan to review annually.
And we'll continue to adjust in line with our principles of sharing 30% to 40% of mid-cycle free cash flow in the form of dividends.
We're going to deliver on our dividend growth commitment as free cash flow permits.
We've aggressively reduced our debt on our balance sheet by $1.5 billion as we've said we would and we'll continue to do more of that through 2013.
Keep in mind however though with Temple we've got more debt capacity because we've got more EBITDA.
And finally we've reinvested in our businesses very selectively in domestic and growing regions -- in domestic markets and growing regions in our core businesses and those will continue to be a significant portion of our earnings profile going forward.
So with that let me turn it over to Tim to talk briefly about corrugated packaging acquisition that we announced yesterday.
Okay.
Thanks John.
I'm excited that I can talk to everyone about the strategic entry into corrugated packaging in Brazil that we announced yesterday.
Yesterday IP and Grupo Orsa formally agreed to form a corrugated packaging business expanding IP's leading global platform to Brazil.
IP will hold a 75% stake in the newly formed company which will hold Grupo Orsa's current containerboard and box assets and that share is valued at approximately $470 million.
But before I discuss the Brazilian corrugated market and specifics around the deal in more detail let me also update everyone on a change to our paper business which is good news.
We have an option as you know to build a second uncoated freesheet machine at the Tres Lagoas mill site.
And that supply agreement that we have with Fibria and the option to build that second machine was set to expire in January of 2013.
We've now agreed with Fibria to extend the timing on that.
So the new agreement gives IP the option to start the second machine between 2016 and 2018 which we think better matches the incremental capacity that we're going to need to supply our customers' demand.
And if you remember to Investor Day we were talking about meeting that capacity in the '15 '16 time frame.
So this enables us to better time capital investment.
Now let me turn to the packaging investment and talk about why we think this makes sense for International Paper.
First of all it's a market that we know well and it allows us to expand a core IP business into a growing market where we already have a meaningful presence with our paper business.
It gives us the opportunity to earn good margins and an attractive return with industry margins in the corrugated packaging business between 20% and 30% in Brazil.
So said another way we can generate greater than cost of capital returns and increase shareowner value in a business and in a region that we know well.
If you move to Slide 29 the case for growth is made easy.
Per capita consumption in Brazil in both our core platforms have significant potential for growth as this emerging margin market continues to expand its middle class.
Note that Brazil today is below China on per capita consumption in both businesses or both products.
Consumption in the packaging side will increase as nondurable production increases.
And in both businesses as the middle class continues to expand which over the next 3 years is expected to grow by 15 million people -- growth should also be enhanced by 2 events significant events the 2014 World Cup and the 2016 Olympics.
If you move to the next line looking at the growth rates over the medium-term RISI is currently forecasting approximately 3.5% compounded growth rates for both grades which will create 1 million tons and 300 000 tons for new containerboard and uncoated freesheet through 2017.
Now let me turn to Grupo Orsa just talk about the company itself.
We look at the company and say that the company has good people good assets and a good customer base.
It's currently earning 20% EBITDA margins and the customer base is made up of a lot of household name consumer products companies.
Customers representing roughly 20% of the volume have been served by Orsa for 15-plus years so really good relationships on the commercial side.
The box plants are located in what is the largest consumer and industrial center in Latin America.
So proximity to the market also good.
And the opportunity here is to grow organically in line with market growth and optimized manufacturing operations which when we benchmark against our IP facilities around the world we think there's a significant opportunity.
All of that we believe will allow us to take a business from 20% margins to a range of between 25% and 30% margins.
If I turn to the deal specifics purchase price is roughly $470 million at today's exchange rates and it's going to be financed by cash on hand in Brazil and also some financing which may be local financing that we'll be able to repay quickly.
That represents an 8x EBITDA multiple and an 18% IRR for the investment which well exceeds our local risk adjusted cost of capital.
And the returns are going to be driven by 3% market box growth and 2% cash cost savings which is only about half of what we achieved in our Brazilian operations and about 2/3 of what we're able to achieve across International Paper.
So summing it up the opportunity is to create shareowner value by earning attractive returns and increasing cash flow.
And the real nature of this investment is all about buying a good business and making it better and we'll do that by growing organically and optimizing manufacturing operations.
So with that Glenn I'll turn it back over to you.
Thanks Tim.
And with that operator please open the lines for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Two questions here.
One is the margin targets you laid out there the 25% to 30% EBITDA margins is there any kind of capital required to get to those margins? And the second question on the transaction is this is obviously still a pretty fragmented industry down in Brazil.
So should we be thinking of this as kind of a step one of a multistep process? Or is this -- are you kind of pleased with the transaction as it stands? On the capital side Phil what I really like about this deal is it's really minimal capital.
There's a lot of process improvements we think we can make.
And there is some capital that will be required but I'd say it's in line with just running the business day to day.
So it will revolve around de-bottlenecking usage improvements on chemicals and energy and fiber.
So in my view it's minimal capital.
In terms of the market itself it is fragmented but it's probably in terms of the operating model a market that is closest to the U.S.
in terms of how it looks.
It's integrated producers producing containerboard and corrugated boxes.
You really need board supply to be a player in the corrugated box market.
And I think the opportunity here is to make this investment and improve what it is.
And if there are other opportunities they'll have to be financially viable and earn the right to be part of the business.
So I'd just add this is not -- I don't think this is a consolidation strategy for the industry in Brazil.
Think of it as we bought the #2 or #3 player depending how you want to measure it.
And we think there's good growth opportunities with this business as the Brazilian market grows.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then the second question is just on containerboard in North America.
Obviously some significant market related downtime there.
And if we kind of add it up here year-to-date you're tracking ahead of last year on the amount of downtime that you've been taking.
So is this a cost savings opportunity? Is there an opportunity to take capacity out here? Or are you still kind of holding out hope in the growth of that we might see in the next couple of years and you'd rather wait? Good morning Phil.
This is Mark.
I think what we -- the way we think about the current let's say last 2 or 3 quarters in downtime is really trying to optimize the system that we have post-Temple integration.
And we're making some choices on channels segments and customers.
And in the process of doing that we make the board we need for that particular customer demand.
But we do have a pretty good system for taking any downtime whether it's market-related downtime or how we plan our maintenance to really drive to the lowest marginal cost production that we can have in any given period of time.
So I think we're managing it very well.
It's a big system.
Over 13 million tons.
And the level of downtime that's market-related plus planned maintenance is still resulting in a pretty decent operating rate.
We do believe the market is going to improve beyond what it's doing in 2012.
And I think that will obviously follow as the U.S.
economy hopefully picks up.
The volume that we had to purchase from the containerboard mills it wasn't available for us to ship from our own mills.
Right.
So that's the other sort of added dynamic for a period of time as we go forward is as we executed the divestiture of the 3 mills that we were required to sell we do purchase a good portion of that board back into our system especially the 2 mills on the West Coast.
They're in proximity to our box business there.
So that's another added dynamic of 900 000 tons or so that we effectively had in our system in a diminishing rate over time.
So really just trying to manage the whole supply chain.
And if you look at -- just look at the past few quarters I think we've got the ability to manage and flex our capacity with all of those variables playing into it.
Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First off on Orsa can you discuss what the age of the mills is right now? My guess it's relatively a young fleet of machines given that you mentioned I guess to Phil's question there's not a lot of incremental investment that needed to be done? And can you mention what the level of vertical integration is? Perhaps you said I had missed it and I had a follow-on.
Yes.
The vertical integration is around 80% plus or minus.
I characterize the machines as being good assets.
They run fairly well but just as for instance they have more than 2x the amount of unplanned downtime across their system [ph] we would typically expect.
So we see a huge reliability opportunity just in terms of how you run the -- how you maintain the machines how you run the machines.
And then there's also some opportunities around cost improvements from as I mentioned energy and chemical usage.
So I think we like not only the mill assets but the box plant asset.
It's actually a very -- in terms of housekeeping it would rival what we look like in our Brazilian mills which is probably company standard.
So we think we've got a good fleet to work with.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Tim to the extent that you will have less unplanned outages do that suggest that perhaps the level of vertical integration will drop as you'll be producing paper at a greater rate or greater efficiency than it's currently being done? And if so where do those tons go? Are they being largely sold domestically? Are they being put into the export market? No they're primarily sold domestically.
And yes it could drop a little bit but I don't think it will be something that will be material for a long period of time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My last question I'll turn it over.
Can you comment at all on how early trends are in terms of your key businesses corrugated and printing papers? For what we've been seeing thus far in earnings season trends seem like they've been perhaps sequentially getting better if you adjust for seasonality that's across a broad array of packaging and paper markets but what are you seeing? [indiscernible] for North America George? Research Division</strong> That's largely North America because basically the companies that we track probably are more North America than international but yes.
I'll just -- I'll start it on printing papers and then hand it off to Mark.
I mean October looks pretty good so far in terms of order intake backlogs and shipments.
So if you look across all of the segments that we supply we feel pretty good about October and we'll see how the beginning of November shapes up.
Yes.
On the corrugated packaging side I would echo what Tim said.
I mean October is picking up sequentially over September.
A couple of spots we see improvement on -- in our online retailing customers or Internet sales look better.
We did see some pickup in our durables and building material-related segments and that seems to have been kept at a sustained higher level.
There are some offsets in some of the food segments we're in.
Everybody knows what's going on in the meat and poultry industry relative to corn prices and their ability to bring their products to market.
But I would say October this year has got a couple more days than last year's October and I think we like what we see so far as the quarter starts.
Tom Kadien do you want to comment on coated paperboard? Sure John.
And George in coated paperboard the market I would say is still pretty soft.
But sequentially I think for a couple of quarters now we've seen I think 2% improvements in volumes quarter-over-quarter.
So we're not where we'd like to be.
I think we're off about 4% versus prior year.
But sequentially it's getting better.
Your next question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Looking at containerboard just I guess starting there a couple of quick questions.
Looking at the downtime that you've taken relative to industry inventories there's a little bit of a disconnect.
Can you give some perspective on kind of where you see your inventories relative to the industry? And also I think you've kind of referenced this but maybe a little bit more color as you transitioned in the Temple business how is that going in terms of kind of retaining customers relative perhaps to the experience with Weyerhaeuser? Okay Gail good questions.
On the inventory side we do our best with our supply-chain systems to predict what we need to make in the quarter or coming months.
I would say in the third quarter we probably got a little tighter than we wanted to from a service platform standpoint so we'll try to fix some of that as we go forward.
But our inventories we believe are in good shape at an absolute level.
The challenge of course is always having the right stuff in the right places.
I think we can continue to improve that.
But we do like the ability to run the business with a good tight supply chain.
But we need to make sure our service levels are where they need to be.
On business retention we've done a number of things this year.
And I'd say largely we're satisfied.
We've been able to earn some business that both companies had before and retained some of that.
In some cases customers have diversified a little bit but we've been able to replace some of that business.
We have been in the process of closing about 9 plants and changing some shift structure with some of the others.
And our goal is to retain about 95% of the revenue during those processes and that's where we're at right now on that.
So I'd say by and large given we're making some choices about channels and customers we feel pretty good about it.
And our overall objective is to sustain our EBITDA margins and we've been able to do that given we've got these commercial dynamics while we integrate Temple.
Gail we lost some business.
Or Temple was in the process of losing some business in the fourth quarter last year.
So as Mark said we feel pretty good about how we've operated with customers since we closed.
But there's -- but by the time we got Temple they're in process of losing some business in the third and fourth quarters of last year.
Yes that's a good point John.
Some of that actually materialized there in the summer but they were notified at the end of last year that some changes will be made.
We worked real hard to try to replace as much of that as we can.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And actually just sticking on that you referenced expecting to be kind of 100% run rate on the price increase exiting the year.
Can you give a little bit of color how you see that playing out in the fourth quarter relative to the first quarter next year? Well I think it's just a general statement that we're working real hard with our customers and we're making good progress with the box.
And each -- every customer is an individual and you work with each customer.
And we just -- we're making good progress.
So I think in general we'll be heading into the year into 2013 in good shape on the pricing across our box business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last one actually sticking on pricing.
TIm RISI has been reporting price weakness across a couple of uncoated freesheet grades.
It seems maybe a bit more severe than what you're seeing but can you just confirm that? Well I'd characterize pricing as stable Gail.
I mean yes there's pockets here and there and everybody knows we're heading to a seasonally slower period of the year.
But right now if I had to characterize the business as a whole I'd say it's stable.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And actually let me -- sorry one last one.
There was something referenced I think in the charges about European packaging restructuring is that something that's been ongoing? Or is that something new and incremental? Gail this is Carol.
That's something that's been ongoing.
We've had our Spain.
We built our new box plant in Spain.
So we've closed a plant and we're doing some things to realign that business and take cost out.
So it's not a long-term project but it was something that did hit us in the quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Chercover with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Just couple of quick questions first on Grupo Orsa.
I assume that it's going to be fully consolidated on the balance -- or the income statement.
Yes it will be fully consolidated in all of our financials.
Research Division</strong> And do you have the opportunities or any agreement with respect to the remaining 25%? There's language in the shareholders agreement but it's really kind of a standstill for the first 3 years.
And then there's an opportunity past the third anniversary to either -- to own more either through a put or a call.
Research Division</strong> And you indicated that the Brazilian corrugated market or I guess the containerboard is structured somewhat like the U.S.
How would you characterize the actual box plant? Did they suffer from overcapacity as well? It's a typical type of converting business.
So there's always latent capacity in converting facilities.
But I think that if you look at industry margins when you look at it over a period of time industry has been between the low-20s and the high-20s in terms of margins.
So there's roughly 500 000 tons of containerboard that gets exported out of Brazil to other parts of the world.
And there is less than 1% of containerboard that gets imported in.
So I think it's a pretty stable market.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just switching gears it's encouraging I guess not surprising that wood products we've got a nice window of opportunity.
Any sense on the timing? Yes that depends on how -- whether we sell the business in pieces which is one option or sell it all in one shot which is another option.
We have -- the good news is we have bidders for both.
So it could go faster if it's one sale.
It could go a little slower if it's 3 sales.
Either way we expect to have it closed in the first quarter.
And I think we're looking at the bidding process.
We've got a healthy very healthy process going on so we like the hand we've got.
Your next question comes from the line of Albert Kabili.
Research Division</strong> Yes just a question I guess on Grupo Orsa.
On the -- why structure it as a JV? Why not buy the whole business along those lines? And then secondly I know capital needs aren't going to be meaningful.
But to the degree they are do you see that as self-funding at this point? Yes I do see it as self-funding more than self-funding.
And why 75-25? Well you got a person who started the business and he doesn't want to leave it entirely.
So we'll be -- we'll have a management team in place that runs the business on a day-to-day basis but he's a local business man.
He's built the business up from the ground and wants to continue to be a part of the business.
And I think in our discussions with -- he was a major shareowner and this discussions have been going on for quite some time.
We come to believe that we can be -- he'd make a good partner.
So we're not -- his preference was to keep the stake and we were okay with that.
I mean he really -- he knows the local market.
He knows the customers.
They have a very good commercial organization.
I think he'd take the power of their commercial organization and our manufacturing and process know-how and it will be a pretty powerful combination.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
That's helpful.
And just along M&amp;A and capital allocation.
At this point with this acquisition with still integrating Temple-Inland how do you see future M&amp;A playing out versus the capital allocation priorities that you've laid out? Yes this is not an M&amp;A agenda.
This Orsa has been on the radar screen for quite some time in terms of discussions.
So we like the hand we have.
We've got a lot going on as you said around the world.
And as I said we're poised to deliver significant improvement in EBITDA free cash flow and ROI next year with everything we've got.
So the balance allocation of cash is going to continue and I don't think there's a big M&amp;A pipeline ahead.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay got it.
And then final question for Caroline.
I may have missed it but on the initial read on pension expense next year is that -- did you indicate that was $200 million higher? Or $200 million to $250 million is going to be the total expense for pension next year? Al you've heard it correctly that it's $250 million incremental pension expense and you know where that's coming from.
That is really just really driven by the discount rate.
When you look at the interest cost calculation and then you look at the amortization of gains and losses it's impacted by the discount rate.
So unfortunately it's an expense but fortunately it's not cash.
And if you go back and you look at the cash requirements we -- looks like for '13 we've got a very small $40 million required cash contribution to the pension.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And that's with the help of the highway bill as well I take it? Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> With just a couple of uncoated freesheet producers it's striking how different people's view of the market is.
I wonder if you could give us your perspective on some of the submarkets and how IP is performing relative to your view of the overall market? And also if you could tell us how you're thinking about the substitution risk from some of the new stuff that we're seeing out there whether that's going to affect you in specific places or whether it's just going to affect the fringe players? Mark it's Tim.
A couple of things.
One it's not uniform across all uncoated freesheet segments of the market.
You're absolutely right.
Printing Papers is and has been a little bit weaker than some of the other segments.
But we look at our footprint here in North America and the customers that we're supplying.
And then the second major point is we're able given our footprint globally to look out to other regions and take advantage of our presence in Latin America our presence in Europe.
And so where there has been soft places in the U.S.
market we've been -- we've had an export opportunity not at the same margin structure but on export opportunity to either backfill Brazil and Europe or supplement Brazil's capabilities in Latin America.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us a sense of whether the roll market looks very different from you versus cut size at this point? Again I'm just trying to get a sense because it seems like every producer we talk to has got a different view and that seems awfully strange in this market.
Maybe strange a little bit but I don't think so.
You got to look at weighting of position in terms of where people are -- what part of the market different companies are supplying.
I can only speak to ours.
We don't have a huge roll offset exposure to the market.
So we're big on cut size and we're big on converting papers.
And then we have a big specialty business that's embedded within printing and communications papers.
So I think it depends on business mix across companies.
Research Division</strong> Is it fair to say that you're probably not very concerned about the substitution risk from some of these lower-end grades? Well I think you're always -- you look at the market you want to make sure you're competitive.
But we look at the fact that we consider ourselves a long-term strategic supplier with good quality and a great service platform and that's how we're going to compete.
We're not going to look at every competitor as an equal.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Gaffner with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> The first question is really just around capital allocation and more specifically around the debt reduction.
You have that Slide 7 where you show currently at 3.5x net debt to EBITDA on an adjusted basis for the Moody's target.
And John I think you might have even alluded to this a little bit on the call it's just the growth in EBITDA as we move into 2013 should -- as you have Temple-Inland for the full year should move that number down slightly? How are you thinking about debt paydown versus actual just reduction in the leverage ratios going forward and maybe more cash for other capital allocation priorities? Carol why don't you talk about how we financed Temple and then I'll come back and kind of share some thoughts on capital allocation going forward.
Sure.
When we financed Temple we did a bond offering in the fourth quarter of '11 and we did short-term debt this year which we are paying back pretty aggressively.
Our plan for next year is to continue to actually pay down debt.
We've got targeted another $1 billion of debt repayment in '13 and we'll take the opportunity to pay down what debt is the most effective for us because we don't have a lot of maturities coming right at us.
And with the cash flow generation that we have for next year which will be strong that will be a good plan and we'll have opportunities to look at other options for cash.
We will pay down most of the bank debt by the end of next year.
Well we'll actually pay down most of the bank debt by yes by the beginning of next year.
And we also have the proceeds then of the building products coming in along with strong cash flow from the business.
So we should be in good shape.
So we remain committed to an EBITDA-to-debt target of 3 or less and we're making progress moving in that direction.
We're going to be able to carry more balance sheet debt because of the increase EBITDA.
And if you think about -- go back to Investor Day we think our mid-cycle EBITDA target is just north of $5 billion.
The -- we're not there yet but we're moving in that direction.
So I think we've -- it's playing out the way we financed it and we like where we're at.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a follow-up on that the pension gap you have listed here $2.7 billion.
You did note that the pension expense goes higher $250 million to $300 million.
How does that pension gap change as we move into 2013 if you're current assumptions around pension expense hold? Well of course what we'll do at the end of the year we will calculate the pension gap based upon asset returns through the end of the year and whatever the discount rate is at the end.
So I wouldn't speculate on what that will be but will do that calculation and we'll do that at year end.
At some point in our lifetime interest rates will turn up.
That 200 basis point increase in interest rates wipes out that pension gap.
So we've been incorrectly thinking that interest rate at some point will move up.
Last year this year next year the answer is probably they're not going to but we don't want an overfunded plan.
So we'll put cash when it's needed.
That's all part of our cash allocation plan.
And our free cash flow is strong enough that we can be increasing the dividend while we're paying down debt funding the pension plan while we're paying down debt and spending the appropriate amount of CapEx to keep the business competitive.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Hopefully the highway bill allows you to not overfund the pension a little bit and maybe have those interest rates come back in the next year give you some time for that to correct itself.
Just lastly on the Temple-Inland synergies you noted $15 million of Temple-Inland synergies in Industrial Packaging in the quarter.
You noted that you're at a $300 million run rate.
Are there synergies outside of the actual Industrial Packaging segment? I just would have thought you would have been higher than $15 million in the quarter based off of attaining the $300 million run rate at the end of -- end of 3Q? Scott this is Mark.
I think there are synergies and obviously accrue some of it is in the sourcing areas.
And I don't have that number for the third quarter handy.
But there are some synergies relative to the Temple acquisition that's not captured just in Industrial Packaging business but it's -- the lion's share is in the packaging.
But think of it this way the second quarter run rate was about $240 million another $15 million in the quarter means -- at the third quarter run rate is about $300 million.
So that the kind of annualized impact of what happened in the quarter is $60 million.
We're not done.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Quinn with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just one just following up on the Temple's building materials business and for sale.
And lots of earnings reports this morning so I may have missed it in your stuff.
But if you could tell us the contribution from this business in Q3 and year-to-date? Well it's not reported as part of our business because it's a business held for sale.
And its EBITDA numbers are quite -- are pretty good and their quarter-over-quarter they keep on improving.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
You had kind of alluded to increasing the dividend.
Obviously you just did that.
But is it fair for us to think if you can deliver on the ramp in earnings you're expecting that what we saw is going to be the first -- hopefully is going to be a series of significant dividend increases? As I said Mark earlier we're -- we told investors that we think 30% to 40% of free cash flow with the cycle is the appropriate dividend.
We're going to be reviewing the dividend with the board on an annual basis.
And absolutely I think as we make progress and I think I've said it we're quite confident in the earnings runway for next year even in a kind of a confusing and sideways global environment that we can improve our EBITDA our free cash flow and our return on capital.
As that happens we'll be looking to dividend in due course next year.
And obviously getting the box price increases is an important part of that ramp in 2013 earnings-wise.
If you look back historically have there been times when you've been able to get better than full pass-through of a containerboard price increase? And I realize you're still in process so I'm sure you can't answer this question yet.
But what tend to be the characteristics in place that have enabled that to happen? And what -- how would that compare to the types of situation we see today? Well I think I don't have every past price increase on the top of my mind but they probably have been some examples where the box price increase depending on the segment it goes into and how the value chain is constructed box versus sheets that there have been higher pass-throughs.
But I would say if you think about this particular price environment as a normal price environment from a board through box standpoint not anything out of the ordinary.
Okay great.
And then real quick Carol you had mentioned that true-up is going away.
Did that also -- did that include the LIFO inventory adjustments going away in the fourth quarter? No Mark.
The LIFO will be into the fourth quarter.
What we had is we did have a catch-up of some purchase accounting and I think that was around a couple of cents so about $10 million that was catch-up for previous quarters.
That does go away.
But the LIFO will be -- we split that over the 2 remaining quarters of the year.
So we'll see that again in the fourth quarter.
Okay so I don't want to get too much in the weeds but so in the first quarter it goes away? Yes will just start over.
Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
Forgive me if someone's asked this.
But Pulp and Paper Week as you know is changing the way that they're going to report the board prices with their acquisition of Official Board Markets.
And I just wanted to just check and see how that might affect your contracts given -- at least the ones that are indexed given that they might go to a different way of looking at where prices are and if your contracts anticipate something like this.
Chip RISI did -- has been working on this for a while.
I guess since they've bought OBM and they're doing a process to get input from all the stakeholders.
And we all participate and listen to that process.
But we've done some changes over time or have been involved in changes with indexes.
And I'm sure we'll figure something out that works for our customers and for us.
It's hard to speculate on exactly what they're going to do because they haven't done it yet.
But I think we believe we'll be fine with whatever we do to merge those and it'll work for us and it'll work for our customers.
Got you.
And then I guess as -- maybe as a related question do you all have a thought about just a high-level thought obviously about how closely you believe your prices should be tied to what RISI says or puts out there? Or do you -- And I guess that would take time to even implement if you even felt that was something you wanted to move away from? We're comfortable with the structure that we have right now.
A lot of our customers like to have index and it's more for change than -- indexes at an absolute level in almost any industry are hard to tie down.
But adding something that starts a discussion around change I think works for a lot of our customers.
And so we have a lot of contracts that have that.
We have a lot of business that doesn't have it and we are able to do fine with either kind of structure.
Your final question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Mark just a couple of clean-up things in the Containerboard business.
One if you look at the industry numbers for the third quarter in terms of operating rates and production it looks like there was about 335 000 tons of total industry downtime in the third quarter.
Again just working off of the AF&amp;PA data and you guys you've taken out 319 000.
So it would look like you've taken 95% of all the downtime in the industry in the third quarter which seems kind of surprising to me.
Am I missing something? Well we took 319 000 tons of downtime that part you got right.
And we have a production plan that made what we needed to make to fill our orders.
We do have a segment mix that's not the same as every other company obviously.
And seasonally since our ag business is so big in the second quarter we were down probably more than the industry itself in the third quarter and we're just kind of learning the new seasonality and optimizing the segments we have.
But as I said earlier the plan that we operated under in the third quarter when you look at the total mix of market and maintenance was I think incrementally 70 000 tons or so or 75 000 more than what we've been tracking the last few quarters in basically kind of flat market.
And Mark I'd also suggest to take up 2 things.
First of all it's now a 13 million ton system so what's a big downtime number is a smaller piece of the total capacity.
And we've also got 900 000 tons that we're contractually obligated to buy back.
Actually that ramps down over time.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And just -- I guess John what I'm trying to figure out is it would only mean like 15 000 tons of total downtime in the third quarter for the rest of the industry which is about 65% or 70% of capacity.
I know at least one of your competitors has kind of an ongoing issue in the middle town in Louisiana.
I don't know what everybody else is doing.
So it's just I'm trying to figure out if there's something that's not right in the industry data because it just seems so unlikely to me that you would be 95% of the industry downtime in the quarter? All we can tell you is what we did.
But I think -- importantly look at our margins.
Despite that downtime our margins were better or slightly better than the competition.
Research Division</strong> I know.
Listen I got no problem with margin.
I mean I'm just trying to understand what you're telling us and then what the industry data is reporting.
I'm trying to figure out if there's something screwy in the industry data? Do you have more -- is there more capacity out there than the industry is showing right now? When you get the answer let us know.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well another question from Mark.
And I just -- on that -- on this box price increase just so we're all clear you said you'd have it substantially in place at the end of the fourth quarter.
We know that there's a number of customers out there that kind of reprice on the start of the quarter start of the year.
Is that a significant portion of your mix so that we would kind of think about your prices moving up through the fourth quarter and then at end of the meaningful stair step does this repricing occurs for Jan 1? We've got a number of different realization schedules as you can imagine.
And I think as you just mentioned depending on the segment the customer the individual agreement I would say based on normal realization schedule we're working through and very satisfied with what we're -- the progress we're making with our customers.
And we should be at a run rate as we leave the year with announced price increase largely in place.
That's about all I can say in terms of detail.
Yes.
Looking at our business Mark we see the full impact of -- for International Paper in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
I'm just making -- I'm just trying to think about sort of how much we might be pricing in for the fourth quarter as we kind of think about the trajectory through the quarter and try to figure out if there's this stair-step at the end.
The one other question I have is just on Orsa is there an opportunity Tim to perhaps move some equipment from other IP locations around the world down to Brazil to put into the JV? Mark it's Tim.
There might be but that's not the primary focus.
I mean we've got good assets in this business and it's just a matter of optimizing what we have at the moment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And could you just -- I think both Klabin and Rogesa -- Rogesa just added capacity.
Klabin is I think actually talking about a new mill down there.
Can you just talk about a little bit about what you see on the supply side down in Brazil over the next few years? I don't know anymore than what's been publicly stated by the other players down there.
So it's -- what I read is that people are bringing on new capacity and shutting down old capacity.
This concludes today's Q&amp;A session.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Glenn Landau.
Thanks Phillis.
And thanks to everybody for joining our third quarter conference call.
As always we will be available post the call at the numbers listed on the first page of the Appendix.
Have a great day.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Phyllis and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the International Paper Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Glenn Landau you may begin your conference.
Thanks Phyllis and good morning and thank you for joining International Paper's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Our key speakers this morning are John Faraci Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Carol Roberts Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During the call as always we will make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which are outlined on Slide 2 of our presentation.
We will also present certain non-U.S.
GAAP financial information a reconciliation of which you'll find in -- on our website and that reconciliation will be to our U.S.
GAAP financial measures as always.
Our website also contains our fourth quarter 2012 earnings press release and today's presentation slides.
So lastly given our expanded disclosure around our Ilim JV Slide 4 provides context around the joint venture's financial information and statistical measures.
With that I will now turn the call over to John Faraci.
Thanks Glenn and good morning everybody.
Yes let me just start out by saying 2012 was another milestone year for International Paper.
I think as all of you know International Paper's cash flow story in 2012 was an all-time record in terms of cash from operations for International Paper $3 billion.
Some of the drivers.
You know the story around Temple.
The synergies had been far greater than we anticipated and we realized them far faster.
We've also successfully and fully implemented a price increase in our Containerboard and box business.
That didn't have a huge impact in 2012 but will have a pretty significant impact in 2013.
Now looking at Slide 7 2012 is the third year in a row where we've earned returns in excess of the cost of capital and what I think the last 3 years is fairly characterized as less than robust through mid-cycle demand environment.
We reduced debt by $2 billion on 2012; increased our dividend by 14% with more runway on the dividend ahead of us; and last but most important and I'll cover this at the end but I just want to say at the outset we've made significant progress on our strategic initiatives that create more earnings and cash flow upside for International Paper 2013 and 2014 even in a more-of-the-same macroeconomic environment.
So with that as a summary Carol let's turn over to you to cover some of the fourth quarter and full year.
Sure.
So if I take you to Page 6 you can just see the financial snapshot of the company.
And you can see that revenues were very strong year-over-year up $2 billion to $28 billion.
We did have some lost earnings compression associated with lower pulp and export pricing.
Realizations were down but we feel like the bottom has been reached on that and things are stabilizing.
So moving forward it should be very good.
As John said you can see that we continue to generate a very high level of sustainable free cash flow.
John referenced 7.
You can see it.
We had very good return on invested capital and we had our third year now of return on invested capital above our cost of capital.
And importantly as we move towards 2013 we see another step change in our performance on this metric which should be our best returns and the highest in really decade.
If I move you to Slide 8 let's take a look at the financial bridge from 2011 to 2012.
I would frame our results as solid.
And more importantly the progress that we made integrating Temple-Inland in 2012 was meaningfully earnings accretive in under 12 months.
Importantly this has built a strong foundation for steadily improving as well as less cyclical earnings for the company going forward.
While that slower global growth environment did take its toll on our pricing in pulp and our consumer grades really it impacted our export shipments across our product lines.
As I said I really believe the worst from that is behind us and we've seen pulp market stabilized come off the bottom and export market in containerboard importantly have recovered nicely in the second half.
It was all said an excellent year of execution across our global operations.
Mill performance more than offset the ramp-up costs that we experienced with Franklin and also with the new paper machine at the Sun JV.
We did have lower average input costs that did help the company offset some significant noncash non-repeat of LIFO and standards reevaluation swings from '11 to '12.
And simply put we have positive $50-ish million in '11 to a negative $50-ish million in '12 creating about $100 million swing in earnings.
In summary repeating John's message we ended '12 stronger than we began having made significant progress on many runway earnings driver projects that John is going to talk about at the end which positions the company very well for 2013.
Relative to the balance sheet as you can see on Slide 9 we made significant progress reducing our debt a further $400 million in the fourth quarter and that brought our total debt pay down post to Temple-Inland acquisition to a $1.9 billion.
The discount rate used to calculate our projected benefit obligation end of the year down about 100 basis points and that did result in a larger pension gap by $1.4 billion.
But we still remain on track to meet our Moody's debt target of less than 3x adjusted EBITDA by the end of '13 through a continued debt reduction.
And as I have shared before the required cash contribution for the pension plan in '13 will be less than $40 million.
Moving to the fourth quarter as John already shared we exited the year strong in Industrial Packaging with our synergy run rate of $360 million per year of synergies from the acquisition in the quarter while also fully capturing the $50 containerboard increase.
We did see $29 per ton on average in our box business versus the third quarter.
We did however experience higher costs in the quarter.
Uncharacteristically for us we did experience weaker mill operation and we had a fairly disrupted supply chain in our Industrial Packaging business in North America due to very low containerboard inventories as well as we had some impact in the Northeast to our box business and xpedx from Hurricane Sandy.
The Sun JV was ramping up in the fourth quarter.
That also had a slight adverse impact.
Kind of ramping up on the cost equation along with higher inputs this resulted in lower earnings by probably about $80 million in the quarter.
As I would categorize I just wouldn't call IP at its best in the fourth quarter but roughly maybe $40 million of that is recoverable in the first quarter so it bodes well for the coming year.
Going to Slide 11 bridging from the previous quarter we as we said earned $0.69 per share in the fourth quarter and that's versus $0.81 per share in the third quarter.
In summary the increased earnings came from higher prices and the lower tax rate which was offset by higher operational costs weaker equity earnings from Ilim and the planned increase in outage expense which accounted for $0.11 in the quarter.
Let me take you now to Slide 12 and once again look at our financial snapshot.
Revenues were strong in the fourth quarter up sequentially versus the third quarter and greater than 10% higher versus the fourth quarter of last year.
Obviously it's primarily driven by Temple-Inland.
And as we said earlier we generated strong cash from operations in the quarter over $760 million less our capital spending of $380 million for free cash flow of nearly $390 million in the quarter which is very strong for a fourth quarter performance.
Moving to 13 in terms of downtime we did have more scheduled maintenance outages than we had good seasonal demand out of our Corrugated box business.
And this meant lower market-related downtime to effectively match our supply with our customers' demand in TIN IPG.
As a result of that there's significantly less market-related downtime but importantly a net impact of approximately 150 000 tons less total downtime versus the third quarter in our containerboard mill system.
The business worked to rebuild inventories prior to what's coming up a very heavy maintenance outage scheduled in the first quarter of '13.
Consumer Packaging on the other hand did continue to experience soft domestic demand and weaker export markets in the fourth quarter.
We've been looking at that business and this resulted in the decision announced last week to permanently shut down one machine at the Augusta mill with an effective capacity of around 140 000 tons of coated paperboard.
This closure will balance our supply with our outlook for demand for coated paperboard and it will allow the remaining systems to operate more efficiently.
Our expectation is that we will run the new system full in '13.
And finally for the eighth straight quarter our papers and pulp business in North America continued to run full supported by higher export shipments.
Moving to inputs on Slide 14.
Costs were up in the quarter by $27 million or $0.04 per share and was pretty much spread across all the segments with higher costs from wood energy with gas coming off a very historical low and chemicals driving most of the increase.
On balance OCC while trending up throughout the quarter averaged roughly flat with the third quarter.
Moving on to the businesses let's -- on 15 take a closer look at Industrial Packaging.
While the containerboard and box price realization that I mentioned added about $80 million while lower market related downtime and some seasonally stronger demand in Europe added another $18 million versus the third quarter.
As I stated earlier we did have weaker mill operation and we had a very stressed supply chain due to tight inventories in our box plant as well as the interruptions from Hurricane Sandy.
This drove costs higher in the quarter and they were partially offset by an insurance settlement that we got in Europe of $16 million related to the May 2012 earthquake in Northern Italy.
Additionally maintenance costs were up $44 million in the third quarter and -- from inputs primarily as we talked wood energy and chemicals.
And that added another $18 million incremental headwind.
I think 16 once again really sums it up though.
With all that said and despite the impact of this operational issue heavy maintenance outages Slide 16 shows that our North American business continues to compare very favorably to the best of the competitive set.
And once again this quarter it further demonstrates our belief in our structural advantage versus competition in this space.
A big reason for that is what you see on Slide 17 which is the synergy chart.
And as we said the business will achieve the current target of $400 million on a run-rate basis in the first quarter of '13 which is essentially $100 million better and 1 year ahead of the original plan.
No doubt an impressive achievement and importantly not the end as Mark Sutton and the team moves from integration to optimization in '13.
Here's the synergy chart that you've seen and you can see where they're coming from.
You can see that the overhead the box efficiency and the sourcing buckets are essentially a target.
We have some remaining opportunity in the paper machines and the supply chain optimization and those will be largely achieved in the first quarter.
Of course this sets the stage for further improvement in the business as we continue to optimize that 13 million-ton system next year.
Page 19 is an exciting new opportunity that we've got.
It's our newest venture in industrial packaging in Brazil depicted by the pictures on Slide 19.
This is our Orsa international joint venture and we are now in full integration mode of closing earlier this month.
Although it's still very early we are certainly energized by what we've seen to-date and we see incremental opportunities where we can improve the efficiency expand the production capability leveraging our global mill experience and particularly our mill experience in Brazil as well as our vast corrugated packaging knowledge.
And this provides us an opportunity to take advantage and participate in this growing market.
There'll be more to come next quarter.
We plan to give a more in-depth view of this year's potential both in terms of our earnings in EBITDA.
I do want to comment that we will be reporting to start with a one month lag.
So for the first quarter results it will be essentially 2 months worth of results.
Moving to Consumer Packaging.
Segment operating profits were $39 million in the fourth quarter of '12 compared to $67 million in the third quarter.
This was a result of weaker price and mix in the domestic and export markets continued unplanned market-related downtime in North America and some ramp-up costs associated with the Sun JV.
We also have higher outage-related maintenance expenses quarter-over-quarter and negatively impact results.
And as I previously stated we have announced the closure of the machine in Augusta which will help this business manage their costs more effectively going forward.
In Printing Papers on Slide 21 Printing Papers also experienced some seasonally weaker export margins as well as higher planned outage-related maintenance spending quarter-over-quarter resulting in operating profits in the fourth quarter of $147 million versus $201 million in the third quarter of '12.
With that said I think 22 is an interesting chart and it takes a look at our full year-over-year change for our global Printing Papers uncoated freesheet sales volume in each region.
Our global volume is up just over 2% across all segments and geographies compared to the same period last year clearly outpacing the global market that we view as essentially flat in this combination of these regions.
So uncoated freesheet demand is down in line with expectations in North America the emerging market businesses are growing at or above market and we've been able to take advantage of our global market access to increase exports out of North America as opportunities arise.
Example is we get the chance to fill void with current customers.
And for example export volume from Brazil is repatriated back to Latin America to meet that growing local customer demand.
But this kind of synergistic opportunity to leverage our global footprint really differentiates IP's paper business from our regional competitors and we believe will continue to afford us advantages in the medium and the long term.
On the cost savings front in Brazil this is a picture of a newly installed biomass boiler that is online and fully operational since the beginning of January.
This virtually eliminates our consumption of fossil fuels and meaningfully reduces our purchased electricity.
So this moves us to a renewable fiber source that we can get both from our own and from adjacent sustainably managed forests.
This project alone will result in reduced costs of approximately $6 million to $7 million of savings per quarter.
Moving on to xpedx on 24.
xpedx is the company's North American distribution business and we reported operating profits in the fourth quarter of $11 million compared to $24 million in the third quarter.
Positive our quarter-over-quarter we did have modest volume improvement primarily in packaging was great.
But these were more than offset by lower commercial print margins higher operating costs in the quarter.
On 25 let's talk a bit about our Ilim Joint Venture where slightly higher pulp and containerboard prices were more than offset by seasonally higher woods and energy costs in the quarter.
The IP equity earnings were further impacted positively by an after-tax benefit of $6 million in the current quarter.
And this resulted in total after-tax equity earnings of $8 million in the fourth quarter compared to $33 million in the third quarter of 2012.
But what's important about Ilim is looking forward with the completion and commissioning of our projects at Bratsk and Koryazhma that remains our top priority for the first quarter of '13 with commercial startup planned for the second quarter.
And these projects just generate a lot of potential and runway for the company going forward.
So summarizing on 26 recapping it illustrates that we did deliver on many fronts solid results in the fourth quarter led by strong Industrial Packaging success not only with the Temple-Inland integration but implementing the containerboard and box increase.
Offsetting these gains as we talked about we had some uncharacteristically weaker operating performance due to a number of issues: tight supply chain in IPG and higher planned outage expenses and input costs.
Before I move on to the outlook let me just talk about capital allocation and balanced use of cash on 27.
I think this chart and this discussion will underline our commitment to a balanced use of cash that drives shareholder value.
First we returned more cash to our shareholders in the form of a dividend increase in the fourth quarter of 14%.
We do plan to review our dividend annually and continue to adjust in line with our principal around 30% to 40% of mid-cycle free cash flow.
We will deliver on our dividend growth commitment as earnings and free cash flow grows.
Next we did successfully execute $1.4 billion in capital spending.
That is $100 million below guidance and that did include about $400 million on strategic projects primarily Franklin and Sun and $200 million in high-returning cost savings projects.
The biomass boiler in Brazil is a great example of that.
And this investment will definitely drive incremental earnings in '13.
As John and I have both said we aggressively reduced debt on the balance sheet post the closing of Temple-Inland by $1.9 billion.
And we said we would continue to reduce debt into '13.
And lastly we reinvested in our businesses selectively.
We invested in our core segment of Corrugated Packaging not only with the acquisition of Temple-Inland at the beginning of the year but in fast-growing regions with our investments in Turkey and Brazil.
In terms of capital spending going forward we have revised down our outlook for the '12 to '15 timeframe by $400 million to an average of $1.4 billion per year and this is due to factoring in the reduced regulatory spending that we see that will be required from Boiler MACT in this period.
So let me move now to Slide 29 and provide you more detail on our outlook for the first quarter.
Looking ahead to the first quarter of '13 we expect seasonally weaker volume in our European Russian and Brazilian paper businesses and stable demand across North America.
Moving to pricing we expect the full benefit of our fourth quarter box price increase to be realized in the quarter and this will be partially offset by some seasonal mix in Brazil essentially related to a mix of more export.
In operations as I've said we should see the impact of improved operations across the mill businesses as supply chain and conditions are definitely improved and onetime issues in the fourth quarter do not repeat.
We do expect that we'll have further lower costs at Franklin and the full impact of the biomass boiler in Brazil and this will also provide additional tailwind.
As to inputs we view this as a headwind.
We expect higher OCC wood and energy costs and this is probably worth an incremental $50 million to $60 million in the coming quarter.
And lastly we do have another heavy maintenance outage quarter so our quarter-on-quarter expenses will remain fairly high with only a modest decrease of $7 million in the quarter.
So with that now let me summarize on 30 the first quarter outlook.
The first quarter is essentially a seasonally slower quarter relative to demand.
While we will see the full benefit of the North American box increase as well as the improved performance that I've talked about that this will be offset by higher inputs and some higher taxes.
And we can talk about taxes for a moment.
As you'll note our tax rate is going to move up from the fourth quarter to the first quarter from 21% to 25% and both of these remain well below our normalized level of 31% to 33%.
The impact in the first quarter of '13 is due to the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 which actually signed into law this month therefore the impact of that will be felt in 2013.
So at this point let me turn it back over to you John.
Okay.
Thanks Carol.
I'm on Slide 31 now here the map.
And what I want to do before I get into talking about 2013 and some of the -- revisit the strategic initiatives that I referenced at the beginning just to give you a sense of how we see the world where International Paper operates this map shows the 6 global economies that are important to International Paper in kind of 4 businesses: paper corrugated packaging coated board and pulp.
And as you can see when you look at all these overall we're forecasting 3.5% of global growth which is consistent with most of what you see forecasters are thinking now with North America being a lot slower than that and the rest of the world being better especially places like Russia India and China.
So let us move on to the 2013 outlook still all about cash.
And as I said I just want to reiterate International Paper is a cash flow story.
We're going to see the full impact of pricing that we've gotten.
In fact we've -- we're just about there now in January on our containerboard and box business.
That is $400 million plus.
The strategic initiatives which I'll come to in a minute are going to add about $350 million to $400 million of improvement in the year.
And when you take in modest global growth all that adds up to roughly $1 billion of overall improvement.
There are some headwinds.
We've got some cost headwinds of a couple hundred million dollars so we expect another record year in terms of cash generation for International Paper.
And as Carol said what we'll be doing is returning some of that cash as it gets produced to shareholders and also reducing our debt.
So let me take a minute -- I'm on Page 33 now -- Slide 33 take a minute before the Q&amp;A just to go over the strategic initiatives.
I think this is one of the things that makes International Paper different and gives us the earnings and cash flow runway from not only 2013 but 2014 even in a less than mid-cycle economic environment.
So what you see here are the initiatives the timing of when they're going to impact International Paper.
And the pie chart on the right is meant to reflect the percent of the total impact that we expect to realize in 2013.
So you can see it's just starting off with Temple.
We're going to be there on synergies.
With the synergy windows basically at the end of this year we're well beyond our initial synergy target.
We're going to realize that all in 2013.
There are others like Olmuksa which is the buyout of our joint venture in Turkey and the Orsa packaging business that we just acquired in January in Brazil.
They're going to add to International Paper earnings in 2013 so you see those as whole grain.
Others like Franklin the pulp line we should be about 60% to 70% fluff pulp this year 100% fluff pulp next year so we'll see the full impact we'll see an impact in 2013 which will be positive and we'll see the full impact next year.
APPM and Sun are really more about 2014 than they are about 2013.
And all those projects added up represent as I said $350 million to $400 million of EBITDA potential.
That's about 40% of the total impact of those projects.
So you can see we've got a big big chunk coming in this year and more to follow in 2014.
And finally down below the EBIT line but in our equity earnings Ilim is going to become more positive in 2013 even with the continued weak pulp market because we're in the commissioning phase we'll be in a startup phase commissioning phase both at Koryazhma where we're adding a new paper machine we're running the converting equipment and perhaps we're adding new fiber line.
We're now running the recovery boiler on liqueur.
And the full impact of those projects will be realized in 2014 when they're both up and running full.
And what all that means for Ilim is another $400 million of improvement at mid-cycle.
Not all of that will come in to equity earnings because we got increased depreciation we've got increased interest with the debt we've taken on but it does mean that in 2014 a big portion of that will be flowing through equity earnings and potentially in dividends.
So when you add all that up what we're thinking about is close to $2 billion of free cash flow as we move through 2013 and 2014 which we're pretty excited about.
So I'm going to stop right there and open it up to questions.
I have most of my colleagues here with me in Memphis so I think we're ready.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> First question is you mentioned on the improvement on Slide 33 from all the projects and that $350 million to $450 million on a mid-cycle basis would be just 40% of the improvement.
Can you just clarify that is the amount you would expect and hope to see in 2013 and all the improvement from these projects would actually be north of $1 billion plus whatever Ilim gives you.
Is that the right way to read that? Yes.
Yes.
LLC</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And then next question is you mentioned Carol that the downtime in the fourth quarter in containerboard -- or in particularly not the downtime the lack of downtime was to build inventories ahead of the seasonal downtime you're about to take.
And I was just wondering if you could give us a gauge as to what the inventory increase was for your system in the fourth quarter and even if you have a look at January.
I'll let Mark answer that question Chip.
Chip great question on inventory.
We have entered the quarter with very lean inventories as Carol mentioned.
And we had a couple operating problems that made it difficult for us to build the inventories we needed.
So we ended the fourth quarter trying to build inventory to prepare for our outages in -- actually in the first 2 quarters and we didn't quite reach our target.
We did build some finally through December but not enough so we're working toward getting our inventories in shape in January so we could execute the outages that we have first half.
Yes I'll just add there Chip on a 13 million-ton system when you have supply chain problems the numbers get big pretty quickly.
So we want to rectify that and -- so we don't have those supply chain issues internally with customers going forward.
LLC</strong> Got you.
I mean can we have seen like 100 000 tons I mean given the size your system increase since the low point in September? We would have loved to have seen that to prepare for like I said really the first half of the year upwards of 60% of our outage but we didn't have anywhere near that number.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And then just the last question is when you look at the goal of getting the total debt including pension below 3x and you sort of mentioned that you can sort of see getting there at the end of the year.
I guess a couple things one is I mean the year is only a month old but it's fascinating to see that the probably 25 basis points I'm guessing or 20 of that 100-basis-point hit you took that created that I guess $1.3 billion or $1.4 billion increase in the pension underfunded position.
That a part of that has reversed and your assets have gone up.
I mean if you kind of looked at this in realtime I guess is that you're already seeing that reverse.
And do you feel you need to get below that 3 point before you would say consider buying back shares? Chip I think what's important is using the cash in the most effective and prudent way that we can.
We'll continue to evaluate debt pay-down as well as other uses as you've mentioned.
Dividend's a priority and share buybacks certainly are something that we would consider.
Yes Chip what we said consistently is our objective is not to fund the -- fully fund the pension plan with a discount rate at 50-year lows.
That's not [indiscernible].
Certainly we want to get the balance sheet debt down to less than 3.
We're conscious of the pension obligation.
We've got in our cash flow planning we got plenty of cash to put in the pension plan as we need to.
As Carol said we don't need to put -- it's a modest amount for 2014.
So interest rates you're right I think it will go a long way into helping us fund the pension plan and we're not going to do it all with cash.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Chercover with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> It's great to see that your market really of downtime in containerboard was down by basically 1/6 of what it was.
But why even take downtime if you had the supply-chain disruptions or you just didn't realize that you were that lean? This is Mark.
That's part of the issue.
All of the lack of order or market downtime was taken very early in the quarter.
Usually we expect a little more seasonal decline in the fourth quarter and it wasn't really happening so we unwound the planned lack of order downtime early in the quarter.
And everything looked good until we had a couple of reliability issues and that resulted in us having some additional costs mainly in freight and in waste in the box plants because we were sourcing board from less-than-optimal mills.
But we really got the lack of order downtime out of the way early in the quarter really in October.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And we know you're taking some maintenance Q1.
Can you discuss I guess just your order trends in the first few weeks of January? For the box business in North America or in the U.S.
the order trends look about what -- like we expected.
So for us we've been tracking probably a little lower than the overall market and in the box market in the U.S.
and that's kind of what we're seeing.
But I'll remind you that the way we run the business is we try to maximize our potential through all 3 channels the North American box business but also the open market and the export market for containerboard.
And we'll constantly move between those 3 segments to optimize the business.
Research Division</strong> And why do you think you're running a little below the North American trend? Is it just that you're turning away bad business? I think if you think about what we've been through in the year obviously we took on a lot of new business with the form of Temple business.
There's a lot of integration activities on the commercial side.
Not all of that business met our objectives in terms of capability or economics.
And so in order to make improvements in the business we have to make choices and we've been doing that and will probably continue to do that for a period of time until we have the best mix for International Paper and the best service for our customers.
So it's not anything that we are alarmed by.
It's part of the process of optimizing the new company that we built.
Another point Steve is we're under-weighted in durables relative to maybe the overall market and overweighted in nondurables.
So as you get the flow in impact to housing which is going to be significant on the durable side we're going to be -- we're underrepresented there now and we're probably going to grow that durables segment over time selectively.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> You have a helpful slide showing your returns over the past decade and maybe 2 questions there.
When you think big picture about the dip in returns from 2011 to 2012 should we think about that as being primarily driven by the heavy lifting around the Temple integration and maybe a slightly larger capital base? And then second question when you think about moving those returns higher in 2013 what are the businesses or geographies within IP that really have the most potential to improve their return on capital in 2013 relative to where they were in 2012? Anthony this as Carol.
I'll just take the first part on that.
Yes the dip you see in '12 was certainly the fact that we made a big investment.
But when you see the rebound that's going to happen in 2013 it's going to show how successful and accretive and synergistic the Temple-Inland acquisition is going to be to the financial performance of the company.
And some of the big levers Anthony in terms of where returns are going to improve Industrial Packaging in North America for sure with a full year of merger benefits now and a full year of the implementation of the pricing -- of the containerboard and box price increase that's big.
In Latin America the returns in Brazil get better because we're selling more paper in the region where the EBITDA per ton or the EBIT per ton is significantly higher than it is for the rest of the world.
And that market's growing.
And we got the boiler project in India.
And we paid the price to get into India and we see a lot of improvement.
We can sell all we can make which is something you can't say about the paper business necessarily in North America but got good growth there.
So India is still small.
But those are 3 of other places 1 very large Industrial Packaging; 1 smaller where we see a lot of upside for improving return on invested capital.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And you mentioned the North American paper business and you had pretty positive performance globally.
But when you look at -- I was wondering if you could talk about how maybe volumes in 4Q trended versus your expectations.
And we seemed to have a pretty bad industry number in December if you have any kind of observations on that.
I saw that you have like a 3% volume decline assumption for 2013 and maybe if you could just kind of comment on those trends.
Anthony it's Tim Nicholls.
Actually in the fourth quarter I think as the quarter started we felt relatively good about our volume levels.
And they held up well in October and the first half of November as well and then you always get the seasonal downtick around Thanksgiving.
But I think what was notable first part of December looked very good and then I think probably around the 20th of the month the weekend before Christmas everything shut down and they pretty much shut down for the year.
We heard that consistently across all segments of customers and I think it was probably a combination of what was going on in Washington as well as everybody wanted to run the inventory levels down as much as they could or had sufficient inventories they felt to hold them over.
So I don't read too much into the December number.
I think it's overstated.
And when you look at this year the 3% is really not our forecast for sale though we agree with it it's what third parties are saying.
So it's a blended rate between PPPC and RISI.
But I think when you look at volume for total year 2012 a little bit higher than the 3% to 4% that we think on a secular basis.
But I think secularly we're right in line where we think we should be.
And cyclically we didn't get as much help from the economy as we thought we would.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A question for Mark Sutton just to start.
Mark it looks like you had about 570 000 tons of market downtime for the full year.
And I assume in 2013 you're going to get some more operational benefits from integrating the Temple mill.
Is there any reason with that kind of slack in the system and sort of low growth scenario in front of us for the next 12 months why you wouldn't look at making some permanent moves on the supply side? Well it's a good question because we honestly don't want to take that much lack of order downtime if we don't have to.
But you got to remember what I've said earlier about the 3 channels of export open market and domestic box and the fact that we have these off-take agreements from the mills we divested.
When we look at all of those moving parts we believe we're going to need the containerboard that our system can currently make going forward.
So while this might be a little slack in the near term as we move through those divested mill offtakes and as we look at the global growth in the containerboard.
And as I said earlier we don't intend to track below the market forever in the box.
We just have to get in the right segments and optimize the business.
I think we're in pretty good shape.
We would have to believe Mark in a real structural change in the demand profile for us to be considering permanent capacity adjustments.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's fair.
Those offtakes are pretty important.
Can you remind us just generally how long those offtakes run for? It's a 3-year agreement from -- starting from the summer of 2012 and it goes down in commitment volume each year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then John a question for you.
Can you just talk with us generally about the potential for kind of further acquisition or growth initiatives over the next year or 2? I'm particularly curious in some of the offshore markets say the Packaging business in Russia or that packaging business in India.
You've talked about particularly in India wanting to grow in packaging.
Well International Paper is not an M&amp;A story.
We're through the transformation plan.
That's over.
We've rebuilt the company.
It looks different and it's got a lot of performance potential upside in the existing assets we have.
So I'll just say that to reinforce that we're not out saying we have to do things to improve International Paper we've got plenty on our plate that we've put in place over the last several years.
India we think is going to be an exciting market for International Paper for a long time.
That doesn't mean we're going to be doing a whole lot of things in 2013 other than continue to make improvements at APPM.
We are going to generate a lot of cash.
Our priorities are to use that in a balanced way.
And if there aren't opportunities to reinvest in some of our strategic businesses we'll return more to shareholders.
But International Paper is not M&amp;A-driven at this point and we've put in place what we need to make International Paper a much better company.
And we're excited about the runway for '13 and '14 with just what we have.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The last question I have was for Carol.
I wondered if you could just help us with the ramp-up that we might see from Ilim in the second half of the year? And if you can give us any color on this sort of next phase of Ilim build-out that Paul Herbert had talked about publicly about 15 months ago? Let me take that one Mark.
The -- we'll be starting out -- start with Koryazhma.
That's where we're putting a paper machine in that we moved from Scotland.
That will be starting up in March.
Behind -- we're already running the converting equipment.
Behind that we've got a coater going in in the second quarter so we'll be able to make 50 000 to 100 000 tons of coated paper.
We're the only producer of coated paper in the Russia market.
Going back to Bratsk that's a pulp line will start up probably late in the first quarter.
We're going to do that right because of what's going on with the markets in China.
And you'll see those facilities ramp up.
The pulp lines will be a little shorter than the paper machine because we've got to get all the grades qualified.
And we should be at full ramp as we come out of '13 into '14.
The objective at Ilim is going to be to pay down some of the debt that the joint venture has taken on to fund the projects.
But we're going to have a whole lot more debt capacity because as I said we'll add $400 million of EBITDA to an already pretty healthy Ilim at mid-cycle.
And there are some possibilities as Paul talked about.
We have -- the Ilim board hasn't made any decision but they'll be talking about that as -- probably as we move out to '13 into '14.
But the priority of Ilim is get those projects started up and start to give Ilim some more headroom on its balance sheet so that it's got some options.
Plus we got an opportunity to increase the dividend.
All those things are available to us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
It sounds like John in summary we shouldn't expect a lot of benefit in the second half of '13 just from equity contribution standpoint that's really more 2014 is that correct? Correct.
Because you've got increased interest and increased depreciation which is going to kind of offset most of the EBIT improvement we expect to see if pricing stays where it is.
Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> John I guess I had a question for you and the team.
As we look at the incremental runway drivers that you call that in total worth $350 million to $450 million what confidence level would you place on the lower and upper bounds and other discrete factors you are risk adjusting for that provide the range of outcomes in your guidance what could you share with us in terms of how those numbers -- or how that performance rather could move over the year? Well just starting at the top.
We have a lot of confidence in what we see with -- in industrial packaging with Temple I said that the price increase is in.
The -- we have -- we know what we got to do to get more synergies.
And we can't wait to get through the synergies and turn optimization so a lot of confidence on that.
That's a big number.
Franklin we basically sold a lot of fluff pulp but we need to qualify it.
So our customers are waiting for us to qualify the pulp.
We're going to have more Tier 1 and Tier 2 customers than we thought which is better margins in Q3.
A lot of confidence on that.
xpedx has made a huge amount of progress on the warehouse side and the purchasing side.
It's all then offset by what's happening on the revenue side and print.
So xpedx has been treading water but if they haven't been working hard on what they've been doing we wouldn't be treading water.
Our Mogi boiler is up and running.
I'd say that's in the bank.
We've got to work through the excess capacity that exists in China around the coated board business as you've seen before when China's markets since they're all growing when they grow they can take and absorb capacity pretty quickly.
And I think the Chinese economy has kind of seen its a slow point.
So Olmuksa and -- Olmuksa has been operating for a decade so we know that.
Orsa's new but we like what we see so far.
It's in the early days.
Ilim is -- we're operating in Russia it's going to take some time to get those ramped up.
Hopefully they come on faster but we know how to do this we've done it before.
So I'd say all in we're pretty confident.
And this all assumes a more-of-the-same economic environment.
The economic environment gets better that's terrific.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So really the $100 million that is really driven by the macro not any specific issue you have in terms of execution or any of the projects.
It sounds like maybe out of all of them Asia and China relative to Sun JV is where you might potentially have the most swing factor.
Will those be the 2 growth areas? Probably yes that's a fair statement George.
Let's see -- trying to forecast what's happening in China is never easy.
We could easily have a $50 million swing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Appreciate the color on that and for that matter all the details on the slide deck and the conference call.
I wanted to take it back on earlier question I think Mark had asked and directed at Mark Sutton in terms of the supply chain and output potential within containerboard.
Now given as you see the world and given your 3 channels you believe that you have a need for all the 13 million tons that you produced.
And certainly the results you've been putting out would suggest that that's correct.
Do you see the footprint necessarily being unchanged in producing those 13 million tons over time or could you have a leaner or lighter footprint as you get those tons out of your system over the next couple of years? And what are the next big moves within the mill and supply chain optimization program? George that's a great question on the footprint.
I mean we are optimizing the 17 mills that we have now and it's always possible that we could find a way to make immediate containerboard with a lighter footprint.
We don't have anything in the near term that would say we found that.
The biggest work left to do in the supply chain is -- we sort of don't talk about this much but we're operating these mills on 2 different distinctly different supply chain systems but we've completely blended the supply to the box plants and to the open market between the 2 systems.
And so there's a level of manual operation that will go away through 2013 as we install the new supply chain systems that we use in International Paper in all of the former Temple mills.
And that is probably going to produce the opportunity for the biggest internal cost benefit and external service benefit for our customers.
So that's what we're focused on for this year.
In addition to as Carol mentioned the one area in the synergy target that's not quite filled the bucket that's not quite filled is the mills in the supply chain.
There are some projects we're going to execute in the first half of the year mainly in the first quarter that will allow us to capture those mill synergies from a cost and operational flexibility and in some cases from a quality standpoint.
So I think we've got a lot of opportunity and we are always studying the footprint not only in this business but in all the businesses in the company and looking for the smartest way to produce the product we need for the demand we have.
We can make what we need to with less facilities to do it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate that.
Two last quick ones and I'll turn it over one on xpedx and the other on maintenance spending for the year.
On xpedx and taking a step back were you pleased with the performance in the business in the quarter and in the year in light of the discussion I guess from a year or so ago where Mary gave a review on the next step change where you used that as a phrase of the day in terms of xpedx's potential in improving your profitability how would you have us think about that? And then on maintenance spending we appreciate the schedules.
I thought I heard you say at one point in time there's a $7 million improvement or reduction in maintenance spending.
One of the slides has $11 million.
And then when I compared Slides 30 and 37 to look at the sequential change in maintenance I don't see much of a difference at least not in my deck.
Can you just tic-and-tac that for us? Well George Mary is not here so I'll speak to the xpedx.
I think if Mary was here she'd say she wasn't satisfied with xpedx's performance in 2012 and principally because we weren't able to offset all these challenges we had on the print side with revenues.
And that said we like the progress we've made on the buy handle sell front.
And if we hadn't done that we wouldn't be where we're at.
But we've got to quickly get our warehouse configuration in place.
That will be in place by the end of the year.
And get all of the purchasing that we're going to centralize to get the advantage of that.
So more work to be done but I'd say we're basically close to being on schedule in terms of the internal stuff.
What we didn't see was the challenge we're going to see in the print space principally commercial printing.
So it's not paper overall it's coated papers.
That's our biggest product line.
So no we're not satisfied or pleased where we're at but this is where we are at and we're holding our own.
And related to your question on maintenance I see what you're saying.
On 37 and 38 we're showing essentially flat and yet I called out a change.
And we'll clarify that for you and -- but my guess is the back schedules are probably closer and we probably have some other projects that I included in that that were operational in nature.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So on recent calls it seems there had been some diverging views around virgin wood fiber prices in the U.S.
And your charts obviously do show a bit of an uptick in your wood basket.
So I'm just kind of curious how you guys are thinking about these recent trends.
How much would you say is seasonal versus perhaps the start of a structural trend given the recovery in housing and increased wood pellet demand? Well I guess I'd characterize that Phil saying we've come to see more upside -- more pressure on recycled fiber costs than we see on virgin fiber costs.
But we see upside pressure on both but more on the recovered fiber side of it.
And we're big -- obviously big in both so you're right.
What's going on with housing OSB plants coming back online lumber mills coming back online.
We're going to get the chips but we're not going to get chips from OSB plants when you've got some wood pellet plants that are starting up.
And so that's all principally softwood.
On the hardwood side I'd say it's not as acute on the demand side but we see some upside pressure but hardwood prices didn't come down as much as plant prices did.
So we don't see a blowout in fiber prices but we see some upside pressure probably more upside pressure on recycled fiber prices just because of the impact that China has on recovered fiber markets around the world.
They've got a 40 million-ton box market now and most all of that's recycled fiber.
And that's going to continue to grow and it's going to grow all with recycled fiber.
Research Division</strong> And to clarify the $200 million input costs does it assume stable wood fiber prices after the first quarter basically or declines or how you're thinking about that? We're assuming some virgin fiber prices rise through 2013.
We're assuming that the OCC prices rise through 2013 and we got a little bit of year-over-year energy costs because we don't see -- we see low energy gas prices we don't see $2 gas on the horizon.
We have that for a while in 2012.
Our next question comes from the light of Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I'm just curious when you look at the comments on kind of appreciated demand in late December we saw that across all the printing and rating grades.
Just wondering did you see that type of phenomenon in any other product area where kind of at the end of the year things dropped off and just to clarify exactly kind of has that bounced back to what extent in January? Gail this is Tom Kadien.
We saw I think a similar pattern as Tim described on uncoated freesheet and the coated board segment.
But I would say that I'm feeling a bit better as January has gotten longer things have seem to come out of the seasonal fourth quarter which was pretty weak in the back part of the quarter.
And Gail it's Tim.
I would just build on as we mentioned earlier that we saw a similar thing in the uncoated freesheet business as we moved into January.
It seemed like people were building or rebuilding pipelines inventory pipelines as we got into the first couple weeks of this month.
So in our mind it just reinforced the fact that things kind of shut down at the end of the year.
Yes keeping in mind IP is a global company.
We had in Europe in South America in India in Russia we finished the year probably as strong on the demand side as we started the year.
We're gaining share in Europe.
We're gaining share in South America.
We're probably growing with the market in India.
And we need more capacity in Russia.
So the trends that we were talking about are really North American trends but they're not the same as the global trends.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
Just some questions on the containerboard export market if you could just give us more color on what you're seeing there and in particular what's happened to pricing in the last little bit and maybe if possible where mill mets are on export tonnage versus domestic? Mark the export market really that was one of the positives in the fourth quarter.
It remains strong where we normally see a bit of a dip.
We saw strong demand especially in Europe the Middle East and Asia and also in Latin America.
Craft liner demand in Asia wasn't quite as strong but it was stable with the prior quarter so we just didn't see any uptick.
And prices continue to improve.
I think our prices were up over the third quarter close to $40 a ton and $57 to $60 from the beginning of the year.
So in essence demand has been steady to improving in all the markets we serve and pricing has been improving.
And have those trends effectively continued in the first part of this year? Yes they have.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just had a quick question on the box plant system.
You mentioned that you're at 100% for the synergy savings.
That got you to the $150 million on the box plant savings for the synergies.
But you also mentioned at the Analyst Day of $50 million of optimization savings above and beyond that $150 million.
Can you talk about sort of when you think you can attain that what else is left to do to optimize the box system going forward? Maybe how soon you can get to the $50 million run rate? Scott the $50 million was part of the overall optimization.
That's the part we sort of peg for the box business and we feel -- we still feel very good about being able to achieve that.
And I think a good portion of that we'll achieve through the 2013 time period.
And it's a lot -- it's not a silver bullet it's a lot of initiatives on the commercial side.
And some of it relates back to what we talked about on the supply chain.
As soon as we can have one system and really optimize our supply chain we'll make sure that freight is at an absolute lowest and box plant waste is at an absolute lowest and then we'll have opportunity to improve our commercial performance.
And we still feel very good about the optimization targets that we shared back at Investor Day.
Research Division</strong> Maybe there are some potential upside to the $350 million to $400 million project in 2013 from the box optimization? I didn't see it listed in the projects anywhere.
Part of the reason it's not listed as a project is we view it -- as we move through the synergy acquisition period as John said we view it as optimizing the business so we don't call it out.
But at the end it's inside of the words we used around the upside of industrial packaging for 2013 and beyond.
Our next question comes from the line of Stephen Atkinson with BMO Capital.
In terms of Orsa are you able to take about any should we say low-hanging fruit or synergies with regards to your existing businesses there? Stephen it's Tim.
I think we're -- it's 2 weeks so as I think John said it is early days but what we see so far we like.
It's kind of right in line with expectations.
If you recall this was all about taking what was generally a good commercial operation and looking at the manufacturing side and increasing efficiencies and lowering costs.
Our first view being in the facilities for a couple weeks says that everything that we thought was there is there and there may be other opportunities.
It's a 20% EBITDA margin business and we think we can get it to the 25% range.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Following on that question do you think that Orsa's lack of Timberland is a competitive disadvantage versus the other virgin producers? And do you expect to acquire Timberland to support Orsa? No that's not the plan currently Mark.
In the holding company that Orsa was pulled out of there are forestry assets.
We chose not to have them included in the business because quite frankly we didn't feel like we needed them to support the business.
So there's supply arrangements with their forestry operations for a portion of the furnished but a lot of it will be coming from open market.
Mark the dynamics of the pine supply-side in Brazil are very different than the hardwood side.
A lot of pine was planted a long time ago and so you don't have to have plantations like you do in the paper business to be able to access fiber.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
We've seen those prices move up.
That was why I was wondering.
Yes.
The prices will move up but you know the land business if prices then should move up on your own land because you need market to market.
Our next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> John I think you said that you expect free cash flow in '13 of $2 billion? I think we should be approaching $2 billion.
Research Division</strong> Approaching $2 billion so that would imply that free cash flow is up about $450 million on a year-over-year basis? In that ballpark yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you guys talked about the incremental runway from the internal projects of $350 million to $450 million so a midpoint of about $400 million so that imply that price cost minus the impact from divested mills is about $50 million in 2013? Well part of the free cash flow generation is coming from that $400 million of strategic initiatives improvement then you've got the box price increase in containerboard and then you've got a bunch of cost headwinds.
And so all that nets out to just what we -- $450 million roughly of free cash flow.
But remember only -- that's only 40% of the impact of those projects.
There is another kind of double it to come in 2014 '15.
Yes let me just before I need to wrap up here just summarize kind of how we see things.
So 2012 is now behind us.
We thought it was very much of a transition year for International Paper.
And setting an all-time free cash flow or all-time cash from operations record in the transition year we're pleased with but we're not satisfied that you've seen all that International Paper can do.
So we're excited about 2013.
I hope it remains a cash flow story.
And even in a more-of-the-same economic environment we're pretty positive on the kind of incremental earnings and cash flow we're going to generate in what still is in the mid-cycle environment around the world.
So we'll be looking forward to talking to you in the quarters coming about our progress.
Thanks John and thank you all for joining today.
Of course please direct any further questions or follow-ups to me or Michele Vargas at the phone numbers on Page 34 in your Appendix; and for Media to Tom Ryan.
Thanks again and have a great morning.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Phyllis and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the International Paper First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Glenn Landau you may begin your conference.
Thanks Phyllis and good morning.
And thank you all for joining International Paper's First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Our key speakers this morning are John Faraci Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Carol Roberts Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call we will make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which are outlined on Slide 2 of the presentation.
We will also present certain non-U.S.
GAAP financial information a reconciliation of which you will find available on our website and in our other disclosures.
Our website also contains copies of the first quarter 2013 earnings press release and today's presentation slides.
Lastly on Page 4 given our expanded disclosure around the Ilim JV we provided some context around the joint venture's financial information and statistical measures.
So with that I will now turn the call over to John Faraci.
Thanks Glenn and good morning everybody.
Let me start things off by saying overall I'd frame the first quarter as okay.
At $928 million EBITDA that's comparable to the fourth quarter of 2012 and up versus the first quarter of 2012 primarily driven by strong results in Industrial Packaging European papers IP Russia and Brazil.
We got to the cheap end of our $400 million stretch synergy target for Temple and we got there faster than we thought we would.
We got greater than the full recovery of the September containerboard price increase through boxes with $55 of realization in the quarter.
And after a challenging fourth quarter of operations and some early carryover issues into January and February we closed the quarter strong back to what we expected in International Paper normal good IP execution all around the world.
In Brazil we realized the full cost savings benefit of the biomass boiler and closed on the corrugated packaging acquisition IP Orsa where we are off to a good start integrating the business and you'll hear about that a little more this morning.
But outside of the normal lower seasonal demand that we always have in the first quarter and some higher fiber costs primarily OCC versus fourth quarter we had some headwinds the biggest one was a noncash foreign exchange swing at our Ilim Joint Venture due to a weaker ruble and Ilim's got a sizable amount of U.S.
dollar debt.
We had some headwinds on the revenue side in xpedx and so they were challenged.
And we also had higher corporate expenses that were not S&amp;A related and actually accounted for most of the gap between where we came in and first call.
Before I turn over to Carol let me just say upfront what I am going to say at the end.
I just want to make sure investors understand this.
IP is a cash flow story.
We're going to be approaching $2 billion of free cash flow in 2013.
As we look at the year we're now over 4 months into it.
We think that's -- we got a line of sight to that.
And we're going to allocate that cash flow in a balanced way with a portion of it back to share owners.
Four months into the year we now have a more clear line of sight to the $5 billion of EBITDA that we talked about with investors at that last Investor Day.
So I'll come back and talk about that again at the end but I just wanted to get that out upfront.
So now let me turn it over to Carol to take a closer look at the quarter and then we'll come back and take your questions.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
As John just indicated earnings in the first quarter improved year-over-year on stronger sales which were primarily associated with the acquisition of Temple-Inland.
Despite some of the assignable headwinds that John just described our free cash flow story remained intact in the quarter and our expectation is that it will continue to accelerate throughout the rest of the year.
To that point cash from operations was negatively impacted by working capital swing and that was primarily associated with higher receivables which is quite normal in the first quarter given the seasonal higher volume that we saw in March versus December as well as the additional impact of the higher box prices this year.
The net impact of that was nearly $200 million of cash consumption which will largely come back to us over the next couple of quarters.
Moving to Slide 7.
Relative to our return on invested capital in the quarter we were flat with last year at just over 8% above -- and that's above our cost of capital.
Looking at the EPS bridge from the fourth quarter of '12 to the first quarter of '13 IP posted operating earnings of $0.65 versus $0.69 in the prior quarter.
Overall higher average sales price and mix contributed $0.09 per share and that was primarily driven by Industrial Packaging but was also impacted by increased export mix in print papers and modestly softer paper selling prices in North America.
We saw the expected seasonally weaker volumes across our global operations $0.05 and higher recycled fiber cost of $0.04 that more than offset the slightly lower annual maintenance outage spending in our core platform businesses.
And as John indicated xpedx earnings fell quarter-over-quarter by $0.02 due to continued weak printing and publishing demand.
And finally also as John stated our Ilim JV posted a loss on the equity earnings line in the quarter due to a $17 million foreign exchange swing as the dollar strengthened by more than 2% versus the ruble.
Going to Slide 9.
In terms of downtime in the quarter the story was largely around planned maintenance outages with nearly 170 000 tons in containerboard in our Industrial Packaging business and another 32 000 tons of paper and pulp combined.
In Consumer Packaging as we previously disclosed we successfully shut down the paper machine #2 at Augusta at the beginning of March.
And in the quarter that removed 12 000 tons of capacity.
And on a quarter average basis that's 36 000 tons of capacity.
So with that closure we will effectively balance our coated paperboard capacity with our customer's demand.
Taking a look at input costs on Slide 10.
Costs were up $22 million quarter-over-quarter or $0.04 per share and our North American Industrial Packaging business absorbed the lion's share of this headwind and it was primarily associated with higher recycled fiber costs which rose to $150 per ton on average delivered by the time we ended March.
Moving onto Industrial Packaging on Slide 11 Industrial Packaging posted what I would call a solid first quarter with operating profits of $369 million.
The primary driver was the full realization of the September domestic containerboard and box increase which added greater than $70 million to the quarter coupled with higher containerboard export price realizations that added an additional $10 million.
So we saw $80 million in higher prices but this was partially offset by a seasonally higher mix of export which resulted in a net $68 million upside that you see on the bridge for price and mix combined.
This was offset by seasonally weaker volumes for us higher planned and maintenance outages and input costs and an increase in overhead allocation that we assigned to this business.
One detailed point on operations and costs the mill did run better in the quarter nearly $10 million better and we did see incremental synergies of additional $10 million but both of these were offset in our earnings by the nonrepeat of a net benefit of $11 million we saw from earthquake insurance proceeds that we received in Europe as well as some other one-offs in the quarter.
Overall I would characterize the market conditions as steady in the second quarter with continued tight supply and demand although our supply chains operating effectively as we leave the quarter.
And as we know we're moving into a stronger seasonal agricultural mix into the second quarter.
Moving to Slide 12.
I think this just continues to be an important metric for our business.
Even with the incremental outage expense in the quarter we remained among the top of our industry peers with a 19.2% EBITDA margin in the first quarter of '13 versus 17.3% for the first quarter of last year.
It gives me great pleasure taking a look at Slide 13.
Just about 1 year since we closed on the acquisition of Temple-Inland to declare that our Industrial Packaging team has crossed the finish line and exceeded our stretch goal of $400 million in run rate synergies in the quarter.
Achieving this result involved literally hundreds and hundreds of unique initiatives and efforts really across the entire company and certainly most focused in the Industrial Packaging business.
So let me compliment the team for a job well done and just let me add a little bit of additional color.
During the last year we reduced S&amp;A by over $100 million we leveraged best practices and rebalanced our combined product mix across the mill system to significantly reduce consumption of fiber and raw materials worth over $60 million.
We took the tough step and closed 10 box plants reducing fixed costs and labor worth over $100 million and we did this while continuing to meet our customer's demand.
And importantly as well we leveraged our consolidated purchasing position across the company to structurally reduce input cost by $45 million.
So all in all a great effort.
Now with that said the synergies are in the bank but we're not done.
We have significant optimization in front of us for some time given the scale and reach of this combined system.
Looking forward as you can see on Page 14 we have successfully implemented the April containerboard increase and we're implementing the box increase with our customers with expected realization of the box increase to come in -- as it comes in towards the end of the second quarter into the third quarter and fully complete by the fourth.
It's important to note that given the required purchases of containerboard associated with the mill divestitures outlined by the DOJ we will be and are paying higher prices for the board that we buy from these entities in the second quarter on.
The exposure to this increased purchase containerboard costs in the second quarter combined with the normal lag on box price realization will result in a margin squeeze for the second quarter with the earnings upside to be realized in the third and fourth quarters as we implement the box increases.
And just a reminder the required purchases outlined in these supply agreements will be reduced in a stepwise fashion from the roughly 200 000 tons per quarter that we are doing now to 0 required by the second half of 2015.
Moving to Latin America on Slide 15.
We closed the purchase of the 75% of Orsa's corrugated packaging unit in the first quarter of January 15 forming Orsa International Paper.
We're very pleased with the transition process to date and the integration's going really well.
So no surprises here.
Now the good news is that the Brazilian corrugated demand continues to grow and Orsa IP outpaced market growth in the quarter with a 5% year-over-year increase in sales.
So more to come as the team finalizes and implements its '13 and '14 market synergy and cost savings priorities but we feel real good about our start down with Orsa IP.
Moving onto Consumer Packaging on Slide 16.
In Consumer Packaging the segment improved operating profit quarter-over-quarter on lower planned maintenance outspending.
Ivory board prices were up at the Sun JV and an improved mix kept SBS pricing relatively flat in the quarter.
Volume was seasonally stronger but was more than offset by an unplanned reliability issue in January on the digester at our Augusta mill in Georgia and some other efficiency issues early in the quarter but we did finish very strong in March.
And once again I already mentioned that it should be noted that we did successfully shut down the Augusta 2 machine in the quarter.
Slide 17.
Important very important to our business our backlog of unmade SBS orders like the industry chart that's shown here.
We are at the highest level we've seen in a couple of years and we were out 4 to 5 weeks.
We see this as an inflection point that it may drive some upside to the relatively weak year-over-year demand comps that we'll see in the coming quarters.
Moving to Printing Papers.
The Printing Papers segment operating profit improved quarter-over-quarter to $149 million despite modestly lower prices in North America seasonally higher export mix in Brazil and seasonally slow demand across our global operations North America Europe and Brazil.
Strong operations supported by energy savings associated with the successful operation of the biomass boiler in Brazil as well as lower planned maintenance outages drove the upside in the quarter versus the fourth quarter of '12.
Looking at Slide 19.
Here's just a another great example of how our global Printing Papers segment is truly differentiated from our competitors both domestic and global.
Having operations around the world in both mature and growing markets we're able to shift supply regionally to continuously upgrade our mix and maximize our capacity utilization.
This example is not unique and it's actually embedded in our '13 plan but I think it highlights how much we can use our footprint to gain an enterprise approach to margin expansion.
So let me explain this one.
As you see as demand grows in Latin America we're able to repatriate exports produced at our mills in Brazil and sell those tons on the continent at significant geographic mix premium versus in this particular case Europe.
This allows the U.S.
to maximize capacity utilization and improve existing export mix by selling A4 cut size in Europe versus say lower margin at offset rolls.
And finally the steady supply of imports to Europe of commodity cut size grades enables our European mills to produce and bundle higher-end premium grades for their customers thus improving margin.
So win-win-win and IP realized a $17 million in incremental profit annually on this internal mix upgrade alone.
And to see how that plays out you can see it here in our IP Brazil Printing Papers business that achieved a 30% EBITDA margin in the first quarter of 2013 in what was otherwise a seasonally slow high export mix quarter due to seasonality.
The margin expansion achieved in the quarter is structural and highlights the potential of this strategic region.
The upside is being driven by excellent execution lower costs associated with the biomass boiler and improved local pricing.
And this is all enabled by our talented team that we have in Brazil.
One last slide on Brazil Slide 21.
Here you can see quarterly energy cost savings in Mogi Guaçu post start-up of their biomass boiler as well as the energy mix that drives these savings.
Essentially the new biomass boiler has reduced consumption of fossil fuel by virtually eliminating the need for high cost gas replacing it with lower cost sustainable forest biomass.
So a real win for the business.
Moving on to xpedx.
As I shared when speaking to the company earnings bridge earlier xpedx earnings were down by $9 million versus the fourth quarter on seasonally lower revenue per day.
Despite these headwinds the team remains focused on executing on their controllable cost savings initiatives.
Moving to Slide 23.
On April 22 we disclosed we were in talks with Unisource Worldwide regarding a business combination between xpedx and Unisource.
As we shared we executed and are working within the terms of an exclusive nonbinding letter of intent to explore a possible transaction.
For the team at IP and throughout xpedx we see this as a great opportunity to create value for our shareholders and customers.
The proposed Reverse Morris Trust transaction would be tax-free to IP and our shareholders and would create a stronger more competitive distribution company that we believe will have significant merger benefit opportunity.
Turning to Page 24.
Given the entire process to close could take up to 12 months we've included an illustrative view of the RMT process to highlight what may be ahead.
In step 1 International Paper would spin off xpedx as a subsidiary of IP place that on the subsidiary and distribute those debt proceeds back to IP in the form of a dividend.
In step 2 IP would distribute shares of the xpedx subsidiary to our shareholders.
xpedx would become a public company through an IPO and immediately merge with Unisource Worldwide to create the new entity again building what we believe will be a much stronger company better equipped to navigate in this space going forward.
So as this evolves we have more to come.
And lastly before I move on to the outlook I wanted to provide a brief update on the progress being made on the expansion projects at our Ilim JV as outlined on Slide 25.
While the second quarter will be the transitional quarter that we've been waiting for the magnitude of the ramp-up at both Bratsk and Koryazhma will likely lead to start-up costs in the range of $20 million to $30 million on a consolidated basis in the quarter.
The good news is that we expect full operational and commercial ramp-up of the pulp line in Bratsk and the paper machine and sheeting operations at Koryazhma over the next 6 to 8 weeks.
So looking ahead to the second quarter of '13 on Page 26 we expect higher volumes across our global businesses as we move into a stronger seasonal demand period in North America and Brazil.
Like I said earlier while we will see some containerboard and box price realization in Industrial Packaging increased prices on the containerboard purchases will partially offset this benefit in the coming quarter.
And in Consumer Packaging we will see some modest board and carton price increase in the quarter as we execute on the previously announced increases.
Inputs in the coming quarter will be largely stable other than a continued upward bias for OCC and wood cost pressures that we're seeing in Russia.
And relative to planned mill maintenance outages the second quarter schedule is the heaviest of the year for the company and will drive more than $110 million in incremental expense versus the first quarter.
And finally the Ilim JV expansion project start-up costs which will hit the equity earnings line will more than offset the nonrepeat negative currency impact that we saw in the first quarter.
So with that now let me turn the call back over to John to summarize and wrap up.
Okay Carol thanks.
In closing as I already shared at the front end I feel good about our exit rate of earnings in March much stronger than January and February and our execution.
We ended well after a couple of inconsistent months.
The supply chain still remains tight especially in Industrial Packaging but it is operating well.
So we're back to normal expected IP execution.
Looking ahead we see seasonal demand improvements in packaging both in North America and in paper in Brazil.
We're also going to start to realize some of the North American board and box price increase during the quarter but the benefit is going to be partially offset by higher costs from containerboard that we purchased as part of the settlement agreement with the DOJ related with the Temple acquisition that Carol talked about.
And I'd just remind you that volume that we were required to purchase by the agreement ramps down at the end of 2000 -- second half of 2015 it goes to 0.
Further we're going to have our peak outage quarter in the second quarter.
That's going to be more than $100 million quarter-on-quarter.
So it's a big system we've got a lot of outages.
Second quarter is going to be our big quarter.
We also got the bulk of the start-up costs associated with Ilim.
And just remind you 2 projects $800 million project in Bratsk; $300 million project Bratsk as a pulp line Koryazhma as a paper machine.
Over $1 billion of projects now completed into the commissioning phase that's not going to be cash to IP but it is going to show up in our equity earnings and we expect to be making cut size paper at Koryazhma.
At the end -- by the end of May we're making size offset now and we're just starting to make and sell pulp off the Bratsk machine.
We're also going to see higher tax rate quarter-on-quarter as we go back to a normal rate that's in the 30s low 30s.
So all things considered we think the second quarter is going to look similar to the first quarter on an EPS basis but it's going to position us for a very strong second half of the year.
So 4 months into the year we're now in the second quarter.
What we see now we're confident that we're going to deliver in the second half of the year.
We ran well in April.
In January I shared with you when we had our fourth quarter conference call our view of free cash flow in 2013 moving into '14 was going to approach $2 billion.
We still see that.
Actually we have more line of sight on that now as we're 4 months into the year.
We have clear line of sight -- in fact more clear line of sight on the $5 billion of EBITDA that we talked to you about for International Paper at Investor Day.
We may get there a different way but I think importantly International Paper's got the levers to pull and more upside with our global footprint.
So with that let me just turn it over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I guess maybe John just starting on the last comment that you might get to that $5 billion EBITDA goal a different way can you maybe enumerate some of the positives and negatives? Is it pricing offsetting operations or something else? I think we've got the tailwinds in our Industrial Packaging business but we've got some headwinds from where we were back in 2011 some headwinds from coated paperboard.
The Asia we've got an excess capacity issue in Asia.
So we're going to see Asia particularly in the joint venture over there struggle for a while because there's a lot of paperboard capacity coming on.
We all know what's going in the Chinese economy.
Europe while our business in Europe is still in a -- our paper business is doing really well.
Our box business in France Italy and Spain is -- looks like France Italy and Spain.
So I think there are pluses and minuses.
But by and large we have -- we didn't have complete line of sight when we talked about our Reaching Our Potential but we've got much better line of sight now and I think you'll see that start to show up in some of the run rate EBITDA numbers we're going to be sharing with you in future calls.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And looking at Consumer Packaging Carol can you give maybe a little bit more detail on the operating headwinds you had in the first quarter and how to think about that moving into the second quarter as the machines shut and presumably you're running better.
And also maybe give a little bit of color into the pickup in backlogs what you think is driving that? Is it inventory restocking or something more sustainable? And are you seeing a similar trend in any of your other businesses? Gail it's Tom Kadien.
Let me start on the operating issues.
We had a digester plug in early January that was already discussed but that cost us several million dollars.
We also took I think 24 000 tons of lack of order in January.
We got Augusta 2 down and at the end of February that cost us some money.
But we ran very well really February through April.
So operations our system has settled down.
If you look at the chart on downtime we were taking LLO consistently every month for the last year.
We've now got a full system.
Our backlogs to your point there the industry backlogs are up.
We were out 5 weeks on paper.
Our extrusion backlogs are significantly longer than that.
They were out looking at 60 days on poly coated folding and cup stock and pricing is moving.
So it feels like an inflection point.
And I think there has been some restocking I would say in the converting channel.
But as we talk to our customers they're seeing improved demand so it's not just restocking.
We're seeing that in the food service as well as the consumer food segments.
So I would say it's feeling a whole lot more sustainable as opposed to just a short-term pickup.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last quick one.
Can you give any sort of update on the sale of building products? Yes the sale of building products we've got a second request from the Justice Department and second request takes some time to work through.
We would expect we're going to work through that just like we know how that works because we've been through it before.
So I suspect sometime this summer.
And in the meantime even though building products is in discontinued operations it's generating a lot of cash.
It's doing quite well.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
First I just wanted to get a little color if possible on how the box price initiative is going and if it feels very similar to prior increases or what types of differences you might be seeing different types of challenges in the market price if any? This is Mark Sutton.
The box price increase we're in the process of implementation now as we move through the second quarter.
And I'd say the only difference you might find is when you have a price increase in the middle of the quarter versus at the beginning or end of the quarter there's just some structural issues around openers and when you can start moving.
So that's really the only difference.
Otherwise we would expect to see similar realization from sort of past price increases.
Okay great.
And also on the containerboard are you seeing -- in the export markets are you seeing any movement? We've had consistent improvement in our export position from a demand standpoint.
As you know we are a strategic supplier in the export market so we're always there at some level and we've seen both volume and pricing moving up.
In fact from last year's first quarter we're up about $80 a ton in the export market and so we still see pretty good solid demand.
It's for the U.S.
craft liner that the rest of the world needs.
Right.
And then real quick on xpedx and Unisource I realize you're probably constrained to the extent you can't talk about it but what would be the biggest potential sources of synergies when you put those businesses together? Well there is a lot of overlap.
I mean what makes the synergies and we've seen this in acquisitions we've done in IP and most recently in Industrial Packaging.
When there's a lot of overlap there's a lot of redundant functional costs you can take out.
There's going to be a lot of warehouse space that can be consolidated because Unisource and xpedx are in similar markets.
And I don't want to speak for the new co what they're going to do but when we got together and looked at xpedx management and Unisource management -- remember Unisource approached us so they've done some homework.
They showed us what they've done and we said yes we agree.
There's a lot of opportunity here to do things that are pretty much blocking and tackling.
They take time and they're not easy.
But it's not new stuff that creates a lot of upside for the 2 companies together they couldn't get that upside individually.
And on the purchasing side are they already sufficiently big both of them that there probably wouldn't be a lot on purchasing? And obviously they're purchasing stuff more than just paper.
Any thoughts on the purchasing side? I think there are going to be best practices that Unisource has that xpedx has been working on other stuff that they can adopt that make kind of the xpedx side better and there are going to be best practices that xpedx has that Unisource can take advantage of and that's the new company.
So there'll be stuff that we're further along on in terms of responding to what's going on in the marketplace whether it's IT whether it's purchasing whether it's customer service whether it's warehousing whether it's transportation.
It's a buy-handle-sell business.
And we've already seen some of those differences so there's a lot of stuff that we'll be implementing in one network that's not implemented in another network and it will cover all of that buy-handle-sell stuff.
Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> It's interesting when you look at your Printing Papers business how well it's done when you look at the domestic decline in consumption.
And I noticed -- I believe you all really haven't had -- felt the need to shut capacity in North America I think since Franklin 3 years ago.
And so my question is as Carol showed on that one slide with a $17 million benefit from being global is there more of that? And do you think we're going to come up on a time here in the next year or 2 where it might make sense where you will need to reduce your footprint in North America in that business? Chip it's Tim Nicholls.
Yes Carol represented just one piece of what we think the opportunity is in terms of leveraging the enterprise.
That's all related to cut size and how we continue to supply customers in 3 regions and manage supply chains.
So that's a good opportunity.
We haven't shut any capacity since Franklin but we're moving substantially more volume offshore not only in cut size but in offset and forms rolls.
And we're doing that in combination with our business in Brazil making sure that we leverage both sets of assets to supply the customer base in the most efficient way.
As far as capacity longer term goes we're all about running the lowest cost system we can if we see an opportunity to run at a lower cost we will.
But for now we like the options that we have running the assets we have.
Chip I think that -- I think it's really important one is when we're moving that volume around the world we're not out trying to take market share because what we're doing is as Carol said we're bringing volume back to Latin America where the market's growing.
The other piece I think that's unique to IP around how we manage our paper businesses in Russia with Ilim and [indiscernible].
We've got a joint marketing agreement between Ilim and International Paper's so IP markets all the paper that's going to come out of this new paper machine that's in the Ilim Joint Venture so we're going to market in the Russian CIS countries as one which again is an excellent opportunity for us to take advantage of the global footprint to maximize the business and the markets that we serve.
And Chip one last thought that I would mention in that regard.
Our organizations are completely connected so we know what we're doing in every region of the world on almost every time.
We're not competing with one another.
We're actually maximizing the effects of the organization so that we put very efficiently volume where we think it needs to go.
LLC</strong> Got you that's very helpful.
And then I guess secondly when you kind of take a step back and I'm certainly not asking you to endorse the Street's estimates or even disclose what you guys might be planning internally but if you sort of look at the second quarter guidance and the first quarter results you would expect at least the consensus to be about $0.30 -- $0.25 or $0.30 less for the first half than what we had going into the day.
However just sort of looking at pricing actions the Consumer Packaging ramp in terms of orders and pricing and pulp going up et cetera et cetera is there any reason that at least internally if not externally people should expect the second half to look any differently than we would have thought before these numbers for both the first and second quarter? Chip this is Carol.
I think you articulated that well and I think we have line of sight and we remain confident that we're going to have to a strong second half.
I mean we're positioned for that we're poised for that and things are lined up that way.
And what we said was we're going to see a significant improvement in IP from '12 to '13 and we still think on the whole that's what we'll see.
And John also said the cash is the important part too.
The cash is going to be there.
Yes Chip when we put together the projects in Russia again think of this: This is the biggest capital project that IP has ever undertaken.
Bratsk is the biggest project in Siberia in the industry in 40 years.
We didn't know exactly when they were going to start up.
We knew when they did there were going to be some significant start-up costs because you don't start up with $1 billion of capital projects for free.
We just don't know when it was going to hit.
So we now have line of sight on that and we're well into the commissioning and start-up it's gone pretty well.
So that's a piece we just need to move through and we'll move through that in the second quarter not the second half of the year and not the first quarter.
LLC</strong> Totally understand.
And last quick one.
Another set the total maintenance for the year had gone down a little bit from $510 million to I guess $496 million.
As you think about next year and with all the work you've done to simulate Temple-Inland and let's assume no footprint change do you think that maintenance number is that a good run rate like around $0.5 billion or could that come down next year or would it have a reason to go up? Yes Chip.
This is Tommy Joseph.
As we look into 2014 I think the number that we're seeing in 2013 is about right.
There's still some work that we got to do we think in the Temple-Inland Mills that'll keep that number flat.
Your next question comes from the line of Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First just the earnings runway drivers the $350 million to $450 million that you talked about last quarter just want to get an update on how you're feeling about that today and some of the moving pieces underlying that? Phil this as Carol.
I don't have that in front of me but I don't think that it's a significant change from where we were before.
And as we talked about it  today we feel very good about Temple-Inland.
We feel very good about Orsa.
We feel very good about Brazil and the boiler.
I think we've talked about xpedx.
I think we've talked about Russia.
We feel very good about Franklin flux [ph].
The mill is ramping up and the key there is to get qualified with Tier 1 customers appropriately and to continue to ramp that up.
So all in all I don't think there's much of a change as we talked about that.
John do you have anything to add on that? Research Division</strong> All right I'll just continue.
So in terms of how you're thinking about the free cash flow or kind of the run rate coming out of this year and into next year with the box price increase coming through it would seem to me you talked about the $5 billion in EBITDA run rate.
We should be getting also close to the $2.2 billion in free cash flow even potentially with higher pension.
So wanted to see if you could kind of confirm that if that math is essentially right.
And if that's right how are you thinking about the allocation of that cash particularly around the dividend at this stage? Yes so I think that math is still right on point and accurate.
And that's where we're heading.
And as we talk about our capital allocation we said that as the free cash flow grows we would take a look at the dividend targeting the 30% to 40% of free cash flow for the dividend.
We said that we would look at that annually.
We did look at that in the fourth quarter of '12 and made an increase so we'll do that.
We're still in the process of bringing down some debt mainly around our commitments on our credit metrics so we're doing that.
As we talked about from a pension contribution the mandatory pension contribution for '13 is very modest.
It's $30 million to $40 million.
And then we'll see how the math works out for '14 but we know that there'll be more and we talked about putting about $1 billion in there over the '14 '15 '16 time frame.
And that still leaves more cash and then we'll look at that cash of course how we can create value.
We'll continue to look at opportunities but we'll also look at how can we get some of that cash back to our shareholders in another way.
So I think all in all we're approaching the inflection point where we get to returning cash and that feels pretty good.
That 30% to 40% of free cash flow back to share owners in the form of dividends it's an important priority for us.
You just do the math and you take 35% and take the midpoint there is room for the dividend to grow.
And we've talked about investors who are doing that in a methodical consistent periodic and sustainable way.
Research Division</strong> Is there any reason to think we couldn't get to that 35% by 2014 if the normalized cash flow is there? It depends how much you're going to view 2014.
We're a little far out but I think we're going to get there.
We're not going to get there in one step and we're not going to take 10 years to get there.
So our objective is to move in that direction.
We want to have the dividend be sustainable so we don't want to get in front of our skis here but we've got significant runway we think to move the dividend up.
The next question comes from the line of George Staphos with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Actually just wanted to piggyback first perhaps off of Phil's line of questioning.
So if we look at the free cash flow generation you should do this year more or less around $2 billion and we look at the credit metrics that you'd like to get to by the end of the year.
Could you remind us how much debt and pension funding you're likely to do this year? It would seem to if I do my math right suggest that you will see in total maybe about $1 billion $1.5 billion of debt and pension paydown and funding if you will.
And assuming that that's correct and you look at the dividend later on in the year perhaps with some upside there is there room perhaps in your thinking John and Carol where there to be perhaps buyback maybe in '14? I'll comment on your math.
You're right we targeted about $1 billion of debt repayment in '13 and the pension was only a small piece.
And the other thing we've got to remember is we have proceeds from building products that are going to come.
And then depending upon how the xpedx transaction turns out perhaps proceeds from a dividend there.
So we're going to be in a very good position.
And you got to -- we talked about the dividend the other option that we need to consider as you said George is share buyback and I think you're looking at it correctly that the cash will begin to accumulate really in 2014 when we get beyond our debt paydown.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question on Consumer and just a quick one here.
Has there been any pickup in your market share in recent weeks and months in the Consumer business and specifically within Bleached Board that's leading also to your pickup in backlog? I realize obviously Augusta you took that down and pricings are looking to head higher so maybe that's helped your backlog as well but anything in terms of market share gains? Yes George this is Tom.
If you look at last year throughout the year we took close to 180 000 tons a lack of order downtime and ran really to what our customers were demanding and not chasing prices.
So I think we probably lost some market share through the year last year.
I think as we turn the corner on this year I say we're probably on the upside recovering some of that in not only in our coated board business but also our Foodservice business which is our largest customer.
They continue to gain market share.
So clearly we did in the 2012 year.
But I would say since the beginning of this year I would say we're probably doing better than market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One of your peer companies was saying not too long ago they had lost some share within consumer I was just trying to see if there's any kind of relation there or not to your knowledge is there? I'm not going to comment on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay I appreciate that.
Carol and Mark a question for you.
Congratulations on the integration success with Temple-Inland.
I seem to recall from a research that ultimately there's still a lot of upside on the mill optimization side maybe multiples of I think the $90 million -- I don't have the page in front me right now but the $90 million you targeted.
Could you comment as to what the longer-term upside is in terms of mill optimization and maybe how quickly you might be able to achieve that over time? George we talked about total optimization in business of about $200 million.
We still think that's a good number.
We obviously have a strategy of having the optimization in our total system the new and the legacy system of at a minimum offsetting inflation.
And that's the target we're shooting for.
But that $200 hundred in additional optimization beyond synergies that we shared at our Investor Day last year we haven't found any reason to back off of that.
Timing we don't have a precise timing on it.
Some of the takes some small amount of capital.
Some of it takes better operating and getting the right grades in the right mills.
We're a long way on our path to doing that but we do have to complete our supply chain systems which will happen this year.
And then we'll really be ready to fully optimize our mills and our box plants and our mills to our open market both domestic and export.
George I would just add there what makes this really powerful is International Paper is a big system.
But what makes a unique International Paper is every good competitor is trying to optimize their business every year and they do.
But we've taken a business that was 4 million tons and tripled the size of it more than tripled the size of it.
It's now 12 million tons.
And so we've got opportunities that no one else has because no one else has more than tripled the size of their business over the past 5 years.
If you think about it we really never had an opportunity to optimize the warehouse or IP system because once we integrated it we were back into Temple doing another integration so we got the optimization of a much bigger footprint that we have ahead of us which is great news.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Last question John I'll turn it over.
There's obviously been day-to-day improvement or decreases in people's outlook in terms of the global environment.
When we look at your key regions and your key businesses briefly do you think marginal trends are improving as we're getting into the second quarter across your key businesses or if things weakened? Can you sort of discuss it by region? I think there are pluses and minuses George on the macro outlook.
China probably is a little weaker but it's still a big economy growing at 7%.
The issue there probably isn't the growth rate it's the excess capacity that got added.
Europe looks like it's going to be struggling to get out of recession a little bit longer but doesn't seem to be falling in aggregate deeper into one.
I think the U.S.
economy feels to us like it's more like 1.5% to 2% GDP growth not 2.5%.
But if it gets revived in a solid 2.5% we're wrong.
But it feels like 1.5% to 2%.
So the overall I think things are playing out.
We're growing a lot slower than the world should be growing or we're certainly growing a lot slower than the U.S.
economy is capable of.
And I believe eventually we'll grow at 3% to 4% which is where we should be.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Quinn with RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of things just if you could give us a little bit more detail on the operational losses in both India and market pulp.
I see India slightly better but pulp slightly worse not really seeing that in the pricing? Tom you want to talk about India first? Yes India is a complex place.
The biggest headwinds we have over in India right now we've had a run-up in wood costs by an order of 60% between say the fourth -- middle of the fourth quarter and the end of the first quarter.
And pricing has trailed catching up with that.
So that's probably the biggest headwind along with all the other things that you get along with doing business in India.
Pricing is now I'll say caught up and we'll see improving results out of India.
But the market's still growing.
And on an APPM basis on an India basis the business still looks very good.
We have a separate legal entity there.
We're making some other investments in the market that kind of pulled down the numbers but the APP investment is still much improving and a long way to go.
That's in the people investment.
Yes people investment.
Paul it's Tim Nicholls.
Just on market pulp the biggest difference from the fourth quarter to the first was heavy maintenance outage in one of our largest pulp mills the Georgetown mill where we produce a lot of fluff pulp.
And everything else was kind of moving sideways from where we were in the fourth quarter.
We did see price start picking up early in the first quarter and we're seeing that continue now.
So as we look forward we're going to get a better mix of product.
We were selling some hardwood rolls to balance out the system that we're not going to be selling and will see softwood prices the effect of those to continue to go up.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And just an overall question on uncoated freesheet North American markets.
We've had sort of worse data at least so far year-to-date.
I noticed Boise is shutting looks like 2 machines at International Falls this morning.
Is that enough to sort of reverse the acceleration of the decline in North America or how are you feeling about that market? Paul you just made news around the table.
I hadn't seen that on I falls [ph].
I think we're running at the upper end of what we think the normalized range is.
You got to remember we talked about a secular decline but there's also an economic impact.
And when the economy is not running at what we think is more of a normalized rate say around 3% it has an impact on demand.
Having said that the first quarter when we came into it we knew it's going to be soft because we had 2 less days to work with.
I think we'll see it solidify as we go through the second quarter and who knows where the second half of the year will be.
But we've said 3% to 4%.
It looks like it's running at the upper end of that range right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Chercover with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick ones.
First of all with respect to the $5 billion EBITDA that's going to be achieved a different way is xpedx's $220 million objective in that new line of sight? No.
In one of the places I think Phil asked a last question earlier I was -- it reflects to what you were referring to I think you were referring to a chart we had in the last presentation that kind of went through a whole bunch of initiatives that added up to $350 million to $450 million.
We're going to be short on that but I would say the way our share owners are going to benefit is the combination of xpedx and Unisource potentially has got far more earnings potential than that.
And with the structure of the transaction the way it is IP share owners will own more than 50% of the new co and so they'll have the opportunity if they choose to to benefit from that.
Research Division</strong> Actually I did have a question on the xpedx-Unisource combination.
I think you guys have 75 or 80 facilities sprinkled across the country and I think Unisource has about the same amount.
How many of those facilities does IP own within xpedx? I couldn't tell you.
I don't know.
We lease a majority of them but we do own some.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I think GP used to own most of their facilities so there might be some real estate there.
And then finally it should be a soft ball.
The shut of the machine at Augusta does that free up some pulp that we should be adding into our market pulp capacity? No that will not result in any more market pulp sales.
Your final question comes from the line of Al Kabili with Macquarie.
Research Division</strong> Just Carol question on the corporate costs and it looks like the outlook went up on those and if you could just elaborate a little bit more on what's driving that? Yes sure.
No this year part of it was fourth quarter we pulled out the nonoperating pension cost so what gets left behind are some miscellaneous corporate expenses really related to supporting general IP level program and there were things that Al we just really can't and probably shouldn't allocate back to the businesses.
Like an example captive insurance foreign and domestic organizational structures for foreign headquarters finance and tax purposes and there's just some small remaining administrative pension costs.
So if you actually look back over time it was like $100 million I think in '11 and same-same it was $51 million in '12 and we're estimating $60 million this year.
So I think that's just part of making that change over of pulling out that nonoperating pension that we leave behind this small piece.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's a good I guess annual run rate to assume kind of going forward? Yes I think so.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the inflationary outlook Carol are we still thinking about $200 million raw material and other inflation? Yes I think so.
I think of course we all know that the big mover there is going to be if there's a change in the OCC going forward but I think now we still see that that's the kind of input headwind costs that we see for the year.
In a $30 billion company with 70 000 employees you've got your costs rising and you've got to offset that with productivity improvement and cost reduction so that inflation -- even though inflation as low as there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes fair enough.
And then just final one I guess Tom on -- just following up on some earlier questions on the machine shut at Augusta.
Do we see a sequential benefit from that in the second quarter? And if so can you just kind of help us with order of magnitude there? Well you have to remember we were taking the system down to the tune of about 180 000 tons last year taking LLO and shutting down Augusta 2 is a more cost-effective way of taking the capacity out.
It's going to take a while to work through some of the manpower I'll say bumping around the mill and shifting of folks.
And to the enterprise it'll end up being a benefit but I'd say it's going to show up in the back half of the year more than in the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And any sense for how much we should be thinking about there in the back half? It's about $10 million across the enterprise both -- it'll show up in both coated paperboard and in pulp.
We've been going for a little over an hour now so I know we may not have gotten to all your questions.
But let me just wrap up by saying we feel pretty good very good about the cash flow story at International Paper.
It's still going to be in $2 billion range as we exit the year.
So just remember IP is a cash flow story.
We're going to be generating a lot and we're going to be use it in a balanced way which means some of it is going to go back to our share owners.
Well thanks John.
And thanks again for all your time this morning.
As always Michele and I will be available after the call.
The numbers are on Page 28 of the appendix and have a good rest of the day.
Thanks all.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Christy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the International Paper Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Jay Royalty Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Christy.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining International Paper's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call this morning.
Our key speakers this morning are John Faraci Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Carol Roberts Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call we will make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which are outlined on Slide 2 of our presentation.
We will also present certain non-U.S.
GAAP financial information.
A reconciliation of those figures to U.S.
GAAP financial measures are available on our website.
Our website also contains copies of the second quarter 2013 earnings press release and today's presentation slides.
Lastly given our expanded disclosure around our Ilim JV Slide 4 provides context around the joint venture's financial information and statistical measures.
With that I will now turn the call over to John Faraci.
Thanks Jay and good morning everybody.
Let me just jump right in and say in the second quarter International Paper delivered solid performance increasing our EBITDA by $100 million 10% over the first quarter of this year and the second quarter of last year to over $1 billion.
And importantly we continue to generate very strong cash flow from operations and free cash flow.
I'll talk about that in a minute.
We've got strong results from Industrial Packaging driven by increased pricing seasonally stronger volumes coupled with I'd say very solid results out of Brazil and our European Russian paper business.
Those were the biggest drivers of our improved results during the quarter.
We continue to see improved business conditions in our Coated Paperboard business as evidenced by increased volume and pricing momentum that increased through the quarter.
Additionally we executed our peak outages.
This was the peak quarter for outages around the world.
As we come to expect International Paper we did that on time on budget; in some cases came up early.
We continue to control costs effectively in a challenging both U.S.
market and global environment.
And last week we -- as we reported last Friday we closed on the sale of the Temple Building Products business.
This $710 million transaction with Georgia-Pacific in addition to the sale of our share in a joint venture that was embedded in that building products business for $20 million resulted in net proceeds to IP of $730 million as we expected.
Additionally the business generated $40 million of free cash flow during the time we operated it in 2013.
So I'm pleased with the results of that process took a little longer than we thought but I want to wish everybody in that business all the best as they join the GP team.
We did have a couple of sizable onetime items in the quarter.
We took a bad debt charge of $28 million attributable to our expected exposure with a large customer in our North American Printing Papers business National Envelope.
They filed for bankruptcy during the quarter and we'll speak to more of the details on that shortly.
And secondly we realized an unfavorable noncash foreign exchange swing in our Ilim Joint Venture related to a stronger dollar and the JV's U.S.
dollar-denominated debt.
But all in a very good quarter in terms of executing well and delivering solid results.
And importantly as I'll come to at the end I think we're set up well for significant improvement in our earnings cash from operations and free cash flow in the third quarter.
So moving to our financial overview slide on Slide 6.
Our revenues were up about 3% quarter-over-quarter.
EBITDA margins improved by 70 basis points and cash from operations was up sequentially -- substantially quarter-to-quarter and year-over-year.
As I said at the outset most importantly free cash flow continues to grow with strong results from the second quarter $450 million that's up 70% from the second quarter of 2012 and up 50% in the first quarter of 2013.
As I said in the first quarter our cash flow story remains intact and we're on track to deliver full year free cash flow for International Paper in 2013 approaching $2 billion.
So now let me turn it over to Carol.
She'll give you a closer look at the quarter and I'll come back and talk about the outlook for the third quarter and then we'll all answer your questions at the end.
So Carol? Thanks John and good morning everyone.
Taking a look at the second quarter bridge from Q1 we earned $0.64 per share from continuing operations and before special items.
As John said it was a good quarter with good improvement in pricing seasonally stronger volumes largely driven in Industrial Packaging but we also saw that in our Consumer Packaging and Brazilian paper business.
Additionally our operations and cost performance across the businesses were solid and we executed our outages very well as John mentioned.
Miscellaneous corporate costs were lower than the higher-than-expected cost that we saw in Q1 and taxes returned to a more normalized level during the quarter of roughly 30%.
As John mentioned the charge for the National Envelope bankruptcy hit us in the quarter.
At the time of NEC's bankruptcy filing we had a total exposure of about $42 million.
We have taken steps to mitigate and we're confident that we should be able to reduce that potential impact by about $14 million once the bankruptcy process plays out.
So there for net-net we booked a bad debt charge of $28 million in the quarter.
And finally for the Ilim JV we did experience a noncash FX swing that negatively impacted EPS by $0.05.
Moving to Slide 8.
We experienced our heaviest planned maintenance outage quarter of the year.
We executed 11 mill outages in total all of which went as expected and this resulted in nearly 200 000 tons of capacity idled during the quarter over -- which about half within the Industrial Packaging business.
Moving on to global input costs.
It was kind of a bit of a mixed bag in the quarter with fiber and energy providing a bit of a headwind while chemicals actually decreased slightly in the quarter.
OCC costs were up during the quarter and wood cost negatively impacted our Printing Papers business.
And I would say looking forward due to the weather challenges that continue to plague the Eastern U.S.
we see wood cost as a growing concern and a cost headwind as we move into Q3.
So let me turn to the businesses and start with Industrial Packaging.
And as you can see our Industrial Packaging business posted a strong second quarter as we get to see the benefits of the implementation of the April price increase.
The board price increase was implemented and box prices in North America were up on average $10 per ton quarter-over-quarter.
We did see seasonally strong volume in North America and that was predominantly in our agricultural market which is a big part of our second quarter business.
And this did contribute to the improved results as well.
On the -- across the other side of the ocean the economic conditions in our EMEA Packaging business continue to be challenged and this impacted both pricing and volume in the quarter.
What we're seeing in Europe is margins that are under pressure due to some rising board costs and lower box prices.
This was made more difficult for us because of a subpar agricultural season which was really impacted by the weather that had transpired over winter and into the spring and this impacted our sales volume in the strong fresh fruit and vegetable segment for us.
Once again we executed the planned annual maintenance outages well and operations remained solid throughout the quarter for the overall business.
Slide 11's one that we feel particularly good about.
Improved prices combined with solid operating results added over 300 basis points across our business in the second quarter and this was for our North American Industrial Packaging business.
EBITDA margin for this business is poised to grow further as we get further price improvement.
And as we'll talk about continued optimization of this very important and large business for the company.
Let's talk a little bit about pricing on Slide 12.
As we look at the expectations around the current North American price increase we'll see significant realization in the third quarter.
The timing issue that we saw with the board purchases from the divested mills is largely behind us and we saw that in the second quarter as we begin to realize the box price increases associated with those board purchases.
We do expect to more than double our realization of the box price increase in the third quarter and we have line of sight of full recovery as we head into the fourth quarter.
Chart 13 shows the significant growth that IP has had in the Industrial Packaging business through the acquisitions of Weyerhaeuser and more recently Temple-Inland.
We're on a path to increase total EBITDA dollars in our North American business by more than 5x from the 2005 to 2007 level and key to that is that has come as the result of the delivery of nearly $1 million of synergies to the bottom line along with other key improvements to the base business.
Great news is we're not done.
As we've discussed previously we -- Mark and the team has been extremely busy integrating 2 big acquisitions over the last 5 years so there remains a tremendous opportunity to optimize this greatly expanded business that we've built.
Just to kind of put a face of that.
We have a manufacturing system that comprises 17 board mills and over 160 converting plants.
We ship to more than 15 000 customers and nearly 44 000 locations.
So the scale and complexity of the system's great and that's a good thing because with that comes a lot of opportunity for improvement.
And we believe that we can deliver in excess of another $200 million in additional benefits over the next few years.
This comes in the areas that you would expect: improved mill performance improved box plant efficiencies reduced costs streamlining the supply chain and upgrading the commercial portfolio.
So all in all a great story.
Talking some more about Industrial Packaging let's shift our focus to the new Brazilian Packaging business Orsa IP which we're reporting on our first full quarter since the close of the acquisition that happened on January 15.
And I will remind you that we are reporting this business on a 1-month lag so the results represented here are for the period of March ending in May.
We've very excited that the Brazilian box market continues to grow at a strong pace roughly 4%.
While we saw higher OCC cost in the second quarter that did impact our margins we have announced and have begun implementing a box increase on the basis of that strong demand and increased input costs.
We do expect the price increase to more than recover those increased costs and improve our margins.
Additionally the Orsa IP team has structured earnings improvement plans around the synergies that we have line of sight on productivity improvements particularly in the mills that provides great opportunity.
And we should see those kinds of benefits accruing in the third quarter.
So all in all we are very excited about the acquisition and we remain very confident in the prospects that this business has and our ability to deliver on the commitments that we've made.
Moving on to Consumer Packaging on Slide 15.
In our Consumer Packaging business we saw improved volumes and operations which was primarily in North America that improved overall segment profits absent the very high heavy outage season that we saw.
Market conditions in North America continue to be strong.
We're seeing some price momentum through the quarter that also contributed to the results.
And as many of you've seen as I've shown on Slide 16 you can see the significantly improved market conditions that we've been seeing over the last couple of months.
This is the industry data as reported by the AF&amp;PA and it shows that the backlog of unmade SBS orders has increased significantly over the last couple of quarters and really remains at the highest level that we've seen in the last 2 years.
We've implemented price increases since Q1 and based on this continued strong fundamentals and tight market conditions we've announced an additional $45 per ton increase on folding carton board that we announced on July 9.
So all in all we feel good about our North American Consumer Packaging business and really feel that we've hit an inflection point and are heading in a good direction.
Moving on to Printing Papers on Slide 17.
In our Printing Papers business operating profits came in at $76 million versus $149 million in the first quarter.
We did see improved pricing driven largely by pulp in Brazil along with seasonally stronger volumes in Brazil.
Along with some benefit from market pulp price increases we really saw an improvement in our pulp mix and this was driven largely by the successful start-up and qualification of the Franklin mill on fluff pulp.
And this is once again speaks to system flexibility and system capability due to the pulp system that we have and the flexibility we have.
We were able to run Franklin full on 100% fluff because Riegelwood has a lot of capability.
But I want to say that we've only added and introduced to the market the fluff that's required by the demand that's warranted by our customers.
So at Riegelwood we've been able to swing from fluff to softwood bales for an overall system benefit.
And that's just really good news about the strength of our pulp system.
In this business as we expected it was our heaviest maintenance outage quarter.
And additionally as we've already talked about we did experience the bad debt write-off of $28 million related to National Envelope.
Moving to 18 here's the results on Brazil.
Brazil built on a very strong first quarter result with even better results in the second quarter.
EBITDA margins expanded to 34% and this was driven by an increased mix of domestic business which had better margins some favorable FX gains and then lower operating costs associated with the new biomass boiler at Mogi which has gone very well.
I will note however that we did see some key export paper markets soften a bit as we headed into the end of the quarter.
xpedx on Page 19 had a much better quarter due to improved costs in the face of really what I would categorize as continued challenging business conditions.
And this resulted in an overall operating profit improvement of $15 million quarter-over-quarter.
And the team definitely remains focused on executing the things they can control and they are executing well against our business improvement plan.
Just a comment as we continue to work towards our transaction with Unisource to spin and merge the businesses as a reminder we signed the LOI with Unisource on April 19.
Since then we've done a very -- a significant amount of work on a number of fronts parallel path including the continued preparation of financial information needed to facilitate the potential transaction.
We continue to believe that the proposed transaction will be beneficial to both businesses and definitely to the IP share owners.
And we are working toward a deal and we'll see this process play out over the next few months and through the end of the year.
So talking about our Ilim Joint Venture.
On the joint venture we have seen significant progress in the second quarter with the start-up of the capital projects at both Bratsk and Koryazhma.
We've now moved from start-up to ramp-up and we plan to reach full production capacity of these projects by year end.
Outside of the business operations the JV did experience a negative FX impact associated with the $1 billion of U.S.
denominated debt that we mark-to-market at the end of each quarter.
Taking a look at Slide 21 this clearly illustrates where the JV is with the start-up and ramp-up of the project and what's expected over the next couple of quarters.
The second quarter saw the greatest impact with start-up costs roughly double what we saw in the first quarter.
And although the start-up costs will be significantly less in the third quarter there are still costs that are associated with ramping up the new capabilities to full production that continues to be somewhat of a headwind.
Ilim does expect to have the vast majority on these start-up and ramp-up costs behind us by the fourth quarter at which time we'll really start to see more significant benefits from the project.
All in all Ilim expects the benefits that we'll realize from the projects in '13 to outweigh the costs.
However there's no doubt that the benefits are going to be heavily weighted towards the fourth quarter and more importantly flow into next year 2014.
So let me shift the focus now to the third quarter outlook as depicted on Slide 22.
We see seasonally lower volume and importantly one less shipping day which for us is about 40 000 tons of production in North American Industrial Packaging.
And you have to remember that for us we have a heavy ag mix and the second quarter for this industry is just a big agricultural quarter.
While we continue to see seasonally higher volumes in Brazil papers business conditions in Western Europe will continue to provide challenges particularly in our EMEA Packaging business.
Overall on price we'll be higher in the third quarter and that's driven primarily by the North American box increase that we discussed earlier.
All in all other price mix will be largely flat while we expect continued pressure potentially in Europe.
We continue to see solid operations which is the largest quarter-to-quarter swing coming as a result of the non-recurrence of the National Envelope bad debt expense.
We do expect some headwinds on input costs primarily fiber and that comes in a number of places: wood in North American papers higher wood and energy in European and Russian papers and higher in OCC and wood in our Industrial Packaging business.
Maintenance outages will be significantly less $94 million lower than the second quarter which was our peak.
And while the start-up costs associated with the Ilim projects will be substantially less as we spoke ramp-up costs along with some potential near-term risks to pulp prices in China will likely result in a relatively flat operational quarter.
And we will then have the benefit of the non-recurrence of the second quarter currency swing.
So with that outline what I'd like to do now is turn it back over to John to summarize and wrap up.
Yes thanks Carol.
I guess the way to summarize is I feel good about where we are and how the second half of the year is shaping up not based on so much on a robust economic outlook but more on our ability to execute and deliver results in the second quarter and kind of the run rate momentum we came out of the second quarter at kind of June going into July.
The U.S.
and global economies are still recovering.
But the cash flow we're able to generate I think gives me encouragement that we're going to have a substantially better second half of the year than the first half.
As Carol described we realized about 20% of the benefits of the price increase in Industrial Packaging on the second quarter and have line of sight to the rest of it in the third and fourth quarter and that's going to continue to further expand our already industry-leading EBITDA margins.
Trends in our North America Consumer Packaging business are improving.
We expect to realize improved supply-demand conditions that Carol referred to in the industry.
And as you know we made the tough decision to take down a machine at Augusta earlier in the year and that certainly improved our supply-demand balance as we look at our customer base.
The third quarter is the lowest maintenance outage period of the year.
And I'm pleased and positive that the heavy lifting's behind us on the Ilim capital projects.
We completed those projects.
As Carol said we're into the start-up mode now and we'll have start-up costs.
We had a lot in the second quarter.
We'll have a significant amount in the third quarter.
But as we get to the end of the year those will be behind us.
And at the big tailwind those projects completed a big tailwind for International Paper and for the JV as we go into 2014.
And most importantly we're generating strong free cash flow and we'll continue to build on this in the third and fourth quarters.
As I said last quarter we expect to have cash -- free cash flow approaching $2 billion this year and that outlook remains intact.
Additionally we have more clear now which we're a year into it a more clear line of sight into the $5 billion EBITDA we've talked about last year and I'll describe on this last slide here.
As I wrap up the call I just want to give you an update on that.
And this slide shows our expected EBITDA potential at mid-cycle margins.
We're probably going to get there a different way than we outlined but the reality is International Paper's got a lot of levers to pull so the good news is when things change we can take advantage of opportunities and offset the challenges.
So there are some headwinds and some tailwinds.
There's more runway in Industrial Packaging which Carol shared with you.
We continue to see margin expansion opportunities within that business.
The optimization opportunities are huge.
When you think about 5 years ago IP had a $3 billion to $4 billion business and now it's a $12 billion business.
Beyond that we can capitalize on our global footprint and capabilities in the Printing Papers business as we effectively and profitably move mix around the world to optimize margin opportunities.
So those are some of the tailwinds.
We've got headwinds as well mainly in the form of softer demand probably everywhere in the world.
And pulp prices that continue to be well below mid-cycle levels.
The oversupply situation that was -- that exists in coated paperboard in China is going to be with us for a while.
The joint venture is operating well but there's a lot of excess capacity.
And we didn't see all that at the time.
So we've got pluses and minuses but importantly with all that said we continue to see the potential of our portfolio as generating over $5 billion EBITDA and that's not counting Ilim which as you know is equity earnings and dividends.
So let me turn it over to the operator now and we'll all take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from George Staphos of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question is around pricing within the North American box market.
I know discussion on pricing can be sensitive to talk about on a conference call but is the pace of the increase and its implementation pretty much going as you would expect more quickly or less quickly and if you can give some color around that? If there is any variance that will be great.
And I had a couple of follow-ons.
George this is Mark Sutton.
Box market realization if you remember what we said at the end of the first quarter is about where we thought it would be.
So we're on track.
The $10 in the second quarter really manifested itself in the last month of the quarter.
But as we left Q2 our run rate was north of $30 a ton.
So we're pretty much on schedule.
We have confidence that we'll have the whole price increase realized just as we did on the first one from last year before the end of this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And related question just on North American containerboard and boxes can you give us some update early in the quarter in terms of what you've seen in terms of volume booking whatever you feel like talking about thus far within July? Yes I'd be happy to.
July has started off good for us.
We had talked about our year-over-year comps for the last couple of quarters and we've been tracking below our prior year comps.
We're beginning to see that turn as I mentioned a quarter ago as we now have kind of lapped ourselves in some of the business that we were restructuring right after the Temple close.
So so far in July we're up over last year and we're up sequentially.
So we feel pretty good about it.
It's early in the quarter but we feel pretty good about it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last one and then I'll turn it over.
Clearly National Envelope had an impact on you in the quarter and the Printing Papers business but if I look at the detail that you provide regionally and again we really appreciate that and to all the details that you provide during your presentation it certainly was not a great profitability quarter for North American Printing Papers.
What mile marker should we look to? What factors should we consider relative to what you were looking at as you look at your mill system in North American Printing Papers and whether over time you might need to further adjust that system? George it's Tim.
Just looking at North American Printing Papers I would say we had outside of National Envelope the quarter that we kind of expected we would we could have run a little bit better.
But if you look at the fundamentals around price and volume and mix we were kind of flat from first quarter to second quarter.
So we knew we were going to have a big outage quarter.
We had almost $40 million more in outages.
We executed those outages very well.
We continue to leverage the export markets at an enterprise level to make sure that we're managing our capacity effectively.
And I think that's the plan going forward.
We still got opportunities to work with Europe and Brazil and make sure that we're producing product in the right place for the right markets.
I also believe there's an opportunity around operations in the second half now having our outages behind us.
George this is John.
Just let me add -- quantify that -- there's $70 million of quarter-to-quarter change in that segment that's solely attributable to the North American Printing Papers business.
I mean you take the outages in North America and National Envelope.
Research Division</strong> Fair point.
So are you at cost of capital within North American Printing Papers? We are as we look out for the year.
Now obviously in the second quarter we had a heavy outage quarter.
But I think we're looking at it more than just quarter-by-quarter.
Your next question comes from Philip Ng of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> After accounting for $1 billion of debt paydown and the proceeds from your building product sales and the free cash flow you're generating it would imply that you probably have $1 billion in excess cash to spend.
How should we be thinking about that cash being deployed over the course of the year? Philip this is Carol.
Yes that's exactly the math that we see as well.
And so as we continue to look at that capital allocation the first thing we'll do is we'll continue to reevaluate the dividend relative to that free cash flow.
And today we're in the low end of our target range of the 30% to 40% of free cash flow so that's certainly an option.
We'll continue to look at the debt.
That always presents an option to see where we want to go with that.
Obviously another mechanism for returning cash to share owners could be through the form of a share buyback.
So that's something that we'll look at and talk about.
And then we'll also continue to look at what are the best investments for creating value for our share owners for today and tomorrow.
So I think the great news is is we have options and all of those options remain on the table.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for Consumer Packaging demand is decent for Bleached Board but I'm kind of surprised that backlogs have been that robust and certainly you guys played a role in that.
Can you just give me -- us a little more perspective on what's driving that pickup there? And have you seen any impact from the ivory board capacity that's coming on from China? Kadien you want to take that one? Yes sure.
I would characterize demand as much better than decent.
We've seen as you see in the chart that's in the deck backlogs have really skyrocketed.
I would say that they're not sustainable at 600 000 tons.
But clearly we've seen some rebuilding of inventory in the channels.
But more importantly our customer activity is very strong particularly in the folding and plate areas and also in the Foodservice.
So we took out capacity.
There was a little bit of inventory rebuild but we and our customers most importantly are feeling some real strong demand.
On the buildup of capacity in Asia we're not seeing a lot of impact on that in North America.
Clearly we're feeling it with our JV in China but there's I think inventory -- excuse me imports are up probably 20% but on a small base and I think we're running on like 100 000 ton rate for the year.
So that's really not impacting us and certainly not in our core segments like cup stock and folding carton.
Research Division</strong> And just sticking on that theme on China with -- and when you guys flagged how there could be some downside risk on pulp prices in China could that weigh on your Asia business out there? Because prices -- your box board prices do kind of move with pulp prices historically right? Yes we are largely nonintegrated in our joint venture and we certainly follow pulp costs.
And right now the supply and demand is way out of balance and it's driving the pricing.
So pricing is very very competitive.
And I frankly I don't think it can go a whole lot lower from where it is without impacting a large part of the cost curve.
So I think it's bouncing around near the bottom.
Your next question comes from Mark Connelly of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Two things.
Can you talk about your pan-European-North Africa container footprint? You made a strategic decision there.
And this quarter's maybe sloppier performance aside that does seem to have been the right decision.
Are you satisfied with that footprint? Or do you want to grow further in converting there? And also would you consider expanding in folding carton? And I'm not really thinking about [indiscernible].
I'm just thinking about carton in general and your Consumer Packaging footprint.
Mark this is John.
Let me take the box business in Europe first.
Our box business in Europe is France Italy Spain Morocco and Turkey.
Morocco and Turkey are doing quite well from the demand standpoint and from a profitability standpoint.
We're going to have a record year in Morocco.
The -- so the geographic footprint is really in the fruit and vegetable segment for Europe and what Europe Southern Europe exports to other parts of the world like Russia.
We like that.
There's no getting around the fact that the Industrial segments in France Italy and Spain are just what you would expect they would be very soft.
So we're going to have to manage through a difficult time but I think we like the fact that we bought out -- our partner wanted to sell us their stake in the joint venture we had in Turkey.
So now we own 100% of it.
We're able to do that at what we thought was fair price and a good price and so we own 100% of that business.
And we certainly are glad that we invested in Morocco when we did.
Would we expand in that business? Yes we would if we saw the right opportunity that capitalized on our existing strengths which is really serving the fruit and vegetable market.
But everything between Morocco and Turkey right now looks a little bit unstable.
I think we're going to sit back and watch.
Folding cartons we like -- in North America we like the fact that we're in the coated board business and we like being in the Foodservice business and don't see any need or reason to be in the folding carton business.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And just one quick question for Tim.
You talked a bit about white paper.
Can you talk about whether you're seeing more pressure in cut size? We're starting to hear that there are more deals again in cut size relative to roll.
Just curious if you're seeing that.
Before Tim takes that one Mark.
The other thing I'd say is we bought out our partner in Turkey but we still have 12% that's held by the public.
So -- and we're -- we don't own all of it.
It's Tim.
We haven't seen any significant pressure on cut size.
There are -- there's a lot of chatter in the market around imports the threat of imports and what might be about to happen.
That's been maybe a constant theme over -- quarter-by-quarter over the past year 1.5 years.
It hasn't materialized to date in a significant way so I think it's more buzz at this point.
But there's no doubt there's some marginal tons that are flowing in.
But it's marginal tons very low quantities that are showing up episodically and I think just one shipment gets talked about 10 times.
So no we have not seen any major pressure on cut size pricing.
Your next question comes from Phil Gresh of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just starting with the free cash flow target for the year of approaching $2 billion.
In the first half of year hear you have about a $400 million headwind from working capital understanding some of that's seasonally and you also had these containerboard price increases that are flowing through that can impact that.
So Carol I was hoping maybe you could kind of help us think through how you would think about working capital for the year in terms of hitting that number given the $750 million of free cash in the first half.
Phil you're correct that the consuming of the free cash for working capital in the first half of the year was driven by those 2 phenomenons: the seasonality of the business as well as the Industrial Packaging price increase.
Obviously the Industrial Packaging price increase will stay with us but your December sales are just very different than your end of your second quarter and even the end of your first quarter.
So that will naturally reverse.
And if you look underneath we feel very good about our metrics relative to days sales outstanding days of inventory and whatnot.
So all of those metrics we feel are in pretty good control.
So we should see a flip back on that by year end.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you would expect to get closer to neutral.
I wouldn't speculate on exactly what the number is because like we said we do have a price increase in North American Industrial Packaging that's a pretty big business.
But it won't be the consumption of working capital that we've had so far through the first 6 months.
Research Division</strong> Sure okay.
And then John I know you're not trying to manage the consensus here understood but -- and I guess if I just kind of look at all these moving pieces around the third quarter the Street's at $1.15 and it seems to me that there's some headwinds here.
So any way you could kind of put a bogey around how we should think about the earnings side of things for this quarter just to kind of calibrate? I mean it seems like it might be closer to $1 to me but I may be off.
I was hoping you could maybe put a little bit of parameter on that.
We don't give guidance as you know and the way I think about it is where are we going from the second quarter? And we see significant improvement in earnings and cash from operations and free cash flow in the third quarter.
And then that's based on how we executed in the second quarter the run rate in June and what we're seeing at the beginning of July.
So I think about a significant improvement in earnings from the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then the last question just on input costs.
Any change to your view on this $200 million headwind? I think that you had thought about before for the year in light of what you've talked about with these higher wood prices and other inputs.
Phil I would say that things come and go and so I still think that's a good planning assumption for the full year.
Your next question comes from Adam Josephson of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Mark how would you characterize your North American containerboard inventories at this point? Are they as high as you would like them to be? Adam I'd say we had a big outage first half of the year so it was very difficult for us to make any real progress in inventory.
So I'd say in general we're still a bit on the lean side.
We got to learn something in the fourth quarter last year that we will try not to repeat this year in terms of heading into heavy outages with the not only the amount but the quality of the inventory meaning the right grades and the right location.
So I'd say we're still a little bit on the lean side right now.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And John just 2 for you.
One is can you characterize the changes in economic trends in the regions in which you operate in recent weeks? Any notable changes in June or to this point in July? I think it's more of the same.
Every place is a little different but it's really more of the same.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one more John.
As you know The Wall Street Journal published an article not too long ago about the Ilim Joint Venture and about the risks associated with that investment.
Would you care to comment on that? Yes I would.
I mean our view -- my view is the article missed important aspects of the story around the joint venture with our Russian partners.
And first of all that joint venture is unique in our industry but we're in year 6 of what had been very successful commercially if you look at the impact on International Paper.
We've got good governance and we've got a strong and effective board and joint venture management.
And the kind of -- the reality is here's an example of a Russian company U.S.
company coming together doing something that neither of us could do on our own.
We just completed $1 billion of capital projects to expand upgrade and modernize and improve the environmental footprint of an important industry in Russia.
That project in Siberia is one of the biggest ones in the industry in Russian industry I think in over 30 years.
And in one way we're helping to diversify the Russian economy and business in an industry where they're very competitive and that's forest products industry.
And finally -- or you see it favored by both the Russian and the U.S.
government.
And I guess finally I'd say that the working relationship and trust and mutual respect we've built together over the last 6 years is real it's important and it's the key reason the joint venture has been successful.
So overall we think it's -- the story about the joint venture is a positive one with a lot of upside and so we're pleased with both JV and the partnership.
The joint venture has been successful.
Your next question comes from Anthony Pettinari of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> In Industrial Packaging you had a good price realization but you also called out a 3% volume decline year-over-year in North American container.
And I'm just wondering is there anything that happened in the quarter in terms of share shift or maybe some account rationalization with Temple that you can point out that would explain the volume decline especially in light of what sounded like a pretty good ag season? Anthony the year-over-year volume decline has been a bit of a trend for the last several quarters.
And most of it is related to the -- 2 things really the acquisition and integration of Temple in the first half of last year.
We made some changes commercially to some business that we had.
There were some business that Temple was in the process of losing as we closed on the deal.
And then as we implemented the price increase last fall we made further commercial decisions.
And so all that business was in last year's comps and it's not in this year's.
But we feel real good about our volume trend now in the first quarter and in the second quarter.
We've rebuilt some of that volume that we moved away from.
And we talk about this.
We're overweighted in some segments as a result of 2 big acquisitions and maybe some segments that have struggled a little bit more in this economy versus some other segments.
So we're working to rebalance our segment portfolio.
And then we have the other 2 channels that we believe are important and I think our margins show the results of that.
We feel strongly about the open market in the domestic sense and we feel strongly about the export open market for kraft linerboard.
And so we look at all 3 of those segments and adjust our sales revenue through those segments on a continuous basis to optimize the business and looking at the margins and a few other metrics as our guide.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
Maybe just switching to the box side in Europe.
You referenced some pressure on box prices and a weaker ag season in Europe.
And I'm just wondering as you exited the quarter and into July are you seeing that price pressure continue? Are you seeing any stabilization? Or any kind of comments you can give on European box prices currently? I don't think we're seeing a lot of -- there's always pressure; it's a competitive business.
So to say there's no pressure on box prices would not be correct.
But we're not seeing weak box prices.
What's happened is there's been a little bit of compression on margins because containerboard prices have gone up and box prices haven't.
There's been a bit of a mix shift and so some of the realization loss we have is not price related it's mix related.
We had a plant in Italy.
It was destroyed by an earthquake.
We rebuilt that plant and in the process we kept most of the customers but some of the customers moved some business in other directions.
And so we've got some work to do to rebuild our mix but I wouldn't say there's a lot of pressure on box prices in Europe other than the normal competitive activity.
Your next question comes from Gail Glazerman of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Carol can you talk maybe a little bit more about how you think about debt? And specifically where you see the pension falling? And as you look towards applying the GP the building products sale proceeds and the rising EBITDA that you're expecting in the back half how you think you'll be looking at debt as you exit the year? Sure Gail.
Well let me just talk about the pension real quickly.
And as you know with interest rates rising the higher discount rate helps on the liability side.
And so the rule of thumb for International Paper is about 100 basis points is equivalent to $1.5 billion of liability given where Treasuries ended at the end of the -- or at least at point of time today.
That's probably a $1.2 billion to $1.3 billion reduction in our unfunded liability.
And that's all good news.
That helped primarily really from a credit metric perspective and then longer term it should help on the funding side.
So that said the way we think about debt is we want to pay some more debt down.
We want to pay that debt down effectively.
We've got a number of choices to do that.
Now that we've gotten the funds from the building products we're in a position to work on that.
I mean we've got a great treasury group who's looking at those options.
So we're still thinking that the debt reduction for the company this year is going to be in the $600 million to $700 million range of net debt reduction by the time the year is over.
That's kind of our planning from this point.
And we've also made the one pension cash contribution that was required for 2013.
That was only $31 million but we've taken care of that and that's done.
Still a lot of room Gail for this year and certainly more next year for a very balanced use of cash that we've talked about with all of you over time.
We're still committed to that.
I think we're generating the cash to be able to make decisions consistent with that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Mark can you talk a little bit about what you're seeing in terms of export markets for board? Any changes there? Gail the export markets we saw price increases through the second quarter.
I think we're heading into what generally is a seasonally slower period in some of the export markets.
We're in pretty much all of them to some degree.
So I think we see a stable outlook as we head into the second half of the year both on volume and probably a pricing standpoint.
But the third quarter in particular tends to be on balance across the export regions a bit of a seasonally slower period from a demand standpoint.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just in terms of inflation the wood cost inflation that you're discussing is that really just weather related? Is there anything more fundamental with OSB mills restarting and anything else that will be pressuring prices? It's weather related Gail.
We've seen that OSB and wood products pressure all year because housing has been coming back quite strong.
It's -- I think we got 20 inches of rain in the Riegelwood area in the 40-day period.
So we got a lot of mills over in that area of Eastover Georgetown Augusta Riegelwood.
So the East side is getting hit harder for us than the West.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last question.
In terms of fluff pulp are you starting to see any benefit or impact in the market with Rayonier having completed the conversion at Jesup? Yes Gail it's Tim.
I wouldn't characterize it that way.
I think we're generally seeing fluff pulp continue to grow at the rate similarly that we expect it to.
For us we're bringing on capacity this year that Carol referenced that we're bringing on trying to in the most intelligent way possible.
So out of the 300 000 ton increment of additional capacity we're probably going to be around 200 000 that flows to the fluff pulp markets.
Having said that we'll get a better benefit out of Franklin because we're going to try to run and we will be out of 300 000 run rate in Franklin on fluff but we'll balance it out with other mill operations on the softwood side.
So we still see 4% annual growth on fluff and no real new capacity coming on.
So as capacity comes out it should help but we haven't seen it materially yet.
Our final question will be coming from Mark Wilde of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just have some segment questions.
First of all you mentioned that you were seeing some weakness in some of the export uncoated free sheet markets in -- toward the end of the second quarter.
Can you give us a little color on that? Yes Mark it's Tim.
I think a part of it is just seasonal impact.
We're in one of the dog days of summer and we saw some markets slow toward the end of the second quarter continue into the first part of July.
I don't expect that to last for the rest of the quarter or the rest of the year.
But -- and it's not a significant downturn.
It's just on the margin.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then for Mark Sutton I noticed Mark on some of the presentations recently you guys have been putting on a little dotted line for that idled machine up at Valliant.
And I just wondered if you can give us a little color on how you think about that machine particularly with the industry operating at a very high operating rate right now? Sure Mark.
There's a machine at Valliant along with a number of other small opportunities are things we constantly evaluate to make sure we've got the right capacity and the right geographic locations and the right mix between virgin and recycled liner.
So we'll monitor the market.
We also -- John mentioned and Carol mentioned the optimization opportunity is a big part of that is really examining that 17 mill system and ending up with the best footprint we can.
So we don't have any immediate plans for that particular asset that you mentioned but it's definitely something that if we need to for either volume or cost reasons to deploy it we would.
Research Division</strong> Would the roll-off Mark of that new India agreement would that make that restarted Valliant more attractive to you? It could.
I mean part of what we're doing right now is what you mentioned new India.
And also from Hood Container we're buying on a 3-year plan 2 years left of products from these divested mills.
And if it makes sense for us to internalize some of that demand in the future and it likely could that might play into our plans for internalizing that.
Think of it this way Mark.
If we had to it takes 18 months plus to do a retrofit of some machine or a greenfield.
We can bring on Valliant capacity very quickly very cost-effectively if the demand was there.
And we're going to manage the businesses [indiscernible] to our supply and demand but we can move very quickly and it would be very cost-effective because we kept the machine and capability basically intact.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly I just wondered since we've got Tom Kadien on the line Tom can you give us a little color on how the Sun joint venture is operating right now? What kind of volumes? Where that product is being sold and kind of pricing? Tom may not be on but I'd say the -- let me answer that Mark quickly.
The joint venture is operating well.
Operationally everything is running very well.
It always happens when the market is oversupplied.
Pricing as Tom said has probably hit bottom but there are no signs that it's going to improve next quarter.
So we're seeing more of the same.
That volume is staying in China.
There's very little of it that's -- some is going outside of China to the region but we're not exporting it all over the world.
We have Coated Paperboard business in Russia and Poland and the U.S.
and China so we know overall what we're [ph] all doing.
And that capacity was set up to serve the high end of the Chinese market not necessarily the commodity and the folding boxboard market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And John is there any -- in the Bleached Board market is the Augusta machine just gone forever? Or given the tightness in the market could you ever see bringing that back? You consider that out.
We don't consider that an idle machine like [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> Like Valliant.
Well let me just summarize for everybody a solid performance in the first quarter.
We're pleased but the important thing is we've got more runway ahead and you can see that in the third quarter.
We're set up well for significant improvement in earnings cash from operations and free cash flow in the third quarter and we'll be starting to talk to you about how we see 2014 as the year unfolds.
So thanks for being on the call.
We'll talk to you next quarter.
Thanks to all.
Thanks for taking the time to join us this morning.
As always Michelle and I will be available after the call.
Our phone numbers on Page 25 of the Appendix.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Tamika and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the International Paper Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Jay Royalty Vice President Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thanks Tamika.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining International Paper's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Our key speakers this morning are John Faraci Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Carol Roberts Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call we will make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which are outlined on Slide 2 of our presentation.
We will also present certain non-U.S.
GAAP financial information.
A reconciliation of those figures to U.S.
GAAP financial measures are available on our website.
Our website also contains copies of the third quarter 2013 earnings press release in today's presentation slides.
Lastly given our expanded disclosure around our Ilim JV Slide 4 provides context around the joint venture's financial information and statistical measures.
With that I will now turn the call over to John Faraci.
Thanks Jay and good morning everybody.
During the next 15 to 20 minutes Carol and I will review our third quarter results and performance of individual businesses then I'll speak to our outlook and will open it up to your questions.
So for the quarter International Paper delivered record operating earnings of $471 million or $1.05 a share.
That was driven by continued margin expansion and very solid operations around the world in our manufacturing businesses.
In spite of much higher wood costs due to the wettest weather we've had in the Southeast in over 100 years we've got meaningful improvement in our North American Industrial Packaging business and also a price improvement as well in our North American Coated Board business.
We also got some price improvements in pulp although it started a little bit later in the quarter than we expected but it's going to flow through into our fourth quarter.
And we announced price increases in our North American paper business and expect to see implementation beginning in the fourth quarter.
We successfully executed $80 million of outages and saw a very significant progress in the ramp-up of the new capacity and capabilities in our Ilim joint venture in 2 of the facilities where we made major capital investments.
And finally in the quarter we had late-breaking favorable development on the tax front which resulted in a one-time benefit of $30 million reducing our tax rate to 24%.
But even without that tax -- that tax adjustment the third quarter from an operating earnings standpoint was an all-time record for International Paper.
Free cash flow continues to be generated at solid levels and we see good momentum going into 2014.
The run rate free cash flow for the last 2 quarters which Carol will talk about was $1.8 billion.
All in another milestone quarter for International Paper taking a big step on our journey to becoming a stronger and more valuable company that creates value for our customers and our investors.
So let me just quickly go to the financial highlights on the next slide.
Sales were up 6%.
Margins expanded by 160 basis points.
EBITDA improvement of 12% or $100 million both quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year.
And as I said an all-time record even without the tax benefit.
So with that let me turn over to Carol to take a closer look at the quarter and then I'll come back and talk about the outlook.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
As John said IP delivered its strongest EPS quarter in nearly 2 decades with the highest EBITDA and operating earnings in our history.
The quarter benefited from strong price improvement solid operational performance and good progress in the ramp-up of the Ilim projects.
In the quarter volume was slightly lower due to one less shipping day in North America and we did have seasonally lower demand in our North American Industrial Packaging business.
Maintenance outages were positive as this was our lightest maintenance outage quarter for the year.
Input costs were a headwind particularly wood due to the extremely wet weather in the Southeast U.S.
which did significantly impact our Printing Papers business and it impacted also our Coated Board business.
On the corporate side we saw a one-time benefit of $13 million due to the release of a tax reserve in the quarter which as I said helped interest.
The tax benefit that John mentioned contributed $30 million or $0.08 to our results.
And this tax benefit was associated with the recent U.S.
court case decision that involved another taxpayer similar to us and it provides for an increase in the tax basis for certain fixed assets.
John mentioned it the quarter-over-quarter improvement in the Ilim JV contributed very favorably to our results.
The operations were better and I'm going to talk about that but we also did see a gain in the FX associated with the strengthening of the ruble against the U.S.
dollar-denominated debt on the JV's balance sheet.
So moving to input costs.
We did experience a significant headwind relative to fiber cost increase and that was mostly wood in our North American operations.
On the second quarter call we mentioned that we expected some headwind on wood cost although not nearly to the degree to which it did unfold.
We updated this outlook at the UBS conference in September.
Fortunately the weather situation has moderated since then.
That said it was still a big cost increase in the quarter and we do expect carryover into the fourth quarter as we enter what would be seasonally the normal higher-cost winter months with somewhat relatively low inventory than we are attempting to rebuild our inventories as we go.
Now turning to the businesses.
Let me first cover Industrial Packaging which delivered record earnings as well as the price increase in North American box came through roughly $30 per ton on average for the quarter.
Within this record performance our EMEA Packaging business did have weaker earnings due to a margin squeeze there experienced as box prices which they're increasing are trailing behind on some Containerboard increases that have happened.
And all-in-all we like the Containerboard increases and we'll take on the challenge of raising our box prices in Europe.
As I mentioned previously volume was lighter due to one less shipping day in the quarter and it is seasonally slower demand for us.
The second quarter is a very big quarter for us with the agricultural mix but still a very solid quarter.
Operations were very good and some of those operations were offset by some one-time costs.
And as I said we did see some input cost headwinds in North America as well in the form of increased wood and OCC costs.
The next slide Slide 10 really shows a great story.
We saw benefits on pricing improvement and solid operations and that created further EBITDA margin expansion in our North American Industrial Packaging business.
And we continue to fare very well against our key public competitors.
We should continue to see strong results in this area as we finalize the full realization of the announced price increase in the fourth quarter and drive our optimization improvements into 2014 and beyond.
Moving to the pricing realization.
And so relative to the conclusion of the American -- North American box price increased efforts we continued to see very strong results in this area and we actually exceeded the plan we laid out earlier in the year.
As I mentioned earlier we saw box price increases rise on average of $30 per ton in the third quarter.
And we exited the quarter at a run rate in the high $40 range.
We expect roughly $5 per ton more in Q4.
And so as we move through the quarter we will fully recover more than the $50 Containerboard increase.
So a very strong success in this area.
Turning to the next slide.
When you look at our North American Packaging business we truly feel that we're uniquely positioned to continue to realize benefits and improvements.
We've spoken to this opportunity before and I want to emphasize it again that we have an opportunity to optimize this large-scale business that we've built in a number of areas: operations supply chain our commercial efforts.
And this can contribute additionally about $200 million of EBITDA to the bottom line.
We're well positioned with low-cost assets that can continue to improve.
We have untapped capacity at our Valliant Oklahoma mill that could ramp-up quickly and very cost effectively and at the right time.
We've got a great portfolio an attractive portfolio of customers that we can continue to upgrade as we work our mix.
We have a strategic mix of virgin and recycled mill capabilities that enable us to effectively serve a broad range of markets both domestically and across the globe.
And we embrace the strategy to manage our supply to our customers' demand and that will allow us also to meet those -- that demand at the lowest delivered cost.
And finally we're also seeing the opportunity to leverage our global Industrial Packaging footprint as we expand our reach into markets around the globe.
That's everything from best practice sharing to global and multinational customers and segments.
And that represents just a few of the potential opportunities that we have in front of us.
So moving from Industrial Packaging let me talk about the Consumer Packaging business.
As we look at our Consumer Packaging business we saw some price improvements in our North American business and we had a big step-up due to no outages in the third quarter.
Our European business continues to perform well and we continue to see good momentum in North America as backlogs remained strong and price increases continued to be implemented.
Relative to our Foodservice business turning to the next slide.
There were some nice and important developments relating to this business in the quarter as key customers and potential customers publicly announced intentions to move away from foam-based cups to paper cups.
McDonald's announced their plan to convert to paper hot cups in all of their 14 000 plus locations in the U.S..
A McDonald's representative cited customers' changing preferences and increased recyclability as the driver for this change and they expect a multiyear transition that will extend probably through 2016.
In the case of Dunkin they moved to paper in their Brookline Mass.
stores in response to anti-foam legislation.
And they stated they're looking for a solution to replace foam that meets the goals for cost performance and recyclability.
These 2 opportunities alone would result in 3 billion to 4 billion cups in increased demand and that would translate to roughly 80 000 tons of paper cup stocks which is great for us as we're very well positioned to benefit from this development.
Additionally in this business we have received word that we'll be expanding our position to become the primary supplier to the leading gourmet coffee retailers.
So all-in-all the food service business continues to be an exciting place and important part of our Consumer Packaging franchise.
Moving on to Printed Papers.
We had good quarter-over-quarter improvement as we saw a seasonal uptick in volume in Brazil and Europe and operations were very favorable in North America.
We have a weakening price here throughout the quarter but that's -- I wanted to just comment that's largely driven by softness in the export market and a little bit of pricing that we saw in Europe.
Additionally in this business we experienced lighter maintenance outages and a non-repeat of the bad debt issue that we saw in the second quarter.
Input costs were higher in the form of wood as I mentioned and this was a big impact in our paper business.
And we did see a negative impact from FX in Brazil and Europe.
And finally as you're probably aware we did announce in the quarter a $60 per ton increase for offset and cut size paper that we expect to begin to implement in the fourth quarter.
So moving to the next slide.
I wanted to take a minute and give you an update on our plans for the Courtland mill wind down and the repositioning of our North American Papers business.
As we announced and discussed in September we made a difficult decision to permanently close the Courtland mill.
And as I said this was a very tough decision for IP and really for our very dedicated employees but clearly the right decision for the business.
So relative to the shutdown plan we intend to permanently shut the first 2 machines by mid-November.
This will result in our exit from the Coated Papers business and the elimination of capacity for exports and selected marginally profitable domestic business.
The last 2 machines are scheduled to be shut down by mid-Q1 2014 and that will result in the elimination of the balance of the capacity at Courtland.
Right now we're in the process of running qualification trials at the 4 remaining mills and we'll be transferring our most attractive business to these commodity and specialty mills to enable our best business to run at the lowest possible cost.
We have more business than we have capacity.
Therefore it will be necessary to exit the least profitable grades.
While the end state that we'll reach later next year will be favorable we are going to be in a transition mode for the next couple of quarters.
So in the fourth quarter this year we expect cost and really inefficiencies of running the mill in a half -- with 2 machines that does create inefficiencies.
And that impact of that transition through the operating earnings line could be as much as $40 million.
In the end we will be better positioned for long-term success in our North American business.
We're going to have 2 excellent world-class low-cost commodity mills; 2 very highly capable well-equipped specialty mills to serve our most attractive segments and customers.
Moving on to distribution.
Xpedx delivered a solid quarter as we expected driven by revenue improvement.
And this was despite one less shipping day.
And also importantly continued improvements in our operational cost.
We continue to work very diligently on the spin-off opportunity with Unisource.
And I'd say we're making progress on reaching a mutually acceptable transaction.
Turning to Ilim.
We've talked about Ilim a little bit and we did see significant progress on the ramp-up of the major capital projects at Koryazhma and Bratsk along with some appreciation and move up in pulp prices.
And this did result in an improvement in the operational EBITDA of $37 million over the second quarter.
Additionally the ruble strengthened against the U.S.
dollar which did result in a net favorable noncash FX gain on the JV's $1.4 billion of U.S.-denominated debt.
Moving to the next slide.
I wanted to update you where we are with the project ramp-up.
As I mentioned and as we said we would we saw significant progress in the third quarter as the project benefits are beginning to show up and the startup and ramp-up costs are continuing to come down.
Ilim expects to make another big step forward in the fourth quarter as operational efficiencies and equipment reliability continue to improve.
Additionally the team is working very hard on product qualification efforts as we speak.
And as those products get qualified we'll begin to sell those and that will show up in the improved margins.
So while Ilim expects to see further improvement in results in the fourth quarter some of this improvement will be offset by increased cost that are just associated with the season -- wood cost issues that hit us this time of year and other seasonal costs.
But the way that we would -- the way we see Ilim and we're very excited about it is we've done the hard work we're not done but making great progress and 2014 looks to be a great opportunity as well as beyond.
So turning to free cash flow and uses of cash.
A lot happened during the quarter all good.
As you recall we closed on the sale of the Temple-Inland Building Products business early in the quarter.
Received $710 million in cash proceeds in July.
On September 10 we announced a 17% increase in our regular dividend to $1.40 per share payable in December of this year.
Additionally we announced an authorization to buy back up to $1.5 billion in shares.
We've been active with this program since receiving that authorization.
And up-to-date and I guess through yesterday we've repurchased more than 2.6 million shares at an average price of $45 per share for about $120 million.
Additionally we continued to pay down debt and that reduced our debt balance by $457 million year-to-date and we expect to pay down roughly $600 million for the full year.
As you can see from the chart and John mentioned this we continued to track well on our path towards our stated goal of $2.2 billion in free cash flow.
And if you take the last quarter the last 2 quarters we are at a run rate of $1.8 billion.
We feel good about our ability to continue to grow the free cash flow as we move into '14 and we feel very good about our capital allocation plan.
So moving to the fourth quarter outlook before I turn it back to John.
We see a relatively flat quarter-over-quarter change on volume.
Seasonal increases in Brazil and European package are offset by the decline in North American papers due to the restructuring and there are 2 less shipping days in North American packaging.
Prices will continue to improve in North American Packaging as discussed earlier and we'll begin to see implementation of the announced price increases in North American Paper.
And we should also see pricing improvement in our European and our Brazilian Packaging business.
On operations the largest impact item will be associated with the Courtland transition and the wind down as previously discussed.
We do expect some mild but continued impact from higher wood costs that we saw in Q3.
Net-net on mill outages they'll be $10 million higher for the fourth quarter.
And we expect taxes and interest to return to normal levels after the benefits we saw in Q3.
And while we expect additional improvement at the Ilim JV seasonal costs and increasing wood supply issues will offset a good portion of these gains.
And we're assuming no change in FX for the quarter so no repeat of the gain in Q4.
So with that John let me turn it back over to you for the wrap up.
Thanks Carol.
First of all I'd like to emphasize that while this was a record operating earnings and EBITDA quarter we've still got additional upsides from here.
We continue to build momentum and generating free cash flow in our EBITDA results and have line of sight to the $5 billion plus EBITDA goal we talked to investors about 1.5 years ago.
In the fourth quarter as Carol said we expect to realize the full benefits of the OCC's price increases announced in April and further price increases in North American Coated Paperboard North American Papers and Europe and Brazil Box businesses.
We're also going to see some volume improvement in Brazil and some improvement in both our European and Brazilian Packaging businesses.
Carol talked about the Courtland headwinds about $40 million.
But we like how this business is going to look in 2014 with the 4 mill system.
Boxes -- Box volume will be lighter in North America because they've got 2 less shipping days.
And wood costs are going to continue to be a headwind but I'd say the Southeast is finally drying out and inventories are getting rebuilt.
And we have slightly higher maintenance outages in the fourth quarter and expect tax rate to return to normal level.
So what makes International Paper different and attractive? This last slide here I'm on Slide 23 we have strong leading positions in our primary North American markets and the best margins with further upside potential.
We've got a global footprint in our key businesses with attractive growth potential and we have the talent to lead the business and execute against our plans.
We've transformed the company and strengthened our position in our core platform businesses.
We continue to manage the portfolio aggressively and have more upside through optimization repositioning of our North American Papers business and strategic investments like Ilim that are ramping up with a lot of upside.
We've improved our free cash flow generation and have plans to grow and sustain it which leaves us in a good cash position and able to return better-than-cost of capital returns.
At the same time through a balanced use of cash we returned some of that cash to our share owners as evidenced by last month's actions to both increase our dividend and authorize a share buyback program.
So with that I'll stop right there and open it up to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of George Staphos of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question is on -- if you could provide any outlook on early fourth quarter trends within Industrial Packaging? And John and Carol I noticed on the slide in the appendix that you did see a little bit of a market-related downtime in industrial if I saw that correctly.
Could you comment at all where perhaps some softness arose in the quarter that you might not have anticipated? And I've got a couple of follow-ons.
You want to take that? Sure I will.
The kind of the outlook as we enter into the fourth quarter in October box demand is about where we thought it would be still tracking kind of like the market tracks just slightly positive.
And for us we were behind the industry numbers 300 400 basis points early in the year.
We've narrowed that to less than 100.
In September we were much less than 100 basis points behind.
And that's what we're seeing going in the fourth quarter.
So I think we don't anticipate any major changes in demand.
On the other 2 channels to market for our Containerboard the open market domestic of course that reflects the U.S.
Box business and so that will track about the same.
And the export market we expect a normal fourth quarter seasonal demand pattern.
With respect to your comment on the lack of order downtime it was 70 000 tons.
As you know a very large system.
And as we look at how the quarter unfolded in the third quarter and we realized what orders we had and what basis weight and whether it's recycled and virgin we made the paper we needed for the customer demand we had as well as trying to position our inventories to the best way possible as we prepare for the beginning of next year and the maintenance outages we have.
So with all those considerations we come up with 70 000 tons of capacity we didn't need to employ.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And that's also a silver lining in terms of producing to market demand.
I guess one other question I had can you remind us what effect you think some of the increase in Asian Boxboard capacity might have on your business if at all? And then the last question I'll turn it over.
Ultimately how much market share do you think -- maybe it's a question for Tom Kadien do you think you can get off the coffee cup market and paperboard? Tom Kadien here.
On the Asia Boxboard we really haven't seen a lot of impact here in North America.
Where we see the impact is in the global export markets where pricing has come down.
We are largely out of most of those difficult market segments and it really hasn't had a big impact on us in North America at all.
On the move from foam to paper we're the largest cups stock producer in North America out of 2 of our Bleached Board mills.
And we've got push in about a 50% market share there.
So if we've got our normal share that would be 50%.
We expect we'll do better than that.
And we're also the largest supplier of paper cups and lids to the quick service restaurant and coffee segment.
And we think we'll do better than our share there as well as we have been over the last couple of years.
George the only thing I'd add about Coated Board is we don't see -- we produce Coated Board in Poland and in Russia and we don't see the Asian impact -- impacting those core markets for us.
Most of it is staying somewhere in Asia.
And if you just look at -- on our table our Coated Board volume is up 48% year-over-year.
Unfortunately so are bunch of others.
And that's -- that excess capacity situation has got to work through.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub of Buckingham Research.
A couple of questions on Industrial Packaging following up a bit more.
Typically would you expect that the fourth quarter seasonally to have a little bit more a little bit less demand than you'd see in the third quarter? And can one extrapolate from that on what expectations one might have for market downtime in that business? And then second I think Carol had mentioned that you were -- you've exited the quarter in the high 40s in terms of the box pricing.
And then I think she said you expected to get another $5 as 4Q progresses.
So is it fair to assume about a $10 per ton price improvement 4Q v 3Q in box prices? And then lastly is kind of a flat demand outlook for next year at this juncture in corrugated the most realistic or are there reasons why it might be better or worse than that? And if you can help spell that out that will be great.
Mark before I let Mark set and answer all those questions we're not going to forecast market downtime.
We don't do that.
Right.
Thank you John.
Question #1.
Yes Q4 typically I think would be seasonally a little lighter in demand.
And that's a general statement about the market but in particular about International Paper's segment mix.
And as Carol mentioned there's a couple less shipping days which is not really a seasonality issue but just a reality.
We're going to make the board we need to make for the business we have in all 3 channels: the box business the open-market here in the U.S.
and the open-market globally.
The price question around exiting in the high 40s we will recover as John said more than the $50 increase which is compensating for some of the waste you have in the convergent operations.
And so as we sit here today we're up $101 from last third quarter.
And I think your $10 quarter-over-quarter is probably not a bad number.
And then lastly as we think about...
I Oh I'm sorry your third question.
Growth for next year.
I was writing them down and I didn't write that one down.
Growth for next year flat.
I think when you look at the people who are developing forecast for box and looking at the macro indicators there's a lot of energy around a slightly positive demand environment next year maybe in 1.5%.
And I think it's really going to be dependent on the U.S.
economy.
Box demand is going to track nondurable is going to be a bit behind GDP.
So as the consumer comes back in the market we'll see good box demand.
And hopefully it's better than flat.
Mark when you look at box demand for the industry relative to where we were prior to recession we're still 5% or 6% below the 390 billion square feet that were shipped in 2007.
Box demand is growing at GDP less a point and that's where we kind of think it is.
If we get 3% GDP growth which we should get at some point in time.
And we're going to get positive box demand which is going to be a big tailwind.
And one more part to add to that is we did care about global demand for boxes.
So with global demand up 3% to 4% we all know there's a part of that segment global segment that we get to participate in.
Specifically for International Paper exports are very strategic.
For the industry they're strategic.
So if you think about that that could add another 0.5 point to 7/10 of a point of growth in North America.
And I'd say just to that point if you looked at the page that shows our shipments year-to-date by volume even though box market is up 0.5% in the U.S.
our shipments outside the us or outside shipments in U.S.
and exports are up 5% in the first 9 months of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Sticking on Containerboard.
can you kind of give us a sense how you're thinking about inventory at this point? And do you draw down any more inventory in Q4? I think we like where our inventories are right now from the standpoint of operating our large system at the lowest possible cost.
We had to prepare for some of the outages we have coming up maintenance outages at the beginning of next year.
And I think inventories are in good shape from the quality of inventory and returns.
And we will operate our system really to the demand for our business and not anticipate the need to build any inventory.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then in your slide deck you guys kind of highlighted how there's some untapped low-cost capacity for containerboard.
Could that represent an offering for you guys to take out some high-cost capacity down the road? I think all that depends on the demand profile.
But I think the point in all of that is we have opportunities for very low cost to make more containerboard if we have the demand for it.
And as we prepare in the future for how we view our current offtake agreements with the mills we had to divest.
So all of that will play into a decision we make on capacity.
It's out there if we need it and it's low cost.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And just one last question for Carol.
Glad to see you guys buy back some stock current quarter and year-to-date.
Could there be an opportunity for you guys to take a more aggressive stance this year? Or is that more of an opportunity going into '14? Well as we said we've got authorized $1.5 billion share buyback that we said was a 2- to 3-year program.
And so we'll continue to monitor our options but we'll probably stick to that path of that $1.5billion 2 to 3 years.
So you kind of do the math on that.
Lot of flexibility though in terms of how we go ahead and complete that share buyback.
Your next question comes from the line of Philip Gresh of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First one again on Industrial Packaging.
If we think about the downtime that you took in the quarter.
Coming into the quarter you're talking about building some inventories.
So is it fair to kind of assume that the downtime was maybe weighted towards the end of the quarter when we saw a little bit of the softer demand? I wouldn't -- Phil this is Mark.
I would say it really evolves through the quarter as we look at the actual demand from all 3 channels that we send Containerboard through and the inventory that we need.
And inventory is not inventory.
There's recycle there's virgin there's heavyweight lightweight.
And knowing what our seasonal demand is going to be for the upcoming few months all weighs into it to -- the science behind it is balancing that system and making the board at the lowest possible marginal cost.
So it's not a wait and see what happens and slam it in at the end.
It's an organized process to really make our product at the lowest marginal cost.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
Okay.
Second question is just on Courtland.
Appreciate the color around the $40 million incremental in the quarter.
As we think about how that progresses through 1Q and into 2014 Carol or John any color as to whether that would step up against sequentially in 1Q? Or it's kind of -- do we kind of level off here? And then at what point do we step back down do you think? Phil it's Tim Nichols.
We're going to update that as we go.
I think the important point to make here is the process is well underway.
We're trying to do it at the lowest possible cost.
We'll have 2 machines down in the middle of November.
When we announced we said the other 2 would come down by the end of the first quarter.
We now had moved that up to mid-quarter and the goal is to keep pulling that forward as rapidly as we can.
Part of what we're doing is we're working through qualifications in other facilities for various products and customers.
So you can think of the first 2 machines that capacity coming out fairly quickly.
You can think about the machine time used on the other 2 machines as being to do 2 things.
One cover for those qualifications.
And number two to help us build some inventory around unique products like our colors uncoated free sheet where we need to build a little bit of inventory to manage the transition.
So those machines are not fully available for current customer demand.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question for Carol just on the free cash or with respect to working capital et cetera.
You talked about kind of the past 2 quarters your run rate that you're talking kind of $1.8 billion in free cash.
The other first quarter was a little lower than that.
I assume the fourth quarter can be higher as you draw some of the working capital down for this.
Is that $1.8 billion number kind of a fair number to think about this year? And kind of assuming that you do you still have some kind of working capital headwinds this year that maybe you don't have next year how should we think about that? Well Phil you make a great point.
I think $1.8 billion is a good number.
And if the working capital headwinds because we're raising prices and expanding margins I think we'll take those headwinds all day long.
So it's hard to speculate on what next year might bring.
And yes this year the headwind the sales are up and -- because pricing is up.
So that has been be a headwind that will level out.
But I think $1.8 billion is kind of a good normalized level for where we're operating today and we think it should go up from there.
Research Division</strong> And do you have a status of specifically what working capital headwind you might end up with this year in that $1.8 billion number? No I wouldn't speculate on where the working capital will go in the fourth quarter.
There's so many moving parts to that.
And there's also a piece of working capital that's at corporate that -- accruals and other things that aren't directly tied to ops.
So I think we'll see where the fourth quarter comes out but it should be helpful.
Your next question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Not to belabor the point of Industrial Packaging.
But industry inventories rose fairly sharply in June through August.
And I'm just wondering do you have any sense if that was intentional or did you see the market get more competitive at all? Or anything that changes your view on the market.
And also maybe if you could address some of the capacities expansion news that's come out over the last month or so? Okay Gail and this is Mark.
On inventory and I can only speak for International Paper on the inventory front.
And for us it was just running our business for as I said balancing the near-term needs and making sure we have the lowest possible supply chain cost as we go into what we know is going to be a maintenance outage season.
And quite honestly we weren't as prepared in this past first quarter and second quarter as we would have liked to have been and we spent some money.
We don't want to do that again.
So for us it was about really having our system be the most efficient from a service platform and the cost standpoint.
From the rest of the industry I think every company obviously has its own issues with how they view inventory.
On capacity we are seeing as everyone has recognized some new capacity coming in the market.
We haven't seen any I would say direct impact.
But I think the -- the thing that will unfold over time is some of this product will probably find a home in certain segments and then the secondary impact would be that we may see some additional suppliers showing up in some of the export markets.
But so far I think the new capacity coming on it's not all the same type of product and it's not all completely applicable to every segment we compete in.
So we're monitoring that like we would in any other business issue.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And at Pulp and Paper Week over the weekend reduced the premium on West Coast median.
Do you see that as anything significant as a distributable to maybe some of the excess supply in the East? Is there any comment you can make there? No comment on that right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You talked about Tom I guess the U.S.
Coated Board market and how there's not been an impact on Asia.
I guess last quarter you talked about China maybe bottoming out.
Is that still your view or is it still getting incrementally worse? I would say it's kind of moving along on the bottom.
It hasn't gotten materially worse.
Pricing is about where it was.
We're starting to see some of the high-cost capacity come out and be shut down at least temporarily.
So I would say that's offering a bit of an offset to some of the new capacity that's come online.
But I would call it kind of bouncing along the bottom.
And demand is actually getting a little bit better over there in Asia right now.
So we're seeing that as well as we're seeing some mixed improvement for ourselves.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One last question.
I guess there was a reference on the slide in terms of pension about $1.5 billion on 100 basis points.
Is that meant to just be a sense of what the sensitivity is? And if so could you just give a sense of based on what you're seeing today what your pension deficit would look like entering 2014? Yes Gail that's illustrated.
So 100 basis points equates to about that.
And interest rates over the last few days have come down a little bit so going the other direction.
And if you look at that total accounting funding we do that at the end of the year and it's a combination of how did our assets performed versus what's the liability math tell us.
But directionally it should be moving in the right direction for us.
So it should be better at the end of this year than it was at the end of last year unless something changes dramatically between now and year end.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But you can't put a number to that? No I couldn't.
Because I'd have to be trying to predict what asset is going to do between now and the end of the year and where are interest rates between now and the end of the year.
And that would be -- if I could do that I'd probably be doing something else.
Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon of Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> If you could just talk a little bit about the Brazilian Containerboard and India operations.
I noticed -- I guess India had a little bit of a step-back from the second quarter in terms of its performance.
And then also the Brazil -- the Brazilian acquisition I know it's early days but that really hasn't contributed either.
So sort of what kind of ramp do you think we could expect for those as we go into '14? And do you expect each of them -- certainly Brazil should be profitable but do you think India will also turn the corner? Yes it's Tim Nicholls.
I'll talk about Brazil and then turn it over to Tom for India.
In Brazil we've been squeezed this year.
OCC has gone up dramatically not precedent setting because we've seen this kind of cycles before.
But we step into the operation right as OCC was taking off and we saw our margin squeeze.
So we've seen the worst of it.
I expect margins to improve quite dramatically as we go into the fourth quarter.
And I think the business has done a nice good job recovering price to cover the OCC increase.
So we're still going to like the business a lot.
We have no change in view on what we think the margin potential is.
We -- even in a slower economic year we still feel good about the growth this year going into next year.
So it's unfortunate that we have margin compression but I think we're on the road to recovery.
Chip regarding India.
The quarter that you see on what is it Page 33 that's all about an annual outage at Rajahmundry.
We would have to get into the recovery boiler and do a lot of work.
We were down for almost 25 days in the quarter.
And we had a -- frankly we had a pretty good September.
20 000 of the 40 000 tons that we sold in the quarter were sold in September.
And we're set up for a good fourth quarter.
The issue that we have been fighting and the industry has been fighting over there wood cost had run up as some competitors have added a pulping capacity.
So pricing has been chasing wood cost increases for the better part of the year.
And we're finally at this point I would say catching up.
So we had a pretty good September and we expect a much better fourth quarter.
Tom you might talk about the optimization of pulp [indiscernible] as well.
Yes.
We're running at about 500 tons a day in the Rajahmundry pulp mill.
We have capacity to do more than that.
And we're frankly waiting on consents from the government to allow us to do that.
So we've got some upside on cost as well as productivity that we're just waiting on.
We hope that to come through by the end of the year.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And then...
[That's all we can make.
So we're going to like it as we figure out how to make more.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And then one last quick one for Carol.
Just as a follow-up on the pension issue.
If we -- let's just say who knows what happens between now and year end.
But let's say that interest rates were 100 basis points higher it was the corporate rate.
I'm just trying to read this correctly and the stock market stays up for the year.
I don't think we would be remised to first of all expect that shortfall to fall below $3 billion.
I can't imagine that wouldn't happen.
And then if that did happen and I know it's different from accounting versus what the government requires.
But if we did see at least from an accounting standpoint that net number come down could we see your plan contribution number that you've been talking about for the next few years maybe come down as we look at 2015 or '16? Yes Chip.
Those are good questions.
You're right.
The math on your first part is if the 100 basis points stays in the market it stays around where it is there's going to be a significant reduction in the unfunded liability.
And what you said is very accurate.
So you're right also relative to accounting versus funding.
There are 2 different completely different sets of math.
And from the funding the 2014 funding and the '15 because there's a smoothing element to that those are pretty well I would say locked in.
The thing that could change that would be policy in D.C..
Law changes could change that and that happened a couple of years ago.
It could happen again but not saying that or speculating.
But the first 2 years '14 '15 are locked in.
Where a higher interest rate would help us is -- you're also correct that it would start to feather in to what we would have to put into plan in the '16 to '17 timeframe.
And it would reduce any money that we might have to put in there.
So net-net higher interest rates would be great.
It would help us on the accounting and ultimately it would support us on the funding as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Start off on the Courtland side.
I wondered either Tim Nicholls or Carol can you give us some sense of just the EBITDA impact of that closure as we look forward what's the hit look like from just not running that tonnage? It's Tim Mark.
The way I would say it is this.
We operate a system and we have a mix of customers that we use the system to support.
We had grown exports we had grown some marginally profitable tons to fill up machine time over the past couple of years.
And as we looked at the system that we had we said we can run a smaller system and do it better.
So we're not going to forecast what earnings are going to be but you can be assured that we look at the economics of we were going to run a system and we have in the 4 mills a low-cost commodity set of assets.
And even with [indiscernible] and Georgetown for they products they produce.
We have a very low-cost system for specialty and value-added.
So it's a combination of getting the right amount of capacity for the business that we want for the long-term and not -- and from a capital allocation standpoint keep investing in a system that sized larger than we need.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one other question on Courtland Tim.
This is the third mill you've taken out of the white paper business now having shutdown and then restarted part of Franklin and having converted Pensacola.
I just wonder whether all of this affects you're thinking about investing in a new paper another new paper machine down in Brazil? Well it's a great question Mark.
And the way we think about these options is based on the dynamics of the business.
We view the uncoated freesheet markets around the world as very much regional markets.
They have regional supply demand dynamics and margin dynamics.
And so part of the complication around -- and we see this in Brazil as we've told everyone.
We're trying to grow into the region as fast as possible.
Supply chains are long you tie up cash and inventory you have FX exposures.
And depending on where you're planning to supply you have different environmental certifications and forestry certifications that are required.
So it's very hard to supply from one region of the world to the other for the long term.
So it will be made on a case-by-case basis region-by-region.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then just a couple of Industrial Packaging questions.
Mark Sutton was there any impact in the third quarter from some of those West Coast contracts starting to roll off? Mark you're speaking of the offtake agreement? Research Division</strong> Yes exactly.
So just to remind you the offtake agreement is going for 3 years and there's a decreasing step down.
So it's going to over time have an effect but we don't expect any sharp effect.
We've got to manage that as part of our supply chain and it's a -- in the first year and even in the second year it's a pretty big part of our supply chain.
So I would say it has a sort of effect to the plan.
And we've organized that step-down so that it works for us and our customers and our supply chain.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then another question I have was just with some of these new capacity the machine conversion some of these the discussion of new lightweight recycled mills I just wonder whether there's anything you could do with that idled 400 000 ton machine at Valliant to look at making lightweight recycled on that machine? And what would it take for you to restart or retool that machine? I think we -- Carol mentioned it in her comments that's one of the options we have for some very low-cost capacity that is available for us if we need it.
And we look at the whole system Mark.
And based on that and our demand of our customers we'll decide what type of products we actually need to make.
Because as you know every Containerboard mill is not the same.
And so we haven't -- we're not prepared to talk about an estimate or anything what it would take capital-wise to change the great output of that machine.
But rest assured all of that is in our consideration.
But the main thing is we'll bring capacity on if need it for the demand of our customers and for improving and getting at this optimization that Carol talked about in this new Industrial Packaging system.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Then the last one is just in the Industrial Packaging down in Brazil you did a 7% margin this quarter.
I think Klabin is up in the kind of low- to mid-30s but they own forests so that presumably helps them I think kind of mid-West A Coast businesses kind of somewhere between.
What is a reasonable target do you think for kind of an EBITDA margin at Orsa? So it's like what we said when we acquired the business.
We think it could be solidly the mid-20s.
So our view on margin opportunity has not changed Mark.
Mark I'd add just a comment out of capacity.
I mean our objective in all our businesses is to make what our customers require with a minimum amount of assets.
So the fewer machines fewer facilities and so we'll run our system as hard as we can.
We're going to make the right products and only start up more capacity if we absolutely need it.
Your final question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions on Industrial Packaging.
Carol outlined the $200 million optimization opportunity.
And I was wondering if there was any sense of the timing to realize that opportunity or if you're counting on any real improvement in the Containerboard markets over the last couple of years to realize that? And then switching to EMEA.
You referenced the margin squeeze with box prices lagging Containerboard increases.
Is this a sort of a normal lag or are you seeing increased competitive pressure in boxes? Or how should we think about that going into 4Q? Anthony this is Mark.
On the optimization I think the optimization that we're talking about that $200 million really isn't about the market dynamic.
It was about internal initiatives.
Our mill system optimizing the 16 mills and getting a lower average cost across those mills and including in the supply chain.
And the other part was on the commercial side and really just looking at the new box system and making sure we're making the right products in the right box plants and that we upgrade the segments and the customers within those segments.
And that's -- we're already underway on some of that and that's an ongoing process that I think we'll take.
I think we originally said post synergy period of the 24 months we're not waiting to get started on that.
But I would say that's over the next couple of years.
And if you could repeat the second question? It was the EMEA box margin...
I can talk to that Mark.
What's happening is you've got to remember Europe is just coming out of a huge recession so there's a lot of pressure on market demand.
So it's more difficult with demand being negative year-over-year certainly in the Industrial segments to get box prices up as board prices are coming up.
I think absent that if we had a more normal economic environment you'd see a quicker flow through.
What those -- to add also to that John is exactly right.
It does ebb and flow there.
So if you look at the margins as an independent converter in Europe there's -- kind of go up and down a little bit.
But we feel pretty confident that as board goes up ultimately box prices will go up as well.
And we're just in the trough part of that.
We hit the trough part of that in the third quarter.
So let me wrap up and say it was a very good quarter for International Paper.
We performed to record levels.
We've got more to come in 2014.
We're going to generate a lot of cash.
We're going to use it in a balanced way that creates value for our shareholders.
That's the story and we'll be talking more about it as we revisit with you in -- for the fourth quarter in January.
Thanks.
Thanks John and thanks all of you for taking the time to join us this morning as always.
Michele and I will be available after the call.
We look forward to speaking with you and our phone numbers are on Page 24 of the appendix.
So have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference call.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the International Paper Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Jay Royalty Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining International Paper's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Our key speakers this morning are John Faraci Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Carol Roberts Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call we will make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which are outlined on Slide 2 of our presentation.
We will also present certain non-U.S.
GAAP financial information.
A reconciliation of those figures to U.S.
GAAP financial measures are available on our website.
Our website also contains copies of the fourth quarter and 2013 earnings press release and today's presentation slides.
Lastly given our expanded disclosure around our Ilim JV Slide 4 provides context around the joint venture's financial information and statistical measures.
With that I will now turn the call over to John Faraci.
Thanks Jay and good morning everybody and thanks for dialing in.
Let me go over the format that we're going to follow this morning.
First I'll review our full year 2013 results.
And then turn it over to Carol Roberts to speak to the fourth quarter.
And she'll cover the performance of the individual businesses.
Then we'll cover the first quarter as well as the 2014 outlook.
And as we usually do we'll open up for your questions.
So I'll start with the full year.
For the full year International Paper achieved record operating earnings of $1.4 billion as well as record cash from operations of $3 billion driven by margin expansion across many of our businesses.
EBITDA increased from $3.7 billion in 2012 to $4.1 billion in 2013 and EBITDA margins across the enterprise increased by 80 basis points.
This drove strong free cash flow of $1.8 billion which enabled us to return $1 billion of value to shareowners through dividends and share buybacks and strengthen our already strong balance sheet by paying down an additional $650 million in debt.
We had solid operational performance across our key businesses.
Additionally we saw good progress in the ramp-ups at Ilim by the end of the year.
We'll talk about that a little bit more.
For the full year however though higher cost of the startups of the projects and the devaluation of the Russian ruble on the JV's U.S.-denominated debt significantly impact the joint venture's year-over-year results.
We spent a good portion of last year working hard on the opportunity to spin and merge xpedx with Unisource.
And as I think most of you know last week we announced that we signed a definitive agreement with Unisource and Bain Capital and expect to -- that deal to close this summer.
We'll also talk more about that a bit later.
So as we look back on 2013 for International Paper I'm very pleased with our progress and the results which did result in us exceeding our cost of capital for the fourth consecutive year.
Moving to our financial snapshot.
I'm now on Slide 6.
Revenue was up 4% despite I'd say a challenging economic environment around the world.
EBIT was up $400 million year-over-year and EPS increased by 19% to $3.16 a share.
And as you can see on the slide we had a significant increase in free cash flow year-over-year up $200 million from $1.6 billion to $1.8 billion.
This next slide shows our history of return on invested capital.
And as I said this is the fourth year in a row of returns above our cost of capital.
Turning to Slide 8.
International Paper's cash flow story and our free cash flow of $1.8 billion continued a strong trend of free cash flow results since 2008.
I think its evidence that the company's results are less cyclical than they've been historically.
And as we look to the future we remain confident in the sustainable nature of our strong free cash flow.
We also believe we can continue to grow it over time.
Carol is going to cover the fourth quarter but I'd say that we finished the year in terms of very strong free cash flow almost $600 million in the fourth quarter which is a run rate well in excess of $2 billion.
So turning to uses of cash which we talk a lot about and all of you have an interest in.
We've done what we said we would do.
In 2013 we returned $1 billion to shareowners.
In September we increased the dividend for the second time since outlining our dividend policy in 2012.
We also obtained authorization from our board to buy back $1.5 billion of stock.
And as of yesterday we purchased roughly $530 million of -- at an average price of just over $45 a share.
We are taking advantage of the opportunity to buy back shares at prices we feel are below the intrinsic value of International Paper.
And you can see the other major uses of cash that are consistent with our capital allocation strategy which we shared with you.
So with that as a summary of 2013 I'll turn it over to Carol.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
Turning to the balance sheet.
I'm pleased to report that we've met our commitment to reduce our debt-to-EBITDA ratio below 3x by the end of 2013.
As John mentioned we paid down balance sheet debt by $650 million.
And we also saw our pension gap come down by $1.9 billion which was a combination of strong asset performance as well as an 80 basis points increase in the discount rate by year end.
We finished the year with a cash balance of $1.8 billion.
So all of this puts us in very good shape from a balance sheet perspective for the foreseeable future.
Going to the next slide taking a look at the financial bridge from '12 to '13.
As John mentioned we made solid progress on several fronts.
Most notably in pricing and that was largely driven by our efforts in our North American Industrial Packaging business.
Volume was down slightly and that was mostly in our Industrial Packaging business.
And as I talk later you'll see that our Industrial Packaging volume was in line with industry performance for the fourth quarter.
So we closed the gap that we have had for most of the year.
Operations contributed very favorably to results.
And the decision to rationalize capacity at both the #2 paper machine at Augusta and the Phase 1 of the Courtland shutdown was a headwind for the year of -- was $0.06.
Input costs in aggregate were up a little over $200 million year-over-year.
That was about as we expected but the makeup was probably a little bit different because it was largely driven by increased fiber cost in the second half of the year.
At Ilim the cost of the project startups coupled with the noncash FX impact on the U.S.
denominated debt negatively impacted EPS by $0.23.
So all in 2013 was a strong year of progress and results and we exited the year with a lot of momentum that's going to carry us into 2014.
Turning to the fourth quarter summary.
As John mentioned it was a very solid quarter in which we generated our strongest free cash flow of the year with price improvements across all of our North American and Brazilian businesses.
Our North American Industrial Packaging business delivered very strong results finishing the year with industry-leading margins and this was despite 2 less shipping days seasonally lower demand that drove our decision to take 322 000 tons of downtime of which 46 000 tons were maintenance related.
The balance was taken to match our production to our customers' demand.
A very positive note was that for the first time since acquiring Temple-Inland as I mentioned our year-over-year box comp was equal to the industry closing the gap on volume performance that we had seen since the acquisition due to business that we shut through that process.
Overall we saw a very encouraging demand trend from our customers through the fourth quarter.
But as you know we've had some very significant weather events in January and this has impacted our ability to run and ship products.
To date this amounts to roughly 40 000 tons of lost production and customer demand through January and early February.
But despite this setback we do expect demand for the balance of the quarter to be consistent with the trend we saw in the fourth quarter.
We made good progress on the shutdown of Courtland and the transition of products across our North American Printing Papers system and we'll talk a little bit more about that.
And the project at our Ilim JV continues to ramp up but we did see seasonally higher input costs as well as some FX headwinds that masked the progress for the quarter.
Taking a look at the fourth quarter financial overview on Slide 13.
We saw very good year-over-year improvement for the quarter really across the board with EBITDA margins as you can see up 140 basis points.
And all this culminated in very strong free cash flow for the quarter end and for the year.
So looking at the fourth quarter year-over-year IP earned $0.83 per share versus $0.69 in the prior year.
Pricing was up driven largely by Industrial Packaging.
Overall volume was flat but the cost of the market-related downtime did negatively impact the quarter by $28 million.
The rationalizations at Augusta and Courtland impacted the year-over-year results and input costs mostly fiber were up substantially.
Ilim FX and ramp-up costs were slightly unfavorable as well.
And tax was unfavorable in the quarter in a year-over-year basis due to a very unusually low tax rate that we saw in the fourth quarter of '12.
Interest rate -- our interest expense was favorable.
And this was driven by a tax reserve reversal in the quarter as well as lower interest expense as we did pay down balance sheet debt throughout the year.
Miscellaneous year-end corporate items were favorable.
Moving on to Slide 15.
Let me go down now and take you through the businesses.
Starting with Industrial Packaging.
In the fourth quarter of '13 we had a strong quarter particularly considering the cost of the downtime that I mentioned that we chose to take to balance our system with 2 fewer shipping days and the seasonally lower demand that we see in the fourth quarter.
As I mentioned earlier we took 276 000 tons of market-related downtime in the quarter at a cost that we would estimate at about $35 million.
On the positive we captured the final benefits of the spring box price increase where we saw prices up $9 per ton from the third quarter to the fourth quarter as we expected.
That brings year-over-year box prices up $82 per ton.
As I mentioned we closed the year-over-year volume gap on boxes but we did ship less containerboard exports in the fourth quarter.
Overall our operations performed well.
I would note that our EMEA Packaging results did fall short of our expectations as we had hoped to realize about $10 million of margin relief through increased pricing in the face of increased board costs but that did not materialize due to pretty competitive market conditions that continue to exist in our European business.
Turning to Slide 16.
I just want to take a minute and put in perspective and highlight the tremendous success that we've had in our North American Industrial Packaging business.
Not only have we grown this business in scale over the last several years through the 2 strategic acquisitions but we steadily expanded the margins along the way.
And this has resulted in 2013 as a $2.6 billion EBITDA business with 22% EBITDA margins in the year.
So a lot of progress and the exciting thing is there's more to come.
If I look on 17 in terms of the relative EBITDA margins in the North American Industrial Packaging business.
Once again we generated the best margins in industry despite the downtime associated with our actions to match our production to our customers' demand.
The optimization opportunities that I referenced that we still have across this business coming off the 2 major acquisitions just a really large systems we believe gives us further opportunity to expand our margins versus our key competitors.
Moving away from Industrial Packaging to the Consumer Packaging business on Slide 18.
You can see that pricing was up year-over-year as additional realization of the summer SBS increase benefited earnings in the quarter.
Volume increased as well and which is a great new story driven by the improved demand as evidenced by the backlog that improved.
And that really held throughout the second half of '13 and we believe carry into '14.
The quarter was impacted by 2 very large scheduled maintenance outages at our mills at Augusta and Texarkana.
If you look at the margins in this business on 19 consequently due to the outages that we experienced the margins in the quarter were well below our average.
Our full year margins though do remain 250 basis points above our key SBS competition.
Our outlook for '14 in our Consumer Packaging business is encouraging given the fundamentals around backlog and demand that we believe will carry through.
But I do need to mention and we'll talk about it a little bit more the business is going to be impacted in the first quarter by some very difficult weather conditions that we saw not only in early January but also we've experienced through the end of January and into early February.
Turning to the Printing Papers business.
Earnings were virtually flat year-over-year which I view as very favorable given the impact of the Courtland shutdown and all the associated transition costs.
The initial benefits of the North American cut-size increase began to come through and prices were up roughly $20 per ton as we exited the quarter.
And at the time of this call we fully implemented the October price increase and expect to realize increased prices of more than $50 per ton on all affected grades.
This along with increased prices in Brazil and India enabled us to close the gap on pricing year-over-year which I think is a very important and impressive accomplishment.
Additionally mix in the North American business improved in the quarter as we exited significantly lower-priced export volume.
North American volume was down accordingly but strong seasonal volume in Brazil and Europe offset these losses.
Talking about operations and costs.
We were largely impacted by the Courtland shutdown but we offset a bit of these costs by very strong operations in Franklin and Brazil.
And we also benefited from the weaker Brazilian real as margins expanded on our export volumes.
So all things considered I would say a very good quarter for the papers business.
So giving a quick update on Slide 21 on the Courtland shutdown and the North American papers transition.
First I'd like to take a moment to recognize our colleagues -- all our colleagues at the Courtland mill.
The shutdown is a significant event not only for the mill but for the community.
And the team there has done an incredible job of handling what is a very difficult situation.
I can't say strongly enough how proud we are of the team.
And some good news is many of our Courtland colleagues have been placed in open positions at our operations throughout the rest of the Southeast and in our other businesses as well as in our papers business.
So as you know the first 2 machines went down in November.
All of the trials and qualifications at the others mills and with our customers have gone very well and are ahead of schedule.
The costs we incurred in the fourth quarter were generally in line with what we expected.
However as I mentioned we ran well across some of the other mills and managed spending very well to reduce the impact.
As far as the plans for the balance of the mill the team has accelerated the shutdown of the remaining 2 machines both of which actually went down this past weekend.
Due to the fact that we are shutting down the 2 largest machines as well as the remainder of the mill we will see the greatest amount of shutdown costs and impact in the first quarter.
So for the first quarter costs will be up -- or be $20 million more than in the fourth quarter.
Now that's the peak.
Thereafter we expect costs in the second quarter to be half of the first quarter.
And then there will be some residual costs that will continue into the third and fourth quarter of roughly $5 million to $10 million per quarter.
Turning to xpedx Slide 22.
Weaker demand across the printing and facility solution segment led to a challenging quarter for the business.
The great news is as John mentioned earlier we're very excited about concluding the definitive agreement phase of the pending transaction.
And I want to take a couple of minutes and recap where we are on that.
So turning to Slide 23.
We signed a merger agreement with Unisource last week.
And we're working on the registration statements for the SEC review process which we expect to file in the coming weeks.
As we announced last Tuesday the IP shareholders will own 51% of the new company and IP will receive a cash dividend from NewCo of $400 million at the time of the spin.
This will be a Reverse Morris Trust transaction which will be tax-free to IP and its shareholders pending IRS approval.
IP has the potential to receive an additional cash earn-out of up to $100 million in 2020 if certain conditions are met.
And with the exit of xpedx from IP IP's overall margin and return on invested capital will increase.
Regarding funding for the new company.
NewCo has received bank commitments for asset-backed financing of $1.4 billion.
But it is expected to carry an additional debt load of roughly $800 million and an initial debt-to-EBITDA ratio of 4 to 5x which of course will be expected to reduce over time as synergies are realized and EBITDA increases.
xpedx currently has total net assets of roughly $700 million to $800 million of which approximately $100 million are fixed assets all of which will follow the spin to NewCo.
Of course more information will be available including xpedx and Unisource financials and NewCo pro-formas once the registration statement is filed.
Turning our attention to Ilim on Slide 24.
The JV realized continued progress on the ramp-up of the major capital projects with the paper machine at Koryazhma and the pulp line at Bratsk.
However this was more than offset by seasonally higher energy and wood costs.
Additionally earnings were further impacted unfavorably due to the continued devaluation of the Russian ruble and the resulting net unfavorable noncash FX impact on the JV's $1.4 billion of U.S.-denominated debt.
Slide 24 provides a view of where the JV is in its current ramp-up relative to historical results and its potential given the expanded capacity capability.
So let me walk through this slide.
The top -- the table at the top outlines how depreciation and interest expense have changed as a result of the capital project and associated debt.
You can see that prior to the projects depreciation was averaging $125 million per year.
And that post-project depreciation has increased to approximately $225 million annually.
Similarly interest expense has increased from the pre-project level of $15 million to about $75 million annually.
Now the bottom chart illustrates where the JV is in the ramp-up of EBITDA.
It's important to note that both FX and pulp prices in particular are highly variable.
So for both the '14 estimate and the fully ramped potential target is assuming stable FX and pulp prices at today's level.
So you can see the fully ramped-up potential is $150 million to $200 million higher than the 4 year average that occurred prior to the project construction startup.
2013 was significantly impacted by the projects although you can see we did make progress in the second half of the year.
So not meaning to be too particular here but taking EBITDA subtracting depreciation and interest tax affecting the results and dividing by 2 for IP shares gives you a pretty good approximation for the equity earnings for International Paper.
And clearly we expect a better year from the JV in 2014 and more importantly considerable upside for the future.
So turning to 26 and looking ahead to the first quarter.
We expect seasonally lower volume in Brazil and Europe along with a coated paperboard project that we're doing at Kwidzyn that will impact volume and the full shutdown at Courtland.
These things will more than offset the benefit of the 2 additional shipping days in North American packaging.
Additionally it's currently estimated that the severe weather events throughout the month of January and into February will impact volume by 40 000 tons primarily across our Packaging businesses.
Pricing will continue to improve with full implementation of the fourth quarter North American cut-size price increase.
Additionally we'll see further mix improvements across our North American papers business as the Courtland transition continues.
And we do expect some mix improvement across North American Industrial Packaging as well driven by higher volume of boxes as a percent of our total volume.
We also expect some modest benefit on pricing in Brazil papers as well.
Moving to ops.
I highlighted the expected costs at Courtland which is a large item in the quarter but we do expect some good progress at Orsa offset by the impact of the Kwidzyn project.
Additionally the severe weather has impacted many of our mill operations in the South.
Input costs in the quarter will be significant driven largely by the extreme temperatures across much of the U.S.
both in terms of unit pricing and consumption.
Under normal circumstances input costs would have been up seasonally in the quarter probably around $20 million.
But on top of that we estimate the incremental impact of the weather could be as much as $30 million.
We also have a big outage quarter with in incremental costs over the fourth quarter of $47 million.
Earlier I provided an update on the Ilim JV along with an outlook for '14.
We will continue to ramp up and that's going well into '14.
We typically try not to forecast changes in FX but I feel like I should point out that the ruble has weakened fairly significantly over the last month.
And so had we ended the quarter January 31 the negative FX EPS impact would have been around $0.10.
So moving to 27.
In summary we exited '13 with a lot of momentum.
However we are dealing with some temporary headwinds that will impact the first quarter.
But that does not diminish our view of the full year potential as John's going to discuss in a moment.
The most immediate significant impact that we should be beyond shortly is the severe winter weather which we estimate will impact the first quarter earnings by $40 million to $50 million.
We will realize price improvement in North American papers and pulp as well as in our Brazilian business on previously announced increases.
And last week we announced additional price increases in North American papers pulp and coated paperboard as well as Brazil paper and packaging being effective with March.
Volume will increase with more shipping days in North America.
However we talked about the impact of the winter storms has been significant and will offset at least half of this benefit.
And as we talked about the continuation of the shutdown at Courtland will impact cost and volume in the quarter.
As we mentioned we do have an increase in quarter-over-quarter maintenance outages as well.
Energy costs will be significantly higher both due to seasonality as well as weather impacts.
But these will moderate by the end of Q1.
Finally we expect to pay cash taxes at levels closer to book taxes and the interest benefit result in the fourth quarter will not repeat.
So with that let me turn it back over to John so he can speak to the full year outlook and wrap up.
Okay Carol thanks.
Let's turn our attention now looking forward to 2014 and the bigger global picture.
I'm on Slide 28 the map.
This slide shows the most current collective outside view of year-over-year changes in GDP in the major regions around the world that we operate.
So sitting here early in the year recognizing it's early the macro environment from my perspective actually looks and feels somewhat better than it is as we exited 2013.
Demand is modestly better although it's hard to see given the recent widespread weather disruptions in North America that Carol talked about.
So the bottom line as we look forward to 2014 we're not counting on a lot of help from North America or global economies but we see global group GDP inching up.
If North American global GDP and demand are better that's a good strong tailwind for us.
But internally I think this is important we have many levers to pull which are within our control which will meaningfully impact results this year.
And I'd like to highlight a couple of them.
In North America we have a large opportunity within our Industrial Packaging business for optimization.
In Industrial Packaging we've been very busy integrating 2 large acquisitions over the last 5 years and we haven't had a chance to optimize the combined business which has grown from $4 billion to over $12 billion.
The optimization opportunities are significant.
They're around system integration commercial and portfolio decisions cost-reduction opportunities that are unique to International Paper because of these 2 acquisitions and best practices sharing.
There's a significant opportunity with the emerging trend in our Coated Paperboard business and Foodservice for customers to move away from foam cups to paper cups.
Companies like McDonald's have already made that decision.
That's going to benefit our Foodservice business and our Coated Paperboard paper business.
We talked a lot about Courtland and the repositioning of the papers business is well underway.
The end result when we get to the back end of next year is a smaller a better and more cost-efficient footprint for our Printing Paper business in North America.
Outside North America we have projects at Ilim and synergy opportunities at Orsa that we didn't get in 2013 at the Brazil packaging business.
At Kwidzyn Poland we're completing -- we'll complete it this quarter a coated paperboard project that will enable IP to enhance and improve our product offering to customers and expand our margins at one of our best facilities in the world.
So a lot of things that we've got going on internally that are independent of the macro environment.
So let me move to the next slide here and just give kind of a high-level financial outlook for 2014.
Overall we expect another meaningful increase in EBITDA results of roughly 10% in 2014 over 2013.
As a result free cash flow generation should approach $2 billion.
This will enable International Paper to return a significant amount of cash to shareowners through our recently increased dividend and the share buyback program which we have underway.
We've been very active and opportunistic.
As we've previously highlighted we'll continue to have more runway with the dividend as we generate these results and we'll be evaluating our dividend as the year progresses.
We'll also make a contribution to pension fund of approximately $450 million.
And we'll continue to evaluate investment opportunities that have the potential to create significant value for our shareowners.
With the expected proceeds from the xpedx spend our cash position is strong as is the outlook.
So let me wrap up things and then we'll open up for questions.
As Carol said -- I'm on the picture now that shows the -- an interstate highway in Atlanta I think a week ago.
January and the first couple of days of February have been a challenge.
And I think this picture sums it up.
We've got a temporary hiccup in terms of higher costs lost production lost sales.
But importantly the truck there isn't upside down it's just sideways.
So I think we're going to get beyond this and 2014 certainly looks like a significantly better year for International Paper on top of a good year -- good solid year in 2013 even with January hopefully behind us.
So in summary 2013 was a strong year progress results for IP we move into '14 with a lot of internal initiatives.
We expect solid growth and EBITDA and free cash flow and EPS for the year.
I think IP is better positioned than ever to achieve the results that frankly should be records for -- on a number of fronts.
And in 2014 we're going to take another significant step toward our near-term goal of achieving over $5 billion of EBITDA $2.2 billion free cash flow.
So with that operator I'll turn it back to you and we'll open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of George Staphos of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I jumped on the call a little bit late so I apologize if you already discussed this.
But with uncoated freesheet can you comment John or Carol what percentage of your volume is the current level of pricing increase in the market that you just announced impacting? And when you're done with all of the Courtland-related realignment how much volume do you expect to return back to the market? George Tim Nicholls will kind of take that.
The first price increase it was not on 100% of the volume.
There were some branded products that were not included but it was a solid 80-plus percent of our capacity product lines.
And in the month of January we have completed implementation of that increase.
So it was a little bit -- through the fourth quarter price increase and the numbers that we're showing also include the export impact which was down in the quarter.
But in North America we saw prices move up 20 through the quarter.
And then for the month of January we completed the increase.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But on the March increase how much of your volume is that impacting? Is that 100% 20%? No.
It's 100%.
Research Division</strong> 100%? 100%.
And so on the March increase we're up $70 on all of our commodity grades and $40 on branded products...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how much volume do you think when we're all is said and done will you have returned to the market from where you were prior to the Courtland announcement if you can talk to that? Well we announced capacity and we're shutting down 765 000 tons of uncoated freesheet capacity out of Courtland.
And at this point all the machines are down.
So there was close to 1 million tons total including coated.
There's basis weight changes.
There's a number of puts and takes.
But it's going to be in that 750 000 ton range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess the last thing and I will turn it over can you comment at all on the industrial side what type of -- I know the weather is having an effect here.
But what kind of start to the quarter are you seeing on a volume basis year-on-year? And I know talking about economic downtime is difficult.
But can you comment as you sit here today what economic downtime you might have given your current operating profile? This is Mark Sutton.
On the demand question.
You're right the weather interruptions kind of masked what we're seeing.
But I'll tell you before we got into the weather we were pleased with the way the volume profile was developing in the U.S.
box business.
And actually after the first weather event we were headed toward offsetting that.
The second round of activity is as Carol described earlier we're just not sure about.
But it will be a temporary issue.
We'll put it behind us.
But when we looked at our fourth quarter and we looked at the way December unfolded for us and for the market we're actually on the positive side of sentiment for volume.
And as you know and you can look at the numbers that we put in the appendix charts there is a seasonality to the market demand.
There's also a seasonality obviously to International Paper's demand.
There's also a seasonality to our capacity that we create by managing our maintenance outages.
So we really need to run our system very well through the first couple of quarters of this year given the amount of maintenance outages and other planned activities we have.
So we have really have to execute very well going forward.
Let's say that looking at the GDP numbers if we get a continuation of what we saw in the third and fourth quarter we're going to have a positive better box demand market than we had last year which is basically flat.
If we're at 3% GDP we're not going to have a flat box market like we saw in 2013.
So I think that's reason to be quite positive on how the year is going to play out.
I mean it's early on but the macro data is not blowing out but it's incrementally better.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub of Buckingham Research.
Two quick ones.
First of all Tim on the uncoated freesheet can you give us a sense as to how much of the first initiative at the end of the day you were able to bring through? Yes.
We feel like we had a full realization Mark.
We -- as I was saying we had about $20 in the quarter but we finished up the rest of the implementation in January.
So as we exit January on the $60 increase from last year we felt like we had a full realization.
Great.
And then second Carol and John you both made several references to portfolio optimization in containerboard -- improving profitability in containerboard.
Any chance you could give us a little bit more in the way of targets and timing? Mark we have talked before around the optimization that John referenced at least the initial line of sight to being $200 million.
And we said as we entered '14 that would be a multiyear program.
And we think a big portion of that we think we'll be able to realize in the coming couple of years.
However we're not done looking and optimization is a general term.
But it really is about making this business the best it can be and helping all components of the business reach its potential.
And we're still discovering new opportunities as John said now that we're finished with the integration and synergy -- early synergy acquisition activities.
And very different situation running a $12 billion business versus a $4 billion business with the number of facilities the segments we've got the options we have and not a lot of that stuff is going to be big capital project related.
So we're pretty positive that we got a lot of opportunity to mine here over the next couple of years.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question will come from the line of Alex Ovshey of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First on the North American industrials business.
Can you talk about how your inventories moved through the fourth quarter? And how do you anticipate to manage inventories through the first quarter especially given the significant downtime that you expect to take during the quarter? Alex our inventories through the fourth quarter trended down which is what we planned for.
It's very difficult to forecast customer demand too far out given the nature of our customers' business so a lot of just-in-time.
But we believe we're set up well for what we need in the first quarter from a demand standpoint but also referencing my earlier comment from our own supply profile given our annual outages start in the first and second quarter.
So we feel real good about our inventory levels.
It's something we manage very closely.
We've got a lot of new tools to be able to do it now that our recently acquired mills that we got from Temple are all on the same supply chain system as the other legacy mills.
And so we're really starting to work at optimizing that.
But we feel good about the inventory we have.
We're going to make the board that we need for the customer demand we have and the service level we need to provide.
Research Division</strong> And on the pension contribution do you already know what quarter you expect -- what quarter during 2014 you expect to make the contribution in? Alex this is Carol.
We'll put it in throughout the year it won't go in all at one time and it will pretty much meter in fairly evenly throughout the year.
Our next question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman from UBS.
Research Division</strong> It looks like you took a couple of charges both I guess for some restructuring in Asian packaging as well as India.
I was just wondering if you could talk about those specifically and then maybe more broadly what you're seeing in the specific markets? Yes.
Gail you're referring to the special items? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes.
So on the special items we did take a charge.
We wrote off the goodwill that we had in India.
And so that's pretty straightforward.
And then we had a small business in the box business over there that we closed.
It wasn't corrugated it was another packaging business that just was eluding money and not productive so we took that down.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just more broadly what you're seeing in India and China? I'd say Gail I'll let Tom Kadien comment.
Both India and China feel like they -- in China's case the car was driving 80 miles an hour now it's 60 miles an hour.
It feels slower but it's still pretty fast growth.
And India is probably the same thing from a -- at a slightly lower number.
But they're still large markets that are going to grow and their economies are growing but at a slower rate than they were in 2012 and '13.
Gail this is Tom.
The box business in 2013 and in the fourth quarter in China is growing at about 4% so that's much improved.
We feel like we've got our hands wrapped around that.
The business that we shut down was an expanded polystyrene foam inner packaging operation.
So we're really at a point where we see the box business starting to get some -- get its legs underneath it and starting to grow.
In India we've struggled with really wood cost increases throughout the year.
And as we exit '13 those wood costs have started to flatten out.
And we're still selling everything we can make and we're seeing productivity improvement so we expect an improved '14 in India.
If you think about that 4% growth that's -- on a 40 million ton market that's 1.6 million tons of boxes a year.
And if you do the math it's a lot of volume.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just quickly on domestic markets.
The wood cost inflation you've seen over the last few quarters to what extent do you see that as weather related that could come back? Or do you think it's more structural with recovering OSD markets and energy demand? I think the spike we saw Gail is all weather related.
It was mostly on hardwood not in pine which is where the OSB stuff is going to show up.
And it's amazing with no tropical storms or hurricanes hitting the East Coast -- I think I got this right Virginia North Carolina South Carolina had the highest rainfall in over 100 years.
And we have a lot of mills running along that coast that got impacted Riegelwood Georgetown Eastover Augusta Savannah.
So we see it as temporary.
It's going to take a while to work that down but it's -- I think it's peaked.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions on the offshore businesses.
First it seems like the pace of the Ilim ramp-up has been a bit disappointing particularly in light of how strong that softwood pulp market has been.
Can you just discuss the reasons for the kind of delayed ramp-up at Ilim? Well let me give you a couple of numbers Mark kind of put that into perspective because yes it did go a little slower than we thought.
But this is the project that first of all is done.
It's completed.
That's a milestone because projects like this in that part of the world always don't get completed.
And we made 66 000 tons in the third quarter 105 000 tons in the fourth quarter.
And in January we produced 36 000 tons which -- that run rate is twice what the fourth quarter was.
So we're starting to come up pretty quickly.
We're probably a quarter behind in terms of -- but that's behind us I'm looking ahead.
And with the progress we made in January both on the volume side the quality side and the cost side there's a lot of positive runway there.
But it's -- they were complicated projects Mark.
Operating in Siberia in the winter with the number of people we had to mobilize and the number of project management people we have from around the world cycling in and out in a very tough environment wasn't easy.
But with our partner -- we could have done it without a partner.
We proved we could do it.
And then Koryazhma I'd say that's a different story.
We're -- in January we were on the CIP that's our capital project run rate of 200 000 tons.
So we're right there in terms of uncoated freesheet production.
And we're already -- I think we've made 700 tons of coated papers.
So when that project is fully balanced out we'd have 130 000 tons of uncoated freesheet and 70 000 tons of coated paper.
But that's running -- that's the machine we moved from Scotland from Inverurie.
That's running at its capacity already.
Now we got to optimize the cost and get the quality and all that stuff down.
But we're qualified on branded cut-size.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the other offshore piece I wondered about John was just Orsa down in Brazil.
I think your EBITDA margin was 9%.
If I look at the numbers that both Klabin and Rigesa put up they're 2 to 3x that level maybe even close to 4x in Klabin's case.
What's kind of a reasonable target and reasonable time line down at Orsa? You've now - you've been in there for about a year you must have a pretty good sense.
Mark it's Tim.
Part of the problem was we got hit with some onetime accounting charges at the end of the quarter.
The underlying business we saw improve the first couple of months of the quarter our margins had moved back up into the mid-teens 16% 17%.
And then we had a bit part of that wiped out in the last month of the quarter.
My view is we still have a business that can earn in the mid-20s.
And we'll see a meaningful change in performance this year.
Part of what we dealt with last year we got squeezed on OCC.
We've now caught up to that on the price side.
And quite frankly we found out that we had to spend more on maintenance in some of the facilities than we thought we were going to have to.
We think we've got that mostly behind us now too.
So price has moved in the right direction.
Volume has moved in the right direction and I think we'll run better.
We've gotten these onetime accounting charges behind us.
So I think 2014 will see a meaningful improvement.
Research Division</strong> So to get to kind of the mid-20s Tim do you have a sense of how long that will take you? And how much incremental capital that might involve? I don't think it's going to take a whole lot of capital.
The capital that we're spending is on smaller items.
It's about automation in some facilities.
It's about getting -- quite frankly getting people out of facilities.
They've thrown a lot of labor at the operations for a long time.
So in terms of the forecast on when we get to the mid-20s there's a lot of puts and takes there.
I think we'll be -- we'll take a meaningful step towards that this year and we'll see what 2015 brings.
Our next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon of Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> Carol first question for you.
Just to be clear on the $2 billion-ish free cash flow number that you are putting out for 2014 that is before the pension contributions is that right? That's correct Chip.
LLC</strong> Okay okay just want to be clear.
And then when you look at the -- at Ilim this is a quick follow-up -- it was very helpful to have that slide with the sort of the long-term guidance and you say the equity income number would be $100 million to $120 million at current prices.
Is sort of the right ratio to think about every $10 a ton might be another $10 million or $0.01 a ton -- or $1 a ton is $1 million? And the way I'm getting there is I believe the combined tonnage at the 2 mills there is about 2.5 million tons and obviously your equity ownership in that is about half of that.
So if you think about it if you got a $10 ton increase you would get something on the order of magnitude of $10 million or $12 million.
Is that pretty much the way to look at it? That feels about right.
LLC</strong> Okay got it.
And last quick one on Ilim.
You mentioned the $0.10 hit from currency.
Is that -- if I heard you right that's taking into account the ruble decline from the I guess the end of the year to where it stood yesterday? Yes.
I normally wouldn't comment on that but it is depreciated pretty significantly through the month of January.
So since we're on the call I thought I would take an opportunity to point that out.
You need to take a look at that as the quarter progresses.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
If we try to look past the messy first quarter your overall input cost outlook is stable.
I'm curious how that breaks down because we're hearing from others that chemical and labor could be a headwind.
RISI has OCC trending up.
So I wonder if you could just share with us how that input cost ends up stable in your view.
And that's all I got.
Yes.
This is Carol.
Actually if we just -- if you look at Slide 30 we talked about input cost inflation in the $175 million to $200 million range for the full year.
So we didn't really talk about it as stable.
I think what we were -- maybe I'm not quite sure which part but maybe referring to the fact that there's a spike in the first quarter on gas and that will come back down to a more reasonable level.
Now that's just input cost.
We do have other inflation that happens.
And then our goal is to have our initiative to offset that type of inflation through our productivity initiative that we have across the company.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's actually very helpful.
Sorry I'm misreading your comments a little bit.
That's all.
I'm glad you clarified.
Our next question comes from the line of Philip Ng of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> In terms of your EBITDA guidance of 10% increase.
What do you guys baking in in terms of price? I know you've announced a few price increases across your portfolio.
So I just want to get a sense on that front.
We do not get -- try to forecast prices here because we can't and we shouldn't.
So I'd say we've got some price increase momentum that's been talked about as we've mentioned taking the questions going through the presentation.
So we feel pretty good that we've got a line of sight to that kind of increase with plans we have in place.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then John I mean you guys are going to get a lot of free cash flow in 2014 going forward and you got some cash coming in from the xpedx divestiture.
Just from a high level some of your acquisitions and some of your investments -- recent investments on the international front you've seen somewhat mixed results.
Are you kind of looking at the hurdle rates a little differently going forward? And how should we be thinking about that front? So we do have higher hurdle rates when we're investing in parts of the world that are outside the developed markets.
And we're not going to make investments unless they meet our hurdle rates.
So we're disciplined about that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last quick one for Tom.
The Sun JV actually turned positive from a profitability standpoint.
Is that kind of good bogey going forward? Or is there some potential headwinds we've got to account for going forward? Philip the JV is seeing improved results.
I'd say the market in China for coated board demand is pretty good probably a little bit better than we expected.
Pricing is moving sideways but the improvement that you're seeing is really as we improve our mix at the joint venture and we sell more of the higher priced value-added grades and fewer of the I'll call more commodity or folding carton end of the spectrum.
So that's the improvement you see and we think that's sustainable and will continue to move.
And I guess as I -- just thinking about your comment about investments outside North America our biggest investments are in Brazil and Russia.
Brazil's got 30% EBITDA margins.
We've had 2 years of consecutive EBITDA improvement.
We're generating a lot of cash.
We had some currency headwinds down there when the real was strengthening which were hurting our returns but now our returns are getting better.
We've got a great market position in that part of the world.
So we're very pleased with our investment in Brazil.
We'll get the Packaging business right.
And in Russia which is probably our second largest offshore investment IP Russia which is our paper business is well above cost of capital returns well above our hurdle rate.
And we think Ilim is going to turn out to be a fabulous investment now that we've got this big capital projects behind us.
So we've got some challenges in India and China no question about it for different reasons.
But where our big offshore investments are -- and I haven't even talked about Europe our paper business in Europe continues to perform very well and returning well above cost of capital returns.
So I don't really see it that we've had -- we've struggled with the emerging market investment.
Our next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on uncoated freesheet.
In recent months we've maybe seen a little bit stronger volumes than some of us had expected.
And I'm wondering as you forecast 2014 demand understanding you have a capacity adjustment but can you tell us what level of industry demand you're expecting for North America? And is there any reason to think that demand might be a little bit stronger than the kind of the 3% decline that a lot of us plug into our models? This is Tim.
Yes I think there is reason to believe it might be stronger.
Most of the forecasts that are out there are still between 3% and 4% but I think they'll be updating it based on how last year ended.
There's probably a little bit of pull-forward in December.
But if you look at the underlying economy we see an increase in white-collar workers.
We also see an increase in consumption of paper per white-collar worker.
It had been on kind of a downward trend and as you look at 2013 it leveled out maybe even ticked up a little bit.
Commercial print indices were up.
Even mill volume last year performed better than expected.
So if the economy continues to improve I believe that there is potentially a modest help on the demand decline for this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe just switching to containerboard.
Can you confirm that the process of shedding some of the less attractive Temple-Inland business has basically run its course? And then you referenced the 40 000 tons of lost production in January primarily in packaging.
Can -- should we assume that that's basically just lost production? Or is it possible that you might get some of that back in February? So Anthony on the first question I think we have really ended the shed of business that was related to acquiring and integrating Temple.
And as Carol mentioned we've really pretty much closed the gap with our performance versus the market which was an objective of ours and we saw progress throughout the year.
On the 40 000 tons in January a portion of that is probably going to come back.
It's hard to tell how much because of the segments that you would say demand wouldn't get destroyed it's just delayed.
But for example if it was demand in the restaurant industry and people couldn't get to a restaurant to go out to eat because of the roads or weather it's up in the air whether they go out to eat twice later.
So we're going to track it closely.
But I think it'll be a mix of maybe lost demand and demand that comes back.
Our next question comes from the line of Al Kabili of Macquarie.
Either John or Carol could you just help us quantify on the weather impact? The $40 million to $50 million it's quite a bit more above than would be implied by the 40 000 ton production issue you mentioned in January.
So is that the remainder mostly costs on a nat gas side that's driving that? Or do you see other sizable volume headwinds elsewhere in the business driving that view on the headwind? Yes.
I think it's a combination.
It's definitely natural gas.
Natural gas is probably a good $20 million of that maybe 20 plus.
I mean the gas it's spiked and it's staying off it so the gas prices that we're seeing at least through February are much higher than what we had anticipated.
Now natural gas responds pretty quickly so it should get better.
The other one is just the consumption in the mills of everything we use because it's been so cold.
And we have had disruptions in operations.
They're costly when that happens.
So it's kind of a combination of all of the above.
Volume being one piece.
Okay.
And then I guess a question Mark to the degree that box volumes stay flat for the remainder of the year which has been the trend the last few years.
Are you comfortable with the capacity and the size of the IP mills and/or box footprint? I think Al on the assumption that volume stays flat which we don't believe that's the long-term trend.
But on that assumption if you look at our current capacity footprint in containerboard and the seasonality that we described both on the demand side and the supply side we like the footprint we have.
You got to remember a couple of things.
Every mill is not created equal.
So some mills make linerboards some make medium some make both.
There are lightweight and heavyweight products.
And so a mix of recycled mills and virgin mills in our fleet allow us to flex our capacity in a pretty cost-effective way.
And I think for the box system we've done a number of rationalizations.
There's still more to do that will fall under the category of optimization.
But we like the North American box footprint we have.
And I'll remind you that we have a multichannel strategy in our business.
The North American box business that we own and operate is very important.
But we're also an important player in the open market with very good customers in the domestic open market.
And we also have a very meaningful strategic long-term position in containerboard export markets throughout the world.
And those work in unison to really optimize our revenue line and our EBITDA margins and we'll continue to do that.
Okay.
A final follow-up question for me to you is just how are you feeling about the additional optimization opportunity in the business? And does volumes appreciably change the ramp or your view at all on how that ramps up the next few years? Al I think volume definitely helps.
If saw north of 1% it allows you to do some of the optimization activities maybe a little quicker.
But when we talk about optimization John mentioned that we're talking really about improving what we have that's unique to IP.
So it's a mix of commercial activities service offerings and of course on the cost side.
Volume would definitely help give you a firmer foundation to work on that.
But one thing that I did neglect to mention in your first question around the capacity is that we are still as you know buying a certain amount of containerboard from the 3 mills that we divested.
And obviously as we can see our way to make some of that board ourselves we recapture that margin as well.
So that's got to play out as we think about what our real permanent long-term capacity footprint is going to look like.
Our next question comes from the line of George Staphos of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones on international.
Can you provide a little bit more color on what you are doing in Kwidzyn? Obviously it's a great mill and you make a lot of money in Poland.
And how that project helps you further penetrate the market? And then just on the I'm guessing it was Andhra Pradesh the goodwill write-down I know you said Carol it was pretty straightforward but what triggered that? Well the project at Kwidzyn George is really about making a higher-end grade of coated paperboard.
We'll make a little more volume but basically we'll move up the quality scale and be -- compete in some segments that are growing segments in Europe.
And Kwidzyn is one of our crown jewels.
It's one of the best mills we have in the world.
We're making great returns there.
And we want to keep that facility kind of at the forefront.
And it makes uncoated freesheet also makes coated paperboard.
Just to comment about APPM.
We knew when we bought APPM we paid a full price and it was really kind of the price you had to pay to get into the market to learn the market and figure out whether International Paper could be successful there both in paper and maybe eventually in packaging.
And we just -- so that premium price was really expressed as goodwill and we came to the conclusion that the proper thing to do is write it off but we knew we paid that premium when we bought it.
And we have reached the allotted time for questions today.
I will now turn the call back over to Jay Royalty for any closing remarks.
I'll just say thanks to all of you for joining the call.
And as always Michele and I will be available after the call.
Our phone numbers are on Page 33 of the presentation.
Everyone have a great day.
Thank you.
This concludes today's International Paper's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the International Paper's First Quarter Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Jay Royalty Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Wanda and good morning everyone and thank you for joining International Paper's First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Our key speakers this morning are John Faraci Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Carol Roberts Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call we will make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which are outlined on Slide 2 of our presentation.
We will also present certain non-U.S.
GAAP financial information.
A reconciliation of those figures to U.S.
GAAP financial measures are available on our website.
Our website also contains copies of the first quarter press release and today's presentation slides.
Lastly given our expanded disclosure around our Ilim JV Slide 4 provides context around the joint venture's financial information and statistical measures.
With that I will now turn the call over to John Faraci.
Thanks Jay and good morning everybody.
As we usually do over the next 15 to 20 minutes Carol Roberts and I will review our first quarter 2004 (sic) [2014] results and the performance of our individual businesses then we'll speak to our outlook and we'll open it up to the Q&amp;A session.
So let me just start off.
International Paper delivered solid operating earnings despite the unusual combination of multiple severe weather events particularly in the Midwest and Southeast where a big portion of our mills box plants and customers are concentrated.
The earnings impact due to the weather which fortunately is now behind us was $60 million in the quarter.
Quarter-over-quarter we also experienced and this is the positive part higher prices in many of our global businesses including Printing Papers in North America Consumer Packaging Industrial Packaging in North America as well as the Paper business in Latin America particularly Brazil.
Despite the significant weather impact we had strong results in our North American Industrial Packaging business with operating earnings at record levels for the first quarter.
We also successfully executed $120 million of mill outages at 13 mills and completed the Courtland closure and our transitioning activities are progressing.
We've entered the final stages of the Courtland closure but not all the costs are behind us but a big chunk of them are.
We made a lot of progress on the xpedx spin/merge with Unisource and we expect to close that transaction around the middle of the year.
I'm also pleased to report that the Ilim Joint Venture had a solid quarter operationally almost 2x almost double the level of the fourth quarter driven by the ramp-up of the projects which involved higher volumes improved productivity better quality and lower costs.
We also got some pulp price increases.
These gains however were masked by a negative $0.10 noncash charge associated with the devaluation of the ruble during the quarter against the joint venture's U.S.
dollar denominated debt.
I think the progress on the Ilim ramp-up just underscores International Paper's capability to operate and run global businesses that are in our core business space.
And finally we continue to make progress with our share buyback program in the quarter and I'll discuss those results a little later on the call.
So continuing with our financial results EBITDA was $920 million for the quarter down slightly from last year.
But remember weather was $60 million of that.
We also had $40 million of cash costs associated with the Courtland closure.
Free cash flow was $254 million.
But I think to really compare that to the first quarter of $300 million last year you need to do 2 things: take the weather impact of $60 million the $40 million cash costs for Courtland and the $60 million higher CapEx that we had in the first quarter that's planned and our underlying free cash flow was closer to $380 million but we showed $250 million here for those other 3 reasons.
So let me turn it over to Carol Roberts now to talk about the business performance.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
Looking at the sequential EPS bridge IP earned $0.61 per share in the first quarter versus $0.83 in the fourth quarter.
As you can see on the bridge the $60 million weather impact is on the far right.
And as you think about that impact it's about 50% operational disruption with higher costs associated with that 25% lost volume and 25% higher input costs in the quarter.
Outside of the weather impact as John mentioned we experienced favorable pricing.
We did see seasonally weaker volume we had good operation and the impact of the heavier maintenance outages hit us in this quarter.
Additionally we saw other increased input costs a negative swing on corporate due to the non-repeat of the favorable item from the fourth quarter and the net unfavorable change in equity earnings at Ilim due to the noncash FX impact as John described earlier.
I think it's important turning to the next slide to put a little context around our results for the first quarter of '14 versus the first quarter of '13.
When you compare our year-over-year results the first quarter of '14 was a strong quarter considering we had the impact of the weather a higher tax rate and the unfavorable noncash Ilim FX impact of $0.08.
And additionally if you look into the ops line $0.05 of the year-over-year impact was attributable to the Courtland shutdown cost.
So when you put all that together those items represent $0.32 per share headwind in the quarter year-over-year.
Turning to the next slide.
This shows our quarter-over-quarter global input costs impact.
As you can see we experienced significant headwinds largely driven by the extreme weather condition across much of the U.S.
This drove energy costs much higher.
And those costs although seasonally improving will remain relatively high as we work through the second quarter.
We do anticipate that the gas market is going to [ph] albeit slowly due to the current pretty low level of gas inventories that exist right now.
We experienced seasonal wood cost increases as well.
In addition to the weather impact our wood costs are currently being unfavorably impacted by competition for fiber from OSB plant start-ups and some new export pallet facility.
Although we do expect some improvement in North America wood costs throughout the year we do expect the wood demand environment to remain under some pressure over the next couple of quarters.
Now turning to the businesses on Slide 10.
Let me talk about Industrial Packaging.
As John mentioned the Industrial Packaging business had a strong quarter driven by increased prices favorable mix and stronger sequential volume in North America.
Our year-over-year box volume was down about 2% on a per day basis and this is roughly in line with the industry.
Outside of the weather impact the operations performed well and the business successfully executed $69 million of outages.
Wood and seasonally higher energy costs were partially offset by favorable OCC costs.
In addition to our planned maintenance outages the business did take 60 000 tons of market-related downtime in the quarter as we continue to match our supply with our customers' demand.
Looking at the EBITDA margins in North American Industrial Packaging on Slide 11.
The business continues to generate the best margins in the industry and Mark Sutton and his team are actively working initiatives across the business which will drive further margin expansion over time.
Before leaving Industrial Packaging I wanted to touch on what we're seeing on the demand front through April.
As you can see on this slide month-to-date April '14 shipments are up about 3% from the first quarter level and importantly are up 2% versus April of '13.
While this comparison only considers what we've seen so far this quarter there's no doubt that demand has certainly picked up from the Q1 level and particularly has picked up from the March level.
This is from the recovery -- from the weather of course but also as we move into a seasonally stronger time of year.
Moving on to Consumer Packaging on Slide 13.
We exited the quarter with price momentum as we continue to implement our recently announced increases.
I have to note for this quarter volume was constrained by a 5-year coal mill outage in Augusta.
We did see sequentially softer demand around Chinese New Year in our Sun JV and we had a significant outage a positive outage at our coated paperboard machine at our Kwidzyn Poland mill as we did a significant capital project to enhance our product quality.
Other significant factors impacting Brazil were escalating input costs disruptions due to the severe weather and just consistency of our manufacturing operations.
In the other category which shows up on the bridge that's primarily FX and driven by the weakening currency in China.
I think it's important for our Consumer Packaging business to highlight a lot of the positive momentum that may be masked in the previous bridge.
That's going to result in the business having improved earnings in the second half of the year and beyond.
It's important to note that 85% of our mill outages in the U.S.
business will take place in the first 5 months of the year.
We know that North American SBS backlogs remain strong at 5 weeks and we anticipate that will continue given the high outage schedule that I just mentioned.
We saw record cup demand in the Q1 despite January and February's weather in much of the U.S.
And we expect full realization of the announced price increases in both our Coated Paperboard and Foodservice grade in this business.
Real good news is we're continuing to see the positive momentum in the shift from foam to paper cups and that's going to benefit both our Coated Paperboard and Foodservice businesses.
To ensure that we have the capacity to take advantage of this growing demand we recently announced the expansion of our Kenton Ohio facility which we will complete by mid-next year.
And finally which is very exciting is we recently very successfully completed a significant capital project to our Bleached Board machine in Kwidzyn Poland and we will realize the benefits from enhanced product quality and expanded margin as we ramp up and bring this new product to market over the next year.
On Slide 15 let me move on to Printing Papers.
In Printing Papers we saw price improvement in North America and Brazil along with mix improvement as we exited lower-price positions as part of the Courtland transition.
But these were more than offset by lower volumes in North America Brazil and Europe.
The North American volumes were lower of course due to the Courtland shutdown.
And for Brazil the first quarter is just a seasonally slower quarter.
I'd want to note that volume and mix were adversely impacted by a slowing Russian economy.
And consequently there we saw an increase in our export shipment.
We do expect this trend to continue into the second quarter.
The higher costs that show up on the bridge are essentially result of the Courtland shutdown.
Higher inputs namely wood and energy unfavorable FX in Brazil and weather were also negative to the quarter.
We realized $36 per ton in price improvement across all the grades in North American paper and that's slightly ahead of expectations on a weighted average basis as that first price increase was applied to about 75% to 80% of our mix.
Turning specifically to an update on the Courtland shutdown on Slide 16.
Things are progressing well and we're entering the final stages of the shutdown and transition.
All production was ceased in the first quarter and we're currently depleting all the transition inventory.
Really important work on the qualification trials for the retained business is nearing completion.
I want to take a moment on behalf of the entire senior leadership team at the company to thank all our colleagues at the Courtland mill and across the North American Printing Papers business who've been involved with this really massive undertaking for a tough job that was done very well.
I'm happy to report that a significant number of our Courtland colleagues have found employment opportunities.
Many of which were in other International Paper facilities where we had openings and opportunities.
As we've talked about over the last couple of quarters we are incurring closure and transition costs as part of this initiative.
The impact on operating results in the first quarter was close to $30 million.
We expect costs in the second quarter to be about half that and then there will be some residual and transition costs that flow into the third and fourth quarters and they'll be in the range of about $5 million to $10 million per quarter.
Moving on to distribution.
Distribution did experience a challenging quarter as supply chain disruption due to the weather challenges certainly impacted operations and revenue.
Lower costs did help our margin but these benefits were more than offset by the weaker sales.
And as John mentioned we're making very good progress with the activities related to completing the spin/merge transaction with Unisource.
Moving on to the Ilim Joint Venture.
As John mentioned the Ilim Joint Venture had a very solid quarter of progress with $115 million of operational EBITDA and that improvement was driven by better operations better productivity which led to higher volume and increased pulp prices.
On IP's equity earnings though we were negatively impacted by the weakening ruble during the quarter and the resulting noncash FX impact on the JV's U.S.
denominated debt.
The JV saw its operational EBITDA as John said increase by $54 million in the first quarter and that just shows the very significant progress we're making on the ramp-up of our projects.
While the JV expect operational performance to continue to improve we have seen some decline in pulp prices from first quarter levels and that will modestly impact second quarter results unfavorably.
And while the Russian economy has slowed considerably that will impact our Paper business to the West.
It is important to note that all of -- much of our production a majority of our production in the East is destined for China and the China pulp demand for this business remains strong.
Turning to Slide 19.
I wanted to take a moment to give you an update on the 2 significant capital projects at the Ilim JV.
On the left is the Bratsk mill and on the right is the Koryazhma mill that houses PM-7 that we've started up.
The bar graphs represent the recent production ramp-up trends for each.
So if I look at Bratsk you can see that production continues to ramp up.
And to put a number on this we're showing that representing 30% increase in output from the fourth quarter of '13 to our outlook for the second quarter of '14.
And the JV expects to achieve full production targets on the new fiber line by year end.
In the case of the paper machine at Koryazhma the machine actually achieved full production and qualification on our uncoated freesheet grades in March.
So great progress at the JV and more to come as the year unfolds.
So before turning it back to John let me move to Slide 20 and give you an outlook into the second quarter.
I want to note that at the bottom we added a line on the chart to account for the first quarter weather impact which is $60 million across our North American business.
And remember this includes some volume the operational impacts and the input costs escalation that occurred in the first quarter.
Outside of that broad weather impact which included the items I just mentioned we expect volume to increase in North American Industrial Packaging by an incremental 1.5% to 2.5%.
Volume should also modestly improve the North American Consumer Packaging and in Brazil packaging.
Given the economic slowdown in Russia we do expect some modest unfavorable volume and price/mix impacts for the Paper business in that part of the world.
Paper pricing/mix will continue to improve in North America and to some extent in Brazil.
We should also see the benefit of higher pricing in fluff pulp.
We will see some favorable pricing in North American Consumer Packaging as we implement our announced price increase.
With the increase in volume in North American Industrial Packaging that comes from a ramp-up of some of the consumer packaged goods companies we could and will likely see some modest offset as our customer mix normalize.
And we do expect to see improvement in prices in our Brazil Packaging business.
Operations should continue to perform solidly and we'll see the benefit of lower shutdown costs at Courtland as I mentioned earlier.
Outside of the weather we expect overall input costs to be relatively stable with some puts and takes with some pressure on wood prices a slight headwind in our European business.
The second quarter is our heaviest maintenance outage quarter with outage costs up $60 million versus the first quarter.
And finally on the Ilim JV we expect solid operational performance to continue.
However pulp prices are -- declined slightly from the first quarter and we do have some planned maintenance outage in the quarter.
As always for the purposes of this exercise we're assuming no change in FX so a non-recurrence of that impact that we saw in the first quarter is planned for the second.
So with that as an outlook for the second quarter John let me turn it back to you.
Thanks Carol and I'm on I believe Slide 21.
Let me just summarize the major puts and takes as we move to the second quarter.
Severe weather is behind us and we've moved on.
We see in April increased volume particularly in our Industrial Packaging business.
We think that's both seasonal improvement but also related to some economic activity which is a good sign.
Price realization in boxes is solid and with year-over-year sequential box volume up.
We've got a number of pricing initiatives underway in coated paperboard fluff pulp North American paper and we expect to see those benefits in the second quarter balance of the year.
The Courtland shutdown as both Carol and I talked about is nearly complete and the costs will be coming down but we still got some costs with us.
We're going to experience our heaviest maintenance outage quarter of the year up $60 million from Q1.
Our tax rate should be up from first quarter levels to roughly 32% for the year assuming no major changes.
But if extenders get passed that will be lower.
Interest expense benefit we had in the first quarter won't repeat.
But all-in we expect a stronger earnings quarter ahead of this Q2.
Let me shift gears here for a minute to step back and comment about what IP is doing with our cash.
Previously we talked about IP as a cash flow story.
We're running our businesses well generating higher levels of sustainable free cash flow.
We're consistently generating returns for the company above our cost of capital.
We work hard to strengthen the balance sheet.
We've got $2.5 billion of debt since early 2012 and we met our leverage targets.
We've returned more cash to shareholders increasing the dividend in each of the last 2 fourth quarters as you see here on this slide.
And we've been executing our share buyback authorization since initiating that last September.
Simply put we've done what we said we would do.
In terms of the dividend you can see the recent history where we've made meaningful increases over the last couple of years.
We've increased the dividend by more than 33% since outlining our plan in mid-2012 moving the dividend from $1.05 per share to $1.20 in the fourth quarter 2012 then to a $1.40 in the fourth quarter 2013.
Very clear we're saying we think there's more dividend runway ahead and we continue to increase dividend as free cash flow grows periodically systematically thoughtfully and importantly sustainably.
Our target of 30% to 40% in free cash flow reflects really a trough-tested analysis of -- that we did because we intend whatever level we get the dividend to to make it sustainable.
And that 30% to 40% of our free cash flow which we outlined to many of you at Investor Day a couple of years ago really has dividend potential to grow the dividend to $1.60 to $2 a share.
A quick update on the share buyback program.
We've continued to be in the marketplace.
Since our fourth quarter call we've purchased over $460 million of stock since our call on February 4 at an average price of roughly $46.
This brings total authorization -- total purchases within our $1.5 billion authorization to nearly $1 billion in less than 8 months.
And as I said before with this authorization we continue to take advantage of the opportunity to buy back larger amounts of stock when the price is attractive relative to our view of intrinsic value.
So let me just wrap up by concluding what makes IP different.
I'm not going to read this final slide here but I think it highlights what IP does that does make IP different and enables us to generate strong free cash flow in today's economic environment and at the same time earn above cost of capital returns.
The economy is improving albeit slowly and that's going to help everybody.
But the good news for International Paper and our shareowners is that we have plenty of things to work on that will provide upside from where we sit today both in North America and in key markets around the globe.
So with that I'd be happy to take your questions.
Open it up right now.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> It's good to see volumes in containerboard bounce back in April.
What are you expecting for volume growth for the balance of the year? In containerboard? Research Division</strong> That's right in containerboard.
Mark do you want to take that? Sure.
Philip we started this year thinking we'll be looking at about a 1% demand environment in box and that's just using our analysis around nondurable goods production.
Of course the first quarter didn't start out that way.
But with a more normal trend of economic activity that's still a number we think is achievable for the balance of the year but it will all depend really and all driven by production in non-durable goods in the U.S.
But April is only 1 month in the quarter but we are seeing some underlying positive trends in customers and segments that really took a beating in the first quarter.
When I saw the GDP numbers that came out this morning for the first quarter I wasn't surprised by what our box demand was.
We were down 2 and GDP was basically flat.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
That's helpful.
And then based on your demand outlook how do you feel about inventory? And do you guys need to take any economic downtime going forward? Well we don't forecast the economic downtime given the cycle of the business but our inventories are in pretty good shape.
You noticed this is one of the first first quarters in the last couple of years that we weren't talking about a lot of supply chain costs and disruptions in the first quarter largely related to our inventory position.
So we feel good about our inventories.
We're going to obviously make the containerboard we need to serve the 3 channels that we're in: our Box business that IP owns and runs first and then our domestic open market and exports.
So I think we'll balance what we need in production.
We've got a large flexible system and I think lack of supply chain issues indicate we've got a pretty healthy quantity of inventory and the quality of our inventory is in good shape.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And just let me sneak one more in for Carol.
The potential dividend target you guys outlined how quickly can we get to that midpoint? Is that a 2014 event? Is that more of a '14 or 2015 event? Philip we've said that as we watch the free cash flow of the company improve and we watch the business results come in we'll evaluate it.
I would say that you've seen us raise it in the fourth quarter of '12 and the fourth quarter of '13.
So that's been the fact pattern so far.
Think incremental and periodic.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> One on OCC.
John obviously many people have talked about their expectation that OCC prices would -- are biased upward over the long-term.
But obviously that hasn't happened over the past couple of years.
Has there been anything over the past couple of years that you consider anomalous such that OCC should go up from here? And how much depends on China? Well a lot depends on China.
And at the end of the day China on the pulp side China is 100% of the world's incremental demand.
And you could make an argument it's probably pretty close to that in terms of incremental OCC demand.
There's no question China is going to elect more of their own OCC because their domestic box -- their box business to domestic market is growing as opposed to box business for export.
But remember China is close to a $50 million ton market.
So if it's growing at 4% a year that's 2 million tons a year and China is fiber short.
So it's almost -- it's hard to come to a conclusion.
OCC prices don't trend up over time with the biggest box market in the world being basically fiber short and recycled linerboard driven.
Research Division</strong> And just one on the additional capacity in containerboard.
How would you characterize the impact so far of the converted newsprint machines and of the new mills? And what do you expect the impact to be of the capacity that's been announced that has yet to hit the market but will do so later this year and into next year? Adam this is Mark Sutton.
On the new capacity that's actually running our view is the products that are being made are not all the same.
They have different end uses.
And in our own experience given we're largely integrated and we export twice as much containerboard as we sell domestically the impact directly to us has been pretty minimal.
However I think there are secondary impacts in the export market.
If our market grows as we expect it to modestly there should be a market to support some capacity additions.
It's hard to tell how that's going to play out in the future given the range of quality that -- and capability of these products but we're keeping an eye on it.
It's hard real hard to speculate on capacity that's being talked about but not yet here.
So we're just monitoring that.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Chercover with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quickies.
First of all on Ilim just to try and calibrate the model absent the FX hit should we see kind of low double-digit contribution perhaps even low teens in the first quarter? In terms of EPS? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Well in terms of the line item swinging from I think a loss of $31 million back towards $10 million to $15 million positive? I think the way to look at that would be to take the FX out and that operational EBITDA that we mentioned of the $115 million.
While we see good momentum on the production of the 2 projects in the mills we see a little pressure on pulp pricing.
And we have an outage that we'll take at the end of the quarter.
So I would expect that we would see operational EBITDA to be down a bit from that first quarter level.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I recognized that the sanctions are against individuals in Russia as opposed to corporations.
Are you concerned? Or do you have any contingency plans if things get worse? Well at this point in time Steve business conditions aren't worse as it relates to what's going on in the Ukraine.
Actually the weakening ruble is helping us in our competitive position because we have so much pulp we export to China.
And as paper -- the Russian economy was slowing going into the fourth quarter.
There's no question it slowed a little more because of what's going on in Eastern Europe and in the Ukraine but the weaker ruble is also helping us on our paper exports because of the ramp-up of that paper machine in Ilim combined with the paper machine we have in IP Russia.
We're exporting more paper out of Russia and the market and the currency is helping us.
We've got contingency plans.
We've taken on quite a bit of debt to fund those products but not all of that is long-term debt and we have good contingency plans in place to roll over that debt regardless of what happens in the financial market.
So like every other business we're watching the situation closely.
And with people on the ground over there we're getting input from people on the ground as to what's happening and also kind of following the news here.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just on the containerboard inventories every company seems to be comfortable with their levels.
Yet collectively they seem kind of high.
Should we recalibrate our concern threshold? Well I think that's possible.
I think when you look at the way that you can really leverage a well-run supply chain in these containerboard systems and I only know ours.
Managing to some arbitrary numbered inventory can actually cost you a lot more money.
So I think that's something we are looking at what's the best inventory for what we need.
And then again I've mentioned this before not only is our demand seasonal but our capacity is seasonal largely through our maintenance outages.
So that's not exactly the same every year.
So we've got to prepare through inventories to get through maintenance outages.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Research Division</strong> On the last call I think you guided to 10% improvement and full year EBITDA and free cash flow of roughly $2 billion.
And apologies if I missed this but is that still intact given the weather hit that you experienced in 1Q? Or are there kind of big moving pieces that impact that guidance as we're 1 quarter through the year? Well we said approximately -- we said a significant improvement in EBITDA approximately 10%.
There's no question we're starting off with a $60 million hole.
But we still see the year's shaping up with strong free cash flow and a meaningful improvement in EBITDA.
And we've got some tailwinds we can create and I think if we continue to see the April box data as beginning of a trend that's a positive sign.
So we've got no reason at this point to change what we said on that last call.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just shifting gears to Brazil.
In the quarter you increased your stake in Orsa and market conditions in Brazil have been a little bit soft.
I'm just wondering if you could talk a little bit about the progress that you've seen internally at Orsa the expected growth in margins that you hope to achieve in 2014 2015 and just generally the market conditions there.
There's been some talk about maybe power rationing is that something that potentially could impact you or your customers? Or any thoughts you have there? It's Tim.
Well just -- let's start with the last piece on energy.
Energy costs are up primarily because the -- Brazil the whole country is living through for the industrialized parts pretty significant drought at the moment.
So we're taking steps to mitigate any risk we might have around operational performance both on the paper side and the packaging side.
But we don't know what the weather is going to do so it's kind of a week-by-week situation.
In terms of Orsa we had a disappointing quarter.
Volume was lighter than we expected it to be.
The good news is it was isolated around a handful of customers that are experiencing their own challenges in the market.
We've taken steps and are taking steps to replace that volume.
And we saw a continuation of OCC going up.
So margins are not where we want it to be in the first quarter which includes December through the February period because we report on a 1-month lag.
The good news is that's the seasonally weakest quarter of the year and we're expecting a significant improvement in results as we go into the second quarter.
So we don't forecast earnings.
But I've stated before we think we can get the business into the mid-20s for EBITDA margins and I still think that's true.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Quinn with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question on North American paper price realizations.
I think Carol you mentioned $36 a ton on your commentary.
I'm just taking a look at Slide 43 in your deck and there's a $56 a ton quarter-over-quarter change.
Just wondering which ones -- which one is which.
Or is there a difference between the 2.
It's Tim again.
Actually they're both correct.
On the slide that you're looking at we did average to average realize $56 a ton.
We think about $20 of that was mix.
And so when we look at the first price increase across all of our tonnage you have to keep in mind that the announced price increase from the fall was only about -- on about 75% to 80% of our volume.
And we think we've got a fairly normal realization on that.
So it was $36 average to average.
We actually exited the quarter $3 or $4 above that.
So we felt pretty good about how we wrapped up the first price increase.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So essentially that $36 of the first price increase and then the extra $20 comes from your mix? Right.
We've got $36 average to average.
We actually exited in the quarter $3 to $4 above that.
So probably $39 $40 a ton across all the tons.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just over on Bratsk.
I mean I like the 30% improvement from Q4 to forecasted Q2 '14.
But what's the current operating rate? Or what was the operating rate for Bratsk in Q1 of '14? We came out on the new pulp line at about 1 400 tons a day which is about 70% of capacity.
And the -- Carol talked about the outage we have coming into second quarter -- late second quarter will enable us to take the next big step and get that closer to design levels as we go into third and fourth quarters.
LLC Research Division</strong> What's the current bottleneck at that mill? Pardon me? LLC Research Division</strong> What's the current bottleneck or where is the...
We've got a couple of cases to make on equipment.
There's no major bottleneck like with any biggest softwood pulp line in the world biggest continuous digester and we've got to go and do some not significant modification the vendor is going to do for us.
Don't worry about the Bratsk because we can sell all we can make.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> John in the U.S.
Containerboard business in the first quarter your volumes were down 2% the industry was flat if I'm comparing apples-to-apples.
And I think we had talked about in previous quarters that your volume should be more consistent with the industry numbers going forward.
So maybe just for the first quarter can you talk about what was different for you versus the industry? And then going forward how do you see your performance versus the industry in the volume side? Alex this is Mark.
The industry was actually down about 1.6%.
We were down 2%.
So we were roughly in line with the industry on a comparable basis.
And we still believe and we stated this before we should and we plan to try to grow with the market.
That's the type of customers we have the segments we participate in with a broad-based business.
And our expectation is over the long term to grow at the market rate.
And we were relatively close to that in the first quarter.
We've narrowed the gap.
From about 1.5 year ago we were as much as 300 to 400 basis points behind the market.
We talked about why and we've consistently narrowed that gap to the point where we're very close now.
Research Division</strong> So my mistake the 2% was on a per day basis that absolute.
Okay that clears it up.
And then on the optimization in containerboard in the U.S.
we talked about previously I think a potential $100 million per year over the next couple of years.
Can you just update us how you guys perform in the first quarter? I'm assuming it was probably challenging given the weather.
And sort of how do you see yourself being able to perform relative to the $100 million target as we move through 2014? We -- you're right it was challenging in the first quarter.
A lot of the optimization items we've highlighted are internal improvements not really market improvements.
And that is in supply chain and how we run our manufacturing operations.
There's a couple areas I'd point to.
John mentioned one of them I think earlier.
In our converting facilities in our Box business we ran very well.
We not only had a record first quarter in earnings but we had a best-ever performance in waste the performance in our converting operations.
And our supply chain across a number of metrics how we use transportation how we spend money moving our product from our mills to our box plants making sure we're making product in the right mill for the right end location all improved in the quarter.
So I think we made a good step.
Obviously the interruptions in the first part of the quarter made it more difficult.
I think the optimization is we're driving a racecar on the track and the more laps we get around the track the better the racecar gets.
And that's really what optimizing the business is all about.
It's a brand-new business for us 3x the size it was 5 years ago.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to dig into your comments a little bit on the April containerboard volumes.
You mentioned some pickup in underlying customers and end markets.
Can you talk about a little bit more specifically what types of customers are we talking about? And which end markets you're seeing recovery in? I would say in general given the month is just ending today I think 2 things I would say.
In customers it's broad based but it's mostly in the customers that were most impacted in the first quarter.
So you would think about the large consumer packaged goods companies that took maybe a disproportionate hit based on the type of products they sell and where they're located.
And then I would say geographically we're seeing a broad-based improvement from March especially.
No single place.
A lot of what we're seeing is with existing customers.
Obviously you don't win business in a 30-day period necessarily.
So a lot of it is with existing customers that we were off with in the first quarter and we're regaining with those customers.
But I would say across the board segment and geography.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then within Industrial Packaging you noted on Slide 38 that European container was actually up 2% year-over-year.
Looks pretty strong to me.
But how is that versus your expectations? Are you seeing some acceleration in the economy over there? What is sort of the underlying trends there? Think of our European Box business having 2 pieces.
There's Turkey and Morocco.
Both countries are -- had good volume growth.
Morocco was the strongest country in the European Box portfolio last year principally driven by fruit and vegetable exports to Europe.
And then we get to France Italy Spain business.
And frankly volumes and I think consistent with Western Europe coming out of a slump later than the U.S.
did is starting to -- I wouldn't say is sharply growing but it's coming back to life.
And so we're seeing some better box activity particularly in the industrial segments.
And so our box volume was up 4% quarter-over-quarter.
We expect it to have a rebound year-over-year and good news is we're seeing that.
Your next question comes from the line of Al Kabili with Macquarie.
Just I guess question for Tim on just the Uncoated Freesheet business how -- in North America how you're feeling about the second price hike at this juncture.
And any concern with some of the import -- additional import activity at Staples at this point? Well to be honest we've lost a little bit of position due to imports on cut size.
We'll see how long that holds up.
There's a few things you need to know about imports at least the way we think about it.
First they fluctuate dramatically over various periods of time and it's really driven by FX and by supply chain logistics costs.
There's a pretty long pipeline to supply from 1 region of the world to another and not without disruption.
But the other thing on imports even though we've seen significant growth coming into North America in the first quarter our belief is not all of that is staying in North America.
Because of the way the reporting is done we see it coming in.
You don't see it going back out.
And we believe that a portion of what's come in has come in for the purpose of redistribution back out to Central and South America.
So we don't think it's to the degree that the reported numbers state.
In terms of the business going forward it's difficult to predict demand.
But first quarter was no doubt soft especially in the January time frame and we think in part due to weather.
So the good news was that it improved all the way through the quarter and we exited March from a demand standpoint to a better place than we started for sure and April looks okay so far.
With Mark on the work we're not using a lot of copy [ph] paper.
No.
Okay.
And I think the volumes you indicated were down I think 19% overall.
Can you give us a sense or flavor sort of how that parsed out domestically versus exports? I imagine export was significantly a big driver of that.
And then in addition I know part of the strategy with Courtland was to improve the mix and sort of where you are on that.
You mentioned the transitional costs there.
But are we still very early in the process for mix improvement in that business that we should see improvement in the coming quarters as well? As we talked about just a minute ago we realized $56 per ton of average price realization and incremental increase in price quarter-to-quarter.
And about $20 of that we think was mix.
So it's not a precise science but we think that's a good number.
What was the other part of your question? I'm sorry.
I was just wondering if that -- if there's additional mix improvement that we should see beyond just what we saw in the first quarter? Well some of the mix improvement would be driven by seasonality.
So there could be some especially as we get into the stronger season of Q2 and in latter summer and the first part of the fourth quarter.
The August September October time frame is generally a strong seasonal period as well.
And some of the cut size promotions that we have run around either tax season or back-to-school.
So I'd say what you should take away from it is we feel like we're on track to the mix improvement that we wanted to get.
Your next question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Maybe going back to OCC question given that it's driven by China can you talk a little bit about what you're seeing in your Chinese Box business? And also I guess as someone who buys a fair amount of board in China when you look at the quality of the board you're buying do you have any sense if there's been a change in the mix of where OCC in China is coming from more domestic et cetera? Gail it's Tom Kadien.
I guess to the latter part we buy probably a dozen different grades of different kinds of test liner.
So we wouldn't see a change in the quality of what we're buying based on I'll call it the mix of domestic versus imported OCC.
Now that said the Chinese -- our view on it the box demand was flat to down.
Export kind of oriented Box business in China is off.
If you look at the Chinese economic data exports were down double digits in February.
They were down high single digits in March.
So the export-oriented Box business is down.
Domestic is growing.
But not fast enough to make up for the export.
So it's a pretty soft market.
Chinese New Year was pretty slow coming out of that and the first quarter box demand was certainly not what we'd hope for.
Now we have seen an improvement I would say in the month of April.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe just again international box.
Last quarter you talked about perhaps a bit of a struggle to pass through price increases on board into box.
With some of the recycle prices in Europe falling over has that become kind of a nonevent and not even a question at this point? Or are you still expecting to get some box price improvement over there? Well there's been some slippage in board prices and that's helping us on our we call delta P.
But it's still very competitive market in the marketplace for boxes.
So we haven't gotten a much price lift at all but we are getting some relief on the buy side because we're a net buyer of all of our board over there.
And some of it does come from the U.S.
on the virgin side.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I can maybe just throw in one last quick one staying on international boxes just the overall export market for your U.S.
board.
Gail the U.S.
board that we export I would say that I characterize the market on volume as stable.
And we are not seeing any significant changes in the demand pattern in the major markets that we serve including the board that goes through our own IP box plants.
Research Division</strong> And pricing? Pricing I'd say is also stable.
It will show in the data chart down quarter-over-quarter but that's partly because of the way we entered the fourth quarter.
But we've seen some recovery in isolated markets.
But overall I'd say it's a stable environment for the board we export which is kraft linerboard.
Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> Looking at the uncoated freesheet situation.
I know in the past sometimes when we see a price increase announced we wouldn't actually see the full amount maybe it was sort of some customers will pay the full amount but some might not.
And as we think about the second round of increases of $50 to $70 could you just clarify what percentage of your mix in North America or the U.S.
is subject to that? And is it your intention to pretty much show the full amount eventually I guess by the third or fourth quarter? Chip it's Tim.
It affects roughly 85% -- depending on how mix plays out 85% to 90% of our volume.
What I would say about the second increase we've had all of the conversations for the most part that we need to have with customers and we've settled all of those discussions.
So what you're going to see is price increase will play out through the second quarter.
And there's probably going to be a little bit that bleeds over to the first part of the third.
But I think we don't forecast price so -- but that's how I see it playing out.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then as we -- shifting gears a little bit when we look at sort of the containerboard market in North America -- well the Box business I'm sorry in April you mentioned that was up year-over-year after being down in the first quarter.
And one of your competitors was sort of suggesting it might not be up for them.
Do you think some of what you're seeing is share gain? Or maybe asked differently could it also involve maybe some catch-up with the first quarter issues? Or do you think there might be something more underlying going on in the marketplace? Chip this is Mark.
What I'd mentioned earlier is what we're seeing mainly in our business is rebounding with existing customers.
In that short of a period of time not a whole lot of business changes hands in terms of share.
So it's really -- I think part of it a snapback and part of it underlying economic improvement.
But the majority of what we see is in our existing customer base.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
Question on use of capital.
In particular given the last 5 or 6 years it seems a lot of evidence there's reduced volatility in your cash flows much more stability.
Does that incline you potentially to move to the top end of that 30% to 40% return through dividend range? No.
I think Mark that's an excellent point.
We do view that our business is definitely less cyclical.
And I think that view that it's less cyclical is also what's driven to the stable cash flows the stable cash flows then lead to the dividend view of 30% to 40%.
So I think they're all tied together.
And I think certainly we feel that cash flow is sustainable and we feel that those targets are appropriate and we'll just keep monitoring and pushing it.
And I think John laid out a pretty clear number of that $1.60 to $2.
Okay.
And then on the same topic you noted in the Slide 25 John spoke to under the global -- it says leveraging global platform for profitable growth.
And John you also made an allusion to Ilim working out pretty well here and increased confidence in your ability to make core businesses successful overseas.
Is that signaling a little increase in desire to seek out global growth? Or is it more kind of a reference to Orsa the acquisition there? I'm just trying to read what -- whether there's a little bit of enhanced conviction on growing overseas or not? Don't read anything into it Mark other than we're doing what we said we would do.
And we spent $1.5 billion in Russia on big capital projects not in our balance sheet but on the Ilim balance sheet.
And we're starting to deliver the results.
I mean we've gone through -- those projects are very complicated very difficult took longer than we thought.
And we're going to start to see the benefits from those come through.
And we'll get the same thing on Orsa.
Tim said we're a little bit behind there.
But if we know anything it's not around Industrial Packaging business just about anywhere and we'll get it right in Brazil.
Our final question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I know we're late here.
Two things: One on North America and then the other one on Orsa for Tim.
In North American Industrial Packaging if you look at the controllable factors obviously the weather had an effect in your ability to analyze this.
Where do you ultimately think you did better? Because from our vantage point you had a very solid quarter versus our model.
It sounded like it came more from converting relative to the mills.
But could you confirm that? The related question good managements that had a lot of experience in their businesses know how to adapt given market conditions.
Certainly you had a big curveball in terms of the weather.
Were there any levers that you pulled in the first quarter that might have been pulled more in the second quarter from the optimization standpoint that means that sequentially or later in the year you don't have quite the same pickup? And then a question for Tim on Orsa recognizing that you are confident in your ability to improve the margin to your target goal what gives you the most conviction in getting that goal Tim in the next couple of years? George on the first part for North American Industrial Packaging I think the way -- you're right it's hard to analyze the quarter in terms of what went well or better than -- I'm not sure what was in the model what went better than you might have expected.
But your comment about converting we definitely ran our Converting business very well and we expected to as we've been optimizing and moving business around and it's bearing fruit and on a number of fronts.
On the cost side on the service to customers in both cases.
And I think other than the early start to the quarter where we did have some couple of our mills got into some freeze issues we ran very well in our mill system which is a big part of our optimization plan.
It only takes a couple of our large mills to have a problem to kind of show you a poor average.
But on a 17 mills or 16 mills in the U.S.
we ran very well at most of them.
So I think it was across mills and converting.
As far as the levers on optimization I wouldn't say we pulled anything in the first quarter that we took from another quarter.
It was a lot of blocking and tackling and executing in the supply chain and how we run our mills from a reliability standpoint and in the choices we made relative to some of the action in response to what was happening on demand.
And we took some economic downtime and partly because of that demand environment not being where we thought it was.
And we have a pretty sophisticated model of how to do that and do it at the lowest marginal cost.
And we're getting better at that each quarter.
And we're not done.
We're still improving that process.
George it's Tim.
Just on Orsa around the conviction on the margins.
As John said we have a lot of experience around Industrial Packaging businesses and we're taking full advantage of that and leveraging that know-how across the business.
But just locally it's a market we know it's a market that we believe in long term and we've got a lot of talent there.
So getting the right talent in the right spots is a critical part of our success.
Lastly we like our customer base.
We think we're aligned with a really good set of customers and have been for a long time.
We had a couple of customers who struggled in their own markets in the first quarter and they'll probably struggle as we go through part of this year.
But overall I think people we've got a lot of cost improvement opportunities and we've got a great customer base.
I think we're done and just for me to say -- to wrap it up.
We continue to see this year shaping up as a good one for International Paper with a meaningful improvement in EBITDA and with strong free cash flow.
We look forward in giving you a further update on that when we report our second quarter results late July.
Thank you.
So thanks John and thanks again to all of you for taking the time to join us this morning.
As always Michele and I will be available after the call and our phone numbers are on Slide 26 of the presentation.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good morning.
My name is Patrick and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Vice President of Investor Relations Jay Royalty to begin the conference.
Jay? Thanks a lot Patrick.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining International Paper's second quarter earnings conference call.
Our key speakers this morning are John Faraci Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Carol Roberts Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call we will make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which are outlined on Slide 2 of our presentation.
We will also present certain non-U.S.
GAAP financial information.
A reconciliation of those figures to U.S.
GAAP financial measures is available on our website.
Our website also contains copies of the second quarter press release and today's presentation slides.
Lastly Slide 4 provides context around the Ilim joint ventures financial information and statistical measures.
With that I'll now turn the call over to John Faraci.
Thanks Jay and good morning to everybody.
As we normally do Carol and I are going to review the second quarter 2014 results and the performance of individual businesses then we'll speak to the third quarter outlook and open it up for your questions.
So I'm going to start them on Slide 5.
International Paper delivered strong earnings performance in the second quarter driven by very strong results in our North American Industrial Packaging business and solid performance around the globe in other key businesses.
Our North American businesses saw an expected recovery from a weather-impacted first quarter but we also continued to have higher-than-expected input costs.
Additionally we successfully executed almost $200 million of maintenance outages across the enterprise and importantly we didn't let that get in the way of continuing to operate in a very solid fashion.
Ilim continues to be a good news story with solid operational EBITDA attributable to benefits from the continued improvement at both projects Koryazhma and Bratsk.
And despite some softness in the pulp markets in the second quarter the joint venture also had a favorable FX gain as the ruble strengthened against the U.S.
dollar.
Think of that as a reversal from the opposite we had in the first quarter.
In early July IP's Board of Directors approved an additional $1.5 billion share repurchase authorization which extends the program implemented last September and Carol's going to update you on second quarter activity a little bit later on in the presentation.
On the people front.
We announced the appointment of Mark Sutton as President and Chief Operating Officer of International Paper on January 1.
The board and I are very pleased to have Mark in that role.
He's an experienced global leader and operator knows IP and the industry well.
He's with us here in the room today and will participate in the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Finally we completed the xpedx transaction on July 1 as IP spun off our North American distribution business and merged it with Unisource to create a new publicly traded company called Veritiv which is now trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
And I want to wish all of our former colleagues and Mary Laschinger the Chairman and CEO of Veritiv a lot of success going forward and wish the new company well.
So let's move on to the financials.
That's Slide 6.
EPS was $0.95 a share up almost 50% over the second quarter of last year.
EBITDA was $1.1 billion up from $920 million in the first quarter.
Margins grew as well up 90 basis points over last year and 160 basis points over the first quarter.
Free cash flow was $380 million compared to $250 million in the first quarter.
And with that I'm going to turn it over to Carol and let her walk through the details on the quarter and the business results and then we'll get to the forecast outlook and your questions.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
Let me turn to the sequential EPS bridge where it shows that we are $0.95 per share in the second quarter versus $0.61 per share in the first quarter.
The strong results were driven by price improvement across several of the businesses.
We had higher volume solid operational performance across the enterprise and a significant positive noncash FX swing as the ruble recovered against the U.S.
dollar on Ilim's JV U.S.-denominated debt.
These positive swings were partially offset by significantly higher outage costs as planned in the quarter and as John referenced they went very well.
Some of the improvement in volume operations and input costs I can say were attributable to moving past the weather disruptions in North America that did plague the first quarter.
But beyond that we experienced seasonal improvement in demand in North American Industrial Packaging and solid operating performance on all fronts.
Courtland closure and transition costs were lower in the quarter as expected.
Input costs moderated slightly.
However I would say that they remained high throughout the quarter and we're going to talk about the outlook going forward.
Corporate items were slightly favorable but they were more than offset by a slightly higher tax rate of 32% as expected and higher interest cost due to a tax reserve that was established in the quarter.
Turning to Slide 8.
I want to take a look at the year-over-year input costs for the first half of 2014.
And as you can see on the right-hand side of the slide wood and energy have been significantly higher probably a bit higher than expected and significantly higher than last year.
While they moderated slightly in the second quarter we are seeing continued pressure on wood higher electricity costs and higher chemical costs as we move through the third quarter.
Turning now to the businesses.
Industrial Packaging delivered strong results as prices held firm volume increased operations were solid and input costs moderated slightly.
Pricing was stable in North America and up in Brazil.
Volume was seasonally stronger in North America and we also experienced significantly higher volume in our European Package -- Packaging business as year-over-year volumes were up 5% for the second quarter and 4% year-to-date.
So a very strong performance out of our European Packaging business.
Operations recovered following the weather-plagued first quarter and we successfully executed peak maintenance outages of $91 million.
Input costs were lower by $13 million primarily natural gas and OCC.
As I move you to Slide 10 and take a look at the North American margin comparisons IP and our team turned in another strong quarter and continues to outperform our primary competitors.
These margins are inclusive of the significant maintenance downtime that we took in the quarter.
Slide 11.
I thought it'd be good if we took a look at our volume results for the U.S.
Corrugated business.
And as you can see we were up a little over 5% sequentially and 1% year-over-year right in line with the industry.
It's interesting to note that when you take a look a little deeper dive at our performance regionally you can see that IP outperformed the industry east of the Rockies.
The east of the Rockies represents about 82% of our business.
We underperformed west of the Rockies the remaining 18%.
Our underperformance in the west is largely attributable to our heavy exposure to the agricultural box segment which is having a tough growing season due to a number of unfavorable weather patterns.
When you look at the right-hand side of the slide we show some of our larger segments and how we're performing versus the average.
You can see that poultry as well as shipping and distribution and shipping and distribution does include e-commerce are performing well.
While as I mentioned ag is down processed foods and the beverage segment which are a couple of the largest segments we have are basically flat year-to-date.
I think this explains a lot about the overall results for not only International Paper but the industry.
So our success in Industrial Packaging is evidenced in both our margin and our commercial and volume performance.
We bring a lot of value to our customers that we serve.
We have a top-notch commercial team manufacturing and supply chain organization that is winning in the marketplace every day and importantly helping our customers win.
So moving on to Consumer Packaging on Page 12.
The Consumer Packaging business we're starting to see the benefits of our commercial momentum that we've been talking about as we move past the last of the significant not only North American outages but European outages.
Prices were up on average in our North American Coated Paperboard business about $20 a ton.
Volumes in both North America Coated Paperboard and our Foodservice business were up in the quarter offset by lower volume in Europe due to a significant maintenance outage at our Kwidzyn mill.
Our North American Foodservice business had a record quarter on revenue up 11% year-over-year.
Operations improved significantly as we moved past the weather and delivered solid performance for the quarter.
Moving to Slide 13.
As we've talked about previously Consumer Packaging is really a second-half story.
The first half results have clearly been burdened with the weather heavy maintenance outages high input costs and the construction and start-up of our grade enhancement project at our Kwidzyn Poland mill.
As we move into the second half of the year most of our outage costs are behind us volume will be higher due to less planned maintenance downtime higher cup stock volumes due to the Foodservice growth and the growing shift from foam to paper cups which is a real positive for us on both sides.
Also we expect to see additional benefits from the ramp-up of the new grade Alaska Plus out of our Kwidzyn Poland mill.
And finally we'll see continued realization of the previously announced North American SBS price increases.
This is all going to translate into higher earnings for the business for the balance of '14.
Turning now to our global Printing Papers business.
We experienced higher pricing in North America on uncoated freesheet and fluff pulp as well as in Brazil on papers.
Volumes were lower in North America as well as Brazil.
Operations improved as once again we moved past the weather and performed well.
Maintenance outages were high offsetting $30 million of segment earnings and input costs moderated slightly.
And as I have previously mentioned we did have lower costs at Courtland as expected.
The positive swing in other is primarily related to some favorable FX impact that we saw in Brazil.
Looking at Slide 15.
We thought it would be instructive to take a closer look at the sequential earnings across the Printing Papers business on a regional basis.
And I would say that we feel the results were encouraging really across the globe.
As a reminder we have a truly global paper business.
Roughly 2/3 of what we sell is produced outside North America.
As this slide shows North America was up solidly in both Printing Papers and pulp.
Brazil was up as well despite significant volume constraints attributable to the additional government-declared holidays around the World Cup event and really less-than-robust demand.
Europe was down but that was entirely attributable to $23 million in higher outage expenses in the quarter.
And for our Indian businesses it was basically flat.
So all in the business performed well in the face of a mediocre global demand environment.
Touching on the Ilim JV.
It's good to report that the JV had another solid quarter of operating performance as we had continued progress with both the ramp-up of Bratsk and continued good performance out of the Koryazhma mill.
And this largely offset some lower pulp prices that we sold to China.
Additionally as John mentioned we did have the positive swing to the JV earnings as the ruble strengthened against the U.S.
dollar on the JV's $1.5 billion U.S.-denominated debt.
The JV took a significant outage at the Bratsk mill at the beginning of the third quarter to address a bottleneck issue with the pulp digester the cost of which will impact negatively our earnings in the third quarter.
But the great news is productivity coming out of the outage is very encouraging and should enable acceleration of the JV's progress towards the final ramp-up to the original pulp mill project expectations.
So let me kind of pull it all together on Slide 17 and take a look moving forward to the third quarter.
As we see it volume across the enterprise will be relatively stable with some improvement in North America Consumer Packaging as I described earlier.
Pricing will be largely stable as well with some continued realization of the previously announced price increases on fluff pulp and in our Coated Paperboard business in North America.
We expect solid operating performance to continue across the businesses and maintenance outages will be lower by a significant $135 million in the third quarter.
We do expect input costs that will remain elevated and in some cases will increase slightly as we've noted on the chart.
In North America our Papers and Packaging businesses we expect to see continued pressure on wood costs particularly in Texas and the surrounding region along with higher electricity costs and higher chemical costs.
In Brazil we expect to see higher energy and fiber costs as well.
At the Ilim JV as always we don't forecast FX movements so the assumption is that that gain of $0.07 won't repeat.
And also we have the additional cost of the outage at Bratsk early in the quarter.
The anticipation of continued operational benefits post the outage are offset by lower average pulp prices for the quarter.
And finally with the spin of xpedx at the beginning of the third quarter there is a nonrepeat of earnings and additionally an equivalent amount of transitional costs much of which will work off over time.
So finally on 18 a couple more things to update on before I turn it back over to John.
I think it's worth highlighting some of the significant developments in the quarter with regard to the company's finances.
As you know IP is in an excellent position and we continue to get stronger.
First based on the consistency of our solid financial performance Moody's upgraded our credit rating one notch.
Additionally in the quarter we executed a bond issuance and a tender offer that enabled us to address the upcoming debt towers in 2018 and '19 and replace high-cost debt with lower-cost debt.
We were able to take advantage of these historically low interest rates on 10- and 30-year debt and take some risk off the table in the upcoming term.
As John mentioned earlier we successfully executed the xpedx spin on July 1 and we received $400 million in cash.
And additionally our shareowners got 51% of the new company Veritiv.
We also received an additional $1.5 billion share buyback authorization from the board.
In the quarter we purchased $296 million of stock at an average price of just over $46.
And from the inception of the program through June 30 we've purchased approximately $1.1 billion of stock at an average price of $46 a share.
And finally I want to mention that there's a potential Highway Trust Fund legislation that could have a positive impact on reducing future pension contributions likely in the range of $800 million to $1 billion over the next few years.
While there would be a corresponding loss of the tax deduction for these contributions this would have a positive impact on cash available for reallocation.
So all in all some very good developments and accomplishments in the second quarter.
So with that let me turn it back over to John.
Thanks Carol.
So summing up.
The IP leadership team continues to find ways to build on our success and improve the strength and importantly the performance of International Paper.
In addition to the accomplishments that Carol spoke about and as I've said before we've got many levers to pull to improve and deliver strong results despite a challenging global environment.
We seem to come up with new reasons to have a challenging global environment every day it seems.
But I'm pleased with the progress we're making and the results we're posting along the way.
We're generating strong sustainable free cash flow and we're deploying that cash with the objective of maximizing shareowner value.
So all in as we look to the future we like what's ahead.
And with that we'll be happy to take your questions now.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Gail Glazerman from UBS.
Research Division</strong> I guess just starting with -- and I know there were some comments on the news wires this morning.
But can you talk a little bit about the MLP potential and how you would think about that and kind of how you -- just what obstacles and opportunities you might see? Sure.
Yes Gail.
This is Carol.
First let me say very importantly that we maintain a constructive and open dialogue with all our shareholders.
And we're always open to new ideas and ways to increase shareholder value.
We have been studying the MLPs for some time.
And for us it just remains unclear as to whether this concept would really be value-creating for the company.
Today as I think everybody knows and it's been written about there is a moratorium on private letter rulings at the IRS.
And there has been one prior favorable ruling on pulp but as everybody knows there's no precedent for containerboard or coated paperboard at this time.
So all that said even if we could get a private letter ruling from the IRS we're not yet -- and I would say we're somewhat far from convinced that this would be a good idea and a good idea on a number of fronts that are unique to International Paper and the business we're in.
The first issue that you have is the potential tax cost and the tax leakage given that the assets involved here are fairly highly depreciated.
The other consideration that we're looking at very hard is the operational commercial challenges and some of the restrictions on how it would require us to run the business.
And then the third piece that really plays into an MLP is the capital considerations.
And as everybody knows in our business we're a capital-intensive industry and sometimes the capital particularly in these big and integrated mills can be fairly lumpy.
So all that said we're going to continue to evaluate it until we can reach a conclusion for ourselves and importantly until the IRS makes clear what their new requirements are going to be for MLPs.
And so in the interim we’ll continue to operate our business as is and we expect to do so for the foreseeable future.
So we'll continue to study it and we'll look at it.
And we're -- as we said we're always looking for creative ways to unlock more value.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you just give us some color on what you're seeing in terms of demand trends in the third quarter? And maybe how this transitions from the second quarter into third quarter I guess in terms of key businesses as well as key global regions.
Bill do you want to talk about the box business? Going from the second quarter into the third quarter we're not seeing much of a change in overall demand trend.
We saw a week -- first week of the quarter with the holiday ending on a Friday and you had a long weekend there.
That impacted shipments for a couple of days.
But since then the trend has been very much the same as we saw in June.
So we're not seeing a lot of changes in boxes.
Anything else in particular Gail you want to hear about? Research Division</strong> I guess what you're seeing in China and maybe a little bit in uncoated freesheet and how the market may not have firmed up as I would've expected given the magnitude of the closures.
Tom Kadien was just in China so he can speak to [ph] that.
Yes China's kind of moving along.
I'd say it's a slow growth.
It's up a couple percent 3% which is less than we would normally feel.
I think -- and I'm speaking right now about our box markets over there.
There's a lot of capacity in all markets over there right now.
And growth is positive but it's not like -- it doesn't feel like the reported 7-plus percent that they're talking about for GDP.
Gail it's Tim.
Just on the uncoated freesheet front similar to Bill we are seeing things from second to third quarter so far kind of moving along sideways.
Having said that we normally see a seasonal pickup as we go into August and September.
So we'll have to see how that plays out.
I would say just globally uncoated freesheet because of a lot of factors around the world has not had the year that we all thought it would from a demand standpoint whether it's the Ukraine or the World Cup in Brazil.
Our volumes in Brazil looked pretty flattish and anemic through the first half of the year.
We thought the World Cup would help.
It clearly did not.
It actually hurt.
So I would expect that in the second half there's an opportunity for things to pick up a little bit but we'll just have to see how it plays out.
Our next question comes from Anthony Pettinari from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on Ilim.
You have a slide that references $550 million to $600 million in fully ramped potential.
Can you just give us some color on what fully ramped means? And what would be the time frame to potentially hit that? And then just maybe a related question.
The U.S.
and Europe put on a stricter round of sanctions on Russia.
And I guess you'd expect the Russians to reciprocate.
Did the sanctions have any impact on Ilim or how you operate the business or generate earnings from the business? Well let me take that in 2 pieces Anthony.
Just to give you a little bit more color on how we get to the $550 million to $600 million.
The big piece of that is Bratsk.
Before this outage we were running the pulp mill at about 1 200 tons a day.
Coming up out of the outage and it's only been 10 days we've been averaging 1 700 tons a day and hit over 1 900 tons a day in the first 10 days or so.
So dramatic increase.
The capacity of that pulp dryer is a little over 2 000 tons a day.
So that has a huge impact on the cost structure of the mill plus you've got the incremental volume.
So that and then getting the coater up and running at Koryazhma so we can make both uncoated paper which we're making a lot of now we're running that at design rates; and coated paper we'll be the only supplier of coated paper in the Russian market are -- will be the biggest pieces of getting from where we are which is a run rate of call it $450 million to the $550 million to $600 million.
In terms of what's going on in the Ukrainian sanctions we'd need to see the details on what this last round of sanctions that kind of were in the paper that the U.S.
and the Europeans are putting on.
I'd say up to now the impact on our business has primarily been felt in Eastern Europe.
Obviously Ukraine has been impacted a lot.
It wasn't a big market for us but the Eastern European markets have been impacted.
The Russian economy was already slowing down.
And sanctions we wish there were a -- we could resolve these issues.
But up until now there's been no impact on our business other than the spillover of economic activity slowing down in Eastern Europe.
And while this isn't a positive -- a plus for the Russian economy the Russian economy was slowing down well before the Ukraine issue got on the radar screen.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And maybe just a quick follow-up on containerboard.
Pulp and Paper Week recently lowered medium prices by $10 a ton and has talked about weakness in recycled prices.
And I was wondering if that price reduction was surprising to you and if you could maybe characterize the impact to IP.
Anthony this is Mark Sutton.
That's a great question.
Let me -- before I answer that question let me take this opportunity just to make a statement about -- as I roll into my new role.
I've met many of you on the call.
I look forward to spending more time with you in my new role.
I've been spending time with our global business leaders and teams getting up to speed not only on near-term issues and what we can do for the rest of 2014 but also on the strategic front.
And I'm increasingly coming away with a better feeling an excited feeling about the opportunities we have as a company and also a better feeling in confirming my belief that we have the best people in the industry globally.
So I'm excited about the new role look forward to working with all of you that follow our industry and cover us.
With respect to your question I think the medium price changes that occurred we view it as an isolated event and somewhat of a regional event.
We haven't seen much of an impact on our business at all.
As we said earlier in Carol's part our prices were firm through the quarter.
I think you've got some issues going on that we've talked about at prior calls.
As new capacity comes on it's quite common for products to be made initially at the lower end of the technical scale.
I think some of that's probably been happening which requires some pricing behavior to get people to try it.
So we don't see it as a big impact on our business at all.
Our next question is from Chip Dillon from Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> First question I guess is more directed to you Carol about the Highway Trust Fund bill.
You mentioned that it would maybe allow you to avoid I guess $800 million to $1 billion in contributions.
Could you give us an idea of when that would occur? And maybe said differently or asked differently what are your current forecasts for contributions say for '15 '16 maybe '17? And how would they differ? Chip yes.
So as you think about the things we've talked about we said that we expected about $1.2 billion to $1.5 billion to go into the pension and that was like '13 '14 '15; '14 '15 '16 and so it was in that time frame.
We didn't put much in '13.
And as you can see through the cash flow statement so far this year we've put in a little under $300 million and we actually made another required payment in July.
So we're up a little over $300 million this year.
Now we have another required contribution in '15 and '16 that would be the balance of that $1.2 billion.
So we were looking at roughly $1 billion of additional required contribution in '15 and '16.
That's the contribution that we won't have to put in if indeed the bill gets passed and written into law as it's written today.
And it's all around widening the corridor and pushing out the impact of these lower interest rates.
So that's the impact we have.
Now what happens on that of course is you'll lose those tax deductions and so there's a cash tax implication.
But all in all if you say "Hey we put $1 billion less in.
We're going to have to pay taxes on that " you can see that you're going to net $600 $700 of positive cash over this period of time.
That would've gone somewhere else now we can do something else productive with.
I hope that helps.
LLC</strong> That's very helpful.
And just as a quick follow-up.
I think you said something about -- I mean as we look at the third quarter maybe you can quantify the Bratsk outage.
I'm not sure you did.
And I think something was mentioned about lower pulp prices and it seems like softwood has sort of hung in there.
I know it can be quite volatile from Ilim into China and so maybe you could talk a little bit about how you see the softwood pulp picture.
Well I could probably let Tim comment but I think the softwood pulp and I use the word very deliberately average price.
So it's average-to-average.
So while our pulp prices are very stable now and we feel good about the markets going forward there was some movement down in the price through the second quarter.
But when you look at it average-to-average it's lower.
And relative to the Bratsk outage we did not comment on the specific cost of that outage.
We don't really disclose that for the JV but it was a fairly good-sized outage.
But the good news is as John said we're coming out of it running very very well.
LLC</strong> And do you think that better running in August and September could offset that cost? Or probably not quite? Well that has the potential.
And that's why we said we think that some of the good operations could offset the pulp price and we'll have to see about how we run the rest of the quarter.
But we've been running well and so we've been pleasantly surprised the last couple of quarters relative to Ilim's operational performance.
Next question is from Alex Ovshey from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> John just a couple of questions for you.
First just going back to the MLP question.
Would you be able to tell us how long you've been looking into this question? And I know Carol provided some nice detail around some of the potential challenges around the tax leakage and restrictions on capital spend and just the time that is necessary to really be able to thoughtfully address those questions.
So I mean from your perspective outside of what the IRS may or may not say how long do you think it may take before IP has a better view on whether or not it could sort of overcome those obstacles? Yes.
So again we'll -- we've been looking at it for quite a few months now.
And as I said we'll continue to evaluate that and also see where the IRS comes out on their requirements for MLPs.
After the IRS decides at that time we'll have had enough time that we'll decide if we think that some proposed MLP structure has sufficient merits.
And if that was the case at that point we'd pursue a private letter ruling.
If we were to receive a private letter ruling and continue to take it [indiscernible] that's when we would make a public statement as such.
But I think we're still a long ways from that between both our evaluation and really where the IRS is.
And so once again as I said we're going to continue to operate our business as is and continue to evaluate it and look at the complexities and the opportunity and see if there's really an opportunity for true value creation.
Yes and that said I mean if you look at IP's track record and the decisions we've made over the last 6 7 years and most recently the spin merge with xpedx and Unisource which was a transaction I think we were the first ones to do take 2 private companies and take them public we're ready willing and able to do things that are complicated that we think create long-term value for the company and our shareowners.
So there's more work to do.
Research Division</strong> Right right.
Very helpful John and Carol.
And just a question on Containerboard.
Looking at industry inventory levels relative to a 5- or 10-year average they do seem -- or they are higher than that.
I'm just curious if you can talk about where IP's inventory levels sit and how you feel about them.
And then maybe looking back to last year when we did have the inventory levels above the 10-year average we saw the industry take some slow-back.
So I'm interested in whether or not you're building in any slow-back of production to your output for the back half of the year on Containerboard? Alex this is Mark.
I'll take the inventory question.
I think with respect to IP's inventories we manage our supply chain very very efficiently and we like the shape that our inventories are in right now.
We have been operating on some supply chain metrics at best-ever levels in terms of having the right stock in the right box plants.
Also in a challenging transportation environment managing our transportation cost the best we can.
So we like where our inventories are.
I think overall -- and I'm not going to comment on overall industry inventories and projecting slow-backs and that part of your question.
What I will say though is the way we run our business -- now I'll remind you again we look at our Containerboard business as a global business.
We have 3 main channels that we bring our product to market.
The biggest one obviously is our own box business.
We also serve very important customers in the U.S.
open market.
And then thirdly we export a significant amount of our containerboard to parts of the world that need it and value it.
A portion of that is our own box plants internationally.
So when we look at how we run our containerboard system we run it to the demand we have from our customers through all 3 of those channels.
And the float between the channels allows us to optimize the business at any given period in time and adapt to seasonal demand issues.
So that really drives our decision for how we run our system and that is based on the demand of our customers.
Next question is from Al Kabili from Macquarie.
First question I guess is for Tim on the uncoated freesheet.
The transitional costs with the Courtland closure do we get any additional sequential benefit from that in the third quarter? It didn't look like there was much explicitly indicated in the outlook.
Yes.
It hasn't changed a whole lot Al since first quarter when we updated everyone.
But it'll be less than 10 in the third quarter and probably around 5 in the fourth quarter and then it pretty much just trails off.
So we're down to the final pieces at this point.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then the second question that I had I guess is switching over to Containerboard.
Mark it looks like you're talking about flattish no real change in volume trends in July.
And if I look at the outlook it sounds like you see on the volume end of things CPG improving in North America on Slide 17.
And I was wondering if you could kind of clarify the flattish July trends versus sort of the commentary on the outlook if there's some visibility there that things are getting better.
Kind of how are you thinking about what are you hearing from customers from a demand perspective on the outlook in the back half? Sure Al.
On the comments that Bill Hoel made about the box market in July that was Corrugated Packaging.
And on the outlook chart that you're looking at that's all of our Packaging and that CPG refers to our Consumer Packaging business where we see improving -- slightly improving demand.
And we have the capacity with most of our outages behind us to meet that.
So that's the difference there.
I think Bill covered some of it and Carol had a piece on the slide that had our east and west breakout.
So a lot of our customers inside of certain segments are still seeing their business driven as kind of a mirror image of the U.S.
economy and the behavior of the consumers.
There's some movement within segments.
In the protein segment some of the poultry businesses as it's well-known are doing better.
And part of that's having to do with the challenges that the beef industry has had with corn prices.
That tends to change over time.
So within segments there are different customers who have a certain product that's winning in the marketplace.
We obviously try to align ourselves up with those customers.
But the segments are so large and our corrugated position is so large that over time some of these trends tend to offset themselves.
So 1 or 2 quarters [indiscernible] press release.
The order activity in boxes for the last few weeks has been fairly decent.
I think one other point that we didn't cover is that in July we have 1 more day than we had last year or last month.
So even though the daily shipments are relatively flat you do have 1 more day not only in the month but in the quarter the third quarter versus second quarter.
So that helps you out in overall absolute volume.
But our order activity has been pretty strong.
I think one of the other challenges we have in the second half of the year is the West Coast ag business.
We're heavily involved in fresh fruit and vegetables in the West Coast.
And with the drought conditions it could be a little soft there.
The rest of the segments that we serve though are relatively strong.
So overall we're more than making up for the weakness in the fresh fruit and vegetables in the second half.
Our next question comes from Mark Weintraub from Buckingham.
First I was hoping -- can we get an update on your dealings with the mills you had divested as part of the Temple acquisition? I think the Indy paper I think that contract was potentially going to change at midyear.
Sure Mark.
The divested mills there were 3 mills that we divested just about 1 million tons.
Two of them were for the creation of New-Indy Containerboard.
Yes there was a 3-year agreement to purchase tons from those divested mills and with a -- its really agreed-upon ramp-down.
And so we're just progressing through that and I think it's been working pretty well in terms of the -- where we started a couple of years ago and it goes through the middle of next year.
And so we're continuing to purchase from that mill and also the third one which was purchased by Hood Container.
And those are mostly making medium a product that we are obviously short of after selling those mills.
And so we're continuing with the current plan of ramp-down and we'll get to the final year between this summer and next summer when the final 12 months of the agreement unfolds.
Okay.
And so it's a ratable ramp-down is the way we should think about it? Yes.
It's not a cliff drop-off in volume.
That works really for all supply chains ours as well as the companies that we sold the mills to.
So we designed a smooth ramp that just allows us to perform at the most cost-effective way and the best service platform we can have to our converting plants.
Okay great.
And...
The DOJ agreement expires in July of next year.
And second in prior calls you've given some guidance indications on free cash flow.
Would those be pretty much unchanged as you're looking at 2014 right now? Or any adjustments? Yes I think we still feel good about our free cash flow generation capability.
We had some headwinds.
We had headwinds in the first quarter relative to the weather.
It's hard to see us getting that back.
I feel like we've got a headwind around some input costs that seem to be trending a bit higher than maybe what we had expected.
But the businesses continue to run well and so it's going to be all around the second half performance.
So I feel good about -- that we are going to have another strong year of that free cash flow performance that we've talked about.
Our next question is from George Staphos from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple of questions maybe for Carol or for Tom.
Realizing that pricing is going to be a key driver of this if we held pricing flat at today's level or second quarter average levels if you prefer that what kind of ramp-up would you be having us think about in terms of the consumer segment profitability versus the first half? The second question I had is could you update us on the thoughts at Orsa Tim given the performance? It's obviously been improving.
What type of ramp and what type of attack do you need to see to get Orsa back to a more profitable level? And I actually had one follow-on if there's time.
George this is Tom.
On the pricing.
The first quarter announcement I think we showed about $5 in the second -- at the end of the first quarter.
I think our AGS is up another 21 since that's the average in the second quarter.
And as we exit rate out of the second quarter we still have more realization to get in the third quarter off of that first quarter increase.
So it's fully in.
We announced 50.
We'll net less than 50 but more than 40.
George it's Tim.
On Orsa.
Yes it's gone slower than we wanted it to but I think we have finally started getting traction.
One of the things that hasn't helped has been the market.
The market's actually slightly negative year-to-date versus last year.
And coupled with that we've had a few customers that because of market conditions and their position they've struggled and that's impacted us.
Having said that I feel really good about what has started happening over the past couple of months on the commercial side.
We've had some capital that has started going in that is allowing us to automate some of the facilities and reduce headcount.
So our costs are going to start coming in line.
The mills are running well.
They had a better quarter in the second quarter than in the first.
And I would expect another -- we took a bit of a step-up in the second quarter versus the first I would expect a more significant one between now and the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> Tom just a quick one if I could.
So is there a way to size what kind of improvement overall the segment should be if you hold your pricing where it is? And if it's not possible to guide in that way should we assume that most of the benefit you see second half versus first half is pricing? And then a quick one on MLP.
You can answer this just yes or no.
How significant is the question of integration of the box plants with the mills in terms of understanding the complexity in terms of whether MLP structures make sense for you or not? I'll do the last one first.
Yes.
And in terms of the Coated Paperboard business here in North America the third quarter's going to be a significant ramp-up.
We'll get price realization as I outlined.
But we had significant outages.
We've had a tough first half frankly.
We had weather in the first quarter.
We had outages in just about every month up through May and we finally started to see our stride in the June month.
We've got good backlogs coming out of the quarter.
Pricing's headed up.
So we'll show the earnings power of the business that we used to enjoy 1 or 2 years ago before we had to shut down Augusta PM#2.
So we'll have a good third quarter.
The next question is from Steve Chercover from D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Yes my question was also on Bleached Board.
So the momentum that we've just been discussing that's the final implementation of the April price hike? Am I -- is it safe to assume that the July 1 hike had no impact but we've got one pending for September 1 and that's presumably more of a Q4 event as well? Yes we're talking -- I've been talking about our first quarter announcement that we implemented in the second quarter and there's a tail of realization in the third quarter.
Some of our competitors have announced increases either in June or more recently and I'm not going to really speak to that on this call.
But we see strong backlogs.
Our backlogs are 5 weeks coming out of the Fourth of July holiday.
And we feel pretty good going into the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then also on the MLP I guess it's more of an observation.
It's safe to say that this is definitely a big-brainer as opposed to a no-brainer but you guys won't proceed without a private letter ruling? Yes a private letter ruling is required.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Because I think you could assume the risk but then if you have an adverse decision then it's on you.
But -- okay.
We'll put it back together again.
Your next question is from Mark Wilde from Bank of Montréal.
John I wondered if you or Carol would want to just comment on timing of the share repurchase particularly the new program.
Because you've just -- you have moved through that first program so much more rapidly than the targets you'd laid out last year.
Yes Mark.
I think this is a clear example of we embarked on something and we said "Hey we've got a great opportunity to provide cash back to our shareowners." We'd like to do it opportunistically.
The key tenet is we prefer to buy the stock obviously at intrinsic value or below.
And when we see a good opportunity to buy back stock we've done so.
We're continuing to generate strong cash so we feel like it's an important part of our capital allocation strategy.
And I think looking backwards you can see our actions.
And getting the next $1.5 billion authorized is about being ready to continue to move in that direction.
We're in a strong cash position so we'll continue to work in this direction and I think it's become an important part of International Paper's more strategic capital allocation program.
I would just emphasize what Carol said at the end.
I mean if you think about balanced use of cash and where we are with the balance sheet and our dividend it's not policy but we told the shareowners about the dividend 30% to 40% of free cash flow because taking share buybacks is part of the way IP deploys cash and returns cash to shareowners.
Okay.
The follow-on I had was just around kind of bulk margins in Containerboard and Uncoated Free Sheet.
On the Containerboard side you talked a while back about $200 million in kind of further optimization in that business.
Maybe you can give us an update on where you're at with that and what the timing is? And then also what the target would be for ultimately for margins in the North American Printing Paper business.
Mark this is Mark Sutton.
On the Containerboard piece of that question and then I'll turn it over to Tim on Printing Papers.
We called it an optimization plan and we never plan to report in the detail that we did on synergies but we are making really good progress.
If you think about the performance of the business in light of this sort of flattish environment that we've had for demand a good bit of those results are internal improvements that are part of the optimization plan.
We've seen a big step-up in our ability to get our converting operations ready to perform at their full capability and I'll just give you a couple of examples.
Once we put the newly acquired mills we got from Temple onto our common supply chain system we're really able to take cost out of our supply chain on the freight and logistics side but also in the performance inside of our converting operations.
So we are operating -- almost on a monthly basis we're setting new best-evers for waste management and the throughput and other metrics we use to measure productivity are now on a much steeper ramp of improvement.
And a lot of that has to do with sort of running this large mill system in the most efficient way possible from a total delivered cost standpoint not just a mill cost standpoint.
So we're pleased with the progress against that $200 million.
And not a lot of it was based on a great market so the volume not materializing isn't really hurting us.
It was based on running better and reducing cost in our mills.
We've had one whole set of outages that we've done on the new mills and we've implemented some of the changes.
We've got to do another round of that to get some of the cost reduction projects fully implemented.
And I think we'll be definitely on track to meet and probably exceed our optimization target.
I'll turn it over to Tim.
On the Printing Papers side it's probably difficult to forecast margins in a declining market.
Having said that we feel pretty good about where we are.
We've got 2 specialty mills that we're still working on cost optimization opportunities as well as mix opportunities.
And we've got 2 large commodity mills where we're doing the same thing.
So there's -- the bulk of it's going to come from cost and mix and we'll have to see what demand does.
But clearly with Courtland behind us we move up to mid- to slightly above mid-teens and then we'll have to see where that goes for 2015 as we look at market declines for the rest of the year.
But there's still good opportunities around changing what runs through our mills and continuing to refine that.
And there's very good opportunities on the cost side.
Our next question is from Debbie Jones from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could comment on the 430 000 tons or so at Valliant that you could hypothetically bring back online and kind of the decision-making process around that.
And then like what the costs associated would be and the benefits that you would expect.
Debbie this Mark.
First of all on Valliant.
We haven't made a decision on Valliant.
We've talked about it on prior calls as a way to potentially optimize our capacity.
And as I mentioned earlier Valliant's a very valuable asset as we look at our overall business.
We talked earlier on the call about the divestiture of 1 million tons of containerboard.
We don't talk about it a whole lot but our European and other international box businesses use over 2.5 million tons of containerboard and that's part of that global channel selection I talked about.
We've increased over the last 4 years by over 0.25 million tons our shipments from IP mills in the U.S.
to our international box plants.
There's more opportunity there.
We still purchase over 1 million tons in the international market from third-party producers.
We've also got grades inside of our Containerboard system that are very attractive but they're not containerboard and that business has grown.
Most of those products go into the building materials market.
And so when you look at all the moving parts a machine like Valliant in a mill that's already running with an efficient use of fixed cost would be a potential winner for our system.
So when and if we make a decision we'll definitely come out and communicate it.
But it's all wrapped around making the containerboard and some of these other specialty products that we need to serve our customers.
So Valliant's an existing machine as you know so the cost to bring it back up is part getting things maintained and back in shape to run and then part the shutdown several years ago and there's some cost efficiency that we can do if we were to start it up to run it at a lower cost better energy usage and so forth.
So stay tuned on that.
We definitely are looking at Valliant but not only Valliant.
There's other opportunities we have in our system to continue to optimize it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my follow-up just relates to your -- what you referenced.
I just was wondering if you could comment on the overall health of demand in the regions where you compete.
And then I think there've been some pricing increases for containerboard and whether or not you expect that to roll through on your corrugated box pricing.
So on regional corrugated box demand I think we made some earlier comments.
I think John mentioned the European business.
We're outperforming the market in our European business which again is Western European kind of industrial markets and then the Mediterranean region for agricultural markets.
And we're seeing slightly better demand in that region for the market and we're doing a little bit better than that.
There has been some price announcements and movements on recycled linerboard in Europe.
That's still yet to be determined.
Some of those were just announced.
But overall we've seen stable pricing.
Some isolated cases of prices moving up and down in a specific country or a specific region and that tends to be directly related to more or less supply showing up at any moment in time.
But overall I'd say demand in our global regions -- I think Tom mentioned what's happening in Asia growth but not quite as much as we had seen in the past.
And Tim talked about Orsa.
But stable demand in most of the regions and pricing is relatively stable.
So Corrugated Packaging business is obviously one we like and we're looking forward to seeing further improvement.
Our next question comes from the line of Adam Josephson from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Carol just one more follow-up on the MLP issue.
Setting aside the other issues you discussed which I know are important which you can't practically set aside do you have a view regarding the multiple uplift that would come from dropping some of your virgin mills into an MLP structure? And whether the MLP multiple premium over your current multiple that exists today is likely to persist for years into the future? So as we think about what really is a multiple expansion it really has to be something underneath that's value-creating that changes the value of the business.
And the one that is clear is the tax advantage if you can capture it and hold it and you don't lose it in some other way.
So clearly in a partnership arrangement it's a pass-through so you eliminate one level of taxation.
But that's a price that's specific that you can quantify.
Once again the key issue is is can you maintain that price and not lose it to other complexities or other places that that price is lost? Outside of that I probably wouldn't comment on relative to multiple or margin -- or multiple expansion in the rest of the business.
Research Division</strong> Right.
No sure.
And Mark just one on containerboard export markets.
I know you were just talking about Europe specifically but can you characterize the state of the export markets? And are they appreciably different than they were 3 months 6 months 9 months ago? I would say not appreciably different.
There is -- we have seen some additional supply mostly from the U.S.
in some markets which is not uncommon.
And I think we've mentioned it before probably related to a little bit of the capacity start-ups.
But other than that we see pretty stable markets.
Most of what we export is kraft liner and those segments have done most of the switching between recycle and virgin that they can do.
So they tend to buy because they need it.
And so not a big significant difference in any of those time increments you mentioned.
Let me wrap up here.
We had a solid quarter.
We feel good about the quarter.
We think of success as a journey at International Paper.
We're far from done.
We're generating strong sustainable free cash flow.
And I think importantly for all of our shareowners we're deploying that cash in a way to maximize shareowner value.
And as I said before with the Q&amp;A all-in as we look to the future we like what's ahead.
We're ready for both the opportunities and the challenges.
So thank you.
So thanks John and thanks again to all of you for taking the time to join us this morning.
As always Michele and I will be available after the call and our phone numbers are on Slide 20 of the presentation.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today's conference call.
All lines may disconnect at this time.
Good morning.
My name is Rachel and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the International Paper Third Quarter Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Mr.
Jay Royalty Vice President Investor Relations.
You may begin your conference.
Thanks Rachel.
Good morning everyone.
And thank you for joining International Paper's third quarter earnings conference call.
Our key speakers this morning will be Mark Sutton Chief Executive Officer; along with Carol Roberts Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call we will make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which are outlined on slide two of our presentation.
We will also present certain non-U.S.
GAAP financial information.
A reconciliation of those figures to U.S.
GAAP financial measures are available on our website.
Our website also contains copies of the third quarter press release and today's presentation slides.
Lastly slide four provides context around the Ilim joint ventures financial information and statistical measures.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Mark Sutton.
Thanks Jay and good morning everybody.
We appreciate you joining our call today.
Regarding the format for today’s call it will be similar to what we've done recently.
Carol and I will review our third quarter 2014 results and the performances of our individual businesses.
We will then take a look at the fourth quarter outlook and open it up for your questions.
I am on slide five now International Paper delivered a record quarter both EBITDA and free cash flow in the third quarter.
We had strong performance from many of our businesses as our team continues to execute very well.
We announced the dividend increase of 14% from a $1.40 to $1.60 per share which is our third consecutive fourth quarter double-digit increase.
We continue to opportunistically buyback shares and have purchased more than 1.4 billion worth of shares since last September and through yesterday as of this call.
Additionally we received the dividend of $56 million from Ilim during the quarter and the JV continues to ramp up post the major capital projects and had another good quarter of solid performance.
Due to the devaluation of the Russian ruble the JV took large non-cash charge against its U.S.
denominated debt.
Moving to the financials on slide six I’d note that beginning this quarter xpedx is reflected as a discontinued operation in all periods presented.
And as you can see International Paper delivered strong financial results across the Board.
As mentioned earlier both EBITDA and free cash flow are at record levels as was EBIT.
Our EBITDA margins approached 20% for the entire company for the quarter.
I’ll now turn it over to Carol Roberts and ask her to discuss the details on the quarter as well as results of respected businesses.
Carol? Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
Turning to slide seven the sequential EPS bridge IP earned $0.95 per share in the third quarter versus $0.93 per share in the second quarter.
This was a strong performance for the company particularly given the significant EPS impact of $0.25 per share sequentially from the FX on the Ilim debt that you see on the right hand side of the slide.
So talking about the business fundamentals pricing was relatively stable across the businesses as was volume.
Operational performance remained strong and contributed favorably to the results.
Maintenance outages were substantially lower as we expected.
Input costs moderated very slightly but in our view remained at relatively high levels and if you’ll take a look at slide 42 in the appendix you will see that input costs are actually $26 million higher than the same period last year and this is mostly driven by wood costs.
Tax and interest expenses came in slightly lower than the second quarter so a sequential pickup.
And as Mark mentioned earlier all results have been revised to account for xpedx moving to discontinued operations.
Now turning to the individual businesses Industrial Packaging delivered a really outstanding quarter record earnings driven by stable prices solid operations and lower outage expenses.
The modest softness we experienced in pricing was attributable to lower export pricing contributed also due to the strengthening U.S.
dollar.
Our lower volume quarter-over-quarter was driven by reduced U.S.
exports.
They were down 44 000 ton and lower shipments in our European Packaging business which is really due to seasonal factors.
Operations were strong as our teams continued to run well and as expected we had fewer outages.
Relative input costs the benefit of lower OCC was offset by higher wood costs in the quarter.
Turning to the North American Industrial Packaging margin comparison we turned in another really strong quarter and continued to outperform our primary competitors both for the quarter and the trailing 12-month period.
Slide 10 is a slide that we used on last quarter that we introduced to take a deeper dive relative to demand and volume for the U.S.
Corrugated business.
And if I draw your attention to the map you can see that for about 80% of our business which is east of the Rockies we actually outperformed the industry with a little over 2% year-over-year growth.
This performance relates to the strong positions and superior value propositions we have with customers who are winning in their respective segments.
West of the Rockies which represents about 19% of our business we trail industry for the quarter and this is primarily due to weakness associated with the agricultural business affected by drought and other weather-related circumstances and for International Paper this is a segment where we have a significant position.
Turning now to Consumer Packaging we talked about a strong second half story and I would say that we clearly executed in that regard in the third quarter.
On pricing we saw an increase in North America that was more than offset by what's going on in Asia and Europe and let me speak to both of those for a moment.
In Europe due to weaker demand in our home markets we are exporting more and this business comes at more competitive prices and margins which negatively impacts our mix.
In Asia due to the excess capacity of the industry our margins have also declined.
So that’s the pricing and mix story.
On the volume side we saw a nice increase in volume in North America coming out of the heavy outage quarter and our Foodservice business had another record quarter with revenue up 15% year-over-year.
Europe also saw improvement as we had a full production quarter at our Kwidzyn Poland mill following the extended outage we took to do some very nice work on our paperboard machine there.
And finally as you can operations were much stronger throughout a steady third quarter and also in the absence of the heavy outages.
So turning to slide 12 looking at our relative EBITDA margins in North America.
You can see the significant improvement coming out of the second quarter and the first half of the year and we do expect to carry this momentum through the fourth quarter and as we exit 2014.
Slide 13 turning to our Global Printing Papers business we experienced solid improvement in earning this business as well.
Prices were stable in North America and up in pulp particularly fluff.
In Europe we did experience some declines in our paper pricing.
Volume was stronger particularly in North America as we took advantage of all our channels to market including export.
And in Brazil we saw some improvement in volume.
Although we would say that the fundamentals in Brazil do remain challenging.
On the operational front overall performance was solid.
The Courtland closure and transition is complete.
Although there will be some minimal costs that will continue for facility maintenance and security.
And we also saw an FX benefit due to our export positions in Brazil and Europe.
Looking at the North American margin comparison for the Papers business the Portland shutdown has been concluded and we had a solid quarter.
And if you consider the impact of the shutdown and transition costs this negatively impacted on margins over the last 12 months by roughly 200 basis points.
Slide 15 I think this is a great slide that tell us a really good story relative to the state of the global paper business.
This chart reflects the year-over-year earnings change by region for the third quarter and in North America you can see even with Courtland out this year versus last year earnings actually increased by $13 million.
In our pulp business due to the continued performance in ramp-up of the Franklin operation along with improved pricing earnings increased by $17 million.
And in Brazil despite weakening -- weakened economic conditions earnings are up $13 million year-over-year.
In Europe where I mentioned our demand is down in our home market we have had to expand our export reach to compensate.
And there you can see earnings are flat to slightly down.
In India due to improvement on a number of fronts where we’ve executed well earnings have also increased by $7 million.
So all-in-all the business continues to move forward and produce improved results despite what we all would consider a challenging global environment.
Turning to Ilim on slide 16.
The joint venture had another solid quarter of performance turning in $100 million of operational EBITDA on slightly lower quarterly sales of $520 million due to the significant outage at Bratsk mill that was successfully executed and taken early in the quarter.
The board of the JV elected to pay dividend during the quarter of which our share was up 56 million which that was a good thing.
But due to the 17% evaluation of the ruble against the U.S.
dollar during the quarter Ilim took a non-cash charge of $210 million on it U.S.
denominated debt.
Now just a reminder on the flip side of the unfavorable non-cash FX impact on the JV’s debt earnings are favorably impacted by a ruble devaluation as -- I can give you a couple of numbers here as 95% of our cost are on ruble but the vast majority of our exported products which account for over half of the JV sales are sold in U.S.
dollars.
So net-net all-in the situation in Russia for us remains favorable.
Speaking of the favorable conditions I wanted to take a minute to highlight a significant progress that we're making at the Ilim JV particularly with regard to the productivity ramp up at the Bratsk mill.
As you can see on the chart on the right hand side of the page Bratsk came into the year at a run rate of a little over 60% of full production for the mill.
The team has been making steady progress throughout the year with an achievement of nearly 90% in the third quarter following the major outage that I said was very successfully taken early in the quarter.
And the team expects to exit the year at full production averaging mid 90% levels for the fourth quarter.
So this is on track with the JVs target for the new pulp line to be fully ramped up by year end.
So let me turn now to the outlook for the fourth quarter.
Volume will be lower predominantly due to seasonality which is simply three less shipping days in the North American box business which for us translates to roughly 120 000 fewer ton.
This will be slightly offset by seasonally stronger conditions in Brazil.
Moving to pricing and mix.
We do expect pricing and mix to be lower in our North American paper business really due to some seasonal weakness.
And we also expect lower average export pricing for our containerboard for industrial packaging business.
And I will also attribute this due to the normal seasonal weakness that we see this time of the year combined with the continuing strengthening of the U.S.
dollar.
And finally we do expect to see lower pricing and less favorable regional mix in Europe and Russia.
We expect operations to continue to perform well in the fourth quarter.
We don't expect overall input cost to moderate to any degree in aggregate with anticipated higher wood cost likely offsetting any benefits from lower OCC and energy costs.
Maintenance outages are forecasted to increase by about $60 million sequentially.
We expect to see a positive swing from a significant FX charge at the Ilim JV.
However as you all know looking at the ruble today some of that could be offset by further devaluation that we’ve seen to date.
But as our practice has been we don’t attempt to forecast where the ruble will be at the end of the quarter.
And finally we assume the tax rate to normalize in -- in line with our full-year outlook and for corporate expenses to come in around $15 million for the fourth quarter given the year-end true up.
So with that let me turn it back over to Mark.
Thanks Carol.
So let me just summarize our remarks and wrap it up.
IP had a very strong quarter setting records on a number of fronts as we continue to run our businesses very well.
While we expect this strong execution to continue our outlook for the fourth quarter is impacted by fewer shipping days in North American box and $60 million in higher planned maintenance outage expenses.
We are leveraging our well-positioned businesses particularly in the absence of any tailwinds in most markets.
Our teams around the globe are executing very well and are continuing to find ways to drive improved results and create value.
Our free cash flow generation continues to be strong and sustainable which is enabling IP to deliver on its capital allocation strategy.
We have delivered three consecutive annual double-digit increases in the dividends and today we are within $100 million of completing the original $1.5 billion share buyback program that was authorized back in September 2013.
We continue to look for value creating opportunities for reinvestment for example the recently announced restart project of our number three paper machine at Valliant for our containerboard business the expansion of our Canton Ohio foodservice facility and the coated paperboard enhancement project we completed and are in current ramp up at our Kwidzyn mill in Poland.
IP’s financial state is very solid.
We remain focused on the execution of the plans we’ve outlined and going forward we expect to make continued progress toward our key goals.
Before we open it up for questions I'd like to give you a brief update on where we are with the master limited partnership opportunity.
As we said at the UBS conference in September we moved to a more intensive evaluation phase.
We’ve retained a team of external advisors and are actively working with them at this time.
As part of the process of our discovery we’re also talking to several companies in other industries.
We have formed and are operating an MLP in an effort to better understand the process and their experiences.
There is a lot of work going on to better understand what an MLP structure might look like specifically for International Paper and whether we would benefit from such a structure and whether we can create value for our shareholders.
I can tell you we’re encouraged by what we’re learning through this process.
And as part of our continuing evaluation it is our intention to file a request with the IRS for the private letter ruling and we’re working with our advisors to get ready to do so.
And with that we'll be happy to open it up for your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub.
Thank you.
I hope this is a fair question for quarterly earnings call but Mark since you've taken over as IP's CEO and I just wanted to throw this question at you.
What do you think are the key levers you can pull to take IP to the next level or put it different way? What are the biggest opportunities that you're looking to act on in the next couple of years? I guess it’s a fair question Mark.
It’s an obvious one as well.
I think we've got a strategy that we’ve embarked upon and we shared with the investment community we shared with our employees.
And we still got more runway on our current strategy and so executing very well against our current plans which is essentially advantaged positions in paper and packaging globally creating value for our shareholders.
That’s still the important near-term task.
And obviously without being able to predict the future as we go out beyond two years we’ll have to continue to evaluate where we can create value.
And I’m sure can’t tell you what it will be but I’m sure International Paper will evolve and will be different in five years than it is today.
But the bottom line is we're committed to a strategy of balance used for the cash.
We think we can continue to generate healthy cash flow and we’re going to look for ways in a balanced fashion to create value for the long-term.
And just as quick follow-up and how important is M&amp;A to the strategy and how -- and do you feel that you're somewhat constrained given the various market positions that you already have? I think in general M&amp;A is obviously a tool in your strategy toolbox.
I wouldn’t comment on where we might be constrained or not.
But I think IP is not a mergers and acquisition story to create value going forward.
As you mentioned we have strong positions in certain markets but there are opportunities for us to improve what we have.
And I think M&amp;A will come out where it comes out based on the opportunities we see in front of us.
But all against the backdrop of creating value for the long-term.
Okay.
Thank you Mark.
Our next question is from the line of George Staphos.
Hi everyone.
Good morning.
Thanks for the details.
Again congratulations everyone in their new endeavors.
I guess the first question I had on MLPs Mark could you comment at all or Carol if you could comment on you're more encouraged by what you have found recognizing you still have more work to do.
Relative to when you first examined the structure or thought about it to the current time what has been the biggest source or biggest couple of sources of incremental encouragement or view on how it could create value? George I will just a make general comment and I will ask Carol to elaborate.
I think what we talked about at the UBS Conference I’ll refer to as learning how this specifically would work in for example our containerboard business and whether or not our core principles have been able to run the business effectively can be maintained is what we're learning and most encouraged about.
And as you remember IP had a master limited partnership in our timberlands business years ago.
We weren’t worried about the complexity.
We were worried about whether or not the specific applications of this structure in this type of business and the way we need to run the business could work.
I think we're learning more about that that a lot of those issues are manageable and Carol if you would…? Yeah.
And I will do it from the other side.
The other part we’ve learned is why would IP specifically be attractive to investors in an MLP and what would they be looking for and what is it that we offer that would be attractive to that investor base and what would that be worth to them because that’s what ultimately translates back to the value of International Paper.
So just learning about the value drivers of MLPs.
That’s been -- that we’ve learned a lot and we see some encouraging things from there.
If I could tag on and again maybe this is preliminary and thus you can't really get to it.
Would it be feasible in your view given your work to date for other portions of IP to be suitably dropped into the MLP or have you not gotten to that point yet in terms of your valuation? George that’s the type detail that we aren’t really prepared to go into.
But I can tell you that we’ve got a holistic approach to this and that’s how we are going to continue with it.
But specifics about the structure and all that it’s not the right time right now.
Understood.
My last question.
I'll turn it over to the rest of the analysts.
A couple years ago you talked about the $5 billion EBITDA goal the Drive for Five so to speak.
Is it possible to comment in terms of how you gauge your prospects for reaching that given the current structure of IP and the current trends that you have both going for you and against you? Thanks.
I'll turn it over.
Okay.
George.
That’s a great question.
I mean we are committed we laid it out there back in 2012 that we were shooting for a milepost of $5 billion in EBITDA and we are not ready to give up on that.
It’s harder to get to and we are getting there in a different way and I think the biggest gap we have is what we describe as mid-cycle conditions or mid-cycle cost and demand environment.
I’m not sure we’ve seen that yet.
But obviously as I step into my role we are rejuvenating our efforts to find additional ways with what we have today to try to get as close to that and look at reaching that target.
So that’s our approach.
We made a commitment and we are focused on trying to find the way to get there.
We knew it would be different than we laid out.
We just didn’t know what the actual path would look like.
So aspirational a little bit but we think we have the company today that with the right conditions we can achieve that level of performance.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly.
Thank you.
So we're starting to see more capacity announcements in India from local players mostly and you said you're looking more.
Have you come to the conclusion that India's a big opportunity? I think in the past IP has described it as sort of its investment as a learning experience Mark I will make a general comment about how I kind of personally view India then I will ask maybe Tom Kadien to elaborate given his been running and will continue to be responsible.
I think you are right.
We said India has maybe the potential for the future and we want to start to learn how to do business there.
I think we’ve learned some things in the last three years.
I wouldn’t say our view has changed dramatically like -- that we see something that we didn’t see two or three years ago.
But we do see the potential.
We see the potential in the packaging area.
And so we’ll be very measured and very careful with what we do in India.
But it is still a market that is intriguing and again it’s for the future not for tomorrow.
And Tom and if you would maybe add a few comments.
Yeah.
Mark not a lot more to add to that.
But it’s three years for us in the paper business over there.
We made a lot of strides that have been covered up by wood cost and slowing economy.
But I would say we are as optimistic about the fundamental opportunity in India as we were -- when we bought our way into APPM.
And I think the capacity announcements that you're talking about are really on the containerboard side.
We think that’s also an opportunity for the future but we’ve got to earn our strides in the paper business first.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And second in the second quarter John Faraci said that his target was to buy back your stock below intrinsic value.
I'm wondering whether you apply that same basic metric to acquisitions with maybe intrinsic value plus expected synergies.
I was wondering if Carol could remind us how you do think about acquisition value.
Yeah.
Mark clearly our goal on acquisition is to create value which comes quite simply to we use our methodology’s discounted cash flow model trying to look at all of the cash in for what we can get out of the base business plus synergies.
And we want a nice spread between our -- what we view our cost of capital against what the return on that project could be and that’s all around the assumptions you make.
And you can make those numbers tell you lots of things.
So what we tried to do really hard is we look at cost of capital by region.
We don't use one number for the company and we pressure test the assumptions real hard.
And quite honestly to make our IP more valuable we need a nice spread between our cost of capital and the potential return out of those projects.
And we have a very robust review process here where we debate it when we talk about it.
And John always encourages us to have multiple of view and I think we’ll continue on path.
So I think you would find us to do the work much like you would expect.
Very good.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Gail Glazerman.
Good morning.
Could we just start maybe a little bit on the demand environment kind of puts and takes gas prices are down.
Are you seeing that flow through to some of your business that might be tied closer to the consumer? Just generally speaking maybe touch on what you're seeing in Brazil and China as well in paper versus board? So I think maybe the best way to do that is to have maybe Tim Nicholls talk a little bit as he enters into the Industrial Packaging role which is obviously the best bellwether we have for general demand environment in economy then we will kind of touch on the other parts? Sure.
Thanks Mark.
Good morning everyone.
I think demand’s been pretty stable.
We saw our box demand in the quarter just slightly behind where the overall market was and Carol pointed out the factors between east and west.
If you look at the east we performed fairly well both in absolute and on a relative basis.
So I think demand fills okay here in the U.S.
It’s actually been pretty good.
Export markets; we did see some seasonal weakness but I think beyond a seasonal I think it’s just more of new capacity pushing out some suppliers from North America and other parts of the world.
And we bump up in a lot of parts of the world because of the size of the system we are.
So we probably got hit by that just a little bit more than maybe others.
If you look at Brazil Brazil on the paper and on the box side has struggled give them the economic environment.
They are technically in recession first two quarters of this year.
And it’s been exacerbated on the packaging side of Brazil just because of how some of our biggest customers have been impacted in their markets.
They have lost share to local suppliers which is filtered through the supply chain to us.
We will see what happens now.
I kind of felt like Brazil had taken a bit of a pause.
It was hurt by the World Cup and then it went into a pause waiting on the outcome of the election.
The election is behind now.
We will see what impact that has on the balance of the year.
Fourth quarter tends to be a seasonally stronger quarter both for paper and packaging.
In the paper markets there the domestic markets have been weak.
The export markets around Latin America have been a little more robust but not the kind of strength that we’ve seen in prior years.
But still from how we performed we are better than market on domestic paper in Brazil and we are kind of flattish on export volume to Latin America.
Yeah.
I will wrap up the demand comments with China and our demand probably reflects the Chinese economy.
It’s slowed down.
We still have pockets of positive demand growth but it doesn’t mirror a 7% plus GDP number that gets published mainly because our demand is really dependent on one component of that GDP and that’s the consumer and/or exports and both of those or it’s sluggish in China right now.
So we don’t see it getting a lot worse right now it’s just not the level of demand growth that we’re accustomed to.
Okay.
And then just on the MLP I guess you said one of the considerations that you learnt about is the value drivers and what investors would be looking for.
Can you give a little bit of insights certainly one thing investors look for typically is yields driven? And just how you are thinking about the more normalized interest environment might impact the success of an MLP? Sure Gail.
Yes so it’s MLP 101 so I will be brief but it’s about the yield but it’s about the growth rate and it’s about the longevity.
And when you think about International Paper with the size and scale of the system we have we’ve got a lot of EBITDA lot of cash flow and so you’ve got growth and you’ve got longevity.
And then if you look at the value to the International Paper shareholder the value comes from your general partner stake and your incentive distribution right stake.
So you’ve got some drivers that could be valuable to International Paper.
So then it comes back to what Mark said okay given those things if you believe those are real and you’ve got enough experience to see actual examples of that what would it take to run it in the business we’re in and with the company we have and the structure we have to not violate our true north goals of how we know we want to run the business.
So that’s kind of where our learnings have taken.
I hope that helps.
Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Philip NG.
One of your competitors just reported and he sounded a little more upbeat on demand for October based on Tim’s tone it sounds like more the same.
So I just want to get some color on that front.
Yeah.
We are looking at our October.
We came out about where we thought we’re going to and kind of in line with what we saw in September.
So I would say that it’s fairly consistent not a big direction one way or the other.
That’s helpful.
And then on the MLP front as you guys elect to move forward.
Carol can you provide some color how are you thinking about using the cash proceeds? And you commented on why you would move forward be creating value for shareholders.
So can you help us understand strategically what’s the game plan on an MLP if you guys do move forward? Yeah Philip that’s a great question.
And I am not sure this is the right forum to answer it but clearly one of the things that happens if you went down that path is you would be getting a big influx of cash to International Paper.
Now what we do with that cash and where we take that I mean that’s the question that we continue to think about herein with Mark and the team.
So I am not prepared to answer that question but the multiple arbitrage is really the key thing that enables the flow of that cash in.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then just switching gear to Ilim you saw some price slippage in the quarter.
Is that starting to stabilize and how should we be thinking about the cadence of the EBIT progression of that business especially considering the ramp up for production is going to be pretty close to full production year end? Phil this is Carol.
And I think on the appendix slide where we had Ilim in there and I am going to go to it pretty quickly if I can.
I think what you see there is you see some whole price down quarter-over-quarter.
There is a lot of mix in that for Ilim.
Okay.
It’s got hardwood in it.
It’s got different grades of the softwood different quality grades.
So I would not react to that too strongly.
I think the markets are pretty strong and pretty stable.
And we feel pretty good about the outlook for softwood pulp.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks guys.
Our next question is from the line of Chip Dillon.
Thank you very much.
First question is on your view toward what maybe CapEx looks like in 2015.
I know you probably haven’t finished your budgeting but at least maybe directionally as you look at some of the projects or the pipeline how could that look versus this year? Well Chip I would say that it is a little early to predict that.
When we do the fourth quarter results and we talk about those in late January we will give some color on that.
But I would say that generally speaking we have a pipeline of really good ideas that we need to think about how do we want to fund those ideas that are some really some good value creating opportunities.
And when the time comes we will speak to those.
Okay.
And at least versus expectations and modeling we need to give the white paper business a little bit of credit this quarter.
It looked very good.
And I had a question on that segment.
One concern a lot of investors have had has been the impact of imports that seem to have stopped some of the pricing momentum this year.
And some of the import increases of course have come from Brazil and we were just kind of wondering it would make a lot of sense that you guys might have sent a lot of paper up from you operations down there with the Courtland closure.
And maybe with the benefit of hindsight not all of those tons were necessarily needed or customers have made other arrangements.
Do you see the import situation changing at all especially given the freight costs and the distances involved from other countries? Hey Chip it’s Tim.
Let me just tackle imports in general first and I will come back to Brazil.
Imports in general if you go back and you look at 2013 data kind of quarter by quarter or month by month imports had started coming in the first half of last year.
And as we were making decisions about our system and our footprint here we were taking to account what imports we are doing and what customers were telling us their intentions were about additional imports.
Now having said that you referenced freight costs and they are definitely up and that has a big impact on the viability of imports especially if they go up and they stay there for a long period of time as does currency.
But the other piece of it is just supply chain its not uncommon to be managing the supply chain that might be four or five months long given imports and where they have to come from and the planning that goes into it versus 30 days or 40 days from domestic supplier like ourselves.
With regards to Brazil we do not import paper into the U.S.
-- for distribution in the U.S.
from Brazil.
We do send paper here to traders that take it back out and distribute it for us in the Latin American region.
And reason we do that is because of customer mix in some cases and because of quantities that are ordered.
So it’s just more efficient for us to ship into Miami and have it redistribute it back out into the regions because our partner manages a very efficient supply chain and it is for us to try to do all of that ourselves.
We have some direct shipments into South American region but we also go through distribution as well.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And one last quick one I think Mark you mentioned that you had done all the first original authorization in terms of the buyback except for $100 million and just a clarification was that as of September 30th or as of for example today? Chip if I could before that question is answered.
Just on the imports into Miami you should keep in mind that there are other imports that come into that part of the U.S.
for redistribution as well.
So everything that comes into say the Port of Miami or on the West Coast into some of the southern ports it doesn’t all stay here necessarily.
And I guess those would both be shown in the AF and PA data as imports and exports? Not always.
No.
That’s the problem.
Okay.
… because of the way reporting is done.
I see.
On your question about the share buyback the $1.4 billion actual against the $1.5 billion authorizations through today.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Steve Chercover.
Thank you.
Good morning.
First question the margins in North Americans container board are really terrific and you’ve said you intend to maintain that? As one A how much run rate do you have on that optimization plan and B is it possible that it get too good because folks lower margins can still earn their cost of capital? Hi.
Steve it is Tim.
Too good I think it depends on how where the improvement comes from so we said earlier this year that optimization was going to take us a couple of maybe two to three years.
If it’s internal improvement than I think it’s probably more sustainable than if it comes from other places.
Having said that you look at -- just take a broader chunk of time because third quarter was wide on outages.
You can still see margin and expansion and I think that’s coming from how we run the box system how we’re managing supply chain.
What’s not coming through just yet but I think its coming over the near-term is the mill system.
We were better in the mills and we did perform well in the quarter but some of the mills were acquired.
We know have reliability issues and those reliability issues cost us and we’re underway correcting those.
But it also has an impact on supply chain too because when you can’t produce product in he mill of choice based on geography it causes you to sub-optimize the system.
So I say it playing out just as we characterized it in the past over the next couple of years.
Okay.
And switching gears I imagine you got to be rather frustrated with what’s going on in Asia or China specifically I mean year in year out there is really no contributions.
So I’m wondering how long you tolerate that or is there a means by which you could maybe extract your capital?  So Steve you’re right.
It’s frustrating to especially for our team on the ground there to deal with difficult market conditions but we’re in these businesses for the long-term and if and when we would make a decision that we don’t think we can get to a position that we like then we’d be prepare to talk about strategic changes.
But I think this is a time where as leaders of the company you have to have perseverance you have to take the long view and we have a company that’s not everything is going to be hitting on all cylinders that the exact same time.
So I think we will continue to evaluate our businesses around the globe and in North America and that’s just part of our role to make sure that we continue to stay flexible and nimble and position the company for the future.
And the Asian markets are in a little bit of a downturn right now but there’s a lot of future potential in those market for paper and forest products companies and a lot of other industries.
So we have a modest position there by all measures and we will continue to evaluate.
Okay.
And just forgive me.
It’s terrific that you’ve executed as you have on the repo? Did you reop that I think you did.
Yeah.
Steve we did.
We -- the Board authorized an additional $1.5 billion in July.
I thought so.
Thanks for assisting my senior moment.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Alex Ovshey.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Wanted to come back to MLP point obviously the IRS and the moratorium but once that’s lifted if hypothetically you were to get a favorable ruling on the PLR? I mean do you think you’ve done enough work around what the structure would look like operationally where you can say that you're comfortable that if you could get a favorable PLR from the IRS you would move towards MLP structure for the containerboard business? Alex I think it’s probably premature to get into that.
I mean as I said in the beginning and Carol elaborated on.
We’re still working through it.
So I think at the appropriate time in the process we would be able to talk more about that.
That’s fair Mark.
And then would you be able to tell us what’s your box shipments were in October.
And just a follow-on to that question if I look at last year there was a meaningful step-up in the downtime for the North American industrial business in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter.
Can you give us a sense of how we should be thinking about that number this year? Hey Alex this is Tim.
Our October shipments we are still wrapping up the months.
So if we just look at daily cut-off and how we performed in our box plans I think it feels a lot like September and we finished on a little bit stronger in September than the rest of the quarter.
In terms of outage we don't forecast going forward.
We have to look and see what our demand signal looks like and then we plan accordingly.
Appreciate the color Tim.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Anthony Pettinari.
Good morning.
I had a question on input costs.
You took a hit from higher wood costs but OCC prices have been really weak and understanding that you're not giving guidance.
As you look forward do you think that we could be -- do you expect the OCC to pick up or could we be looking at another 6 months 12 months for OCC as a $100 or below $100? And is the price of OCC is something that concerns you from the perspective of potentially incenting new containerboard capacity in the U.S.? Anthony this is Carol.
I think speaking for the team I think the OCC it would be very difficult for us to predict where OCC is in six months because there is going to be really all around global demand and global economic activity.
So I think what you're seeing there is just a sheer result of the demand for OCC.
But over time we are convinced that it will cost more in the future than it cost today.
And so we think it goes up higher through time.
And if you're making a decision on a containerboard machine recycled containerboard machine you’re not going to make it on the stock price on OCC.
You’re going to make it over a long-term decision around what do I have to pay for my input materials what am I going to sell my products and importantly whom I going to sell it to.
And that’s the strategic question that any investor would have to make around on your containerboard machine.
And I think I answered your question but if there was another one in there I’ve had my own senior moment I can't recall it.
No.
That was -- I think you covered it.
That was helpful.
And then just maybe following up on North American box markets and specifically box prices I mean you saw stable box prices in the quarter talked about October looking good.
Some trade publications have talked about discounting in boxes.
And I’m just wondering if you’ve seen any of that kind of discounting in the marketplace in a real way? Or if you could just talk about competitive conditions in North American box markets maybe how they’ve changed if they’ve changed in the last three four months? Hi.
It’s Tim.
We were relatively flat in the quarter and we don’t forecast price going forward.
But this is a seasonally slower period of time and it’s a competitive market.
So we will update you when we get through the fourth quarter.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
I will turn it over.
Our next question is from the line of Adam Josephson.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Congratulations on your performance in the quarter and Mark best of luck in your new role.
One on export.
In terms of the export price weakness that you are guiding to in the fourth quarter how much of that would you say seasonal versus reflective of current conditions and how would you characterize export conditions just a moment given the recent strength in U.S.
dollar and the weakness in a number of economies as I think Carol talked about earlier.
Yeah.
Hi it’s Tim.
It really depends on what projects you are talking about.
If it’s containerboard there is an element of seasonality in that.
There’s how regions are producing around the world and then there is -- as I mentioned earlier some capacities that’s probably left North America and it’s finding its way to other parts of the world So probably half and half.
On the paper side this is a seasonally slower period of time and we usually do see some export price erosion.
As we go to the fourth quarter in certain parts of the world as I mentioned in Brazil the fourth quarter tends to be a seasonally stronger period.
So overall it’s probably going to be down but I don’t expect big decreases.
Thanks Tim.
And just one on the capacity -- containerboard capacity additions in North America.
How would you characterize the impact that they’ve had both on your business and on the market? Obviously your margins in North America industrial packaging are as high as they have ever been but we continue to read about pricing pressure both domestically and in terms of export containerboard prices.
Thanks very much.
Sure.
I wouldn’t comment on how it impacts the market.
I can tell you how it’s impacted us.
We haven’t seen a big impact on volume.
And I think you have to keep in mind that all of this capacity is not the same.
You’ve got different levels of quality in some cases and you’ve also got basis weights that are fit for use not necessarily more broadly applicable to all segments.
And you’ve got geographies in some cases.
They come and play as well.
So we haven’t seen a big volume impact.
We run a very large system that has a lot of channel access across different channels with a lot of different products.
So we bring a different type of value proposition to our customers that some of these new capacity starting up just can’t because of what they have to offer.
Thanks Tim.
Our next question is from the line of Debbie Jones.
Hi.
Good morning.
My first questions just like to talk about OCC for a minute.
Just recognizing it’s difficult to kind of predict this.
Do you have any thoughts on the trajectory for recycle fiber pricing and I know on recent call you’ve mentioned China having less of reliance on the U.S.
has been an issue.
What kind of trends should we be thinking about over the near term on OCC pricing? Well Carol gave an answer a minute ago that I would be hard to contradict.
She said it’s really hard to point where OCC goes over the longer period of time.
I think that’s right.
It depends on what the level of demand in China is going to be and other parts of world.
So Debbie let me see if I can help maybe more satisfying -- a little more satisfying.
There is a cost curve for OCC collection cost curve and you start getting into below $100 and you start to take a fly out of the market place because the cost more to collect and it does the selling price.
And so I think if you think about where it is today the trajectory ought to be up with any kind of economic improvement across the world.
So there is tax over the bracket when it becomes uneconomical to collect the high cost OCC.
Okay.
Thanks.
Apologies.
I guess from my senior moment in the repeat question I guess -- my follow-up I guess would be on MLPs -- it’s more of the process question.
If you could comment on this you submit the application and I’m assuming you are trying to get having review various craft assets and whether or not they have MLP qualifying incoming.
The IRS what type of due diligence do they do when you submit the PLR? Are they actually coming out and visiting your operations or do they tend to look at kind of industry definition and things like that? Debbie this is Carol.
I’m not aware that they would come do a visit.
I don’t think that that’s what they would do.
And I think they would base it upon your submission of the fact that you represented and they could always research those facts and verify those were performed by point of view.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you that’s helpful.
I’ll pass it over.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Gaffner.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just looking at your corrugated shipments in the quarter.
I realized West of the Rockies you are more heavily exposed to the agricultural markets.
But I think I recall before you are going to try to maybe mitigate some of that by moving it to some other end markets.
One are you making any progress moving into other end markets and two as we go into 2015 I mean it’s look like some of those issue in the ag market aren’t going abate.
Are there any measures you could take to sort of change your customer mix there to mitigate some of that some of those issues? Yeah.
Hi.
It’s Tim.
I’m not sure about the question around the market segment shifts and what not.
I mean we’re talking about a lot of volume.
We’re talking about a big market in California.
So it’s really hard to impact that on the meaningful way in short term and I don’t how long the drought is going to last.
And you would think that at some point the drought situation will reverse itself and we’ll see some uplift on the comfortable basis but what we’re doing is we’re competing in all the segments that we play in.
We’ve got big protein segments.
We’ve got big segment and processed foods.
And so we’re working all of those segments hard across the country and we’re faced in the last situation where there is just not -- there is much demand because the product not there to be packaged.
Okay.
But working at your shipments there versus the industry you’re down 3.7% industry at 1% of that.
Is that purely overweighting towards ag or is there something else going on? Yeah.
Sorry.
I missed that part of your question.
Maybe my senior moment yeah I mean there is more than just ag in the west in the industrial business.
But we tend to be overweighted to the ag segment in that part of the country? Right.
Is that something where maybe an acquisition would help you to balance out the end market exposure there? I don’t think you look at acquisitions for situational factors that impact demand.
We’re running our business and we would look at the way Carol talked about if there was one that made sense.
And we thought the growth in intrinsic value but we’re running the business day-to-day and trying to optimize what we have.
Okay.
Got the biggest lever we had as Tim mentioned earlier is the channel distribution strategy that we have domestic containerboard in the open market where we have top notch customers our own box business and of course our export markets.
And that allows us to move containerboard through this channel.
So at the West Coast ag business is difficult while we’ve got other outlets and that’s what we do on the ongoing basis.
It’s really maximize our flow through through different channels to market because all of those channels are permanent channels for IP that we viewed strategically.
And as I mentioned we don’t expect the ag segment on the West Coast to be down for ever.
It will comeback.
Right.
Now I hear on that argument.
We’ve been just waiting for above average harvest around food can for three or four years now.
So… Right.
That’s where the concern is coming from there.
Just moving over to consumer for a minute on cup stock can you talk about any continued improvement in the uptick there? On -- I think may be you are adding some capacity but also from a consumer -- from a customer demand perspective are you seeing any continued switch from phone to paper? Yes Scott this is Tom Kadien.
We see robust demand growth in our food service business.
And we are I think our volumes are up high single-digits year-over-year and we still have customers who are moving geographies and moving products out of foam and into paper and that’s driving our volumes that’s why we are expanding Canton Ohio plant to add capacity for the back half next year because we still see that trend moving in our direction and that’s pulling through a lot of cups talk through our coated board business as well.
Great.
Thanks for all the color.
Our last question is from the line of Al Kabili.
All right.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Carol just housekeeping question for you is on the pension.
If you had any preliminary thoughts around what the lower discount rate and change in mortality tables might mean for your pension expense next year more broadly and also as how you define operational pension expense? So Al good morning.
So on pension let me just comment from clearly the discount rate as of December 31st will impact the accounting side of the pension it will not impact the cash required contribution side.
The law that got passed legislation of the summer will trump all of that and the required contribution that we are looking at now for '15 and '16 is in aggregate probably round number a $100 million in totalish.
So it's a very small amount.
So the impact on the discount rate will be a balance sheet and a credit metric issue by itself.
Relative to the mortality table they will come in they're not sure of the exact day when all that hits but I thinks its '16 or '17 some thing like that.
And clearly when the lifespan is longer the liability will go up from that but we -- I am not prepared to give any preliminary math on that.
And then the operating pension expense which you referred to that flows through the business P&amp;L.
Operating pension expense is really the cost of providing that benefit taking out the kind of swings that come from the accounting.
So it’s a benefit that we provide to our employees.
There is cost associated with that and that flows through the businesses.
On the non-operating it’s the kind of things like the change in liability the change in interest rates all that kind of stuff that’s really accounting driven.
And that’s why we separated the two not to distort our operating performance.
Right.
And understanding you are not prepared to give the change in mortality table update just yet as far as quantifying.
But it sounds like it’s probably not going to have that much of an impact on the operating pension expense if I understand it correctly Carol? No I will tell you the truth that we have done it more from an overall liability perspective.
We have not moved it back through to the operating line but it certainly won't be an impact in '15 and I think it would become an impact in '16 '17.
And I don’t think it will be.
Okay.
Appreciate it.
Understood.
Okay.
And then just last question.
Just more broadly on to the team and just the emerging markets.
And clearly the macro has been a struggle but if we look at India and we look at Brazil or so those businesses have been challenged by cost inflation the last few years.
And I wanted to just get a sense to the pulse on the opportunity just to improve the performance next year on those businesses irrespective of the macro and just catching up to some of those cost inflation what the outlook is there? Yeah.
Hi it's Tim.
Just on Brazil and then I'll pass it off to Tom Kadien for India or so.
Yes the environment is challenging but even with the challenging environment this past quarter we were still getting price increases.
The big level for us is really around cost structure especially in the box plans.
We’re spending low capital dollars or significant automation opportunities that takes out headcount.
So will end up taking out this year probably the better part of our 160 people across the system.
And we think there is more opportunity as you go into 2015.
On the volume side if you look at the business absent these three multinational customers that we have that have lost share we’re kind of holding our own.
We are just faced with the additional challenge of in a soft market trying to replace the tons that we’ve lost through those customers.
But I think we are making headway on it.
So I expect an improved fourth quarter from a margin standpoint.
Third quarter was very heavy to outages which impacted us and expanding margins of '15 '16.
And on the India side there is a lot of optimism in India right now with the changing government and we’ve seen some tangible signs that give us optimism as well about the macro environment.
We expect demand -- our GDP to drive demand and GDP is going to increase next year over the issuers 5.5% or what for so.
Fiber prices which have been an issue are coming down.
So that spells good for earnings.
And we’ve also gotten -- with this new government we’ve gotten some consents approved on additional capacity that will help us grow the business next year.
So we feel really pretty upbeat about our paper business in India.
Okay.
Terrific and good luck the remainder of the year.
Okay.
I think that will wrap us up here.
I would just like to make a couple of closing comments.
At IP we expect to continuously improve.
We hold ourselves as leaders accountable for that.
We are going to focus on our customers.
It’s even more important than slow economic times to really redouble our efforts to be better and better with customers.
We will continue to focus on improvement and how we operate.
You saw a lot of the evidence of being able to do that and bring it to the bottomline in the third quarter.
Our focus on good sustainable cash flow will remain.
And balanced use of that cash that rewards our shareholders will be the principles that we continue to operate going forward.
We have great group of employees that are engaged in winning and winning with customers and outperforming the competition all over the world.
And it’s a privilege for me to have the opportunity to lead International Paper.
And I look forward to speaking with all of you on a regular basis going forward.
Thanks Mark.
And thanks again to all of you for taking the time to join us this morning.
As always Rachel and I will be available after the call.
Our phone numbers are on slide 20 of the presentation.
Have a great day.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2014 International Paper Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
I’ll now the transfer this call over to your host Jay Royalty Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Stephanie.
Good morning everyone.
And thank you for joining International Paper's Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Our key speakers this morning are Mark Sutton Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Carol Roberts Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call we will make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which are outlined on slide two of our presentation.
We will also present certain non-U.S.
GAAP financial information.
A reconciliation of those figures to U.S.
GAAP financial measures are available on our website.
Our website also contains copies of the Fourth Quarter and 2014 earnings press release and today's presentation slides.
Lastly relative to the Ilim JV slide four provides context around the joint ventures financial information and statistical measures.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Mark Sutton.
Thank you Jay and good morning everyone and thank you for joining our call.
What I would like to do is quickly go over the format that we’ll follow this morning.
In the beginning I’ll review our Full Year 2014 results and then turn it over to Carol Roberts to speak to the fourth quarter and the performances of our individual businesses.
And then we’ll come back and cover the first quarter and 2015 outlook before opening it up to questions.
So I am on slide five looking at 2014 full-year results.
International Paper completed a strong year in 2014.
We delivered record cash flow from operations of $3.4 billion along with free cash flow of $2.1 billion.
North American Industrial Packaging results were significant with the business achieving $2.7 billion in EBITDA and margins of 24%.
Return on Invested Capital was 9.2% making this the fifth consecutive year that our returns have exceeded our cost of capital.
And additionally we saw margin expansion across all of our key businesses in 2014.
We conducted a successful debt restructuring program in which we pushed out a billion dollars of debt from 2018 and 2019.
And we achieved more than $40 million in annualized interest savings as a result.
In the fall we increased our dividend by 14% to $1.60 per share which was the third year in a row of double-digit dividend increases.
For the year we bought back roughly $1 billion of IP stocks at a little over $47 a share.
We completed the closure of the Courtland Alabama printing papers mill which as we’ve mentioned was very difficult for us to do especially with the impact on our employees.
But we believe it was necessary given the ongoing decline in North American uncoated free sheet demands.
We completed the spinoff of our North American Distribution business xpedx and received $400 million as it became part of the new publicly traded company Veritiv.
And the Russian JV Ilim which we own 50% had a solid year improving operational EBITDA by a 126% to $470 million for the full year.
And we received a dividend of $56 million in 2014 from Ilim.
Turning to the full-year financial results IP achieved solid improvement across the board.
Full year earnings-per-share finished at $3 per share and included in this figure is $0.63 of Ilim FX negative impact.
Absent this impact our EPS was up 20% year-over-year and we’ll talk more about that in a minute.
Turning to slide seven which is a history of our Return on Invested Capital.
As I mentioned for 2014 our return was 9.2% again the fifth year in a row that we're above cost of capital.
We continue to deliver on our commitment to create value for our shareholders.
I’d also note that if you consider the impact to the equity earnings of the Ilim FX charge I mentioned earlier which was a non-cash charge our ROIC would have been over 10% for 2014 and that would have been a best ever mark for the company.
Turning to slide eight 2014’s free cash flow of $2.1 billion continued a strong trend of free cash flow results since 2008.
Beyond strong earnings from the businesses our cash flow performance in 2014 benefited from strong working capital management in the fourth quarter.
As we look to 2015 and beyond we remain confident that IP can continue to deliver strong free cash flow in the years ahead.
And turning to the uses of that cash we continue to do what we said we would do.
In total we returned $1.6 billion or more than 75% of our free cash flow to shareholders throughout 2014.
And additionally we finished the year with a cash balance of $1.9 billion.
And with that overview of the full year I’ll turn it over to Carol and then I'll return later to talk about the outlook and then we’ll open it up for questions.
Carol? Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
Turning to slide ten looking at the year-over-year bridge for 2014 you can see year-over-year price improvement was significant at $0.89 with about 60% of this coming from our North American Industrial Packaging business 30% from Printing Papers and the balance came from our Consumer Packaging segment.
In aggregate volume was down and this was mostly due to the volume decline in North American Printing Papers as Mark said largely driven by the Courtland mill shutdown.
Overall our operations performed well for the year.
Looking at input costs they were a $141 million higher due to the stubbornly and consistently high wood costs that we saw throughout the year.
Energy costs were higher as well largely driven by the very low levels that we saw in 2013 and also impacted by the significant weather that we experienced in the first quarter of 14 and the lingering impact that that had on energy costs through the first half of the year.
These were partially offset by lower chemical costs.
Taxes were higher in 2014 by about 5% and that was due to fewer tax benefits in 14 versus what we experienced in 2013.
And finally we had a significant non-cash Ilim FX hit in 2014 as Mark pointed out of $0.63 per share.
But most importantly we saw a substantial improvement in the business in the operations as you can see in the call-out box.
And this is attributable to the continued post project ramp up as well other efficiency improvements and margin expansion that resulted in operational EBITDA more than doubling from the prior year.
So as Mark stated when you exclude the Ilim non-cash FX charge we enjoyed an EPS improvement of more than 20% in 2014.
Turning to the results for the fourth quarter as Mark said IP delivered record free cash flow for the year and it was no different in the quarter with $739 million of free cash flow.
And this came from solid performance across all our key businesses as well as strong working capital management in the quarter.
We benefited from stronger North American Box demand but this was muted by weaker global conditions in a number of our segments.
We did see some benefit from lower input costs in the quarter and operating results at the Ilim JV were strong.
Although as we said the JV did experience a large non-cash FX charge of $0.40 in the quarter itself and this reduced our fourth-quarter EPS to $0.53 per share.
Additionally we repurchased a 170 million of our shares in the fourth quarter bringing the total purchases since September of 2013 to $1.44 billion.
Moving to slide twelve taking a look at the quarter-over-quarter bridge I’ll highlight a few key items.
On volume results were better for the quarter as the North American Box volume exceeded our expectations on stronger daily demand.
Operations and cost were unfavorable quarter-over-quarter largely due to some isolated issues at a few of our mills in the US.
The issue we had at our mill in France and an issue we had at one of our mills in Brazil.
Additionally the fourth quarter is typically a more expensive operating quarter due to the onset of colder weather and some other seasonal costs that we see.
Transportation rates across all our North American businesses were higher due to tight rail and truck markets.
And year end true-up expenses were higher in the quarter as well.
Regarding corporate expenses there was a non-cash FX charge for the administrative restructuring of an international entity for which we took a one-time hit.
As I said Ilim operational results improved in the quarter while we also experienced the large negative non-cash FX charge associated with JV US denominated debt.
As I mentioned on the prior slide EPS for the quarter would have been $0.40 higher in the absence of this non-cash FX impact.
So turning to Industrial Packaging on slide thirteen despite three fewer shipping days in the quarter volume was flat as the daily rate for box demand was at its strongest level of the year.
Pricing and aggregate was down slightly primarily driven by pressure on exports due to seasonality and a weaker euro.
Operations were unfavorable for the quarter primarily driven by isolated issues at our Orange Texas and Newport Indiana mills.
And as I mentioned transportation costs were higher as well as truck and rail rates increased due to pretty -- a very tight market condition.
We also experienced higher benefit costs and other expenses due to some year-end true ups and we had several one-off expenses that at our Brazil Packaging business.
Maintenance outage expenses were higher as well but we had clearly expected that.
And then finally on input costs they were modestly lower as we saw lower expenses for energy OCC and diesel that were offset by some higher utility costs.
And we had a major event at the steam provider for our Newport Indiana mill that resulted in our need to pay some premium pricing for energy to sustain mill operations throughout the quarter.
I think slide fourteen is just a great picture which shows the track record of results that we've been able to achieve in our North American Industrial Packaging business for the last ten years.
In 2014 the business achieved $2.7 billion in EBITDA 24% margins.
We're very proud of this business and of all of our colleagues in the Industrial Packaging business and the job they have done to achieve sustain and build on these industry-leading results.
And this has really been done through delivering real value to our customers great operating performance and quite honestly a commitment to excellence and to continue to improve.
Moving to Consumer Packaging seasonally lower demand in solid operating performance and a desire to manage our inventories very closely resulted in the need for some market-related downtime in the quarter to match production to our customers’ demand.
Results were also impacted by higher maintenance outage expenses and some unfavorable FX impact in our European and China business.
The business did see some benefit from lower input costs for wood energy and fuel.
Moving on to Printing Papers on slide sixteen volume was seasonally stronger in Brazil and Russia.
Pricing and mix were slightly unfavorable for the quarter as less favorable pulp mix and pricing pressure in Europe were partially offset by a seasonally stronger mix in Brazil.
Maintenance outages were higher as expected and operations were unfavorable due to higher operating expenses in North American papers and higher costs associated with reliability issues at our Mogi Guaçu mill in Brazil and our Saillat mill in France.
Higher year-end benefit costs in Brazil impacted our results as well.
And once again as in the other businesses input costs were favorable on our Paper segment.
Slide seventeen kind of highlights IP’s year-over-year change in operating profits by region for the Printing Papers business.
In North America Printing Papers improved by $2 million which you have to point out is significant when you consider the $40 million charge of additional expenses that we incurred in 2014 related to the Courtland closure.
The North American Pulp business had a good year with improved earnings of $55 million driven by higher volume improved operations and improved pricing and mix associated with a higher percentage of Fluff Pulp.
Brazil was flat really not surprising given the economic headwinds we’ve experienced there.
And Europe was down $27 million on less favorable pricing and mix higher input costs partially offset by lower outage expenses.
Earnings in India improved $10 million year-over-year driven by improved pricing and lower operational and maintenance outage expenses.
Now turning to the Ilim JV on slide eighteen a good quarter of operating and margin performance which was offset by the large non-cash FX charge related to the JV’s US dollar-denominated debt.
Volume was up 12% for the quarter operational EBITDA increased to a $143 million.
When looking at the full-year results volume was up 19% to almost 3.2 million tons.
Operational EBITDA improved from $208 million in 2013 to $470 million in 2014.
These improvements were largely attributable to the ramp-up of the major JV funded capital projects of both at the Koryazhma mill and the Bratsk mill as well as other efficiency improvements made by the Ilim team.
Due to the significant devaluation of the ruble which we saw late in the fourth quarter the JV expects to see further margin expansion in the first quarter.
And again simply put most of our costs 95% of our costs are in rubles and 65% of our sales are in dollars which gives us this opportunity for margin expansion.
It is worth noting that with that devaluation of the currency we will see rising inflation in 2015 and that also has a potential to create some pressure on pulp pricing.
So it will be very important for the team at Ilim to closely manage operations and costs as they go into 2015.
As we step back and look at the many reasons we like our investment in Ilim our partnership with Ilim at the top of the list is how the JV is so well positioned to serve the most significant and fastest growing pulp market in the world China.
The JV’s pulp operations in Siberia are uniquely located with favorable access to the vast Russian wood basket and importantly with access to mainland China by rail a straight south from where the mill sits.
The JV will benefit from the recent significant devaluation in the ruble which has positioned the softwood pulp operation as the lowest cost on the globe.
And there's more potential as we continue to improve the operational performance of the business.
So before I turn to the outlook I’d like to give you an update on our balance sheet.
And some of the impacts that we've had are due to the lower discount rates along with a change to mortality tables that came about last year and that we’ve implemented into our liability accounting.
We did see our pension gap grow to $3.9 billion as of the end of 2014.
In the year we made roughly a $350 million in required pension contributions.
And this contribution looks to be maybe about a $100 million in 2015 not yet totally decided but certainly much less than what we had previously anticipated.
As you recall we executed a significant bond issue and tender offer that Mark mentioned this year that enabled us to move out about a billion dollars of debt from 18 and 19 which were our largest towers along with realizing roughly a $40 million annualized interest saving.
And we ended the year with a cash balance of $1.9 billion.
So on twenty one turning to the outlook for the first quarter.
Volume will be largely flat across most of our businesses with the exception of Russia and Brazil where there is a normal seasonal decrease.
The seasonal decrease in Brazil is coming off of the strongest quarter of the year which is the fourth quarter.
And this typically will result in about a third less volume for Brazil domestically so about a $30 million negative swing quarter-over-quarter.
We expect pricing to be fairly stable across most geographies with the exception of Europe where pressure continues in the paper side due to continued economic challenges.
We expect improved operating performance in North American Industrial Packaging as the isolated issues we experienced in the fourth quarter are behind us.
And we have a similar expectation for improved performance at our Mogi Guaçu mill in Brazil as well as the Saillat mill in France.
We do expect some modest offsets from North American Consumer Package as operation and costs move back to a more typical first-quarter level.
Input costs should trend favorably due to lower energy and fuel costs but we are seeing some offset of that due to increasing transportation rates due to the tight conditions both in the rail and the truck markets.
And energy consumption in North America will be higher as well due to the normal winter condition.
Maintenance outage expenses are expected to increase in the quarter $14 million.
We assume operations at the Ilim JV will continue to perform favorably and as usual we are not attempting to forecast the ruble.
The assumption of flat FX coming out of the fourth quarter would result in a $0.40 positive swing for the first quarter.
But based upon what we're seeing to date there's likely some additional negative impact in the first quarter depending on how the ruble ends the quarter.
And we expect the tax rate to increase modestly to 33% on higher US earnings in the absence of tax extenders which we saw in the fourth quarter of 14.
And finally we expect corporate expense to return to the normalized rate of roughly $15 million in the quarter.
So with that let me turn it back over to Mark.
Thank you Carol.
I am on slide twenty two now and what I would like to do is make a couple of comments about how we see 2015 as we enter the year.
You know I’d like to turn your attention to the slide and it’s a lot of information on the slide.
Basically what we're trying to do here is take a look at growth rates GDP rates in the regions that we operate comparing them 15 to 14.
And as you can see from the chart we see a few more headwinds and tailwinds.
But a reminder 80% plus of our EBITDA is generated in the US and we see a stronger US market.
So that really helps a lot in North America.
This is the market that drives our results and we saw in a number of businesses some improved demand environment as we exited 2014.
In the markets that are most challenged as we enter 2015 Carol spoke about Russia and the challenges domestically in Russia.
However with our leverage as an exporter we think we can navigate that environment.
We didn’t talk a lot about Brazil but Brazil is in a difficult position right now.
Again our paper businesses in Brazil is well positioned to win in those markets.
We provide product in Brazil but also in the region.
Our packaging business is mostly about Brazil and of course that will be more impacted but we do see some improvement opportunities there.
And the bottom line is we’ve built a company that's got exposure in a number of markets.
We're nimble we're ready and able to deal with a variety of macro conditions that might occur in any given year and we will work very hard to offset headwinds in one area with hopefully tailwinds in another.
As we turn to our expectations for 2015 we see continued progress and strong results despite the macro environment that I just described as remaining challenging.
As we showed earlier in the presentation deck we delivered consistently strong results in both ROIC and free cash flow for the last several years.
And I believe we will do the same again in 2015.
We see the opportunity to grow our EBITDA by roughly 5% by executing the plans we currently have in place for our key businesses.
Along with this expected increase in EBITDA free cash flow is likely to be impacted by things like higher cash taxes as a result of higher earnings from the US operations I talked about also as a result of changing and lower tax credits and a few non-repeat deductible events.
Relative to how we're thinking about CapEx our target for 2015 is 1.5 billion.
The intent is to continue to find a higher percentage of our high-return projects that will enable IP to continue to grow earnings free cash flow and our returns.
Some recent examples of these higher return projects are our foodservice expansion in Kenton Ohio and the restart of our Valliant number three paper machine which we shared with you in a prior quarter.
So thinking about the key leverage that will enable the EBITDA growth for 2015 here are a few I’d like to highlight and I am on slide twenty four.
We’ve a great opportunity to continue to optimize the North American Industrial Packaging system with the ramp down of our DOJ required purchases from the mills that we divested as part of the Temple-Inland acquisition and the restart of the Valliant machines.
Those two events allow us to optimize our system even further and again we mentioned this before but I’ll restate it.
It’s not about volume growth as much as it is about enhanced flexibility across a very large system which will enable us to serve the customer needs we’ve at a lower total delivered cost.
So we’ve opportunities to grow kraft liner through our international box system.
We’ve talked about that in prior discussions.
We still see opportunity there in specialty applications like paper that's required for gypsum board which we also make in our containerboard system is growing and all of this flexibility allows us to bring the best revenue stream in through the asset base we’ve.
The Courtland shutdown and transition are complete and we’ll realize the benefits of this repositioning for the North American Printing Papers business while the costs are largely behind us from 2014.
There is a growing trend in demand for fiber-based food packaging that we see in the move from foam to paper cups as an example and the growing plate segment just to name a few.
And we're well-positioned to benefit from these demand trends.
And we expect to see solid improvement in results in our Brazil Industrial Packaging business.
We're well-positioned to benefit from continued margin expansion that Carol outlined in our Ilim JV.
So before we go to questions I would just like to conclude by saying you know 2014 was a strong year for IP and a lot was accomplished.
I feel good about how we performed and the momentum we’ve going into 2015.
We again delivered strong results and created value for our shareholders and that's our commitment.
We're off to a good start in 2015.
I am excited about the prospects for another strong year.
We’ve every opportunity to deliver on the outlook I just shared with you and our team is engaged in committing to doing it.
2015 is all about execution and that's something we pride ourselves on really continuing to improve on.
In addition we intend to focus more resources on high-return capital projects within our core businesses that can drive additional earnings growth.
And finally our team is committed to continue to find ways to deliver the most value for shareholders.
And as such we will continue to evaluate all of our businesses as well as our capital allocation strategy.
We feel good about where we’ve come from and what we've accomplished but we're far from satisfied at this point.
We expect to deliver more value in the future.
And on that note I'd like to give you a quick update on where we are with the Master Limited Partnership evaluation process.
We continue to look and work diligently on this project with our tax financial and legal advisors.
And the real question is evaluating whether the MLP structure is the best vehicle to create value for IP and our shareholders.
We continue to be interested in the opportunity.
While we said before it’s complicated we haven’t seen anything that would say that we need to shut down the analysis so that it’s a no-go.
By the same token we haven't reached a conclusion either.
But since our last call we’ve filed a request with the IRS to get a private letter ruling and it remains a little unclear on how that might proceed but we will stay tuned.
Our primary goal is to create value for our shareholders and we're evaluating the MLP opportunity because it has the potential to be part of our value creation strategy.
As we’ve more information to share we will keep everyone informed.
With that I think we're ready for questions.
A few questions.
You know Mark you know you mentioned that or the company mentioned that you expect to grow EBITDA this year about 5% and we wish you well in that regard.
And you talked to some of the drivers of that performance on slide twenty four.
Would it be possible to perhaps parse how much of that growth comes from those drivers when considering in 2014 you know looking at your slides you didn't grow EBITDA quite 5%.
And that was the year where you had much more pricing tailwinds and you're likely to have in 15 at least given current trends.
So you know if you could talk to those points and I had a couple of quick follow-ons.
Yeah I think the outline on slide twenty four are the key drivers.
I mean part of it is as I mentioned in internal execution.
We still don't have a robust volume outlook in our plan but I think we've got the opportunities in the points I made on that slide that gives us a good chance to grow that EBITDA in really internal initiatives and some of the execution issues that we have in front of us.
And there is a long list of high-return capital projects that improve our quality and lower our costs that we’ve discovered in the number of businesses most recently in our -- in North American Industrial Packaging business that we plan on working on.
Okay but other than that and general [indiscernible] we appreciate you might not want to get into the details at this juncture not willing to parse that any further on this call? I’d rather not thank you.
No I understand I understand.
Secondly on pension I think you mentioned that funding is now a $100 million for 15 and we understand why obviously with the growth and the pension gap.
At this juncture Carol is it possible to talk about what the implications are going forward past 15? So simplistically should we extrapolate a 100 million into the future or you know could there be some offsets that we should consider as we model out? George actually the honest truth of it is is you really don't know your total cash required contributions until June because there's some more that has to be done.
And so as we sit it’s not really much of a change from where we were before.
It’s in that range and it all comes back to -- and very close to your funding target attainment number and you are right around 100%.
If you go a little below that you’ve to put a little bit more money in.
If you are above it you don’t.
So it’s just that we're very close to that edge is why I qualify it with a 100.
But there's no real change even with the growing gap in the liability.
My last question and I’ll turn it over.
I noticed I think from the slide deck that you are projecting maintenance spending to be up I think around $60 million in 15 versus 14.
Can you comment to what the drivers are there and you know how important is that in terms of the overall execution you know imperative if you will in 15 in terms of how you get that 5% EBITDA growth? Thanks and good luck in the quarter.
Yes George this is Carol.
I’ll take that.
Actually what’s happening in 2015 and it will happen again in 2016 is there is some significant outages for the [indiscernible] implementation that requires some extra work.
And so if you look at I think the numbers that are in there is $444 million of outage expense in 14 increasing to about 500.
The biggest driver of that increase is the very specific work that has to go on around some of the mills that's more extensive than we normally would be see.
Thank you I had two questions.
First I just wanted to know are you continuing to see the strength in corrugated demand domestically as we go into January that you're seeing in the fourth quarter? And do you have any visibility as to how sustainable it is at that point? Hi Mark.
We're are seeing January starting off with a continuation of the trend we saw in November and December.
So across a number of segments you know we're sort of in every segment given our scale but we do see that continuing.
I wish I could answer your second question I would say we hope so.
Some of it seems to be underpinned by the behavior of the American consumer and everything we read about with respect to the impact of lower fuel prices and you know consumer sentiment in general being better.
But it’s you know a couple of months maybe not a trend yet but we are cautiously optimistic.
Thank you and then if I could try and just translate if there is 5% growth in EBITDA in terms of thinking about EPS is it fair for us to take this $3 and presumably hopefully we don't have the Ilim FX issue so we're really starting at $3.63.
Then if we think about 5% is roughly 200 million that's about another $0.30.
I guess there's some movements in tax rate and interest expense and corporate but is that kind of directionally the way to think about translating the EBITDA to an EPS number or are there other significant variables to be keeping in mind? No Mark I think that's it.
Of course you know we’ve the Ilim FX issue so that's in both now it’s in the 14 it will be something in 15.
And you hit it we gave some information on where we view the tax rate going and also the interest expense.
So yes you are directionally thinking about it correctly.
You took another big charge in Asia this quarter and you took a big one in India you know within the last year.
I am just wondering does that have any -- to what extent does that reflect on how you are viewing the business potential moving forward? And also how it may or may not impact your thinking in terms of further growth and investments in the region? Yes Gail I’ll just comment on the charge.
So I think it’s listed in our special charges.
We did take the write-off of the goodwill that was associated with our Asian Box business the converting business.
And as you pointed out we wrote off the goodwill associated with India in the prior year.
And so relative to the comments about the business and the portfolio I’ll turn that over to Mark.
Thanks Carol.
Good morning Gail.
Now the charges are really as Carol described.
Our view on the businesses in any of these kind of emerging markets is it’s a long view.
It’s a difficult time in Asia right now for a number of reasons namely capacity issues.
You know we're very small in India and we still see some potential there.
So I think we do have a long view on these markets but as we said before and I said in my earlier comments we will continue to evaluate as time goes on almost on a continuous basis.
The portfolio we're in and geographies and businesses all against the backdrop of trying to do the things that create the most value long term.
So you know we're going to continue to look at our emerging markets.
Sometimes you’ve to weather some storms and I think that's what we're going through right now.
Okay and in terms of the coated paperboard business can you talk about where you think we are in that process of conversion away from foam? You know are we in the third inning the eighth inning? And just taking kind of a broader global view you kind of just referenced some of the challenges in Asia.
But anything else as you look at the business globally that gives you any concerns? Gail Mike Amick is here and he’s [indiscernible] our Consumer Packaging business and our Printing Papers business.
And I’ll let Mike take a shot at your question and then see if we get everything you are looking for.
Mike? Good morning Gail.
It’s a good question.
I like the analogy to the baseball.
I am not sure exactly what inning I would say we're probably early in the process.
We continue to see you know very strong momentum in this space.
We had a good year in foodservice and the overall demand associated with that business.
But I would probably characterize it as you know we're kind of early you know early on in this game and probably in the first three innings.
We expect to see continued improvement in this space as a result of kind of the sustainability story associated with our product line.
I think Gail on the global part of that question you know we’ve seen a lot of customer acceptance of higher grade fiber-based packaging.
So we make this new product at our Kwidzyn Mill.
It’s been very well received.
Now we are in segments of the Consumer Packaging market from a board manufacturing standpoint not every segment.
And the ones that we're in you know we think still have some runway and still have a lot of interest by customers.
Okay and maybe that's like a little bit of a segway in my last question.
Obviously earlier in [indiscernible] week we saw a big deal announced particularly perhaps in the Consumer Packaging space.
Do you think it’s important for you or would you consider expanding beyond into other substrates? Is that something that you feel is holding you back at all in your business? Well it’s something -- it’s a great question.
It’s something we evaluate constantly around whether or not a fuller line of products and really any of our business brings value to customers.
And sometimes the best place to ask that question is in where the customer sits.
And so it’s something Gail we always evaluate and you will probably see from time to time that we expand our offering.
You know we did it in our corrugated packaging business.
But I don't see that we're in a particular disadvantaged spot right now.
But it’s definitely something we continue to look at as we should as a value-creating opportunity for the company.
Can you talk a little bit about inventory levels in containerboard? You know November was pretty lean and demand trends from most of the public companies that I have reported suggested pretty strong flow-through on the demand side in the early part of year.
So can you give us a little color on that trend? Philip I would be happy to.
You know demand in a quarter expected inventory needs to service customers in the next quarter and in the case of the first quarter you start getting the annual outages.
And just how we ran and how we operate all factor into where our inventories end up despite our best efforts on planning where we want them to be.
And I think with all that said I believe we're in good shape from an inventory standpoint.
Going into 2015 our inventories went down in the quarter and we believe we’ve got the systems in place to operate in the first quarter without any interruptions because our inventory is too low.
The one dynamic that we are dealing with and I think a lot of people are dealing with is the transportation network continues to be a little less flexible than it has been in the past.
So that influences where we might need to see inventory levels that might be different from what they were in the past.
But I think we like where we are right now.
Okay and Mark you kind of referenced you know part of that [indiscernible] on 5% EBITDA type growth for 15 is partly driven by some of the high-return projects that you have going forward.
Can you talk about it if it’s mostly cost takeout is it more growth related is it domestic is it international? Can you give us some color on that front? I think it’s a bit of -- some of the projects definitely some projects that we’ve already started in 14 that will benefit us in 15.
And I think it’s a mix across domestic and the outside the US businesses.
But given the scale of our business obviously most of the driver is coming from some opportunities in our North American system.
There is a little bit of volume or growth I would say in there.
And it’s areas where we think we have the ability because of our customer portfolio to grow even in a flat-market environment.
So but the big driver is the first thing you mentioned which is improving our cost structure and cost takeout.
Okay and just one final question for Carol.
Can you give us some color on how you are thinking about free cash flow? I know you gave us some moving pieces on CapEx and D&amp;A and pension contribution.
But directionally should we expect free cash flow to be roughly flat up down some color on that front would be helpful? Yeah I think the -- [indiscernible] the EBITDA number out there.
I think the areas you are going to see more cash used is in cash taxes.
We had a number of one-off events that happened in 14 that helped lower the cash taxes that are non-repeatable.
So I think we’ll see more there and then we talked about the CapEx going from 1.4 to 1.5.
But again if you step back from it it’s going to be another strong year of free cash flow for the company.
And I guess a question for Carol or maybe even Tim if he is there.
It’s just you mentioned some operational issues in the Industrial Packaging side in a mill in Texas I think in Indiana.
And I was just wondering if you maybe can quantify or help us out with you know the extra costs related to that that hopefully don't repeat there? Yeah this is Carol.
Unfortunately Tim is home sick so we got the flu running around here in Memphis.
But so I’ll take a shot at it and I’ll see if my colleagues can add to it? So if you think about Orange Texas we had an outage in December.
We found some issues that we chose to spend a little extra money on and then we had a little difficulty coming up out of the outage which cost us a little production.
So you’ve got that item and then you take our Indiana mill where we had our supplier our steam supplier there had a catastrophic failure at their facility which meant that we had to pay more for both electricity and steam.
And that problem was with us most of the fourth quarter and is moderating and I am looking at my colleagues.
I think the swing on all of this is about $10 million to $15 million should be a pickup that we get heading from the fourth to the first.
Okay thank you Carol I appreciate that.
And also in the context of the 5% EBITDA growth that we're targeting for 15 how do you -- how has inflationary expectations embedded in that? Do you see yeah low oil prices materially you know factoring in that and helping on the inflationary front? You know that's a great question.
You know we take a look at a year like 14 that we would say felt like a moderately low inflation year and yet you know we still saw a $141 million of headwinds so it’s a big system and small moves can matter a lot.
So the things that are helping us of course are energy pull through into chemicals diesel.
Wood costs has been stubbornly high but you know we’ve got our fingers crossed.
Maybe we’ll see it turn there and you know OTC will depend on global economic conditions.
The headwinds we have though are transportation costs are going up.
And so we’ve kind of have put some cakes so it’s hard to say if it’s going to be you know like a 100 headwind or a 100 tailwind.
It’s hard to predict how it will turn out.
If the economic conditions stay strong the likelihood of it being a little bit of a headwind is probably more likely and that would be a good problem.
And so we’ll just have to see so that's a round answer Al but that's about what it feels like right now.
Mark I wondered -- just kind of a broad question here.
But I wondered if we could get your thoughts on the impact of FX across your portfolio as we move into 15? Yeah that's a great question Mark.
And I think what I’ll do is I’ll ask Carol to kind of give you a high-level puts and takes across the company.
Yeah Mark you know if you look at the business and you know us well the primary impact of FX is going to be less around the accounting conversion of profits from euro to dollars all of that stuff.
It's going to have the bigger impact it’s going to be around really the economic implications of what it does to trade flows cost competitiveness and where people sell their products and what we can charge for our products in different regions.
If you step back from it clearly the biggest impact is the strengthening US dollar.
For us a stronger US dollar net-net will cost us you know it will lower our earnings.
And I don't know that we've kind of given this number out before but if you think about you know a 10% depreciation in the dollar it could be a 15 millionish round number just from the accounting side of it.
And that doesn’t speak to any of the economic implications of it.
So we're hedged in a lot of places.
You know we’ve weakening currency in Brazil and Russia but we’ve a lot of dollars sales.
But the biggest impact of course is you know we export a lot from a lot of places and it will be trade flows that has the biggest impact.
Just another question on a couple of the foreign operations.
I wondered if you're able to give us some timeline and improvement down at Orsa.
And I also wonder over at Ilim whether it’s possible to give a sort of a longer-term EBITDA margin target of that business? Mark I think on Orsa you know what I mentioned earlier is we made a lot of operational improvements as we went through the year and we expect to continue that.
Where we've been challenged really is on the commercial side and so I think we're going to take advantage of whatever the market gives us but we expect a difficult commercial environment in the Box business in Brazil through 2015 at least with what we can see now.
But there are opportunities continued opportunities to improve the operation of our recycle bills there and our box plans.
And so I think when and I know it will happen when the market improves we will be well positioned to take advantage of it.
So I think you'll see internal improvements through 2015 and commercial improvements as the economy improves.
Relative to Ilim we still target and believe that under you know normal conditions $600 million EBITDA is the target for the footprint and the platform we build out.
And depending upon the margin on that it’s probably in your upper 20s 28ish percent approximately.
Okay that's helpful.
The last question I had any updated thoughts on Courtland and whether there is any potential to repurpose any portion of that mill maybe similar to what you did at Franklin a few years ago? Mark you know as we always do look exhaustedly at different opportunities for that asset and there's nothing major that has come out of that work there or maybe a couple of small opportunities that are still alive.
But I don't see anything right now in the scale of Franklin.
Mark first on the EBITDA guidance improvement of 5% I think you had mentioned that it doesn't reflect much of [indiscernible] improvement.
Would you be able to clarify for us you know what you are factoring in for your volumes in the North American Industrial business within your guidance for 15? I think what we've been looking at in terms of our plan and the backdrop against what I was talking about our earnings growth is about a 1% North American Box market growth rate.
Got it and then on the cost side you know a lot of talk about the inflationary pressure in freight.
Can you just size the total cost for the company for securing rail and truck? And you know what is the inflationary percentage that you are sort of seeing on that cost base in 15 versus 14? You know we looked across our transportation spend really from rate increases we're looking at about a $40 million year-over-year cost increase.
And then we obviously go and look to -- that's about somewhere in the 3-5% whether you are talking rail or truck.
And we are looking at ways to you know optimize supply chain systems to chip away at that.
So we usually typically don't experience the full impact of the rate increases we're able to compensate.
But $40 million is probably the number that we would that we plan for this year.
And just last one for me on Ilim.
Can you say how much free cash flow the business generated in 14 and what the uses were? I know you guys picked up a $56 million dividend which is great to see.
But I just wanted to know what the total free cash flow generation was.
And then maybe in terms of 15 if we do you know put up $600 million EBITDA in that business how much free cash flow does that equate to and how much of that could come back to the company? So let me give you a couple of numbers and I am going to let Jay kind of look for it.
And so this is more of a pro forma than it is an actual number right now.
But if you think about a business that's got $600 million of EBITDA think about sustained CapEx is around $200 million.
Okay and then you’ve got taxes and I think taxes in Russia is the tax rate is 20ish percent.
And then you’ve got to service your debt and so that's the question of how that will come over time and how much leverage do we want to keep on the business.
So you can see that it’s going to be a very nice cash flow generator if you kind of do that math.
And the interest that we had in 14 was like $70 million so a lot of nice cash.
And then the question is what do you want to do with that cash dividends to the shareowners or further reinvestment in the business are the options.
A couple of questions on the containerboard export situation Mark or Carol.
One you know exports are obviously up substantially in the December quarter despite the strengthening dollar and weakness in economies elsewhere.
Do you have any thoughts as to why that happened and can you shed any light on how much of that export surge was attributable to your sending board to European box plants? You know Adam I think the real driver of why the exports are up is most of what’s exported is Kraft Liner.
And that's what we export and we saw actually improved demand for our Kraft Liner segment.
So while at the macro level some of the markets were soft in some of the Kraft Liner segments tends to be in some of the fresh food and humidity-proof kind of segments.
We saw improvement and so we had more customer demand and a good percentage of that goes to our own box business in Europe.
Okay and just get along similar lines Mark.
You know the trade press talked about the gap between domestic prices and export prices to Europe being unusually wide at the moment about a $170 a ton.
I mean do you think that gap is sustainable or would you expect a convergence over time between the two for whatever reason? Well I think the gap between you know kind of a dollar pricing between domestic containerboard and export containerboard does have a normal control range based on -- a lot of it’s based on FX effects and how containerboard is sold in different parts of the world.
So in Latin America for example it’s sold in dollars no big change in Europe.
Some of it’s sold in euros but I think our view is you know we’ve been doing this for a long long time before the euro even came into existence.
We’ve sold containerboards successfully at $0.84 and we’ve sold it successfully at $1.45.
And we're in it for the long-term so I think that gap will move around.
But it seems like it’s in the normal band that you would see when currency moves around.
And the bottom line is the customers that we have need Kraft Liner and we're going to supply it to them for those needs.
And we will make more money in some periods of time we’ll make less money in other periods of time but it’s a strategic segment for us.
Yeah first question I was just having trouble with my phone is really more for Carol.
And it’s interesting I noticed the tax rate going up from 26 to 31 to 33% and I would suppose that increase has a lot to do with the mix of earnings especially with the weaker currencies overseas.
Is there anything going on that would make us think that that tax rate would continue to move up in future years or do you think this is a fair place to be or in fact could it be lower in future years you know if let’s say Brazil comes back? Yeah I think the 26 was unusually low because we had the double year of two helpings of extenders and legislations.
The 31 was more normal as you would expect.
And then the 33 goes up because as you stated you know we're going to have more US earnings.
And with more US earnings the marginal rate on that is higher and so it’s just going to change the ratio.
Well I think for us 33 is probably a good number to plan again.
And then of course we will you know work well within the bounds to you know manage our ETR and our taxes and do the things we can best to pay what we need to pay.
Got you and then a quick one on Ilim.
I think before we were using $1.5 billion of net debt and now you are saying 1.3 and I might be wrong on that.
Did you actually pay off some of the debt that had been accrued there during the project? No that's around the dollars that we’ve got flowing in because of these great operations and margins we’ve got.
So we’ve got dollars that are sitting in the bank.
I got you okay.
And then on the leverage I noticed that with the pension and the adjustment for the operating leases it’s you know 3.3 times which is a bit above your long run I guess target with the ratings agencies.
Do you think that's going to necessarily cause you to slow down your share repurchases in 2015 you know all things being equal or not? You know I don’t think so.
I think to say once again we’ve got a great reputation with the rating agencies.
You know we’ve got really incredibly low discount rates so rates go up.
You know we’ll make that liability to mark it again at the end of 15 so we’ll be talking to the agencies about our situation.
But I don’t think that it will cause a significant shift in our strategy or our capita allocation at this point.
And then one last quick one.
You know I think there was -- and I don’t know who interviewed -- if this was accurate.
But I saw a quote somewhere this morning that it seemed like Mark you had suggested that growing in the containerboard internationally is something that that is important to IP or certainly a potential avenue of growth.
And I don’t know if you could just talk a little bit about how you view the paperboard segment broadly defined in the US and containerboard not outside the US in terms of how those could be opportunities for IP to grow through acquisition? Sure Chip.
I think what you saw was I think an interview and we were talking about opportunities to grow our packaging business.
And the question was about North America and I said in North America our primary opportunities are in our box business given where our position is in containerboard.
And then I used an example of Orsa as a containerboard and box move in a market where we can do that.
And obviously as we said we're interested in generating shareholder return by doing what we do well and that may include growing our packaging business globally.
So that was the context of what I think you're referring to.
And I think you know consumer packaging is definitely interesting for us which I think is what you are talking about when you said paperboard.
And industrial packaging of course is our driver for the company right now and those are businesses we believe we have more opportunity and we will continue to evaluate those opportunities.
I wanted to ask a question and I am going to try to be careful how I ask this.
But you know if we look at and kind of dissect what you’ve laid out here thus far in the call is I look at you know where you’ve outlined significant amounts of inflation or headwinds both you know what you had in 14 and what's looking forward to 15.
I think of areas you mentioned like wood inflation wages regulatory costs with [boiler mac] healthcare utilities transportation etcetera.
It strikes me that it’s been almost two years since we’ve had any sort of recovery for inflation or any components.
As you know sit today how do you feel about the potential environment? We’ve demand that's seemingly much better with opportunity to potentially you know recover some of these higher costs that you're seeing and have to work through the system? Chris that was very carefully asked.
But you know obviously we never speculate on what we might do on pricing to recover our cost.
It’s obviously a fundamental in business that you need to think about those things.
And we're talking about what we might do in the future what we’ve always talked about is the conditions that would need to be present for and that's much more complicated than just demand.
Okay fair enough.
Let me flip gears for a second to the coated paperboard business.
It looks like you took almost as much downtime in 4Q as you’ve over the last couple of years.
Can you talk a little bit about you know where you are set up today there? Do you feel that you’ve kind of got your -- you know are you for inventory levels or are you comfortable that you got what you need done there and you can operate more maybe in line with demand on a go-forward basis? Hey Chris this is Mike Amick a good question.
Yeah we took some [LLO] in Q4.
But you know we typically see a seasonal downturn in Q4 and obviously we're working to match our supply to our customer demand.
You know overall we feel good about our inventory levels.
You can see what's happened with the industry inventory levels as well from the publication.
So we feel pretty good about that.
We’ve seen as we expect to see in the first quarter a little bit of a pickup you know in demand over the course of the last couple of weeks.
And so we’ll continue to you know again to manage our supply to our demand but you know we feel pretty good right now.
I know it’s hard to call a bottom on a currency or a stock for that matter but does it make sense to maybe hedge the ruble impact at some stage on the joint venture debt or is the natural hedge with your operation sufficient? It’s the natural hedge Steve and you know the way we say it is we borrow dollars and they are still the same dollars.
So there is the non-cash and so when you start hedging non-cash accounting things you are incurring a cost without necessarily an economic benefit [indiscernible].
That's fine.
I suppose your JV partners have never been happier to get US dollar dividends? Yeah.
And then similarly I see that you know China this has been touched on but that's not listed as you know something that's going to be getting better in 2015 or at least not on page twenty four.
I mean how long are you going to tolerate that is it much of a distraction to management? That's a good question Steve.
You know we’ve got a good team in China.
They manage the business.
It’s not a distraction to management at all.
And again you know we wouldn’t speculate on what we would do in all of our businesses.
We evaluate them for the near-term midterm and long-term and we look at China beyond what we just have in China.
We view China as an important market for IP.
Carol talked about you know a big portion of the rationale for Ilim is all about China.
We import products from the US to China that they need like fluff pulp and containerboard and we’ve operations in China.
So when we think about China we think about from the IP side we think about all of those activities.
And it’s an important market and we’ve tried to address it in different ways.
So I think we will continue to look at that and all of those kinds of ways to serve that market and continue to evaluate it as we go forward.
Thank you and then one other perhaps oddball question.
We're well aware that Styrofoam cups are being phased out and it appears that you know all kinds of Styrofoam products are actually you know on the wane.
So I'm wondering beyond Bleached Board are there other substrates where you can win you know perhaps even molded pulp for take-out containers? Well I think that's to my earlier answer to a similar question that you know extending our products and know-how into new uses is something we look at constantly and to see if we can create value.
And then going into adjacent spaces where maybe we look at combining materials like fiber and something else to make a better product.
Again most of those markets have valid competitors who are really good at what they do.
So if we think about doing it we think about it because we believe we can have a competitive advantage and that maybe complementary offerings with what we already do would be a better solution for the customer.
So yes it’s on the table almost on a continuous basis.
It’s part of our business planning and strategic inputs to our strategic plan that we do from our marketing teams.
Mark just looking at the EBITDA guidance for 2015 you are talking about 5% growth off of the $4.1 billion in 2014.
And sort of just compound that in getting to you know $5 billion EBITDA for the company.
You know you are talking about 4 to 5 years until you actually reach if you maintain growth at that 5% rate so you can get to 5 billion.
Is there something in the next few years where you see the potential for acceleration in EBITDA growth within any other businesses that could shorten that timeframe? Well that's obviously what we work on every day and we're not satisfied with our path toward our 5 billion.
And we talked about this before and one of the biggest misses is we had a slightly better economic environment during that period.
And we called it a mid-cycle target mid-cycle demand mid-cycle cost and we probably haven’t seen the demand side really.
So a small amount of demand improvement really ratchets that performance up pretty quickly.
And then you know we've got more opportunities and some internal improvements that we can pull forward.
But we really probably need a little bit better economic set of conditions to accelerate it in a meaningful way lacking you know changing the company in some way.
But with what we’ve today is what we said we're focused on getting the 5 billion with the IP we’ve today.
Sure and a couple of questions on the corrugated business specifically I mean you talked about for the FX impact on exports.
It sounds like minimal impact to your export business or within the normal range.
But when you look back historically FX and the impact potentially on imports is there a dollar strength level where you actually start to see imports incentivized into the US potentially disrupting you know some of the supply-demand balance that we’ve today? Imports of containerboard have a lot more issues to manage than just the economic piece.
So the US market given the way it's constructed who makes the boxes and those types of things makes importing containerboard a bit of a challenge.
So I don't know if there's a number I guess there’s always a number.
But I don't think we see imports of containerboard in the US being a major a major issue.
Okay and then just lastly around e-commerce and the impact on the box business in North America.
Any sort of additional work you've done to sort of measure the impact of e-commerce how that might have impacted the fourth quarter where it is as a percentage of sales etcetera? Well I think as a market that segment is still pretty small as a segment of the US Box market.
I think it’s 2 to 3% or something in that range but it’s growing at an impressive rate.
You know our business in that segment has been one of our high points and you know in the 15 to 20% growth range.
And I think that's how much the segment is growing as well in addition to our numbers.
But I believe that's going to continue but again there’s so many boxes in the US used for other things.
And it'll be a while before it’s maybe a major segment but the growth rate is exciting.
And corrugated gets to show its full value to the market in that kind of supply chain and so we're excited to be participating in that segment.
Two easy questions.
One whether you could comment on last week there was a filing by four of your paper competitors on looking for antidumping duties if you could comment on that? And just you referenced the fluff pulp mix improvement just if you could give a couple of comments on your outlook for fluff as well as NBSK from Ilim going forward? Okay Paul I’ll take the question on the antidumping case and then I’ll ask Mike Amick to update you on our pulp business.
He has the pulp business in our paper sector.
On the antidumping case you know obviously we're aware of it.
Our set of kind of conditions are different than a lot of the other players.
We’ve a global footprint in uncoated free sheet and you know we rely on the flexibility of that network.
So our view on that is probably a little different than some of the other companies that are named in the complaint.
But largely we make the printing papers around the world that we make for the local markets or the regional markets and import virtually nothing to the US.
So that's not made in the US from our own operations.
Hey Paul this is Mike Amick.
On your second question on fluff pulp obviously you saw from the slide that you know the pulp business had a nice year-over-year improvement.
And we feel pretty good about the pulp business the mix has been a large part of that lever as we’ve taken you know our mix up to close to three quarters of our pulp.
And we will continue to you know to drive that improvement lever and feel you know pretty good about 2015.
If I could go back to your Brazil business you know you are pointing to stable pricing and cost in Q1.
I was just curious if there is a concern you know however that electricity prices could impact your paper and packaging business down there in the region for 2015? Yes definitely Debbie it’s definitely something we're watching.
The electricity prices are very dependant on rainfall and water reservoir levels and we dealt with those issues throughout 2014.
It’s not completely behind us by any stretch of the imagination so you know it’s a potential.
We don’t plan for everything that could go wrong going wrong but we are watching it and putting contingency plans in for that exact potential.
Okay and then there has been a discussion on the call about you know further expansion into you know packaging outside the US and I am just wondering if Brazil you did mention this before.
If there are any opportunities down there for you that you would see that might be attractive? You know we like what we’ve started in Brazil.
It’s not performing to our expectations but we think we know how to fix it.
And I think if we can show that we can do that we would like to look at opportunities.
Brazil is an interesting packaging market.
There is opportunities to do organic moves and there is opportunities to potentially make small acquisitions.
There are no large large players or anything like that.
So you’ve to build the business in a different way but it is something we’ve interest in and you know we’ll only do it if we think we can create value doing it.
Just a couple of quick questions on domestic box markets.
You know we saw some consolidation by independent coordinators last year and early this year and some capacity coming online.
I guess my first question is are you seeing increased competitive pressure in any of the regional box markets where you compete? And then a related question you know given price declines in OCC you know are customers coming to you in any meaningful way and saying that they want you know more test liner and less kraft liner or are you seeing any kind of mix shift there? Anthony I think on the first part of your question.
You know we’ve seen kind of a normal level of competitive activity regionally as you mentioned based on some new capacity being absorbed.
I don’t think anything has really changed in the third quarter or fourth quarter.
We just kind of navigated through that process.
It’s obviously pushed some product probably to the export markets from the US but we see that is kind of stable and no real change as the year went on.
And again a little bit of growth probably helped in the fourth quarter and would definitely help get that capacity to market in the 2015 period.
And there's no discussions about you know normal input costs like OCC that would drive our customers to test liner.
Our customers really talk to us about you know working collaboratively on what the best solution is.
And sometimes I wouldn’t call it test liner in the US as much as I would call it a recycled blend of paper.
But the performance specs are really what matter and that's what the customers are interested in.
Okay that's very helpful and then may be just one follow-up.
I mean OCC prices have been weak for maybe a little bit longer than some of us had expected.
And as you think about your 2015 you know kind of internal projections do you expect OCC to stay at these levels for the year or do you expect some kind of recovery in OCC? Well Anthony that is obviously an important question.
Every time we try to answer it we're like everyone else we're wrong.
So we really don't know we will monitor it.
I think Carol mentioned earlier OCC is going to be a function of global economic conditions based on where the primary OCC containerboard is made.
So Asia getting better would probably firm up OCC and other markets like that.
So I think you know we're going to watch it and be prepared for you know whatever happens.
But we really have no way of knowing generation is part of the impact.
Collection rates have improved throughout the world so we will probably be looking at -- and I must say this.
And I’ll be wrong a stable OCC in 2015.
Yeah so we took a few extra questions this morning so we'll go ahead and wrap it up.
Well thank everybody for joining us and being on the call and as always Michele and I are available after the presentation.
Our phone numbers on page twenty six so have a great day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning.
My name is Jennifer and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the International Paper First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
Thank you.
I will now turn the conference over to Jay Royalty Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Jennifer.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining International Paper's first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Our key speakers this morning are Mark Sutton Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Carol Roberts Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call we will make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which are outlined on slide 2 of the presentation.
We will also present certain non-U.
S.
GAAP financial information.
A reconciliation of those figures to U.S.
GAAP financial measures are available on our website.
Our website also contains copies of the first quarter 2015 earnings press release and today's presentation slides.
Lastly relative to the Ilim JV slide 4 provides context around joint venture's financial information and statistical measures.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Mark Sutton.
Thank you Jay and good morning everyone.
Thanks for your interest in International Paper and for taking time to join our quarterly call.
I'm going to start on slide 5.
International Paper delivered a solid performance in the first quarter.
Our team successfully managed the business to improve margins and improve earnings.
This is enabling International Paper to continue to deliver strong results.
Extreme weather had some impact on our results in North America.
Although our operations overall performed well.
We saw particularly strong results out of the Ilim joint venture in Russia.
As margins expanded due to our strong export position.
Our research in EBITDA margin absolute EBITDA and free cash flow all improved year-over-year.
Overall we're pleased with how we operated and with our results in the first quarter.
We feel like we're off to a good start to 2015.
Continuing with our financial results on slide 6.
EPS was $0.84 a share for the first quarter.
And this includes $0.04 of unfavorable Ilim FX impact.
Our EBITDA margin was up 120 basis points versus the first quarter of last year.
EBITDA grew by $32 million year-over-year.
And free cash flow improved to $319 million up from $252 million in the first quarter of 2014.
If we dive a little deeper into margins you can see on slide 7 that we're successfully managing our margins across our key businesses.
Global dynamics are different in each of these regions and across the businesses.
But our teams are finding ways to drive improved performance in the face of these challenges.
Despite the economic backdrop we're finding ways to continue to win and improve results.
And with that I'll turn it over to Carol to cover the details in the quarter and the second-quarter outlook.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
Looking at the sequential bridge to the $0.84.
Prices in mix were slightly unfavorable and volume was lower due to seasonality in Brazil and lower volume in industrial packaging.
As Mark mentioned operations were solid even with some winter weather impact in North America.
Input costs were favorable particularly for energy and diesel.
However I would note that the diesel benefit was largely offset by higher distribution rates.
And we saw the favorable - large favorable swing for Ilim.
With most of this coming from a less severe ruble devaluation against the U.S.
dollar compared to what occurred in the prior quarter.
And as Mark mentioned on an absolute basis the $0.84 for the first quarter does include a $0.04 unfavorable Ilim FX charge.
Moving to slide 9.
In industrial packaging beginning with price.
Most of the impact we experienced in the quarter was on lower export prices.
Which were largely a function of currency and the impacts of the strong U.S.
dollar? Volume was lower.
As shipments were impacted by weather along with lower demand from several of our largest customers.
Year-over-year our shipments were up 1% on a same-day basis.
And finally operations and input costs were favorable sequentially.
Partially offset by higher planned maintenance outage expense in the quarter as expected.
And as you saw on the margin slide that was previously shown by Mark.
Overall another strong quarter for our industrial packaging business.
Moving to consumer packaging on slide 10.
Mix improved slightly and volume was favorable in North America.
Input costs in North America were a tailwind as well.
Partially offset by higher distribution rates.
The first quarter is typically a higher-cost operating quarter in North America due to seasonality.
And this was only made worse by the periods of extreme winter weather.
And if you think about that it's just about how cold it was and some of the energy implications that it takes to run some of these big integrated mills.
Additionally the business incurred some additional cost with the difficult startup at Augusta following the annual outage there.
But in total a much stronger start to the year for consumer packaging in 2015.
In printing papers we experienced some softness in North American pulp and paper pricing along with a less favorable mix in Brazil.
Which was due to seasonally lower domestic demand? The Brazil seasonality accounted for the majority of the lower volume as well.
Which was further amplified by the weak market conditions in the region? Operations and other costs were negatively impacted by negative weather.
Along with a one-time charge for the write-off of a project which we chose to abandon.
Lower input costs for diesel and energy were offset by some commercial pressure and higher distribution rates.
And finally there was some modest unfavorable FX impacts for the quarter.
As FX headwinds in Europe were greater than the net tailwinds we experienced in Brazil.
Turning to Ilim on slide 12.
The JV turned in its second consecutive quarter of very strong performance on the back of expanding margins.
Driven by its strong export position.
And now is the lowest-cost softwood pulp producer on the globe.
Operational EBITDA for the quarter was $186 million up 62% from Q1 2014.
The JV did experience a modest negative non-cash FX related accounting charge of $47 million.
Associated with the U.S.
dollar denominated net debt which was $1.2 billion for the first quarter.
The JV remains focused on cost management and post-project optimization.
To stay ahead of rising inflation and to offset the tough economic conditions in the country.
Ilim expects lower earnings in the second quarter before considering any FX impact from the accounting treatment on the debt.
Due to a $10 million maintenance outage that's scheduled at the big brocks mills and higher inflation.
So moving to the outlook for the second quarter.
Volume will be up for our North American packaging business.
With one more day and seasonal strengthenity.
Particularly in industrial packaging with the onset of the ag season.
The industrial packaging volume is expected to increase by approximately 4% quarter over quarter.
Consumer volume will increase as well.
Due to the strengthening backlog.
Volume in Brazil papers will increase as we move past the seasonal weakness of the first quarter.
Pricing is expected to be largely flat across the businesses.
With the exception of Brazil where paper prices are increasing in local currency.
And mix is expected to improve in North American paper and pulp.
Good operational performance across most of the businesses is expected to continue.
With some improvement in North American paper North American industrial packaging and North American consumer packaging.
Due to less weather impact and seasonally stronger demand.
In Brazil we're beginning to see some signs of fiscal policy tightening.
As the government begins to do things to egress the growing budget deficit.
And we're seeing line of sight that this may and will probably include lower export incentives higher taxes and potentially tariffs on energy usage.
Input costs are expected to remain stable as most of the benefit is already in the first quarter results.
Distribution rates and wood costs are expected to remain what we would consider as relatively high.
The second quarter is the heaviest maintenance outage quarter for the year.
And is increasing $65 million sequentially over first quarter.
And as we've talked about Ilim's expected to continue to perform well.
And for the purposes of this outlook we've assumed flat FX from where we exited the quarter.
So a non-repeat of that modest negative.
But the JV does expect this to be offset by the items that I mentioned regarding the brocks outage and higher inflation.
And so with that let me turn it back over to Mark.
Thanks Carol.
So now I'd like to shift gears a little bit as we close out the comments and go to Q&amp; A.
Take a few minutes to talk about value creation and what we're doing in International Paper.
I'm on slide 14.
This slide shows IP's ten-year journey to improve our return on invested capital results.
With the last five years being in excess of our goal to consistently deliver results above our cost of capital.
Now obviously we want to improve that spread above our cost of capital.
But we're demonstrating that we can be at or exceed our cost of capital which is a key measure for our value creation mindset at International Paper.
It's the yardstick; ROIC is.
That we measure investments by and make decisions in terms of what strategy we should deploy.
Our primary intent is to increase the value of IP over time and we've been successfully doing that.
And we're excited about the path we're on.
This next slide highlights the main elements of IP's value creation and capital allocation strategy.
As we've indicated we're running our businesses consistently well and are generating strong free cash flow year in and year out.
Averaging $1.8 billion annually over the last several years.
This has enabled us to strengthen our balance sheet provide adequate CapEx to sustain this strong level of performance reinvest in our core businesses and return significant cash to shareholders.
We intend to continue this balanced use of cash approach to keep the company on sound financial footing to reward our shareholders and to increase the value of International Paper.
Our dividend policy and actions are clear.
And there are - there's more room to grow.
We've been opportunistic with our share buyback program.
Taking advantage of dips to buy shares at an average price below our intrinsic value.
And this has become an important tool and a good way to supplement return of cash to shareholders.
I'm pleased to report that in the first quarter we completed the initial $1.5 billion share repurchase authorization.
As of today's call we have bought back roughly $120 million of shares since the first of the year on the new authorization.
Additionally we continue to look for good ideas in which to invest.
Whether they're to strengthen and improve results within our existing businesses.
Or selective M&amp;A opportunities that are the right fit for IP and can be accretive to ROIC and our results.
I'd like now to turn your focus to a couple of great examples that we've recently announced and are acting on.
The first on slide 16 is an update on our strategic reinvestment at the Valliant Mill.
As you're aware we made the decision to restart the number three container board machine at Valliant last year.
And our team has been actively working toward that objective for the last several months.
We're excited to report that the machine is up and running now ahead of schedule and making salable product at this time.
This machine fills a large whole in our medium capacity with the roll off of the purchase obligations that were created with the mills that we divested as part of the Temple-Inland acquisition.
Valliant is well-positioned to serve our needs to the South where we have a large presence in the box market as well as the West Coast markets.
This additional capacity also enables us to cost-effectively handle the expected growth in specialty craft liner board exports and our North American box markets.
It also gives us additional flexibility to meet the needs and maintain our low-cost position.
While we continue to balance our system supply with our overall customer demand.
And it goes back to what we've talked about before.
And that being our multi-channel strategy the we deploy in our industrial packaging business.
It's a very attractive deployment of capital; an existing facility with expected returns in excess of 25%.
We expect this project to ramp up over the balance of 2015.
And it's a great addition to an already very good container board mill system.
Next project I'd like to talk about is the con - is the project to convert our Riegelwood North Carolina mill to a 100% pulp.
To meet the growing needs of our fluff pulp customers of the next several years.
This project involves the removal of 350 000 tons of coated paperboard capacity at the Riegelwood Mill.
Much of which is dedicated to the production of coated bristles for the printing markets under our Carolina brand.
We're selling the Carolina brand to MeadWestvaco and repositioning the coated paperboard business to focus more on the packaging grades of coated board.
And to free up the capacity to make the fluff pulp and softwood pulp at the Riegelwood Mill.
The conversion will provide additional pulp capacity of 400 000 tons at Riegelwood and will bring our North American pulp system to 1.7 million tons.
Importantly 1.4 million of that is capable of making high-quality fluff pulp.
This is the latest in a series of conversions to expand our fluff pulp business.
By the way a business we've been in since 1984 out of our Georgetown Mill.
The coated paperboard capacity that we make in the coated bristles area will be shut down by early 2016.
And the new pulp capacity will be online by mid-2016.
Riegelwood will have the capacity or the capability excuse me to flex this capacity as our market needs demand.
Between market softwood pulp and fluff pulp.
This - the decision to convert the mill was based on the opportunity to grow with the market and our customers in the attractive fluff pulp market.
We have the best customers in the market and the best growing markets geographically throughout the world.
It also allows us to streamline our coated paperboard system.
We intend to support our coated paperboard customers.
And the attractive growth segments as I mentioned in food service and consumer packaging grades out of our top rated mills in Texarkana Texas and Augusta Georgia.
This investment of $135 million at Riegelwood has an expected return of greater than 20%.
So in closing International Paper continues to perform well today.
We like the positions we've built in the key markets where we've chosen to operate.
And the businesses - in the businesses that are needle movers for IP.
These strong positions along with great execution by our teams on the ground are enabling IP to manage margins and increase profitability.
Regardless of what the market throws at us.
We realize the world is a dynamic place and we're mindful of global demand trade flows and the implications of a strong U.S.
dollar.
But given our strong positions and our great customer base we feel it's all manageable.
We have a solid pipeline of high return capital opportunities a couple of which I've just highlighted that'll enable us to successfully deploy capital and increase value.
Our strong free cash flow generation enables us to fund these attractive opportunities.
While continuing to return an attractive level of cash to our shareholders.
All in we remain excited about where we are the path we're on and what's out in front of us.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Jay and open it up for questions.
Operator we're ready to take questions now.
[Operator Instructions].
Your first question will come from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
My first question has to do with well I have a couple of questions.
One is the timing of the regal would conversion obviously the fluff pulp market is very attractive given its growth in international markets with rising living standards.
And I know is close to the port of Wellington and news and export product.
But the timing seems interesting to us because of the fact that other capacity is coming on.
There is another player that might need to participate temporarily as a deal with the conversion.
Themselves.
So we were curious about that and wondered why now.
And the second question has to do with could you remind us of your container board mill and box integration level in Europe proper? I guess excluding Russia? Chip I will ask Mike who runs our consumer packaging business and North American papers to take the first one and Tim Nicholls will do the second question.
As far as the timing of the regal would conversion without really referencing what others may or may not doing we are just reacting to the need that we have within our system to meet the strategic business and the demands that we see growing across the world.
So this decision is very timely for us.
And were excited about the opportunity and the value this will create for our customers and for share owners going forward.
And then on the integration levels in Europe? They're pretty small because most of the business over there is focused on industrial and test liner.
We do have a big fresh fruit and vegetable segment and we do sell board out of North America and we are the main supplier for craft Virgin but on a total bases and this is a little bit of a round number but I would say we are probably close to 15 to [indiscernible] percent of their total by.
But a big portion of the Virgin craft piece.
Just real quickly to follow back on the fluff conversion.
Could you just remind us how much or how different it is selling fluff pulp to a typical consumer products company versus selling paper grade even into tissue and certainly into regular paper.
To find at least important to have some staying power to the market.
To the contracts tend to be a little bit longer and the standards do people specify certain Mills etc.? It is a technical cell.
It is a product that requires a fair amount of engineering and qualification process is quite lengthy.
So it is a sale.
As I said it's a qualification process.
And there are typically contracts as well.
But that varies depending upon the customer and the situation.
Your next question is from Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
Two quick ones.
First of all as you noted there have been lots of shifting dynamics.
I believe at the end of the last quarter you had laid out a goal were expectation of about a 5% improvement in EBITDA for this year is that something you think is still doable? We do.
If the year is one quarter down and three corners to go.
It's a steep challenge as we laid out.
But we do believe we need to shoot for 5% EBITDA growth.
We have some plans that put us within striking distance of that and we are hopeful and we've got a lot of time left in the year to do that.
We've probably got about a 4% year-over-year in the first quarter but the challenges steeper.
But that something we still have our eyes on.
And then second if I look at I think at slide 22 you show market downtime for your different businesses.
And container board for the first time since second quarter 2015 perhaps you didn't take any market downtime.
Yet at the same time you can see that the volumes in your industrial business both versus the first quarter and versus the year ago though very slightly versus the year ago there was a bit of a negative hit.
So there seems to be almost a little bit of a surprise that for the first time in a while where you're actually seeing a little bit of the negative hit on the volume side where you're not taking any market downtime in container board.
Can you maybe talk us through a little bit through the thought process there? As you can imagine there's a number of things going on Mark.
First of all were buying less board on the outside because we have less requirement to do so.
We are needing to take board for all of our channels to market.
Second of all were getting ready for what is going to be our largest outage quarter of the whole year.
It's a big step up first quarter was big it's a big step or up the first quarter.
And then lastly we ran better in the first quarter than we did in the fourth.
But we still didn't run particularly well so we were scrambling a bit to try to get the building product in our pipeline are going to need as we go through the area.
So at the end of the day would you say your inventory situation is just where you want to be in container board? Not quite we built 60 000 inventory we would've liked a probably a little bit more.
If you think about it in terms of our system that’s less than two days of production and we’re going through a very heavy season.
So it's close to what we wanted but probably a little bit on the light side.
Your next question is from George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I'm wondering dive back into consumer and by box board markets and I missed this I remember we were having two machines could you relay or rewrite how much you're taking out of the Bristol market and then the related question how do you see the folding box board markets in now in terms of in terms of supply demand balance specifically in North America? Your first question was around the printing piece of that.
That business represents about 15% of our total capacity.
So roughly in the neighborhood of call it 250 000 tons of capacity is what's being made at our Riegelwood facility directed at printing papers market.
From a supply demand balance I guess you're asking really on a worldwide basis.
You're still seeing we are still seeing a large supply position out there relative to demand.
And that's something that we understand and we look at and manage but that still the case.
Maybe backing up and segueing off of your earlier questions how much of the conversion here was driven by the opportunities you see in fluff pulp and how much was a recognition of a potential supply demand imbalance in the future in the box board markets? I know it's hard to be precision like in your comment here but were interested in your thoughts.
This is one of these situations that come up maybe not too often where you've got a win-win.
This was primarily a move driven by our fluff position.
And trying to improve our position in that business.
For the long-term.
Okay.
I guess to last ones in alternate over.
Bigger picture you've done a great job of improving as you've pointed out this part of your cost of capital market or the last couple of years.
And you intend to continue that.
How do you see the strategy shifting at IP if at all to manage and grow that spread.
Do you see that being driven by things you do within your capital structure? To improve the spread? Or do you see it being driven more by investment and within investment you see it being more by acquisition opportunities or more the sorts of things like Valliant and Riegelwood? Thanks and I will turn it over.
I think for a company that has a scale that we haven't to be able to move the needle you have to keep all of your strategic options available to you.
So it's probably will be a little bit of all of the above that you just talked about.
For I think you will see is more opportunities with projects like Valliant the build upon a strong position business or region and to improve that position.
And that something that we have not really done a lot of lately because we were doing some large M&amp;A work and sort of build the company we have today.
So I think some of this goes in cycles but back to my comments on ROIC the measure to look at where you know work to create value against that backdrop looking to maintain a solid spread above our cost of capital and what we do will need to pass that test.
Your next question is from Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Carol or Mark expand the project abandonment can you quantify how much the charge was and will that be the option for the paper machine down at [indiscernible]? Gail I would prefer not to call out exactly what it is because it would give some insight into some of the stuff but it was pretty much in accounting thing.
We go ahead and approve code I funds for capital and once we make a decision let's they were not going to permit pursue something let's keep her book straight.
It was enough that I felt that we needed to call it out but that's about the detail I'll be guilty give you.
Okay.
Can you talk a little bit about what's been going on the uncoated free she market are you seeing any response in the market to the threat of duties and any view on what might happen in June? As you're seeing as you're seeing reported in the industry numbers there has been some pullback in reduction in imports coming into the U.S..
As far as going from a kind of a timeline standpoint the IPC rules is now on the hands of the Department of Commerce.
And we'll see expect to see an answer or ruling from them on duties or potential duties sometime in June.
And that have you heard from customers that you might've lost last year reports coming in? Are you seeing that or is it just with the demand supply and that's kind of offsetting it? We haven't seen that Gail.
Can you give a little bit of color what you're seeing in currently in terms of the box market if you look into the second quarter and maybe a little bit of color on as well? We’re seeing a seasonal pickup in April.
The first court economic activity was lighter than we would have hoped coming into the quarter.
We had a little bit of a soft margin things kind of settled out but I think that we are seeing kind of a normal seasonal pickup and second quarter is a big order for us.
It's a lot of fresh fruit and vegetable and so I'd say April so far is seasonally up.
And export demand? Export demand has been pretty good.
You read all the headlines from the newspapers and you'd think that it would take a hit but we've seen the FX in Europe from a demand standpoint it's been really consistent.
Next question is from Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Looking at the first quarter box shipment number for IP versus the industry can you just talk about the drivers of the underperformance.
Why IP's number came in later and looking forward is the expectation for the balance of the year that the volume number could potential he lag the industry? What we constantly do is make choices around customers.
And some of what hit us in the first quarter was choices around customer mix that we had made in the fourth quarter and those finally came fully through.
In the first quarter.
Yes over the next quarter or two we could be caught depending on what the market does down a little bit or close.
But what we’re trying to do is manage the portfolio across all the segments that we serve to make sure we're picking the right pieces of the business to make right sense for us for long-term.
So it's kind of a constant evaluation that we go through and we were a little bit light in the quarter.
But I don't think that is be concerned.
And then thinking about your European container board business box business you supply a lot of your craft lighter board from the U.S.
but you mentioned that the test liner is purchased locally.
Is there a strategic benefit from potentially integrating that converting business in Europe with mill assets? Can you talk us through that scenario? We evaluate the test liner integration benefits and level on a continuous basis.
There was a time where we were 35% integrated we had a mill in France that we closed.
We have good integration level in our business in Morocco we have a couple of mills in Turkey we really look at it on in available paper type of segments we choose to participate in.
Our business as I've mentioned before is largely built around the Mediterranean region and fresh food areas that a heavy craft liner and semi can media market.
That's the primary focus of that market.
And we view the craft liner as an extension in between our North American box system.
So as we think about strategic development of the business the need to make some of our own test liner or more than we do today will continuously be evaluated.
But there is ample supply in Europe for companies that are configured like us so the availability of the paper is there.
It has to be the right economic and has to be the right quality.
With the way to different products were making.
There could be a scenario where make sense to make more but right now we feel like our position is in a good spot will be evaluated on a continuous basis and will be in and out overtimes of test liner.
If I can just ask one quick one on Ilim I think you talked with a normal EBITDA out of the business of about $600 million.
With all the puts and takes do we think run track to be able to achieve that number in 2015? And what would be the cash dividend that would be associated with having an EBITDA number that's close to the $600 million number? I think there is a good shot to hit that number a lot will depend on how things turn out.
We are performing well we've got graced cost positions a lot of depend on demand out of China for pulp and kind of where the currency goes another stakes.
Relative to the dividend it's going to be very cash positive so a lot of that will depend on Ilim board will make that decision will be around that debt covenants and will be for lack of cash.
So we feel very good about that business and think we’re going to have a very strong year.
Your next question is from Philip Ng with Jefferies.
This is Alex [indiscernible] on for Phil thanks for taking my question.
So the strong dollars have been at headwind for expert between her board prices but there's also been some container board price increased in Europe and Brazil can you talk about what you’re seeing in terms of export prices and your outlook prices begin to firm up? Most of the movement that we've seen as really been currency related out of Europe.
We haven't really seen any movement and other regions world.
And the price we've announced price increases on Europe shipments is there going out we started earlier this year but that's only made up about half of the impact on currency so I'd say it's Europe on currency and yes there's some pressure there's been some spot prices here and there but nothing structural that we have seen so far in other parts of the world.
And just one follow.
I appreciate the color on April box trend seasonally is any way you can give a comp on apples to apples year-over-year basis? We'll see how the quarter plays on talk to you the end of the second quarter.
Like I said it's usually our strongest quarter in terms of volume.
And we’re seeing seasonal lift so far.
So we feel okay about it.
Your next question is from Al Kabili with Macquarie.
I guess the question for Tim is just on the opportunity for further optimization in the container board business.
Can you just update us where we are at their in North America and if there is any specific targeted improvement that you have for this year on that? Well we are constantly looking every year we have a certain amount of initiative baked in and it's across the board.
We had extremely good performance in our converting operations in the first quarter both on waste on per foot.
In the middle system we are targeting cash costs every year.
We did not run as well as we wanted to in the first quarter but we ran a lot better than that in the fourth quarter and we feel good about the rest of the year.
So it's going to be running the mills more reliably and running better from a input consumption standpoint.
Supply chain continues to be a big opportunity for us.
And running the mills reliably helps that because we there's freight logical statements from mills to converting facilities and when were up and down in mill facilities it makes it a little bit harder to keep supply chain in line.
I think we've got a pretty good plan for this year in terms of improvement.
Across converting mills and.
And just on I know the export had sort of in the majority of the pricing sequentially in the business.
But from the medium published medium price cuts do you see any meaningful impact from that? Or maybe can call it what that impact is.
I would think there might be a sequential drag as you see the full impact in that into queue although maybe light.
Thanks Yes I don't to get going to be a huge shift for us.
I just don't see the medium having a big impact on performance systems.
Okay and the final question is just on the West Coast is going through another pretty severe drought this year.
I know that impacted you last year.
Any early read on what the impact might be this year? It's hard to tell what happens to the course of the year a little bit the first quarter.
Second quarter is when we naturally pick up around produce fresh fruit and vegetables so we'll have to see.
Yet still dry.
What has helped is the port situation.
Just there were agricultural products that were sitting in ports spoiling.
Among other things.
And having that resolved in the supply chain starting to correct themselves is going to be a help.
Your next question is from Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Just one question [indiscernible] used to talk about capital spending versus depreciation levels geographically that he was spending more capital and growth markets overseas and less in the U.S..
As we think about the new spending and the new initiatives that you're making in the U.S.
as that changed dramatically.
And when you think that balance of To depreciation domestically and overseas is going to be over the next couple of years? I think some of the spending that you referenced really was about hoping some position and some new markets.
All most by design you're going to spend early on greater depreciation.
I think our view is spending is up percentage of Bruce appreciation more portly IBR capital spend it as a percentage of our revenue and where we think we can generate these returns on invested capital in excess of our cost of capital.
Again back to that is a more focused filter work that's where you'll begin to see more capital in the strategic reinvestment category invested where we really believe we can create that sustained value.
And it will be looking at capital as a percentage of our revenue and also as a percentage of depreciation and looking at that together.
Your next question is from Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Mark when I look at the two projects the Valliant restart and then I looked down at the regal conversion the Valliant project just when he 5% IRR is 20% plus the question is really going forward on these capital investments.
Is there a belief within the company that we should be looking at lower IRR's on future investments is at the quick correct way to read that? Not sure I understand why you would include that are you thinking maybe we did the highest once first? Correct Correct exactly.
No that’s not a good conclusion.
What drives the timing on projects like this is the return is honestly important but there is an acceptable group of projects Mike described the market demands of our customers.
The timing of bringing product into the market.
You think about Valliant part of that timing was based on May versus by and the role of our agreements.
On the fluff project we have the customer base we want and that customer base so that drove the timing more than it was the highest to returns we had.
So I think the kinds of projects you'll be seeing in the future will be in this range and better.
Not worse.
I appreciate you clearing that up.
Just following up on exports.
Obviously pricing's been a little bit pressure just because the FX component.
But when you look at shipping costs have you noticed a significant offset there from lower shipping cost into the export regions that might benefit? I think that for the whole company because we export a lot of things from the U.S..
I don't Nick we've seen a significant offset in the export arena.
They are puts and takes but nothing that's shown up materially as an offset to the pressures you described.
Next question is from Dr.
Mark Wilde with BMO Capital Markets.
Mark I wondered if you could first will update us I think you've been doing some kind of recent around the whole international portfolio with the company it sounded like China had been under the biggest question for you and I wondered if you be willing to talk about that? I can't talk about anything in detail.
The what you're referring to is we talked about a couple calls and as a couple of conferences and that is we constantly need to reevaluate our positions in our strategy and looking at places that we really believe on the long-term International Paper can win.
So the international regions that we are in today are under evaluation and as you can see from decisions we've made even domestically with the coated paperboard repositioning our positions in the U.S.
are under evaluation all against the backdrop of can we win long-term and produce returns that are in excess of our cost of capital.
Maybe not all at the same time in any moment at time but that's the goal get the company's return on invested capital to be balanced in any part of the company in the long-term contribute to the target.
With that as backdrop we have work to do I'm not prepared to talk about any conclusions but rest assured that work is being done.
I wonder just looking at volumes quarter to quarter and year-over-year couple of them really jumped out at me.
One was the drop off in the Asian quoted board volumes and the other was the weakness in the Brazilian uncoated paper volumes.
I guess particularly with Brazil and other Brazil is weak but I also know that a weaker the business should be much Mark competitive from an expert standpoint.
I think in the Brazil piece one of the issues with the IP numbers was we had a tremendous first quarter in 2014.
Without the lion share some incremental demand the came out of some government programs and we didn't have that this particular quarter.
So our comp was particularly difficult.
But we are not losing our position in our business in our margins in the paper business in Brazil we're still very strong.
It was really more of a timing and comp issue more than anything else in the Brazil paper demand paper drop off.
Now the coated board in China I think part of what we’re doing in our coated board business in China we made those investments to make the high-end of the market.
And were continuing to upgrade our mix and in some cases base on the supply demand economics and margin pressures it was the right economic decision for us to make less of those lower and general folding carton grades and more of the higher-end grades that go into more sophisticated packaging.
And just make less product to make a better result.
So that demand relative to the market is self-inflicted and the right decision for us because our strategy was to make the high-end grades.
The last thing I wanted to do is just circle back on that three times leverage target that you have had Mark.
And I just like some updated thoughts on how important getting down to that level is for you.
And what you'd be willing to go up to in the short-term for a transaction? I think it is no change in our view on that.
I think the three times leverage is the right place for International Paper over time.
You've obviously seen us go above that that we did it and we got it back they quickly.
So I think the strategy we would have on any kind of investment that would require us to increase our leverage would be along those lines where if we did it we already have a plan to get it back.
And as we announced the transaction the transaction to be announced in the plan of how we get our leverage `we think it's important the long-term health the company and to be a long-term value creator that being in that zone is important.
Your next question is from Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
Just a couple of follow-up from earlier questions.
First I looking at fleet slide 32 refer to year-over-year price in your North American container board being down a chunk and I guess I'm presuming a lot of that I'm sorry currency driven.
Can you maybe talk about the appetite or how you think about particular given your strategy as a using the European operations is an expert be three North American Mills is how you feel about needing to recover or maintain certain price cost relationships.
Additionally you've got some inflation stuff you've mentioned logistics and freight that event up a bit.
How do you think about maintaining a recovering some elements for your system? First of all we shift through multiple channels and we expect all those channels to earn their keep.
So when we see margin pressure were looking for ways to recover that or shift from one channel to another.
So we did get hit on the container port side with currency and we've had a number of increases that we've pushed through as we went through the first part of the year we haven't recovered all the currency impact.
I'm not sure which slide you're looking at it if you're looking at the container business on page 31 most of what you see there is pretty small movements.
And most of that is mix.
We just experience.
Should.
We sell to a lot of customers or a lot of different types of boxes there is a fairly broad distribution of price given box construction.
And so most of what you see there is mix on price as of the boxes were selling.
Margins are margin structure from quarter to quarter was dead flat.
Okay.
Second question was if I can follow up from an earlier one as well.
Have your customers approached you would all particular West Coast customers fruit and vegetable process etc.
regarding the drug has been an issue if they come at you and suggest that any sense that we may have 510% lower needs given a shortages of water things of that nature.
That's directionally some of the color we've heard regarding outlooks or thoughts regarding some of the crops but your color would be helpful.
We have not.
Your next question is from Steve Chercover with D.A.
Davidson.
So a lot of these things have been asked.
Starting with one obviously currency wasn't the problem on the bottom line.
But the revenues missed the consensus pre-substantially.
Some wondering if that is the FX and you can qualify the impact.
Steve the FX was a big factor translating those Brazilian sales in the euro sales in two dollars was a big impact.
And that's the majority of it.
And secondly down year-over-year sequentially and xpedx is discontinued op is a good run rate to use in the low 400s now? Can you say that again you broke up on the first part of the question? Selling and admin expenses are down year-over-year and sequentially.
And I believe xpedx has already been discontinued so I wondering if a good run rate is now in the low 400 range? It probably is but think about the first quarter is probably a lower cost quarter because we have an annual increase that hits April 1.
But there could be a little bit of movement it should be reasonable.
The only other area there would be incentive comp can move around quarter to quarter and that is not insignificant.
Final question it's sounds like there is still some runway for Ilim after the work is done.
Can we see that thing approach maybe $50 million as a line item quarter in quarter out? I would hesitate to quote a number.
I would have to go back and do the math.
One thing I would say because it is a pulp business it is going to be a bit of a cyclical is this your going to have some peaks that are going to be really awesome and you don't know when those might be so it could be a very strong number that I would have to go back and look before I would speculate on where the earnings would be but Jay would be a good one follow-up on that.
And your final question is from Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Mark I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the consumer packaging business following Riegelwood you have two world-class SBS Mills here but you don't have the full converting capabilities few of your large publicly traded competitors.
So as you look at this business long-term would you look to get bigger in converting or would you maybe looked continue to streamline the business.
Is it strategically important to be an SBS long-term or you content to do with the asset base of now? The consumer packaging business not only in the U.S.
but globally where we do it we do some of that business in Europe.
We do some in China.
Is an important business for us.
We are surgically targeted to certain segments with certain substrates.
We don't have a full line of substrates we don't have a full line of converting and that seems to be working for us.
In our recent history we've tried some other methods to grow that business with other types of converting.
With varying degrees of success or lack thereof.
So we’re going to be very careful with how we look to grow that business but it is an important business for us.
We really like the North American SBS base business and the converting that we do.
But again back to my earlier comments anything we do in consumer packaging or any of the other businesses we will have to be convinced that it drives the return on invested capital of the overall company.
And even though we have two mill system or emerging into a two mill system SBS for packaging grades those are two enormous mills that have a significant capacity and product capability that are best in class in the world.
So I don't go by the number of mills I look at the number of customers we serve and the growth rates of those customers and where we think we can add value and be competitive.
And that will be the test we use on whether or not we grow and more converting.
It's not we just need to do it to be like every else it's about value creation.
And then just trying to Brazil top demand environment potentially higher taxes and tariffs on energy usages given all those challenges is there a way to quantify the potential for EBITDA margin improvement at Orsa or to quantify that runway? And then putting aside some of the bad external things what are the kind of the actions you can take internally at Orsa to improve performance of the business? The Brazil packaging business is in the same market experiencing the same dynamics as our paper business.
So demand has been a challenge.
What we have done is we have improved internally how we're operating the mills that we have there.
They are relatively small mills by our U.S.
scale but they have the same kinds of challenges and problems so we are deploying our capabilities of manufacturing excellence and other tools we use to improve those mills.
And we’re seeing some results there.
So internal self-help improvement on how we operate.
And on the box plants it's a number of things.
It's improving our capability to serve customers through the supply chain improvements and also adding a little bit of automation to lower our fixed cost and we are making progress on all those fronts.
We’re not losing position in our packaging business.
We've got some really important customers that are having a tough go of it and so as their business contracts a bit we contract.
So we've got to figure out the commercial side and replace some of that business but I think when the economy in Brazil improves when the government reforms take hold the packaging business is going to be much better positioned to perform in a better environment than it was when we made the acquisition.
At this time I'll turn it back for Mr.
Royalty for closing remarks Okay thanks.
That will conclude today's call.
Thanks Mark and Carol and all.
And thanks to all of you for joining us this morning.
As always Michelle and I are available after the call and our phone numbers are on slide 19 of the presentation.
Have a great day.
Thank you ladies gentlemen this does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the International Paper Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will open the call up for a question-and-answer session.
Now it is my pleasure to hand the call over to Jay Royalty Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks a lot Kristin.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining International Paper's second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Our key speakers this morning are Mark Sutton Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Carol Roberts Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call we will make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which are outlined on slide 2 of our presentation.
We'll also present certain non-U.S.
GAAP financial information.
A reconciliation of those figures to U.S.
GAAP financial measures are available on our website.
Our website also contains copies of the second quarter 2015 earnings press release and today's presentation slides.
Lastly relative to the Ilim JV slide 4 provides context around the joint venture's financial information and statistical measures.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Mark Sutton.
Thank you Jay and good morning everyone and thank you very much for joining our call to review our second quarter results and outlook for the third quarter.
I'm going to start on slide 5.
International Paper delivered another strong result in the second quarter.
Our earnings per share was $0.97 compared with $0.93 last year.
In addition to the EPS free cash flow was substantial at $511 million in the quarter up from $377 million last year.
Earnings were driven by outstanding results in our North American Industrial Packaging business with EBITDA margin just over 24%.
Operations performed well around the globe and we successfully executed 11 major maintenance outages across the entire enterprise.
Solid performance continues at the Ilim JV delivering equity earnings to IP of $67 million in the quarter.
I'm also very pleased to report that the number-three containerboard machine at our Valliant facility is fully online and ahead of schedule.
The product's qualified the machine is running great.
Finally I'd note that our return on invested capital for the first half of 2015 exceeded 10%.
All-in I think a very strong quarter for International Paper.
Moving to slide 6 and continuing with our financial results.
As I mentioned EPS was $0.97 for the second quarter.
And when you set aside the benefit of the foreign exchange gain on Ilim's debt from both this year and last year we had a year-over-year earnings per share growth of over 5%.
Now while revenue was down year-over-year in the quarter and most of that was due to FX impact from our Brazil and Europe operations we continue to have strong margin performance in the face of several global macro headwinds.
With that I'd like to ask Carol to take us through more detail in the quarter and our outlook for the third quarter.
I'll return at the end to wrap it up.
Carol? Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
Taking a look at the bridge from the first to second quarter you can see that our performance was solid across the board.
Pricing and mix were essentially flat with a few puts and takes and we'll talk about that as we go through the segment.
Volume was seasonally stronger predominantly in Industrial Packaging as we expected.
Operations improved and were solid across the board.
Maintenance outages as Mark mentioned were up significantly but in line with our expectation.
Input costs were lower which reduced energy and diesel costs being offset slightly by higher fiber costs.
And finally the Ilim JV created a positive swing as the FX benefit was partly offset by higher cost associated with the outages and some general inflation.
Turning to the segments I'm going to slide 8.
As Mark mentioned the Industrial Packaging segment delivered an exceptional quarter resulting in $528 million of EBIT.
Prices were down slightly mostly on export containerboard volume as North American box prices inclusive of mix were essentially flat.
Box margins in Europe were under continued pressure and did contribute $3 million to the decline.
Volume for North American box was up 3% over the first quarter.
Operations performed well and maintenance outages came in as expected.
Input costs were sequentially favorable.
Asia box continues to experience some very intense competitive pressures which further negatively impacted results by about $1 million.
So overall strong results from the Industrial Packaging team.
Moving to slide 9 as Mark mentioned the recently restarted and upgraded containerboard machine at Valliant is running very well and is fully ramped up and qualified within two months of start-up.
This coincides well with the wind down of the purchase agreement that we've been operating under for the past few years.
And this enables us to supply our own needs and our customers' needs at a lower total delivered cost.
The project's on track and we continue to expect an IRR above 25%.
On behalf of the business I'm pleased to also announce that the board has approved a series of projects that like Valliant will enable us to further improve our world-class containerboard asset base.
These projects totaling about $300 million of total investment across our system have a collective IRR of 20% and will further improve flexibility across the network enhance our product quality and reduce manufacturing and supply chain cost.
We're excited about the benefits these investments will provide for our customers the business and our shareowners.
So let me move on to Consumer Packaging slide 10.
In Consumer Packaging as you can see on the slide total segment earnings were down $12 million sequentially of which about $10 million is attributable to our business in Asia where earnings were substantially lower as depressed demand and intense competitive pressures resulted in lower prices and volume.
Earnings were also lower in Europe due to a number of unfavorable items including a lower volume some higher operating expenses and the impact of unfavorable FX impact due to the weaker euro.
Conversely earnings in North America were higher due to seasonally stronger volume and lower maintenance outage expenses partially offset by lower prices and a slightly less favorable mix.
Turning to slide 11 we wanted to provide an update on a couple of significant projects that are under way and that are focused on strengthening and creating more value in our North American Consumer Packaging business.
First the sale of the Carolina Coated Bristols brand is complete and the transition of the Coated Paperboard business at Riegelwood into our world-class assets at Texarkana and Augusta is on track for later this year.
Following that transition we will begin the mill conversion project at Riegelwood which will become 100% pulp and activities to facilitate that conversion are under way now and on schedule.
These changes will streamline and strengthen the Coated Paperboard business while improving and growing our world-class fluff pulp business.
Secondly the expansion of Kenton Ohio facility to support growth in our food service business is on schedule as well with the facility expansion complete and equipment being moved in as we speak and to be online within the next 90 days.
This expansion will enable us to support the new business that we're being awarded by both existing and new customers that benefits both our Food Service Converting and Coated Paperboard businesses.
Both of these moves reinforce our commitment to our customers in this important segment and will create long-term value for our shareowners.
Moving to Printing Papers on slide 12.
Earnings increased in our North American paper and pulp business due to a more favorable product mix better operations and lower input costs.
And this was partially offset by higher planned maintenance outage expenses.
Prices were higher in Europe earnings were lower due to higher planned maintenance outage expenses.
Brazil continues to be significantly impacted by the recession and reduced domestic demand that comes with that.
Normally we would have seen a pickup from the seasonally slower first quarter but that did not materialize this year.
Second quarter earnings were down $18 million year-over-year in our Brazilian business.
And we do expect the current conditions to persist through at least this year and into next.
Turning to Ilim on slide 13 the JV delivered another – a very solid quarter of results on increased volume and improved pricing.
Costs were higher due to higher planned maintenance outage expenses and inflation.
Operations continue to perform very well post the ramp-up of the major capital projects which were completed a year ago.
As noted earlier the FX impact on the JV's U.S.
dollar-denominated debt was favorable in the quarter.
Looking ahead the JV is expecting inflation headwinds to continue and to face some price pressure on softwood pulp in China.
However the outlook remains very favorable due to less maintenance outages which will enable higher volumes and continued strong operation.
So before I move to the outlook just a couple of other highlights that I'd like to talk about.
First on slide 14 we raised $2 billion of new debt at an average coupon of 4.6% and this was for two purposes.
One was to fund a tender offer for $1 billion of existing debt with an average coupon of 7.5%.
And secondly to enable a $750 million contribution to the pension plan which was voluntary.
With both of these moves we've clearly strengthened our already strong balance sheet.
We've also been very active with the share buyback program in 2015 having bought back $420 million in shares year-to-date which brings our total purchases against the $3 billion authorization to about $1.9 billion.
So moving to the outlook for the third quarter on slide 15 volume will be seasonally higher in North America and Brazil Papers while North American Industrial Packaging will be generally flat.
We expect prices to be mostly stable across the board with improving prices in European Papers offset by continued pressure in EMEA Packaging.
We expect the challenging conditions in Asia to persist into the third quarter.
We expect good operational improvement in North American Papers &amp; Pulp and some improvement in Brazil as well.
We expect continued improvement in Industrial Packaging due in part to Valliant start-up ramp-up cost not reoccurring in the third quarter and better performance in our Consumer Packaging business.
All-in across our North American businesses we expect this improvement to be around $25 million.
Input cost will be a headwind in the third quarter as energy OCC and rail rate increases hit the North America Packaging businesses by roughly $35 million.
Brazil faces some additional headwinds as well mainly on wood and electricity cost.
Maintenance outage costs will be substantially lower about $90 million as we move from the heaviest to the lightest quarter of the year.
As far as the Ilim JV we expect operational earnings to improve due to fewer outrages in the third quarter which will enable higher production and sales.
IP's share of this expected operational earnings improvement in the third quarter is roughly $10 million.
And for the purposes of forecast we don't attempt to forecast FX so we have here FX stable as of the end of the second quarter so a non-repeat of the positive $0.06 FX impact.
So with that now let me turn it back over to Mark.
Thanks Carol.
I will pick it up from Carol on slide 16.
Before I do the wrap-up and open it up for questions I want just to spend a minute looking at margins across our major businesses around the world.
I think this slide captures the strength of IP and the major positions we have in the key markets that we want to serve.
The message here is that IP – the IP that we built today is less cyclical and we continue to find ways to improve our position and our results.
In the businesses where we have some significant headwinds cyclical headwinds I would add like Brazil for example we are generally holding our own with very strong margins and we'll come out of this recessionary environment a much stronger company.
So in closing moving to slide 17 International Paper continues to perform well and deliver results.
When you look at what we're doing given the severe headwinds in Brazil and in Asia and with the strong dollar it truly speaks of the strength and reliability of our company and of our performance.
Some of these challenges are more significant than we originally thought coming into the year.
On the flipside we're enjoying strong performance out of our Ilim JV which Carol covered earlier.
And that positively impacts our earnings.
Outside of some of these select areas the rest of the company is performing pretty well.
Our margins earnings free cash flow and our return on invested capital at a healthy spread above our cost of capital are all evidence of this.
We continue to achieve and grow our attractive margins through consistent execution and internal initiatives that are unique and value-creating to IP.
We have a pipeline of accretive investment options the Kwidzyn Coated Paperboard investments the Valliant number 3 machine those are two of the more recent ones and there are more to come as we highlighted today all making good businesses a lot better.
We are generating significant and reliable free cash flow year-after-year and that enables us to return a meaningful amount of cash to our shareholders through our dividend our share buyback programs as well as fund some of these attractive value-creating investments.
Our capital allocation mission remains all about high-return generation for long-term value creation.
That's our focus and that's our commitment.
And with that I'd like to open it up for questions.
Thanks.
Our first question comes from Steve Chercover with D.
A.
Davidson.
Thank you good morning.
I had a question about the Sun joint venture in China.
I noticed the JV partner is transferring its ownership and it's an acknowledgement that performance has been inadequate.
So does that have any implications for you? Good morning Steve.
This is Mark.
Yeah.
The – what you saw there is our partner has a couple of different legal entities and he's transferring some of the shares from the JV into another legal entity perfectly allowable under our shareholder agreement.
We're not satisfied with the performance.
We've said that a number of calls now.
China is really tough right now overcapacity and some of the other challenges.
But this transfer doesn't really affect our partnership.
What we are doing is really working together with our partner in China to kind of manage the JV to the best possible outcome.
And we're not finished with that work but this particular transfer doesn't change the way we're going to operate or doesn't change our partnership.
What I was wondering if you were the sole owner of those assets would you operate them differently? We're – no.
We're operating as a majority partner we're operating the International Paper way.
So we're trying to make the profit maximizing decisions.
So that's why we're working on the high-end mix and really running our capacity to the orders that we want for the economics that are available.
And I think we would do that and we do that in collaboration with our partner today.
And we do it that way if we owned it all which is not our intent.
But we wouldn't change a whole lot.
Well that's good to know.
So ultimately to use a phrase that you use it comes down to industry structure in China.
And then one other question please on Printing Papers.
I just want to get a sense of what's going on domestically since it was amazing to me that the price and mix is up given what you said in Brazil.
So are things going better domestically or it's just that you're getting out of some of the commodity businesses? Steve I'm going to ask Mike Amick who leads that business for us in North America to give you a perspective on that.
Thanks.
Good morning Mike.
Pulp &amp; Consumer Packaging</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
This is Mike Amick.
We're having a – domestically both the quarterly performance as well as kind of year-over-year is improved.
Once we're seeing strong relative growth domestically with our business almost a factor of three kind of year-over-year versus the market.
So it's a real good commercial story around the brands.
Pricing is a little bit down domestically.
But as you stated well from a mix standpoint we're overcoming a lot of that.
So it is a strong story.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Hey.
Good morning.
Good morning Gail.
Can you give a little bit more color on this $300 million capital program for Containerboard? Any sense of the timing? How many years that's going to lay out? And maybe a little bit more color on some of the work you're doing.
And specifically is it expected to have any sort of material positive (19:00) component? Yeah.
Hey Gail.
It's Tim.
Yeah.
The work – so it's important because the work that we're doing will be done primarily as we go through our annual outages in the facilities that are affected.
A lot of that work will start either very late this year or early next year and kind of go through the year.
So impact to the business and having the capability is more of a 2017 type of timeframe.
You ask about capacity.
What we're doing is we're actually making investments that give us the flexibility that we need.
In some cases it's around products and around geography also around seasonality.
So these projects will add 250 000-plus tons to our system and that gives us the ability to optimize the system and make sure that we're supporting our customers in the best possible way.
So I think 2017 timing most of these are fairly straightforward from a technical standpoint so they'll be completed in the annual outages and then they will come up fairly quickly and give us the flexibility that we need mostly on a seasonal basis but also from a product standpoint as well.
Okay.
Thank you.
And can you talk a little bit about Consumer Packaging and the price weakness there? Specifically was any of that and to what extent in the domestic market? Pulp &amp; Consumer Packaging</span></strong> Hi Gail.
This is Mike Amick.
Can you repeat the question? It was breaking up a little.
I didn't...
Yeah.
I guess some perspective on the Consumer Packaging market domestically.
Were your issues really in the quarter predominantly international or was there any sort of weakness or softness in the U.S.? Pulp &amp; Consumer Packaging</span></strong> Yeah from a domestically we are seeing it is a little sloppy out there.
From a shipment standpoint domestically we're down about 2.5% versus where we think the industry is about 1.5% overall but most of that is due to exports.
So we're domestically feel pretty good about the Coated – the Coated Paperboard business.
And most of the issues that were noted are international.
Okay.
Thank you.
Gail just let me add to Mike's.
On the international piece some of that was what we talked about earlier the Asia piece is reported into Consumer Packaging the Sun piece and that was a significant piece of that.
But also in Europe we just had some onetime issues that are not chronic just maintenance outages and some other onetime cost.
So the real international issue if you will from – impacting the results is what we talked about with Sun.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from George Staphos with Bank of America.
Thanks everyone.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question and the details.
I guess maybe first start – first point with the pension funding Carol what does this do to your required funding for the next several years if you haven't provided that in the past? Appreciate it.
Yeah.
With this contribution of course a little bit will be dependent upon how the whole year ends where the liability accounting goes and how the asset performance is.
But generally speaking I would say this would with our current projections would push out any required contributions for the next three years.
We wouldn't have anything required.
Okay.
And I mean aside of the obvious where we saw that you were buying back stock even into the third quarter could you update us perhaps a bit more in terms of your thoughts on that being an appropriate use of capital relative obviously to the balance use of capital for dividends? And I want to tie it back to some of your capital projects going on and then I'll turn it over after that.
So George what we said of course is our capital allocation strategy is we're generating a lot of cash and we believe that that cash generation allows us to both return some of that cash to our shareowners through the form of the dividend and then we've talked about 30% to 40% of free cash flow through the dividend.
We also have said that there's an opportunity to return cash through the buyback and that we would use the buyback targeted opportunistically.
And that also still we believe we have enough cash flow then to also fund the good ideas.
And we talked about some of those today.
And so I think you'll continue to see us progress along that pathway.
But I guess the fact that we saw you buy back more in the third quarter does that suggest you see more opportunity with the shares here or this is just part of your normal program and balanced approach? (24:05) once again as we said it's part of our normal program.
And we're going to make our decisions as we go.
We're going to be opportunistic.
And we're going to balance all those needs as we think about today and as we look forward.
Okay.
Last question.
And I'll turn it over.
Can you – you've mentioned the returns on the $300 million worth of projects and you mentioned some of the reasons you're bringing it in within Industrial Packaging.
Now as we look at it you said you're also adding within this about 250 000 tons of capacity in a market that I recognize you take a longer term view than a quarter or two that has been perhaps at least from the vantage point of some people a little bit softer than would've been expected.
You in fact had to take some economic downtime in the quarter from the data that you had in the slide deck I think around 55 000 tons.
So help us understand why while adding flexibility you're also adding capacity why that is the right move in Industrial Packaging market where there's been a little bit of choppiness here in the last couple of quarters.
Thanks guys and good luck in the quarter.
Yeah.
Hey George it's Tim.
Well I think...
Hello Tim.
Hey.
We do take a longer-term view.
We believe that the market will grow over time.
If you wait until the growth occurs to make these types of investments you've waited too late.
So we're running a very large very complicated system.
And the way we think about it is how do we optimize maximize margins sustainably over time.
So this just gives us more capability across the system to run it the way we need to.
And these are the types of projects that we look for on a continual basis.
So we'll be looking for more of them.
This is one of the ways that we think we can create shareowner value.
Tim do you anticipate the returns would cover inflation at least? Oh yeah.
I mean these are 20% returns.
These are three times cost of capital.
So...
Okay.
We'll turn it over.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Sticking kind of on that the capital allocation line of question can you give us a bit of sense of an update of where you think cap spend might be next year? I realize you don't have any finalized plans probably but a preliminary sense and what the run rate for the next couple of years might be in your opinion at this juncture? Yeah.
Mark Carol.
We told you that for 2015 I think we said our CapEx targeted about $1.5 billion and we said that was the plan.
We've not finalized our plans for 2016.
And as we've talked about it if we have these ideas that are – the bigger ideas that are value-creating we'll balance that against the overall needs of the system.
So without giving you a 2016 number it's logical to think that there could be an uptick in 2016 due to the significance of this level of project in our best business.
But we'll firm that up when we get to – probably talk about the third quarter and then into the beginning of next year.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
As we think about the spend how much of it is going to the 20%-plus type of return projects versus how much of it is more environmental maintenance with lower returns? How might we think about that? So as we've talked about it – and again these are round numbers we provide a lot of this information and it changes a little bit.
If you think about the company about $1 billion for maintenance regulatory on an ongoing basis to take care of the fleet we have today.
And then if you think about the balance the $400 million to $500 million about half of that would go to what we would call let's say strategic projects.
A great example of that would be the expansion of Chem (28:22).
Strategically growing that business.
You could talk about that as the Riegelwood conversion strategic project to say grow and then strengthen the fluff business.
And then the balance which would be – and that would have – that would be returned capital – and then the balance the $200 million or so would – $200 million to $250 million would go towards high return cost reduction projects.
And the returns on those projects are 30% plus.
That's been the capital allocation for the company.
But once again if we get good ideas where there's a bigger opportunity like we've talked about in the Industrial Packaging business it'll have to be balanced against those other things.
And one of the things that we'll think about is if we can deploy capital at good returns that's value creating we're going to stay constrained on CapEx but we're not going to slow ourselves down intentionally when that's not a good idea.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That was really helpful.
Thank you.
And just one other one if I could.
Couple years ago you had the annual Investor Day.
And when you first mapped out the capital allocation strategy you talked about ramping the dividend up pretty quickly for a few years and then probably getting to a more moderated rate.
And I think that at the time you kind of talked about like a three-year ramp in the dividend.
And I think this would have been the third year.
Is that still the way we should be anticipating things that we have one more sizeable ramp in the dividend before most likely moving into a more metered increase? You know Mark I would never predict what the dividend will be of course that's Mark and the board to decision that but our strategy is pretty clear.
We said as we can grow the earnings and the cash flow of the company that the dividend's an important part of that and we'll evaluate that.
We said the dividend is going to be meaningful incremental predictable and then there'll be an opportunity to reevaluate that at the right time.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from Dr.
Mark Wilde with BMO Market.
Good morning Carol.
Good morning.
To just to kind of follow on Mark's question.
You guys have had a 5% EBITDA growth target sitting out there.
Any updated thoughts on that? It looks like it will be a challenge for this year just judging from the first half.
Hi Mark.
This is Mark.
That's a great word.
I think it's – another way to ask that is how realistic it is.
It's definitely a challenge for this year.
That 5% EBITDA growth target that I talked about before we started the year as we headed into the year had a certain set of economics assumptions attached to it some of which are not materializing.
So yeah.
It makes it pretty difficult.
It was a bit aspirational as I mentioned in follow-up discussions.
But that's the kind of growth level we need to be shooting for as a company to really produce the kind of returns our investors expect.
It won't be an even process obviously.
But as we talked about in the results we're pulling every lever we can with the company we have and we're going to continue to shoot for levels like that.
But it's definitely a challenge with some of the economic activity we see in Brazil for example being in a – I would say a much deeper recession than we probably considered going in.
And China being a challenge.
Those two areas alone and stepping back a bit instead of moving forward take a big chunk out of the ability to do that.
Earnings per share on the other side it's not one metric.
Earnings per share it's also important and that is up in that neighborhood year-to-date.
And what is probably our overall guiding principle for long-term value creation which is ROIC we've got that in a zone that we want to be in a couple hundred basis points above our cost of capital and we'd like to be able to show that through good times and bad times we've got a company that's flexible enough to really sustain that and generate that near $2 billion in cash and have that be something that investors can depend on.
So yeah challenging is a good word for the 5% EBITDA goal.
But we don't give up easily.
So we'll keep working on it.
All right.
I'm glad to hear that.
And Mark I wondered if I could also get you to just maybe take two steps backward.
We're at a period where we've got a lot of big foreign exchange moves out there.
And I wondered if you look across the IP portfolio right now where would you say the foreign exchange movements are creating the greatest stress or the greatest changes in your business? We got – we've got several impacts and obviously Carol is tracking that for us.
There are puts and takes and some of them are not completely intuitive but I'll ask Carol to kind of give our summary of the overall.
And then if there's a specific area we've talked about Containerboard and some of those long-term demand issues be happy to comment on that.
But Carol the overall summary? Sure.
So the easiest one to do the math on and it is a headwind for us is strictly the earnings that we get out of Europe and the earnings that we get out of Brazil are coming in a currency that's weaker.
So when we convert that to dollars there's less.
And so as we talked the first quarter call we said a 10% strengthening of the U.S.
dollar is a $50 million-type headwind.
That's probably still pretty good math and we know the dollar has strengthened more than that.
So that's the easy math.
Where it diverges and it depends is the currency in a country how it impacts the market access and the competitiveness.
In the case of Russia the weak currency has been great.
We're doing well there.
We make in rubles.
We sell in dollars.
We've got margin expansion.
And then conversely in Brazil it's actually been – hurt us.
So you got a good guy.
You got a bad guy.
And then in the U.S.
we are exporting 20% of what we produce and so while we're able to export our products our margins are down.
So long answer is there's pluses and takes on the market side.
But overall a stronger dollar is a headwind for International Paper and it's probably a bit more of a headwind than when we first anticipated.
But we're managing through it I think quite well.
Okay.
And I just -just a couple of follow-ons on the FX impact? One is you've talked over time about wanting to export kraft linerboard from the U.S.
to supply your offshore operations.
I wondered is the dollar strengthens whether that strategy is shifting at all? And then I wondered if you could comment on some reports we've gotten of containerboard imports coming in from Europe and from Australia? Hey Mark.
It's Tim.
No.
It doesn't change the strategy.
Currency moves up it moves down over time.
As Carol mentioned it has hit our margins in certain places but we believe in the channel for the long term.
So – and we make good money in the channel.
So we would make more if the dollar was weaker but we still like the business that we have today.
And so if it changes dramatically from where it is we can always reevaluate but nothing that's happened that changes it today.
Australian paper I think we've had some market reports of West Coast activity but not in a major or significant way that I'm aware of.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And anything on the East Coast? I'd been hearing a little bit about maybe some European paper Tim? Hadn't heard it no.
Okay.
All right.
That's helpful.
Good luck in the second half.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Thank you.
Just two things.
I wonder if you could tell us how significant the system optimization impact of Valliant might be.
I'm thinking in a system as big as yours that the impact is going to be pretty regional but it is in a pretty important region so I'm just wondering if you could scale that for us.
Yeah.
Hey Mark it's Tim.
What it does for us is it gives us a product we need overall and certainly in a geography.
So it helps us as we shift down – product down into Texas.
It helps us with the West Coast and it also helps us with the Midwest.
So this 360 000 tons we're running primarily medium which we're short on medium to begin with.
So it's a product we need and it's freight-advantaged to the places we need to get to.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And just one other question how is Orsa doing and is that a place where you're likely to find attractive reinvestment? Hi Mark.
It's Mark Sutton.
Orsa is living in a containerboard and box market that tracks GDP exactly.
So GDP is heading toward minus 2 plus a little bit and that's what we're seeing in demand.
So we've got some big customers that are in special segments that are probably doing a little worse than GDP.
One of them is the electronic segment big year last year with the World Cup and televisions a soft year this year.
And we've got big poultry and protein customers that are having issues with the regional drought.
So demand is down.
The good news is on the internal improvements efficiency in our box plants and in the containerboard mills made a lot of improvement.
So further investment I mean we'll keep our eyes and ears open.
We really do need to get the improvements that we think we can get even with a difficult economy at Orsa before we go to a next step but we are improving internally.
The market's challenging though.
Okay.
But it sounds like the assets are running pretty well.
We are – I mean we've made some improvements on the mills and the box plants.
We've done a lot of best practice transfer from our U.S.
system which has really taken hold.
And so we're making some improvements that we can keep – hold and keep and we need to get the commercial piece – commercial piece up.
Very good.
Thank you.
Thanks Mark.
Our next question comes from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
Hi.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Carol just one quick clarification.
You mentioned the prepayment on the pension plan would prevent the need for having to make a contribution for three years.
Not to be picky is that – does that include 2018 or are we talking 2015 2016 and 2017? So I was talking 2016 2017 2018 generally speaking.
Still things can change so but under the assumptions we would have today.
I understand.
Got you interest rates et cetera.
And then on the CapEx you mentioned this year you're spending I believe you said around – depreciate (39:47) $1.5 billion or so.
Would the projects and the good ideas you talked about including the Industrial Packaging $300 million initiative does that alone given the pace you expect that to take likely take that number up for next year or would you have to find some other things? And I'm thinking there might perhaps be some offset from the Boiler MACT situation I'm not sure when that actually phases out.
But maybe you could let us know how that looks right now.
Yeah.
And that's why I said we haven't finalized our numbers for 2016 but with the slug of capital of that size coming in a very important project.
It's likely that it would be – might be difficult to maintain the spending at the one-size level because we might not want to.
I mean what we want to be careful about is not delaying some really good ideas that are the cost improvement ideas.
So we'll look at it we're going to stay in a capital constrained environment.
We're going to be very judicious.
But we're going to want to make sure that we can run the system the way we want to.
Got you.
And this is one for Tim.
You know I know with the you mentioned the volume.
I think Carol in her comments was up in boxes about 3% if I'm not mistaken year-to-year.
And as you look at your system and I think about the whole country and the continent really not adding to note any virgin-quality linerboard.
Are you all having to pull tons in from offshore because the industry data don't seem to suggest that or has so far you've been able to get those extra tons by flexing your system? And I suppose as you look at 2016 if we see another similar type growth year and kind of before this incremental tons come on could you see yourself in a situation where you might have to pull some tons from offshore back into the states? No.
I mean situational Chip a moment in time but I don't think so.
I mean I think we have a pretty flexible system.
We're adding to that flexibility so that we can do what we need to do.
And you mentioned the 3%.
That was sequential not year-over-year.
But yeah generally we have a more favorable view on longer term growth and we want to make sure that we are doing now what is needed for future periods.
So that's the reason for some of this investment.
Okay.
And then the last one I suppose for Mark.
I noticed the U.S.
portion of the Consumer Packaging business and it's great that you gave us that detail because the overall segment was down but certainly the U.S.
part was up nicely year-to-year.
And I suppose some of the initiatives there including food service are helping.
Is that business sort of seen as a rising star within IP the domestic Consumer Packaging business or even though it appears its returns are still below the other major segment Industrial Packaging it still has a ways to go? Chip this is Mark.
I think Consumer Packaging in North America as we've said is an important business for us.
We've got some really really good customers both on the coated board side with the high-end SBS grades that we make in the U.S.
and on the converting side with our cup business.
And it is growing and it is a business we think we can improve I mean really Riegelwood was kind of a double not a single.
We're improving our fluff pulp business but that also improves our Consumer Packaging business by putting all of our board production in two of the best mills in the world instead of spreading it across three.
And we're growing our Food Service business and continuing to look at strategic options to kind of improve that business.
And so it is important to us.
International Paper increasingly is moving in more packaging.
And Consumer Packaging we made the investment in Kwidzyn in Europe for high-end board and that's working out really well.
And you mentioned Food Service here in the U.S.
and it is – I don't know about a rising star we don't use those terms but it is a business we're excited about.
Got you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Morning.
Hi Scott.
Inc.</span></strong> Just going back to these capital investments.
Mark you talked about your view of market growth going forward I guess the market's been relatively flat at least in North America over the last few years.
Can you talk about what's driving that view for potential market growth as maybe as we move in later into 2016 and 2017? Yeah Scott.
I think one of the things we kind of probably need to just step back on we've talked about our Industrial Packaging business as a multichannel business.
So we've got a Containerboard business that underpins the Industrial Packaging business.
And we view containerboards – the kraft liner component of Containerboard as a global – globally competitive product that the U.S.
south is blessed with the right fiber to be globally competitive and we're the largest producer of that.
So we've had long-term strategic outlets throughout the world not because our price is good or our price is bad because they need the product.
So when we talk about investing in our Containerboard system think outside of just the U.S.
market we're thinking about all channels.
Our own box business the open market customers we have which are fantastic customers in North America and the open market in IP-owned box plants overseas and non-IP box plants.
That's the premise we start with not the 1% or 2% or lack thereof in the U.S.
market.
And the other thing you got to remember is we're always going to have fluctuations in a converting value-add business.
We're going to make the product for the orders we have in all three of those channels.
We've got seasonality with maintenance outages.
So we end up having to manage inventory differently.
A lot of things that Tim described make that business better.
And if there's growth we capture it absolute growth.
If there's not growth we lower our cost by making some other decisions down the road what with capital or other types of decisions.
So it's a win-win strategy of making a really good business better.
And I don't think about it as a domestic issue of the box market in the U.S.
driving every one of these decisions.
And we've shown that quarter after quarter after quarter in good FX times bad FX times.
When a product is good and it's needed it works.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
I appreciate that.
And then on the returns from these projects the 20% IRR how much of that is driven by internalization of tons that you're currently buying in the market versus this overall system optimization strategy? Yeah.
It's a mix of all those things.
It's making more of the volumes that we've had to buy in the past as the agreement comes to the end but it's also cost reductions not only fixed because of the volume but variable as well.
So these projects they help improve quality.
They give us the flexibility we need.
Just to add on one point that Mark made we're running a system where the way we think about servicing that system across all the channels is pretty critical.
And the carrying costs on a few incremental tons of inventory to support our system is pretty low versus the operational cost of not having what you need where you need it when you need it.
We're trying to make decisions two months and three months out on somewhere between 12 000 SKUs and 15 000 SKUs of board that get used on any given day.
And so if we're wrong by 1% in terms of accuracy it's costing us $10-plus-million to fix all of that and sometimes a lot more.
So all of these projects not only give us incremental capacity in a given region for a given product but they help us manage and optimize that system.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for the answers.
Good luck in the quarter.
Our next question comes from Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning.
Just a follow-up on the containerboard system optimization.
When you look at the capacity that you'll add not only the 250 000 tons but maybe even thinking about opportunities for growth three years to five years beyond that.
Does the opportunity to add low cost capacity come from debottlenecking existing sites or do you see a potential to repurpose assets that are producing other substrates like white paper? And then just beyond containerboard looking at fluff following Riegelwood can you talk about conversions generally? Anthony this is Mark.
I think we've got opportunities in when you look at our asset base and I've commented on this before we've got very very good assets in really all of our businesses.
They happen to make the product they make today but can be reconfigured to make other products and we've got the right work force the right technical age of the assets and what's probably more important than anything on the cost side is the right fiber basket.
So we've got opportunities a lot of opportunities in the company to make our good businesses better by organic debottlenecking as you mentioned but also by facility conversions.
There's further opportunity in fluff if we need it and our customers need it.
There's opportunities in converting assets that are currently making one type of product to make another type of product.
And that's one of the benefits we have is we have a lot of choices about how to do strategic projects that help our existing businesses.
We built what we have by big M&amp;A activity.
And what we didn't say is we want to just kind of be satisfied with what we have.
We want it to be the absolute best it can be.
And now we're investing in what we built in one way through M&amp;A we're investing in ourselves now by making what's really I think competitive and good great.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Just to clarify is the 250 000 tons coming from existing containerboard mills or could those – that 250 000 tons potentially come from another source? These investments are coming – that Tim described and that Carol described in the opening comments – are coming from our existing containerboard system.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I just had a question on the North American uncoated freesheet market.
I mean it's like we're hearing some conflicting things with anti-dumping duties potentially next month.
It sounds like some importers have backed off from shipping into the U.S.
but at the same time RISI had some price cuts last week.
Is the uncoated freesheet market in terms of pricing in North America is it getting better is it getting worse? Is it stable? I was wondering if you could just provide any color there.
Pulp &amp; Consumer Packaging</span></strong> Hi.
This is Mike Amick.
And you see the – in terms of the pricing we have seen a little bit of slippage.
But in the context of the anti-dumping overall the – you're seeing or maybe hearing some of the same things we are this will play out over the coming months.
In August we expect to hear a ruling on the anti-dumping.
And we've – but right now things are pretty stable.
Our business right now domestically is pretty strong.
Little of that is actually coming from what we would consider to be a tailwind from the case itself.
This is just continuing to be the strengthening of our business and our brands which is very encouraging.
So I think we'll see this play out over the next 60 days or 90 days.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
I'll turn it over.
Our next question comes from Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
Good morning and congratulations on a very strong quarter.
Thanks Chris.
I kind of want to come back to – you've touched on this a couple different ways but I just want to kind of maybe probe a little more about it.
When we look at your box shipments first quarter second quarter they were down 1% each.
I know industry's been up.
Maybe is that some related to just mix or timing or – you've been now a couple quarters below industry.
And then two kind of in relation with adding capacity and doing some work there right? Clearly you're at least the data I'm looking at shows your corrugated shipment's up.
So there's more going to export and other places.
But when you think about balancing that it sounds like – just maybe help me understand the process of you want to have the right grades the right places so maybe it's – even though you're going to have it you don't necessarily operate it.
You take more downtime in it? Am I thinking about that the right way as well? Well we run what we need to run to service the customers that we have.
So yeah.
In a moment in time I see the perspective of there being a contradiction there.
But on the box side it's all the things you mentioned.
We made some choices about customers late last year that kind of went through the pipeline and exited our portfolio of customers earlier this year and some of the newer business that's coming in is as we mentioned last quarter is ramping up over a period of time.
So yeah.
In a given quarter or a given moment in time you can have some of these disconnects but we do believe that our business grows over time and we want to make sure that we're supporting that growth the most economical way.
Is it your anticipation then that probably as we get towards the end of the year or maybe into 4Q that you'll begin to track sort of more in line with industry levels? Well it depends on what the market does.
We know we have a pipeline of business coming in.
We know that we have a customer portfolio that is performing at various levels.
In some cases some of the customers that we have are suffering their own market-related issues around share and the type of products that they make.
So – but yes.
Generally speaking we would expect that over time we would track closer to market.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then Carol in the past you've talked about your capital spending plans that being in the – you hit about a $1 billion or so of maintenance but being a $1.3 billion or $1.4 billion kind of those extra spending elements helped offset inflation in different components that way.
With the identification of some of the new projects and then this year I think you were already a bit elevated should we think about as a whole across your system if you're spending $1.5 billion or so this year and I think you kind of hinted that potentially it could be even taking a little tick up next year that as a whole you're spending more than offsets inflation or is there something you're seeing potentially on the inflation side that you think might be a bigger hole to offset? Chris I think you really hit it on the head at the end.
And once again you step back from our capital allocation strategy.
We have said we're going to return a lot of our free cash to our investors which we're doing.
But there's cash left.
You can reinvest that cash in acquisitions which we've done some with great success and some with challenges.
Or we could take some of that cash and reinvest that cash into businesses that are above cost of capital returns to create even more value.
And we've been talking about this.
So the anticipation is is that incremental investment is for earnings growth.
It's to do more than offset inflation.
We think about that base spending as the kind of things we need to do that $1.4 billion level $1.4 billion $1.5 billion and it just depends point in time of some the maintenance expense we have about as a sustain level to kind of just keep pace.
But what we're seeing what you're seeing us do now is reinvest in businesses that we have a right to win and to create more value.
Not just to stay still.
And we think that given where we sit as a company right now that deploying some capital in that direction might possibly make more sense than say what we've done in the past which is spend it on a bolt-on acquisition.
But at the end of the day it's cash being deployed to create to value.
I hope that kind of answers your question and kind of puts a face on this incremental capital that we're talking about.
It does.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Good morning guys.
You took some economic downtime 2Q in your Containerboard business.
Can you kind of help us frame what your expectation is in 3Q and then back half in general? Are you comfortable with your inventory levels? I appreciate you know.
You guys obviously have transportation (58:02).
But just kind of help frame how should we be thinking about it sequentially in Q3? Hey Philip.
It's Tim.
As a general rule we don't forecast how we're going to run our system going forward but the philosophy is that we try to maximize our earnings performance given all of the – if you heard earlier all the considerations that we take into account about how to have the product we need in the right place at the right time.
And so the downtime that we took export channel was a little bit softer than we had anticipated in the second quarter.
And so we balanced our system out to account for that.
That's just how we run it.
Got you.
And can you help frame how you thinking about box demand in the back half? I appreciate you got some new business coming in.
And Mark you mentioned earlier coming in the year there's a more upbeat outlook on the macro.
Obviously Brazil and China slowed down a bit.
But just curious to get your thoughts on the U.S.
economy and box shipments broadly? Yeah for – this is Tim again.
For the indicators that we look at we still think the second half of the year is going to be pretty good.
We think that 2015 from a box demand standpoint should be a fairly solid year.
Now we're not talking about 2.5% or 3% growth but in that 1% to 2% range based on the indicators we look at.
Those indicators obviously get a lot fuzzier the further you look out in time.
But here in the immediate future we still are somewhat encouraged by market growth.
Okay that's helpful.
And then when you think about the investments you guys are making you're obviously stepping a lot of that for internal investment.
Is that a kind of a reflection on how your pipeline was looking for M&amp;A? And do some of your recent investments abroad on the M&amp;A front has that kind of set the hurdle rate a little higher going forward if you do you approach M&amp;A abroad? Phil that's a great question.
And what we've been saying is – what guides our investment strategy is creating value.
And we've done a little bit of everything.
Large M&amp;A as Carol said some of it's worked out very well.
Some smaller things in developing markets that are still a question mark or have not worked out very well.
And because of that we haven't done as much other than cost reduction as much of reinvesting into some own organic businesses.
The Containerboard business is a great example.
We didn't have that business to invest in several years ago.
But we have it now and it's the best opportunity to create value of all the choices we have.
So it's not so much that the hurdle rate's changed.
It's back to what guides us and we believe we can create more value for the long term which our shareholders should appreciated by making these investments instead of some other choices.
Okay.
Very helpful guys.
Our next question is from Debbie Jones of Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
You guys have highlighted a lot of expected investment in North America.
Mark in the past you've talked about potential for investment in containerboard in Russia through your Ilim JV.
Can you just talk about or frame this opportunity and whether or not it's something you'd be considering for 2016 or is this something we'd be looking at as more of a three-year or five-year time horizon? Well obviously the investments in Ilim are a process with the Ilim board which we of course are members of.
But we do make some containerboard in Ilim and it's going very well.
And Russia is a great soft wood basket.
But right now the focus on Ilim is really getting the maximum potential of the investments we've already made in specifically the Bratsk pulp mill and that's going very well.
And so Ilim has a Board and a CEO and we're involved in that and strategy is being developed.
But Russia is a great place for containerboard from a fiber standpoint.
More logistics issues have to be solved over time.
But we have a small position in containerboard through our Ilim joint venture and it's going well.
But there is no imminent next move.
It's really optimizing what we're doing right now and that's going well.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thanks.
And just one last one on printing paper.
Your maintenance target for the year seem to come back I think primarily related to Brazil and North America.
Is there anything that we should read into that there anything being pushed out? Pulp &amp; Consumer Packaging</span></strong> No not – This is Mike Amick Debbie.
This our maintenance for the large part at least (1:02:41) the biggest piece of our maintenance is behind us in the first half.
We still have some – a couple of outages here in the second half but nothing is being pushed out in North America.
No the maintenance outages outside of North America they move around based on what we're trying to accomplish in the particular outage and then managing obviously seasonality issues with customers.
Some of the mills like Kwidzyn are comingled with coated board products.
And so that is another market that drives the timing decision.
But no I wouldn't read anything into that.
We're continuing to do our maintenance outages to make sure that what we run is first and foremost safe and reliable and can make it between outages in the best possible lowest cost way.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Good luck in the quarter.
Thank you Debbie.
Our final question comes from Paul Quinn with RBC Capital Market.
Inc.</span></strong> Holy cow snuck in there.
Just two easy questions.
One on the Pulp side realizations in North America were up $8 quarter-over-quarter.
Just wondering is that a mix issue? Pulp &amp; Consumer Packaging</span></strong> That it is a primarily driven by mix.
We had a little bit better performance in our fluff system which was able to generate some obviously improvement from that standpoint.
So primarily yes Paul.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just over on India with Printing Papers lost money again in the quarter.
Is there a longer-term plan here to reverse the slide? Paul yeah.
The India business – the volume is growing.
We've got – we've had some cost issues.
And so there is a plan to improve the business.
And as we said originally what we're trying to figure out with the Paper business in India is we're trying to figure out the market and what our participation level could be in the future.
Some of the India numbers that we report are really other activity that we have beyond just the Paper business that just – is kind of the carrying cost when you start in a new region.
But the underlying demand and how we're running has improved.
But we definitely have that in this overall review that I've talked about doing with our portfolio.
And India like everything else is a part of that.
And we're making progress on that.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks for the help.
Best of luck.
Thank you.
That concludes our Q&amp;A portion for today's presentation.
I will now hand the program back over to Jay for any closing remarks.
Well that concludes the call.
Thanks for taking the time to join us this morning.
As always Michele and I will be available after the call and our numbers are on slide 18 of the appendix.
Thanks and have a great day.
Thank you for joining the International Paper Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
You may now disconnect your lines.
And have a great day.
Good morning.
My name is Patrick and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the International Paper Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
I will now return the call over to Jay Royalty Vice President Investor Relations.
Jay the floor is yours.
Thanks Patrick and good morning everyone and thank you for joining International Paper's third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Our key speakers this morning are Mark Sutton Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Carol Roberts Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call we will make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which are outlined on slide two of the presentation.
We'll also present non-U.S.
GAAP financial information.
A reconciliation of those figures to U.S.
GAAP financial measures are available on our website.
Our website also contains copies of the third quarter 2015 earnings press release and today's presentation slides.
Lastly relative to the Ilim JV slide four provides context around the joint venture's financial information and statistical measures.
With that I'll turn the call over to Mark Sutton.
Thanks Jay and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us this morning to review our third quarter results and our outlook for the fourth quarter.
I'm going to start on slide five.
International Paper delivered another quarter of strong results with earnings per share of $0.97 in the third quarter.
Earnings were driven by outstanding results in our North American Industrial Packaging business with EBITDA margins of 25.2%.
Solid performance continues at the Ilim joint venture resulting in record operational EBITDA in the quarter.
Additionally IP received a $35 million dividend from Ilim in the third quarter.
And finally our return on invested capital continues to be strong with year-to-date results above 10%.
On capital allocation we increased our dividend by 10% to $1.76 per share effective with the fourth quarter payout.
Along with that we revisited and improved our dividend payout guidelines.
Also we completed the restructuring and are extending the 2006 timber monetization.
Carol will share more on these important items later in the call.
And finally we recently made a significant strategic decision that impacts how we will serve the important Asian market moving forward.
Relative to closing the deal to sell our stake in the Sun joint venture we have received the required government approvals and we expect to fully close the deal in the fourth quarter.
Moving to slide six and continuing with our financial results revenue was down year-over-year in the quarter as it has been all year; primarily this is due to the impact of FX translation.
We also took a large noncash accounting charge of $0.15 in the quarter due to the decline in the value of the Russian ruble versus the dollar and that's primarily on Ilim's U.S.
denominated net debt.
More importantly or most importantly I should say we had a strong EBITDA quarter at almost $1.1 billion and with margins above 19% strong free cash flow of $512 million and a return on invested capital of over 10%.
So a good quarter and with that I'll turn it over to Carol and ask her to cover the details on the quarter also our outlook for the rest of the year and some comments on capital allocation.
I'll return at the end to wrap up the call before we go into Q&amp;A.
Carol? Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
Taking a look at the bridge from the second quarter to third quarter you can see that our performance overall was fairly consistent quarter-over-quarter.
The largest changes involve the noncash charge associated with the Ilim JV's U.S.
dollar denominated net debt and that was due to the significant decline in the value of the ruble during the quarter.
This more than offset the benefit of lower planned maintenance outage expense.
Pricing was impacted by lower containerboard export pricing and unfavorable price mix on Coated Paperboard and papers.
Overall across the businesses volume was generally flat.
We had solid operations in the quarter and as expected input costs were higher in the areas of energy OCC and rail expense.
The other category includes a favorable FX gain from Brazil and as mentioned earlier the Ilim JV performed very well with strong operations that positively contributed $0.04 per share.
Turning to the segments on slide eight Industrial Packaging continued its string of strong quarterly results delivering $553 million of EBIT.
Lower planned maintenance outage expense was the biggest driver of increased earnings in the quarter.
Export containerboard prices continue to be under some pressure and we believe this is primarily due to the strong dollar.
Volume was impacted by lower containerboard export tons and seasonal softness in Europe.
Absolute box volume in our North American Box business is flat.
Operational performance was solid and input costs were higher as I mentioned as we expected.
Turning to slide nine IP continues to enjoy industry-leading margin performance as Mark mentioned driven by the excellent execution of our North American Industrial Packaging team and this includes their commercial efforts.
As you can see on the top right portion of this slide we've made significant progress in closing the gap to industry box shipments over the last two quarters.
This is due to new business wins we're securing growth with our existing customers through winning in their respective segments and our significant presence in segments which are growing faster than the industry average.
As you can see at the bottom of the slide we're seeing positive growth trends in Online Retail and Distribution Agricultural products and Beverage.
Protein is a segment that's important to us and that has recently struggled but it is showing signs of resumed growth.
Processed Foods is a large segment that continues to be challenged as consumer preferences are shifting.
But overall we're encouraged by our results and the trends we're seeing as we move into the fourth quarter.
Turning to Consumer Packaging earnings were higher due to lower planned maintenance outage expense and improved operations.
While volume was up slightly in both North America and Europe it was weaker than we expected for this time of year.
We did experience softer backlogs in North America which we view as a result of customer destocking across the industry.
And we also experienced some price pressure on plate stock along with a less favorable mix in North America.
Turning to slide 11.
It was a very good quarter for our Printing Papers business with earnings up $78 million.
We had seasonally stronger volume lower planned outage expense and stronger operations and these were the key drivers.
This was partially offset by lower price mix in North American Paper a bit less favorable pulp mix and an increase in Russian exports.
Looking at Slide 12 I'd like to take a minute to highlight a business that I think really shows the strength of IP's competitive position and that's our Brazilian Paper business.
As we all know Brazil faces a host of challenges right now as it's in the midst of a very deep recession.
What I think gets lost relative to IP is the fact that despite the current situation our Papers business continues to perform very well and continues to generate strong EBITDA margin above 30%.
Despite the weak domestic economy we've implemented one round and are working on a second round of domestic price increases which are helping to offset weak domestic demand as well as increased inflation.
Additionally our export position is stronger than ever due to our strengthened competitive position and the benefit of the currency devaluation to our cost position.
We expect to build on the momentum we saw in the third quarter as we move through the fourth quarter as volumes seasonally strengthen and we implement the second round of domestic price increases.
Turning to Ilim.
The JV delivered record operational EBITDA as Mark mentioned in the third quarter and this was all around strong operations and increased volume.
Production at the Bratsk mill was at a record levels in the third quarter exceeded the capital project targets that we had set.
As noted earlier the JV did take a large non-cash charge in the quarter for the decline in the value of the ruble primarily related to the JV's U.S.
denominated debt.
As Mark mentioned we did receive a dividend payment from the JV in the quarter of $35 million.
Looking ahead the JV is expecting seasonally higher volumes to be offset by lower average pulp prices and higher input costs in the fourth quarter.
So moving to the fourth quarter outlook volume in North America will be lower due to primarily three less shipping days in the North American Box business and seasonally lower specialty sales.
This will impact North American Industrial Packaging results by about $35 million.
Volume will also be impacted by fewer shipping days in North American Consumer Packaging.
We expect seasonally stronger volume as I mentioned in the Brazil Paper business.
We expect pricing to be relatively stable for the businesses; however we do see a less favorable seasonal mix across our North American Paper Pulp and Packaging businesses.
Operational costs will be a headwind in the quarter relative to the third quarter.
Part of this stems from the flooding that we saw in South Carolina earlier this month which impacted both our Eastover and Georgetown mills.
Additionally with the lower demand expected in North America due to fewer shipping days combined with starting to move into the winter months across the U.S.
operational costs will be higher as will energy expenses.
We expect the impact to the North American Paper and Pulp business to be roughly $25 million and that does include the impacts from the flood and the operational impact that had.
We expect similar seasonality issues to impact the North American Packaging business by roughly $20 million.
And relative to input costs we expect energy expenses for the North American businesses to be about $10 million higher in the fourth quarter.
Maintenance outage expense will increase collectively by $45 million as shown on the slide.
And as always we provide an outlook for Ilim assuming stable FX coming out of the quarter.
So the fourth quarter outlook assumes a non-repeat of the $0.15 charge we incurred in 3Q.
So shifting gears before I turn it back over to Mark I'd like to provide an update on capital allocation and how we think about this important area.
This has been a consistent message and we've continued to refine our thinking and our approach relative to driving the greatest value for our IP and for our shareholders.
To start of course cash from operations enabled IP to fund all of these important elements so our focus continues to be on maximizing cash generation.
Looking at the top left portion of the slide one of the most important aspects of our capital allocation philosophy is to systematically return a significant portion of our cash to shareholders.
As Mark mentioned we've revisited the trough-test for our dividend.
And based on a higher level of confidence around the sustainability of our cash flow we have increased the target payout from the previously noted 30% to 40% now to 40% to 50% of our free cash flow.
Opportunistic share buybacks as we've been doing since we instituted the first authorization roughly two years ago remains a very important part of this element of our strategy.
Thoughtful and effective capital spending is another critical element.
We're generating strong results and are committed to running a socially responsible company.
And to maintain that level of excellence requires a base load of maintenance and regulatory spending.
Beyond that we look at high return cost reduction projects that help to offset inflationary costs and that enable IP to maintain and increase our competitiveness.
Next we intend to maintain a strong and healthy balance sheet and that includes an investment-grade credit rating.
We believe this is important to maintain the financial strength and flexibility needed to go through the good times and the not so good times.
And finally we continue to look for ways to increase the value of IP through reinvestment.
This is all about opportunities that have healthy spreads above our cost of capital and importantly improve IP's strategic position.
So given that cash from operations funds the important elements of our capital allocation strategy that I just spoke about slide 16 shows our cash from operations annually since 2008.
We have been generating significant cash and combined with our thoughtful approach to CapEx this has allowed us to maximize free cash flow.
So turning to an update on our capital allocation activity in the quarter let's talk about a number of these items.
As mentioned we recently increased our dividend by 10% effective with the fourth quarter payout to $1.76 per share annually.
This marks our fourth consecutive annual double digit increase since the fall of 2012.
And as I mentioned we strengthened our policy to move the target payout range up to 40% to 50% of free cash flow.
Share buyback remains an important part of our capital allocation strategy.
We bought 151 million of shares in the third quarter which has brought our year-to-date total to 423 million shares and our total since September of 2013 to almost 1.9 billion shares.
Moving onto the next item as we have previously disclosed we needed to take action this year regarding the loan agreements associated with IP's sale of the of timberlands back in 2006.
Our objective was to reduce IP's risk and preserve financial flexibility while maintaining the deferral of $1.4 billion in taxes.
We took a series of successful actions during the third quarter to achieve those objectives.
I think it's important to first remind everyone on the context around this and then walk you through in a bit more detail than I might normally do the details of what we accomplished in the third quarter and what we plan to do in the fourth quarter.
As you know we sold some of our timberlands in 2006 for $4.85 billion in an installment sale which resulted in a deferral of $1.4 billion in taxes on the proceeds from that sale.
The 2006 structure was up for extension renewal later this year and into 2016.
So we thoroughly evaluated not only an extension of the structure but also restructuring options that would reduce IP's exposure to bank risk while continuing to maintain the $1.4 billion tax deferral.
Ultimately we moved forward in the third quarter with a restructuring which provides IP with benefits and flexibility going forward.
Third quarter restructuring will be followed in the fourth quarter with a five-year extension of the new structure.
The original structure was full recourse meaning that we pledged not one the timber notes but also $4.85 billion in IP debt obligation as collateral for the bank loan.
A lot has changed since we put the original structure in place making this type of structure no longer the most prudent for International Paper.
So we made the decision to move to a limited recourse structure.
The first step in this process was to buy out our third party equity investor for $198 million.
That investor was necessary in the original structure but was no longer needed in the new structure.
Additionally moving to the new structure allowed us to eliminate $150 million of debt from our balance sheet.
The most significant requirement in the move from full recourse to limited recourse was to adequately collateralize the $4.85 billion of bank loan.
To accomplish that we made a $630 million payment against those loans which comes back to IP when we receive the cash from the timber notes.
As a result of moving to limited recourse the assets and liabilities associated with the structure have come onto our balance sheet in the third quarter which is similar to the treatment we have with the Temple-Inland timber monetization.
In the fourth quarter we will work to put permanent financing in place for the five year extension and following the five year extension the monetization structure can be extended up to an additional 15 years.
So to summarize a tremendous amount of work was accomplished in the quarter.
We set the stage for completion of the five year extension of the timber monetization which really allows us to keep the option up to an additional 15 years.
The new structure eliminates IP's exposure to significant risk and it maintains the $1.4 billion tax deferral.
So going back to the slide and moving on to capital spending we have set the 2016 plan at $1.4 billion which will include spending related to the projects we announced last quarter for the North American Industrial Packaging system as well as the Riegelwood fluff pulp conversion project.
And finally as you know on October 8 we announced our decision to sell our stake in the Sun JV to our partner for $23 million.
And importantly the deal also includes the removal of roughly $400 million of JV debt off of IP's consolidated balance sheet.
As Mark mentioned earlier we've made a lot of progress towards the close and expect to finalize everything shortly.
And so with that let me turn it back over to you Mark.
Thanks Carol for taking us through all those details on the very important elements of capital allocation.
I feel good about our capital allocation strategy and the work we accomplished in the third quarter.
It was a busier than normal quarter on that front.
These are the right moves for IP and I'm really confident about our path ahead.
What I would like to do though on slide 18 is put a little more context around our strategic decision relative to Asia and what we see as a continued important market for IP.
And you've heard me say this before.
We've been looking at China for a while.
We serve it many different ways and we reached a conclusion that serving Asia in all of those ways that we have in the past is really no longer the best strategy to maximize value for IP.
So we decided to exit the on-the-ground manufacturing we do in China for Coated Paperboard as well as our Industrial Packaging Box business.
That's both in China and Southeast Asia the Box businesses.
We'll continue to serve customers though in this really important region in a variety of ways – in ways that are working very well today including exports from our Ilim joint venture for softwood pulp and select exports from the U.S.
of globally competitive products like our Kraft linerboard and our fluff pulp.
So China and Asia remain important to us.
We're willing to re-evaluate how we serve the markets as we go through time and that's what we did in this case.
This is a significant decision for the company and one that makes IP even stronger and more valuable.
So on the last slide before we go to Q&amp;A on slide 19 in closing I'd like to turn to the investment pieces for International Paper.
We've built a portfolio with strong competitive positions in key select markets where International Paper has a right to win.
If we execute well we have a right to win.
I like our portfolio and we'll continue to look for opportunities to refine it and improve the company as we move forward.
Our strategy is enabling us to achieve an increased return on invested capital above our cost of capital and we've been doing this for the last five years so we're really convinced that we can sustainably continue to generate these type of returns and continue to improve the company.
We're also generating – and Carol mentioned this – it's really critical that we focus on the cash flow element of our company so that we can fund our capital allocation strategy.
And again we're proving that we can generate strong sustainable free cash flow year in and year out across the company.
And finally we're focused on thoughtful capital allocation which we just had a detailed view of on Carol's last slide that's based on the principles of creating value rewarding our shareholders and making International Paper a better company that you can count on for the long term.
And with that I'd like to turn it back over to the operator and we'll open up the floor for Q&amp;A.
Thank you sir.
Again please limit your questions to one and a follow-up.
Your first question is from Chris Manuel Wells Fargo.
Good morning gentlemen and thanks for the color and all the components here.
Just one – kind of taking a step back Mark.
I mean over the last say 12 months or so you've done a number of actions mostly deletes or cleaning up elements of the portfolio.
As you sit today do you feel that you're largely done with what you want to do with the portfolio? Are there components in the business that look particularly attractive to you that you feel that you'd want to be adding or looking at? So with respect to how are you thinking about acquisitions or the portfolio as a whole as it sits today.
Chris that's a great question and some of what you do naturally over time is what we've been talking about in the last year which is refining the portfolio recognizing that sometimes everything we're trying to do isn't working the way we thought it would be and that'd be a continued element of how we look at the company.
But I would remind you though that we have not just taken some things out we've also reinvested in a pretty big way and it's paying dividends into our Industrial Packaging business.
It doesn't get the same press as an acquisition but making that business even stronger through improving our operations on the box side as well as the mill side has had a pretty good effect and we've got more to do there.
And I mentioned in my comments I like the portfolio but by no means does that mean there won't be any more changes.
The changes will come against our filter of can we make the company stronger and create more value and generate more cash that we can then fund our capital allocation strategy through.
So on M&amp;A I've said this before M&amp;A is obviously a part of your strategy in any company but again against our filter of creating value and doing things that increase the return on invested capital with a good spread above our cost of capital would be the first place we'd start.
And obviously the industrial logic of what we do and do well has to fit as well.
And as a follow-up if I could.
As I look at – you've got a slide here where you highlight downtime that you've taken across most of your mills and such when we think about downtime in North America with significant amount of – there's been some chunks of new capacity come on-stream there have been even more chunks of capacity that have come out.
How do you think about the market as it sits today? Is it relatively balanced to you? Do you feel that – as I look over the past three years you've taken downtime I think in all but one of the quarters do you feel that you're kind of about done needing to take downtime or perhaps de-evaluate maybe taking a little capacity out yourselves? Well Chris that's a great question and this is a statement across all of our businesses.
We run the operations based on our order book and our capacity given outages and all of those things doesn't perfectly match our demand.
Demand seasonality and capacity seasonality are somewhat out of phase in our business we've limited that over time.
The Containerboard business has gotten really good at it because we have so many mills but we're going to make the product and all of those businesses that we have orders for and that we need that's what yields the amount of downtime we take.
What we've learned to do though is take that downtime on a marginal cost basis and do it pretty efficiently.
We are no longer practicing paper making from yesterday where the only way you make money is if you run everything wide open to its engineering limit.
We've now improved our system enough where we can run our business at our manufacturing facilities to the market demand we have and be profitable doing it.
And we continue to work to get better at that because that's a real important element of having the kind of company that we tried to create; flexibility and the ability to match the orders we have any quarter any month or any year.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
And maybe following up a little bit on that in terms of the outlook you gave guidance indications on the impacts from volume I think impacting you talked about like $35 million for volume and you talked about the operations in paper and packaging input costs mill maintenance et cetera.
I think it summed up something like $135 million $140 million which would suggest in the low $0.20.
First of all would that be about right in terms of the impacts from those elements? And other than the Ilim coming the other way would there be anything else significant? And related to that does that capture the expectations of the seasonal type of downtime that you might take which you were just referring to? And if you could help us out there.
Yeah.
Mark this is Carol.
I think for sure what we were attempting to do was to kind of highlight that seasonality because that's a lot of what you're seeing there.
It's about the days it's about the time of year it's about the order patterns that we see.
And since the third quarter is a strong quarter traditionally and the fourth quarter tends to be a seasonally weaker quarter and that's – I think you've captured it.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just another – one quick follow-up on the Uncoated Freesheet business now we've seen the countervailing duties in place for a little while.
What if any implications has that been having for the North American market and then I guess in your case too what you do in Brazil? Pulp &amp; Consumer Packaging</span></strong> Hey Mark.
This is Mike Amick.
Just real quickly on that I mean it's still rather fluid in terms of the market as we see changes in the dynamics that are happening with regard to imports and as they take effect.
They're still preliminary final duties will come in in February.
As you saw from the stats some of these are still estimates.
We saw a decrease year-over-year in the third quarter by roughly 80 000 tons.
The overall market right now we think is kind of year-to-date is roughly down about 1% to 1.5%.
And so I think this is going to still be somewhat of a moving – and fluid over the course over the next several quarters.
With respect to Brazil and the volume there we weren't moving a lot of product into this market from Brazil.
What was coming into warehouses say in Miami was going out into other parts of Latin America.
So from a Brazil standpoint in the U.S.
that was really not a big impact.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And so it is fair to say because that 1% 1.5% that's certainly better than what we have been seeing.
So does the net effect at this point seem to be favorable at least near-term on the market? Pulp &amp; Consumer Packaging</span></strong> Yeah.
Mark I mean I think that's a fair statement.
Certainly where we've been seeing kind of the 3% to 4% decline this has been an improvement that we've seen.
And as far as International Paper goes we've done a little bit better than that.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Hey good morning everyone.
A couple of questions maybe going back to just Containerboard supply and demand in the U.S.
can you talk about how you're seeing demand thus far in the quarter? How you're thinking about your inventory position relative to where you need it to be and just what you're seeing in export markets? Yeah.
Good morning.
This is Tim Nicholls.
Actually demand starting in the fourth quarter is reasonably good and I think you have to remember we're up against a pretty tough comp given how well the market performed last year.
The market was building in August/September but then continuing to the fourth quarter.
So I think any positive growth I mean any positive growth this year in the fourth quarter has to be viewed as a big plus.
And in October we're trending positive.
So right now we're up about 1% but I think we're encouraged so far.
In terms of inventory we grew our inventories from second quarter to third quarter and they're roughly where we wanted them.
We did that for two reasons one we've talked about before supply chain efficiencies and the return on carrying a little bit more inventory more than pays for itself.
But also as we came out of the second quarter we were just coming out of heavy outage and so we had depleted inventories built them back in the third quarter to get ready for fourth quarter outage season.
So I think we're in a good place in terms of our inventories.
Thank you Tim.
And just a last one from me thinking about the capital allocation.
So a couple of things that you said.
One was the investment-grade balance sheet and two was the deal most importantly has to drive return on invested capital above the cost of capital.
So on the investment-grade what's sort of the upper limit around leverage as you see it? And the return above invested capital does that mean in the first year or do you feel like as long as you can get to that number by year two three or four you'd still be willing to look at an acquisition that's transformative? Alex I'll take the second part and I'll ask Carol to comment on our debt metrics.
I think on the investments significant investments we need to see line-of-sight to an ROIC that bats the cost of capital pretty quickly in those first – like you said first two or three years.
And then we need to believe we have actionable plans to get it to a spread of maybe 200 basis points above our cost and it doesn't need to be a forever task.
And you've seen us do that on our big acquisitions Weyerhaeuser and Temple for example and we're not going to be perfect.
But that's really what we're looking at and that's a filter that we are all aligned on and so we see it pretty quickly.
Alex regarding the investment-grade.
In our space three times debt to EBITDA for us feels comfortable.
One of the strengths of International Paper that you have to remember is because our businesses are so well positioned in the markets and their cost position our cash flow generation pretty much throughout most conditions remains very strong.
And so we feel comfortable keeping that type of leverage and as do the rating agencies.
And the reputation we have with the rating agencies which we do what we say we're going to do and that's been working well for us.
Excellent.
Thank you Mark and Carol.
Thanks Alex.
Our next question comes from Chip Dillon Vertical Research Partners.
Yes.
Thanks and good morning.
Just a quick question about the change in the timber transaction from 10 years ago.
It's on the balance sheet as a current item I guess that's because you're going through this transition and I don't think it was there before.
Will that be removed from the balance sheet? Since it's non-recourse or will we continue to see the offsetting entries on the asset and liability side as long-term going forward? Yeah.
It's in the current because we're in the process of putting the permanent financing in place in the fourth quarter.
So we'll put the permanent financing in place in the fourth quarter and it'll move out of current.
And then it'll be treated just like the Temple-Inland timber monetization is but you will see it on the balance sheet Chip.
Okay.
Got you.
And then second question is on the capital spending.
It seemed like after the last call in late July early August that CapEx for next year was looking to be above the depreciation rate maybe $1.6 billion because of the $300 million program in Industrial Packaging and how that was an overt above and beyond investment that you were using with free cash flow given the returns.
So now it looks like you're guiding down the CapEx for next year from what we would have thought.
I know you didn't have an official number at the last call.
And I was wondering what items or how you were able to make those changes and what the thought was behind that decline.
I'm going to just take a shot at this and then obviously let Mark comment.
But I think what happened in July is we just were not in our process yet to declare what our 2016 plan was but we felt important to communicate to our investors our plans around the business.
And so what we talked about in July was the project and agreed that we left it open that there could be a change to the 2016 capital.
But obviously we do our planning work as we enter this time of year getting ready for 2016 and we just feel comfortable that we can get the work done that we need to get done on the projects and in the company with the $1.4 billion.
So I don't think it's any more complicated than that Chip.
And does that include anymore Boiler MACT or did that drop off? It includes what's in there so that includes our regulatory required spending.
Got you.
And last quick question is on – you talked about China and how obviously it's an important market but certainly serving them in the fluff market from the States and in the softwood pulp market and I guess virgin linerboard from Russia certainly for a lot of reasons makes sense given the fiber situation.
Could you make the same argument or would you about India? Or are there differences about India than what you see in China? Chip I think you could make arguments that obviously there are different economic barriers at any moment in time whether it's tariffs the supply chain maturity and all of those things that would allow you to make money serving a market with imported products.
I mean the fundamental element is what you just said and that is if you have globally competitive products from a quality standpoint which we have and a globally competitive cost position and in our business it starts with fiber that if you can access a market that appreciates your product you should be able to make that work.
And you can see examples of that in the forest product industry all over the world.
So that's something we always look at and it goes back to our multichannel strategy in our Containerboard business.
We are containerboard providers for the world markets not just the U.S.
market and we've been doing that for a long time because the product's good and our cost position is good and our service platform is trusted by the customer.
So it's definitely a possibility.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Gail Glazerman UBS.
Hi.
Good morning.
Morning Gail.
Going back to the capital program in Industrial Packaging is there any further guidance in terms of how that's going to roll out over the next year or two in terms of both the spending and the kind of incremental capacity that may come with it? Is that in the same timeline that you would have thought last quarter or has that been refined? Hi Gail.
It's Tim.
Yes.
It's in line no changes to how we were thinking.
As you'll remember we talked about this being spending that we would begin in 2016 and it would roll into 2017 and no change to anything the spending or the timeline.
Just a reminder Gail on when Tim covered those projects last quarter he talked about the drivers of those projects including the Industrial Packaging containerboard manufacturing system.
There's a lot of elements quality improvement cost reduction and if we need it a volume component.
And of course we'll make the volume and consume the volume in our own box plants and in our open market channels if the demand is there.
If it's not there those are still really good projects from the first two elements of cost and quality.
Okay.
And back last fall when you announced the plans to restart Valliant you talked about also bringing Newport out of medium and more into facing paper.
And I'm just wondering can you give an update on where you stand on that? Have you accomplished it or is that yet to come? We haven't accomplished it fully we continue to grow our gypsum product there and so we're encouraged by the growth that we see and the contractual obligations that we have going forward.
So it's in process and we'll continue to work on it.
We're trying to do all of this in a very methodical way and eliminate or minimize disruption.
Sounds good.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
One for Tim.
Tim you talked about the October pickup in U.S.
box demand that you're seeing up about 1%.
Given that industry box demand growth has slowed throughout the course of the year and given the obvious pockets of weakness evident in the U.S.
economy are you surprised that your shipments are up 1% in October? And do you expect that type of growth to continue? Well it's hard to predict the future in terms of what will happen.
As I said fourth quarter is a tough comp.
We had some exposures earlier in the year just based on our segment mix in terms of processed foods and how they have underperformed for a period of time now.
Another one that underperformed in the first part of the year well really right through the third quarter has been protein Avian flu in poultry and there was a ban on certain countries allowing imported poultry products.
Those bans have been lifted.
We're actually now seeing a bit of recovery.
We hope that will continue through the fourth quarter.
So yes there's the economy and you read about manufacturing.
I think what's maybe hurting us a little bit earlier in the year potentially is now helping us.
But one bright spot we saw our beverage sales pick up in the third quarter which was a little bit of a reversal of a trend.
And so I think that is a helpful and a hopeful sign.
The other thing we have a fairly large exposure to e-commerce and indication so far is that it looks like it has potential for a really big season in the fourth quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
And one for Mark.
Mark your EBITDA is down about 4% to 5% year to date and I fully appreciate that emerging markets have been worse than many folks expected.
Do you have reason to think next year will be notably different than this year in terms of the year-over-year changes in EBITDA? And if so can you give any sense as to why? Thanks very much.
Thanks Adam.
I think we obviously intended to improve our EBITDA this year for the reasons you mentioned.
We've had some improvements but we've given it back because of some of the headwinds.
We're evaluating our outlook for next year but we feel good about the level of performance that we have as a company and we believe we can sustain that level of performance.
The global economy is going to really provide an opportunity to improve or stay the same and we're still evaluating that right now.
But we feel good about the level that we're at.
And our goal is obviously to continue to grow the earnings of the company.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks a lot Mark.
Thanks Adam.
Our next question is from Phil Ng with Jefferies.
Good morning guys.
Can you provide some color on the weakness you called out in North America consumer? Is the pricing slippage pretty much isolated to the plate stock business? And has the downtime you've taken during the quarter pretty much tightened up the market at this point? Pulp &amp; Consumer Packaging</span></strong> Hey Phil.
This is Mike Mike Amick.
What we've seen in the third quarter as Carol mentioned in her comments we do think that there is some sluggish demand out there.
Most of that is really wrapped around some destocking through the supply chain.
We've seen some – at our converters a fair amount of 3% to 4% kind of pulldown in stock that coupled with some already elevated inventories across the industry we think is explaining a lot of that.
Our volume we've had a couple of specific accounts around our backlogs as well as some measured decisions that we took as far back as a year-and-a-half ago to start focusing and pulling back on some of our export business.
And as Mark said we're going to continue in this business and all businesses to manage to our order book.
So fourth quarter in this business tends to be a little seasonally challenged as we know.
And I will say on our food service side in the cup stock business in the managing through that portion of our business is very strong.
We've seen some – having a great year with our shipments up about 6% year-to-date and we've got strong order books in that business.
We just completed the kit and footprint expansion.
Those new machines and cup converting machines are being deployed now and we're actually operating that new equipment.
So we're excited about that portion of our business.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And I guess switching gears back to Containerboard I mean there's been a lot of questions on the call about supply/demand more short-term nature but medium to longer-term I think Mark you've always kind of characterized the market as being balanced.
But based on some of the capacity that's coming on and one of your big competitors adding a fair amount of capacity in the fourth quarter at least what's your view on supply/demand going forward? And just wanted to get some thoughts on the export market you've seen some weakness there on pricing it does seem like a lot of your competitors are pulling back in that market.
Do you have a sense if prices are going to start stabilizing here or is there still some downside risk? Thanks.
Yeah.
Hi it's Tim.
Just on the capacity question I'm not going to comment on what competitors do with their capacity.
So we have up to this point with capacity additions been able to manage our way through the whole process with our customers and I think we're offering a different value proposition than a lot of the capacity that started up over the past two years.
We have good geographic coverage we have wide product mix and we have tremendous capability across our whole system that allows us to sell to customers providing quality service and product range.
On exports it's been a little bit softer here in late summer as we entered the third quarter not much.
And I think the surprising thing is with the strength of the dollar virgin Kraft linerboard exports the markets we sell to it's held up reasonably well for the year which says to us it's a little bit of a question mark but it says to us there's a need for the product that they're buying as opposed to just general economic conditions for all packaging in the region.
So there's a little bit of softness around price not much and hopefully it will stabilize through the fourth quarter.
But I think the markets have held up reasonably well this year.
Tim are mill nets pretty much at a point where a decision has to be made whether or not your high cost capacity makes sense to run and kind of support that export market? I'm just trying to get a better sense if there's – we're at a point where export prices stabilize this year? Thanks.
We still like our margins on exports.
Okay.
Thanks.
Phil another part of your question was around pricing and was that isolated to the plate stock.
It primarily is.
We're seeing some softness in the folding side but most of that is isolated to the plate stock business.
And your next question comes from George Staphos Bank of America.
Hi everyone.
Good morning.
Thanks for all the details and taking my questions.
Carol I wanted to come back to the Timber transaction.
I just want to make sure that I had a good sort of holistic on it.
So you're going to be making a payment of roughly $600 million.
Has that already occurred or will that be occurring in the fourth quarter? Where will we see it? I'm assuming we'll see it in the balance sheet in debt.
And for making that payment you defer the tax which is I think – you defer payment on the tax for $1.4 billion for as much as five years and perhaps as much as 15 years would that be fair? And what else have I left out or mischaracterized? So to take the first question yes.
The cash went into the structure last quarter.
So that's done.
And what you'll see on the balance sheet George is going to be simply – you'll actually see the cash go away from the cash line and then you'll see on the assets side you'll see the assets from the special purpose entity and then down in the liability side you'll see the other side of the equation the non-recourse financial liability of it.
So that's what you'll see on the balance sheet.
So you'll see $4.85 billion up in assets and then you'll see the $4.2 billion down in the liability line.
And the delta is the cash that we put into the deal essentially.
That's the simple way to think about it.
Okay.
And in turn you'll defer the taxes for at least another five years perhaps as much as 15 years.
Is that correct? Yes.
If you go back to the structure the structure was for 30 years total.
So we did the first 10 years.
And the way the original deal was structured it was 10 years with four five-year extensions which got you to the total of 30 years.
So this first one is for the first five years and then that gives us the option at the end of this five years for three more five years or another 15 years.
Okay.
Thank you.
That's clear.
As I mentioned earlier we appreciate the details particularly like slide nine and slide 15 on the capital allocation.
My other question a lot of them have already been asked as you look at supply/demand again in paperboard broadly and realizing that you're going to run your system as always to demand some of your competitors one of your larger ones in South America has talked about ramping up their own boxboard production.
And then in Europe one of your larger global peers if you will has talked about bringing on one of their large conversion projects a little bit earlier than expected.
None of this is really new news but has that changed at all your outlook in terms of being able to supply the market? Or are you seeing a bit more competition in these markets as a result? Thanks guys.
George that's a great question.
The paperboard market does have a global element to it depending on the type of product and we've been managing these shifts and changes in the different geographies and the type of product used.
You know we make SPS in the U.S.
but we make folding boxboard in Europe and we obviously take all of that into our thought process around how we're going to make – what we're going to make and where we're going to make it.
As Mike mentioned a portion of our value proposition is that we provide products really on the high end of the paperboard product spectrum to really really good converting customers.
And then on the cup side we are one of those really really good converters that provide the final product.
And so I wouldn't say that any of those announcements or changes or intentions that you mentioned create an immediate reaction into IP's plans but we consider them.
But our position in this market we feel pretty good about in terms of the customers we have the converting we do ourselves and the competitiveness that we have both on a cost and product side.
So we'll keep watching the market that we play in but that's kind of how we look at it.
Mark the Varkhaus project also then hasn't changed your outlook at this juncture? That was part of my oblique reference there before.
Again thanks.
Good luck in the quarter.
Thanks George.
Our next question is from Debbie Jones Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
I wanted to ask about Brazil.
Your guidance on slide 14 it's always interesting when you see Brazil listed as stable in Packaging kind of across the board.
And I just wanted to get your thoughts on one do you think there's opportunity for pricing to be a benefit just given that you've seen some announcements out there for the fourth quarter? And then two just operationally should we be looking for more improvement either in the fourth quarter into 2016? Because I think you've mentioned in the past that you'd like to take out some cost in that operation.
Debbie that's a good question.
The Brazil Packaging business Carol highlighted the Paper business and the business model in Paper is different.
We export about half of what we make so we have a different profit model.
The Box business is all about the Brazil economy and the negative 2.5% GDP is a negative 2.5% box demand and that is the challenge.
The demand is soft inflation is up and we've struggled to recover that with pricing.
We're starting to see some price movement but I think the first time you try to really get something in is the hardest in an inflation environment that has a demand decline.
So our view on that business right now is we're realigning our manufacturing assets and taking out the cost we talked about and we're repositioning ourselves for the best place we can participate commercially.
So there's been some customer turnover we were doing some things we probably weren't the best suited to do.
We're replacing some of that business with business we're more competitive on.
It's going to be a work-in-process.
Be great when we get Brazil back to a plus 2% or 3% versus a minus 2.5% because it'll definitely help with the business performance.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
And then if I could just ask a follow-up on pension expenses.
Are you able to comment at all just kind of looking at 2016 based on how your assets have performed and rates if we should see an incremental pension expense in 2016? Debbie we don't anticipate a required pension contribution in 2016.
Our next question comes from Dr.
Mark Wilde BMO Capital Management.
Good morning Mark.
Good morning Carol.
Good morning Mark.
I have a question and a follow-on.
And the question really is on the EBITDA targets that you've set out in the past at Investor Days both in terms of the level and in growth rate and do we need to rethink those? And if so how are you thinking about them? Well those targets we've talked a lot about.
The company's quite a bit different than it was when we set the target back in 2012.
So I think the intent is to maximize the EBITDA potential of the company that we have and obviously growing EBITDA is a part of creating value over the long term.
So that will stay in our targets and goals.
We aren't prepared to throw another target out there at this moment in time but rest assured part of what we talked about doing was creating value over time.
It had an EBITDA number it had a margin number and it had a return number.
We're hitting on some of those but we've obviously been short on the EBITDA line.
Okay.
And Mark if I could as just a follow-up your comments around China and what you were kind of hinting at in terms of potentially India about being a fiber exporter rather than being a manufacturer in the country over time exporting kind of pulp and container board has been one of the most volatile segments of the business.
So can you just kind of help us weigh that element of your strategy with the volatility that historically has come with it? I think the serving of markets that have a growth profile but may not have a raw material or natural resource advantage is never going to be the primary business of International Paper and it's probably not the primary business of most forest products companies.
But it is a very good way to use fully your assets turn those assets at the highest level and generate tremendous cash.
And the volatility is something I think you can manage when the base of your business as is the case of most forest products you make it and use it in the same region.
So this isn't a shift to being a global exporter of everything.
This is just saying we have the best chance to serve these markets with the lowest cost highest quality products and they need the products.
So there's a win for our company and there's a win for the local producers who may just want the resource to do the conversion themselves.
So that's kind of how we look at it.
Okay.
That's really helpful.
Thanks Mark.
Good luck in the fourth quarter.
Thank you Mark.
Our next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning.
Just circling back to North American Containerboard you have a slide that shows you closing the volume gap with the industry but it seems like the erosion in box prices or price mix that you saw in 3Q stepped up a bit from 2Q.
I was wondering if you could just give us some color on the competitive market conditions you're seeing in North American box markets And maybe reconcile the expectation for flat pricing in 4Q with what seems like maybe a tougher box price tougher box market if that's accurate? Hey Anthony.
It's Tim.
The box market is always competitive.
But having said that the price mix there was more mix in the numbers than there was price given – we have huge swings from month-to-month and quarter-to-quarter sometimes based on seasonality.
And so I think the market feels pretty stable to us.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just circling back to China and potentially serving China from Russia.
I'm guessing adding Kraft line or capacity at Ilim will be pretty attractive given where the ruble is.
But on the other hand obviously the risks of doing business in Russia seem pretty elevated right now.
Mark I was wondering if you could just contrast those two things in terms of future investments in Ilim especially on the Kraft liner side versus the geopolitical risks in Russia.
Anthony that's a great question.
On the first part we're not potentially supplying China from Ilim and it is a big part of what's happening today and has been happening very successfully.
And of course it's back to what I said earlier there's a raw material renewable natural resource advantage and a high quality low cost manufacturing operation that's located adjacent to a needing and growing market.
We do make some containerboard in Ilim today and it's obviously one of the best places in the world given the softwood profile to make Kraft liner and Ilim is a publicly traded company.
We have a 50% position in it they have a strategic plan they're working that.
Right now our focus at Ilim is to operate the first phase of what we've done with the market pulp operations at Bratsk and the improvements we've made in the Western Russian operations to serve the Russian market and we're doing quite well on that.
On the geopolitical things I was there last week our view on some of these things is a very long-term view and political issues come and go.
And we have very good partners we have a very good access to the people we need to in the government and we feel like our business is sustainable over the long term.
We are obviously mindful of the issues that are going on and we hope to work through those and hopefully the business environment transcends the political environment which it has in many cases in many parts of the world over time.
Our final question today comes from Steve Chercover from D.
A.
Davidson.
Good morning.
The pressure's on.
So the first question I've noticed over the last five years your distribution expenses as a percent of sales have gone from 5.2% in 2010 to 6.4% last year.
Is there anything you can do to stop this steady progression? Yeah.
I'm actually glad Steve you've pointed that out.
It's something we've been talking about.
It was a big reason for our supply chain investments we made both on the people side and on the technology side over the last several years.
I think we've mitigated what would have been a worse situation.
We also changed the way we think about the full supply chain including our inventory position in certain businesses.
But we've got to use what we call in our company ME – it's a set of tools that really are focused on lean manufacturing techniques that take waste and variability out and challenge what we're doing and how we deliver our product.
Because I remember when I started working in this industry it was a rounding error and today costs to get our products to market safely and reliably is at a level that it becomes a strategic issue to manage.
So we've got a lot of really good people on it.
We've invested in capability and so we are making a difference.
That 6% in many cases would have been completely out of control had we not intervened but it's something we work on every day.
Yeah.
Thanks.
$1.5 billion is not chump change.
Not at all.
A couple for Carol I suppose.
The share purchase activity in the quarter as I see it seemed to be pretty much limited to the program and not much more.
So I'm wondering whether the exit from the Sun joint venture precluded you from being more aggressive.
You know Steve as we said our share buyback program will continue to be opportunistic and it'll be a combination of how we're seeing the value as well as the cash available at a point in time.
So there's no less focus or importance on that.
As we go forward just continue to watch our actions on that.
Okay.
And final one.
Just what prompted the increase in the dividend payout ratio? Clearly we're happy.
Does it reflect maybe a little bit less of an ambitious acquisition strategy? Steve our dividend payout policy really is based on our confidence of sustainable cash flow generation and we do that with a trough test where we look at conditions that reasonably could go wrong and are we comfortable at 40% to 50% of our cash flow and does it stand the test of our internal trough testing.
We adjusted our trough conditions based on new information about our businesses and how they're running and what the competitive positions are.
So that led us to feel like we can grow from 30% to 40% to 40% to 50%.
It's really about that more than it is about what it says about other uses of cash or the other elements that Carol covered in our capital allocation.
We feel real good about the cash generation potential of our company and that we should return a significant portion of that through a dividend to our shareholders and we think we can do that at the 40% to 50% rate.
Terrific.
Okay.
Well happy holidays to everyone.
We'll speak to you in 2016.
All right.
Well thanks all for taking the time to join us this morning.
As always Michele and I will be available after the call for any additional questions you have our phone numbers are on slide 20 of the presentation.
And have a great day.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today's conference call.
All lines may disconnect at this time.
Thank you.
Good morning.
My name is Melinda and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the International Paper Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Vice President Investor Relations Jay Royalty.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Melinda and good morning everyone.
And thank you for joining International Paper's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Our key speakers this morning are Mark Sutton Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Carol Roberts Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call we will make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties which are outlined on slide two of our presentation.
We will also present certain non-U.S.
GAAP financial information.
A reconciliation of those figures to U.S.
GAAP financial measures are available on our website.
Our website also contains copies of the fourth quarter and 2015 earnings press release and today's presentation slides.
Lastly relative to the Ilim JV slide four provides context around the joint venture's financial information and statistical measures.
With that I'll turn the call over to Mark Sutton.
Thank you Jay and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining International Paper's fourth quarter and full year call.
I want to quickly go over the format we're going to use this morning.
I will review the full year 2015 results first.
And then I'll turn it over to Carol to discuss our fourth quarter results and the performances of our individual businesses then come back and cover the outlook before we open it for Q&amp;A.
So I'm going to begin on slide five.
International Paper finished a very solid year in 2015.
We achieved a return on invested capital of 11% well above our cost of capital.
And this makes it the sixth consecutive year that our actual returns are above our cost of capital.
Our free cash flow came in strong as well at $1.8 billion and our earnings per share of $3.65 was the highest EPS in 20 years.
That was largely driven by strong results in our North American Industrial Packaging business and record level of results from our Ilim joint venture in Russia.
Additionally we completed the sale of our 55% stake in the Sun JV in China at the beginning of the fourth quarter.
We received $25 million in cash in addition to eliminating approximately $400 million of consolidated debt from our balance sheet.
We also made another meaningful increase to our dividend by 10% in the fourth quarter and we enhanced our dividend policy moving the target payout range to 40% to 50% of free cash flow up from 30% to 40%.
We feel confident in this change because it's based on a pressure test we did and updated which provides a level of confidence to us that our businesses in different economic times have the ability to produce a very sustainable cash and hence a sustainable dividend.
And finally we continued our strong track record on share buyback as an additional means of returning cash to shareholders buying more than 500 million shares in 2015.
As of this call total purchases since the inception of the buyback program in September of 2013 amount to about $2.1 billion.
Moving to slide six and turning to the full year financial results I'd like to highlight a couple of items on this slide.
Year-over-year EPS when adjusted for the non-cash FX charge on Ilim's U.S.
dollar denominated debt was up 5.5%.
Revenue was down roughly 5% with the most significant factor being FX translation.
And overall EBITDA margins continue to be strong at 17.6%.
On slide seven you can see that 2015 continued the trend of strong sustainable free cash flow which has averaged $1.8 billion over the last several years.
As we look into 2016 and beyond we remain confident that IP has a portfolio that can continue to generate strong free cash flow results.
We believe free cash flow generation and ROIC above the cost of capital are two key drivers of shareholder value.
So we think we're on the right track.
With that I'll turn it over to Carol to discuss the specifics of the fourth quarter.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I'm on slide eight.
As Mark said earlier EPS of $3.65 per share is the highest level in 20 years and compares favorably to $3 per share in 2014.
Looking at the details price and mix declines across the North American businesses were essentially offset by favorable input cost.
Volume was generally flat across most businesses with the exception of reduced export volume from the North American containerboard business.
Operations largely performed in line with expectations with cost reduction initiatives offsetting the majority of inflation for the year.
Slightly higher taxes were more than offset by lower interest expense and a lower share count.
And the Ilim JV posted significantly higher results due to improved operations increased margins and a less negative FX impact on the JV's U.S.
dollar-denominated debt.
Turning to the fourth quarter.
Free cash flow was strong at $501 million.
Industrial Packaging delivered another solid quarter based on steady daily box demand.
Additional downtime was taken to balance our supply with our demand as the overall demand was impacted by three fewer shipping days as compared to the third quarter.
Domestic prices were generally stable across our North American businesses and volumes were seasonally higher along with increased prices in Brazil Russia and Europe primarily in our paper businesses.
And finally the Ilim JV turned in another strong quarter of results but was unfavorably impacted by a $0.05 non-cash FX charge on the JV's U.S.
dollar-denominated debt.
Moving to the quarter-over-quarter bridge.
As I mentioned prices were generally stable across the businesses.
Volume was unfavorably impacted by three less shipping days in the fourth quarter for the North American box business and we did have reduced export volume.
This was partially offset by stronger volume in Europe and Brazil.
Operations were negatively impacted by weather and flooding on the East Coast and were further impacted by higher operating costs in the quarter including costs associated with the increased levels of maintenance and downtime taken to balance our supply with our demand.
Quarterly earnings benefited from the favorable input costs and a lower non-cash FX charge at the Ilim JV.
Turning to the businesses and beginning with Industrial Packaging on slide 11.
Volume as I said was impacted by three fewer shipping days in our U.S.
box business and we did have lower export shipments.
The daily shipment rate for boxes was up almost 4% over the third quarter and was flat year-over-year against a strong comp for IP.
Operational costs were higher significantly impacted by 322 000 tons of downtime 230 000 tons of which was taken to balance our supply with our demand and operating costs were also slightly higher in our Brazil and European Packaging businesses.
Turning to slide 12 I want to provide some color on the North American box business and what we're experiencing in our shipments and the key segments we serve.
As you can see we experienced a 2% increase in year-over-year shipments on a per day basis from the fourth quarter of 2013 to the fourth quarter of 2014.
And then in the fourth quarter of this year or last year we essentially held that increased level of demand.
I would say the market has even been a bit stronger than what we have experienced.
From a key segment standpoint we continue to be encouraged by some of the trends we're seeing.
We continue to see substantial growth in the e-commerce and distribution segment in which we are a strong player.
Another important trend is in the agricultural segment which is benefiting from shifting consumer trends to more healthy foods.
And new product offerings in the beverage segment are also driving some pockets of new growth.
Overall we see a healthy box market that will continue to benefit from evolving consumer trends.
Moving to Consumer Packaging the business experienced a less favorable mix and lower volume due to three less shipping days.
The fourth quarter was a higher operating cost quarter and the North American business experienced some transition cost associated with the shutdown of the Coated Paperboard machine at Riegelwood related to preparations for the conversion project.
Outage expenses were higher as expected and input costs were favorable.
Finally earnings improved due to the sale of our share of the Sun JV.
Turning to slide 14 in the paper business IP experienced price increases in Brazil Europe and Russia as well as the seasonally favorable mix improvement in Brazil that was partially offset by pulp price pressure in the quarter.
Volume was higher primarily due to seasonal strength in Brazil and Europe.
Operations were negatively impacted in North America due to extreme weather and flooding on the East Coast some effects which will linger into the first quarter.
Operating costs were seasonally higher as well.
The negative FX swing here is simply the non-repeat of the favorable Brazilian FX impact that we experienced in the third quarter.
Turning to slide 15 I want to provide an update on the Riegelwood Mill conversion project.
As we announced last year we are converting the mill to 100% pulp with the capability to run an additional 400 000 tons of softwood and/or fluff pulp.
This will bring our total North American system to a capacity of 1.7 million tons of which 1.5 million tons can produce fluff pulp.
The project is well underway having shut down the first Coated Paperboard machine PM18 which is the one that's actually being converted and we did that in December.
And we've shut down the second machine PM15 in January.
We will bring the converted machine back online in May which means half the mill will be down for roughly half the year.
Once online we expect to fully ramp up on softwood pulp and qualify PM18 on fluff pulp by the end of the year.
This will ensure we have adequate capacity for our key fluff customers as their demand grows.
For the balance of the year we expect to run and sell mostly market softwood pulp.
We will incur costs associated with the conversion and the ramp up.
In total we expect the conversion impact in 2016 to impact earnings by roughly $75 million to $80 million with about $50 million impacting our first quarter earnings and that's when the bulk of the conversion work will be done and much of the mill will be down actually also for the annual outage.
And then there'll be some ramp up costs beyond that that will spread into the second and third quarters.
Now turning to Ilim.
The JV concluded a strong year of operational and financial results as the focus shifted to optimizing and leveraging the completed investments and their very advantaged export positions.
The JV achieved record operational EBITDA results of $724 million in 2015 and IP's corresponding equity earnings were $131 million.
During the quarter the JV refinanced a portion of their U.S.
dollar debt to rubles.
Relative to the first quarter outlook the JV expects to continue its strong operational and cost performance against higher inflation lower pulp prices and the expected weaker seasonality.
Before I turn to the outlook for the first quarter I want to just give a quick update on IP's balance sheet.
As of December 31 2015 our balance sheet debt declined slightly to $9.3 billion.
The pension gap declined by $300 million.
In 2015 we made a $750 million voluntary contribution to the pension in the second quarter.
Additionally we had a bond issue and tender offer which further reduced our debt towers in 2018 and 2021 at lower interest rates.
And I'd also remind you that we increased our divided as Mark said 10% to $1.76 and bought back a little more than $500 million of stock in 2015.
And currently we're maintaining a cash balance of about $1 billion.
So moving to the first quarter outlook on slide 18.
Earnings associated with volume will be lower for the following reasons.
Number one channel mix in our North American Industrial Packaging business will impact earnings by $25 million as box volume will be seasonally weaker and export volume will be stronger.
Secondly our North American Consumer Packaging business will be impacted by roughly $5 million due to the exit of the Bristols of the Carolina volume.
And third seasonally lower volume in Brazil will impact earnings by roughly $25 million.
Pricing is expected to be lower for the North American pulp and paper businesses.
These are expected to impact earnings by roughly $20 million.
Price for our North American Industrial Packaging will be impacted by continued lower export pricing along with the recent PPW index change.
All in this is expected to impact earnings by $20 million.
Prices are expected to improve in both European Russia and Brazil papers as recent price increase announcements are implemented.
These will be somewhat offset by inflationary cost pressures in those regions.
Operations are expected to be generally at the same level as the fourth quarter.
Operational costs are expected to improve modestly in North American Industrial Packaging.
Maintenance outage expense will increase collectively by $56 million as shown on the slide inclusive of the higher outage costs associated with the Riegelwood conversion as I mentioned earlier.
And as always we provide an outlook for Ilim assuming stable FX coming out of the quarter.
So the first quarter outlook assumes a non-repeat of the $0.05 charge we incurred in the fourth quarter.
So with that let me turn it back over to Mark.
Thanks Carol.
Before I would turn to 2016 I just like to reiterate that I feel really good about our results in 2015.
I'm on slide 19 right now.
The year didn't play out the way we envisioned coming into it but given how things unfolded across the globe I think we played our hand pretty well and had a number of significant accomplishments in 2015.
I'm really proud of the way our team stepped up and dealt with the environment that we were really dealing with not the one we thought we were going to be dealing with.
Turning now to 2016.
Sitting here today it's real difficult to predict where things might go from a global macro standpoint.
We feel good about how we're positioned to deal with whatever the market brings and the agility that we have in IP to adjust as needed.
As you can see from the chart CapEx for 2016 is $1.3 billion.
This will ensure we get the most important things done and it reinforces our commitment to remain highly focused on maximizing free cash flow.
As we highlighted earlier on this call IP has delivered consistently strong results and return on invested capital and free cash flow for the last several years.
And I have every confidence we'll do so again in 2015.
Turning to slide 20.
Beyond keeping our employee safe and being a good steward to the environment and being good citizens in the communities in which we operate we have a robust list of focus items for 2016.
At the top of that list and for very good reason is continuing to improve our North American Industrial Packaging system.
We have a great foundation to build upon but we certainly have many opportunities to optimize further across all aspects of the business.
The Riegelwood conversion has begun with the objective of having the mill up and running in May and fully ramped up by the fourth quarter.
Our teams are keenly focused on making this happen safely and on time and getting the new machine qualified in quick order to supply fluff pulp.
Additionally we are executing our plan to grow our cup business at our recently expanded Canton Ohio cup facility.
This will enable us to take care of our key customers' growing needs in this important segment as consumers drive the shift – continue to drive the shift from foam to fiber-based packaging.
Another focus item for us in 2016 is to optimize our North American paper portfolio by aligning with the most attractive customers and the opportunities to deliver a strong value proposition to those customers.
We're also working toward the sale of our Asia box business as we announced last October.
And the Ilim JV had a strong year in 2015 and we expect another strong performance in 2016.
And finally we remain focused on maximizing free cash flow generation and deploying that capital in a way that creates additional value for our shareholders.
All of this positions International Paper to have another successful year in 2016.
And as I wrap up in closing before we go to Q&amp;A I go back to the investment thesis for International Paper.
We built a portfolio with strong competitive positions in key markets where IP has a right to win.
I like our portfolio and we'll continue to look for opportunities to improve the company as we move forward.
Our strategy is enabling us to achieve and increase the spread of our return on invested capital above our cost of capital.
And we've been doing this for the last six years.
In addition to that we've proven that we can generate strong sustainable free cash flow year in and year out and we've been doing that for several years now.
We remain highly focused on a capital allocation strategy that's based on some very simple principles of creating value rewarding our shareholders and making International Paper better.
And with that I'd like to turn it back over to the operator and open the floor for questions.
Your first question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
I first wanted to understand on the downtime or – sorry the maintenance outage expense it was a good bit higher in 2016 now than what it had been in 2015.
Is that primarily the Riegelwood or are there other things going on? Kind of connected to that I just wanted to clarify because it didn't seem like the Consumer Packaging had a lot higher maintenance expense.
It seemed like it was Printing Papers and Industrial Packaging.
And maybe if you could just clarify all that that'd be helpful.
Mark this is Carol.
I'm going to start and then I'm going to turn it over to Tim.
So you've got two things happening.
One is Riegelwood is now going to be classified in the paper business because it's North American paper and pulp.
So that's why you don't see the impact in consumer.
And so the increase you see on the paper side in the appendix is around Riegelwood.
And then I'm going to let Tim comment on the Industrial Packaging piece.
Industrial Packaging</span></strong> Thanks Carol.
Good morning Mark.
Most of it is just additional – it's the nature of the projects that we have in the mills.
From year-to-year we get variation and depending on what comes up in the cycle for maintenance in one year can be different from the next.
And so in five of our larger mills we have more expensive items to deal with in 2016 than we did in 2015.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And then – and if I could real quickly could you update us on how business in Industrial Packaging has been looking through January? And also maybe a little bit more color on the e-commerce side of things.
What percentage of your Industrial Packaging is e-commerce now and what type of growth have you been seeing? Industrial Packaging</span></strong> Yeah.
While the growth is good it's a relatively small segment in terms of the total business.
But it's a rapidly growing segment.
So we had a strong fourth quarter especially in December around e-commerce that continued into the first part of January.
As you know if you've ordered something online you get a box when you receive it.
And then if you have to return it you use another box to send it back and swap it out.
So it carried over a little bit into January.
Our January was I'd say more or less the way we expected it.
We did have a little bit of impact from weather with the snowstorms that moved through.
And if you remember January last year was a bit of an anomalous month with January 2 the way it fell right before a weekend and was it a workday wasn't it a workday.
So it's a pretty strong comp with some confused workdays for January.
But as we look through all of that January was expected and first quarter looks to be more or less as we expect.
We're expecting that we'll be flat on an absolute basis in the first quarter.
But we do model our – the market demand growth what we're anticipating.
And things could change but the model right now says that it could be as much as 1% in the first quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
First question is on the pension situation.
I know you all made a big payment last year and you made some headway at least as of year end with the net pension balance.
But how should we think about whether the contributions may or may not be let's say in the next three years? If you could give us some view on that.
Sure Chip.
This is Carol.
So yeah the pension gap was reduced by $300 million.
We did make the contribution.
Of course we had other moving parts which is the rate change was helpful.
There was some actuarial changes on some demographic data that was unhelpful.
And as we all know asset performance the way we're invested wasn't a particularly stellar year last year.
So all in we saw the benefit of $300 million.
As it relates to required contribution we have no required contribution for 2016 or 2017.
And then when you get out to 2018 it's going to be all around our asset performance over the next two years and then where interest rate goes and if there's any more policy changing.
So that would be how to think about it.
And so at this point there's no plans to make any kind of voluntary payments this year or next year? At this point I wouldn't speculate on that.
Things could always change depending upon what may happen.
But at this point I would say that we don't anticipate any contribution.
And then as we look at CapEx I might be mistaken but I think you just kind of come down twice.
I know that you announced the containerboard system initiative back in July and we kind of added that and then I think in October I believe you sort of gave us a view of about $1.4 billion now it's down to $1.3 billion.
And my question is what should we expect it to be in sort of on an ongoing basis 2017 2018? Is – in other words with the containerboard initiative I would think unless there's something similar to back that up a bit beyond that you could even see it maybe slip further in the future? Chip good morning.
This is Mark.
I think you said it correctly.
When we announced these containerboard projects we didn't say we were raising capital.
I think the assumption in the marketplace that we were.
So I don't view it coming down twice.
We said $1.4 billion was probably the preliminary scope we had in the fourth quarter.
We refined that in looking at the actual year and the projects and our capital allocation policy.
And so we come in at $1.3 billion.
And I think we've said before with the asset base that we have and the culture we have in our company to operate safe environmentally sound and reliable operations we tend to have a base load in that $1 billion range.
And then above that it's to hopefully improve the company be it cost reduction strategic investments for example like our cup project at Kenton.
And that's got some flexibility in it over time again against the backdrop of our capital allocation principles.
Okay.
And then last question you certainly gave a nice boost to the dividend late last year how do you view I guess buybacks versus other possible uses beyond the dividend of course in light of where the stock price might be especially given the decline we've seen in the last six months? Yeah that's a good question Chip.
I think we use the word balanced use of cash and then finding the right ways to return cash to investors.
We like what we've done with the dividend and that 40% to 50% target area.
We plan on maintaining.
And the share buybacks will continue to be opportunistic.
And hopefully we do a really good job of buying as much as we can at the right value below the intrinsic value of the company.
And we'll continue to do that.
We've still got $900 million left on the authorization.
So we've got more that we can do and we plan on doing it.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Phil Ng with Jefferies.
Last year in the fourth quarter you provided some outlook for the full year can you kind of provide some guidance whether it's free cash flow or EBITDA for 2016 or just wider trends? That'd be helpful.
So this is Carol.
Again what I would say is as we all know we're living in a very uncertain outlook for the world.
And so it's very difficult to pin it down on any one metric.
But I think what you can see is the things that we feel very confident about is our underlying businesses their strength the ability to sustain the cash flow and that's why we raised the dividend.
So I feel very good about cash flow.
We'll make adjustments as we go and we have not in the past provided guidance and we're not intending to do that in the future.
Okay.
I guess can you – switching gears a little bit can you talk about market conditions in bleached board? A competitor of yours mentioned there has been more imports coming in primarily on the commodity side of the business.
Can you talk about what you're seeing on that side and what's your overlap on the commodity side of the business? North American Papers Pulp &amp; Consumer Packaging</span></strong> Hey Phil.
This is Mike Amick.
As we look at the board business clearly Q4 is a seasonally slower time and we certainly saw that.
But what we're seeing as we move into this year is backlogs and orders are responding as we expect to see.
We're starting to see some of that pick up a little bit which is typical for this time of the year.
We have a good solid business and good customers and really targeted segments around food service.
On the import side we are seeing some imports coming in.
Our experience has been primarily if you look across North America that's in Latin America where we see that in some of the commodity segments.
Okay.
And just one last one from me I know seasonally the containerboard business is weakest in November and February.
Can you just kind of talk about broader market conditions especially accounting for some of the capacity closures and downtime that industry has taken.
I know there's certain limitations you can comment on pricing but any color would be helpful because obviously investors are a little nervous that with the PPW cut it's not one-and-done.
Any color would be great.
Thanks.
Industrial Packaging</span></strong> Yeah.
Hi it's Tim.
Well I can't comment on the industry; I'll comment on what we're doing and what we see.
We're a big player in the export markets.
Export markets have been volatile as we went through the second half of last year.
But it's really been a volatility around price and margin not a volatility around demand.
There are some pockets where demand is a little bit weaker mainly Turkey which we're a very large supplier to that market and some of the Mid East conflict has spilled over.
But on balance demand has held up fairly well.
And we continue to see that in the first quarter.
January was right as we expected and February looks to be pretty solid from an advanced (31:41) standpoint.
In the box business as I said a minute ago we're expecting roughly a flat absolute tonnage first quarter versus last year.
And our model our demand model that we use says that the market could grow upwards of a percent in the first quarter.
We've got some segment mix issues that we've been working through.
We've been trailing market.
We did up for all of 2015.
So we'll probably underperform in the first quarter to what we think the market's going to grow.
But overall it's about like what we expected.
Okay.
That's helpful just because comps are pretty tough in the first quarter if I remember correctly last year.
Thanks.
Industrial Packaging</span></strong> Yeah they are.
It's the toughest quarter of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
One Tim perhaps for you just on the sequential decline of box prices in North America in the fourth quarter what drove that exactly and is it fair to assume that that had nothing to do with anything that Pulp &amp; Paper Week did in recent months? Industrial Packaging</span></strong> Yeah that's correct.
It did not.
And a big portion of that was mix.
So what you see flowing through the EBIT impact is about $1 or maybe slightly more than $1 in price that came through as we went through contract negotiations with customers during the course of the year.
The rest of it was mix which means it hits price but it doesn't necessarily hit margin.
So boxes sell for different prices.
As your customer mix and your segment mix changes it can move price but it doesn't change margin.
So that's what it was just a little bit of contract renegotiations that were flowing through.
Inc.</span></strong> And is that a seasonal issue Tim or not necessarily? And should we see that every fourth quarter? Industrial Packaging</span></strong> Not necessarily.
I mean we can in any given year or given the size of the business we can renegotiate anywhere from 1 million tons to 2 million tons of business with large customers just because of how the contract periods fall.
So it just depends on what's happening in the quarter and what gets agreed to and finalized in the quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
And Carol one for you just on taxes.
Can you talk about what your cash taxes were in 2015 versus your book taxes? I mean obviously there has been a substantial gap between the two over the past several years and I'm just wondering what it was in 2015 or what your expectations are in 2016 and beyond for that matter? Yes.
There was a gap between book and actual again in 2015 and you'll see that when the K will come out very shortly.
And that was driven of course by the voluntary contribution to the pension which creates a nice tax deduction.
Over time as we've told everybody we do anticipate that our cash taxes will go up and start to approach the statutory rate.
But there's still some time before that actually comes totally to fruition.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Dr.
Mark Wilde with BMO Capital Markets.
Tim I wondered if you could just talk about that 230 000 tons of containerboard downtime in the fourth quarter.
How much of that is seasonal or transitional or does it maybe suggest that you need to think about your – rethink your footprint? Industrial Packaging</span></strong> No I don't think it's a question of footprint.
There's a number of factors Mark that played into it.
First of all we did have more of a shortfall in our export channel in the fourth quarter than we anticipated now.
As I said a moment ago it has bounced back in the first quarter so that was one element fewer days.
But the other thing that's going on we've got a much better in-stock position of our old stock in our box plants than we've traditionally had over the past two years or three years.
So that helped as well.
And then probably the last one we did see an improved efficiency in our supply chain network.
There were more railcars available.
There were more trucks available.
It could be that that's just a point in time and it doesn't continue as a trend.
But we were reacting to just the velocity at which inventory was flowing through the system as well.
So it's just you look at a macro number for what we do around downtime but that's not how we manage it.
We're managing thousands of SKUs 200 locations and trying to get the right product in the right place at the right time.
And so that all factors into the amount of downtime we take or don't take.
Okay.
And then if I could kind of follow on with you Tim on packaging.
The Brazilian businesses is significantly underperforming can you kind of help us understand the issues there and then what do you think the timeline looks like to getting that business at least close to the peers? Hey good morning Mark.
This is Mark Sutton.
I'll take the Brazil question and relieve Tim of that because...
Okay.
...we've got that as part of our Brazil team.
The challenges with the business is obviously Brazil's in a pretty significant recession.
The business we have it is pretty much all a domestic business.
It doesn't have a large export it doesn't have an export position which is the model that's more typical which is exporting kraftliner.
We use everything we make.
And so you got demand down pretty much tracking with negative GDP and what's been a challenge and we're making progress is the ability to get pricing to at a minimum offset inflation.
So we raised containerboard prices in the fourth quarter.
Those are implemented and we're in the process of raising box prices.
But being 100% dependent on the Brazilian economy which I think for the long-term is not a bad thing for the last couple of years and for this year and maybe the next year it's a bit of a challenge.
So we're just trying to stabilize our business make sure we have the right customers.
We've taken out a lot of cost but we obviously have to get some inflation recovery and that's what we're working on.
Okay.
And then finally I wondered if you could just talk a little bit about the impact of the duties in the North American white paper market and whether you – how you read the impact as we roll into 2016? North American Papers Pulp &amp; Consumer Packaging</span></strong> Hey Mark.
This is Mike Amick.
Good question.
As you know there was a ruling here a couple weeks ago with respect to kind of finalizing the duties and there was some movement there.
There's – ITC will basically have their hearing on the second week in February and then we'll kind of know the outcome relative to injury.
The best way to answer that right now is to kind of look at – what we kind of expect to see as a run rate and how this has impacted imports say versus 2014.
And we're somewhere in the range of say 300 000 tons to 400 000 tons of the imports that have kind of come out of the market with respect to the duties.
But we'll wait and see how the ITC rules in February.
And Mike is there any sense of sort of where inventory stands because there's been a lot of talk that there was a lot of inventory that got built in the country by some of the offshore producers? North American Papers Pulp &amp; Consumer Packaging</span></strong> Mark I mean the inventories that we see right now and what we track is a lot of the industry numbers that you see as well.
We see those as being kind of in the normal range.
We saw some slight pickup in the fourth quarter but nothing that we would characterize is being unusually abnormal.
Okay.
Great.
I'll turn it over.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Two questions.
IP and others have said that you need more inventory to deal with the logistics issues that we're having.
But as we look at overall inventories do you think that there's a chance that the industry maybe overshooting in aggregate? I'm just trying to recalibrate.
I look at 2.5 million tons which is a lot more than we've seen in the past and especially with all the supply chain work maybe that's a little high? Industrial Packaging</span></strong> Mark it's Tim.
I can only comment on what we do and how we run our system.
We did feel as we went through last year that we needed more because of some of the difficulties we were facing in terms of just car railcar and truck availability.
As I mentioned a minute ago that changed in December.
I don't know that that's a trend.
I don't think it is necessarily because nothing stands still people react.
But we had better velocity through the system in the fourth quarter.
It continued into the first part of January and we'll see how it plays out over balance of the year.
Okay.
And just one other question.
You've now taken several substantial asset write downs in the last couple of quarters.
I'm wondering if that's part of a concerted effort on your part to get these assets on the books at the right numbers or if you think that there are more of these coming? Mark this is Carol.
It's just part of the normal process of running the company properly.
We do goodwill impairment testing with our strategic plans every year in the fourth quarter as we did that testing.
Clearly we had the issue with Orsa so we wrote that goodwill off.
So that's just part of normal running of the company.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo Securities.
Good morning and congratulations on a strong cash year in 2015.
I wanted to kind of come back to and you gave some – Tim you gave some color around what you thought industry and yourselves might look like in 1Q and I kind of wanted to spend a minute and talk a little bit about all of 2016.
In particular we have an extra day this year a few other elements hopefully a little bit of the normal stuff population growth increasing e-commerce et cetera.
How do you feel about full year 2016? Could we see another point a-point-and-a-half two points of corrugated consumption box growth in full year 2016 part one.
And then part two IP has lagged a little bit the industry and could you maybe give us a little color on what you were talking about with some of the mix and issues and things there and could that begin to kind of revert back to averages? Industrial Packaging</span></strong> Well just on the last part we're making choices and we're in segments that we've been in for a long time.
We – those customers in those segment shift some year's segments perform better than other years and so it'll ebb and flow.
But we're trying to make commercial decisions choices that we think sustain margins and build value over time.
On your question on growth for the year yeah I do think that it could be in that point to point-and-a-half range.
That's what our model says.
Having said that box consumption's not totally disconnected from the economy.
So it'll depend on economic performance as we go through the year.
But right now what we see in terms of how the economy is performing there's no reason to believe that it would be less than that 1% to 1.5% that we saw last year.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then Mark a quick question on kind of the portfolio as you sit today.
Look I mean prices obviously equity markets have been hit pretty hard yourselves included.
But as you look at a cash-on-cash return and opportunity how you think about M&amp;A done a lot of work on the portfolio kind of getting out of some parts pieces globally that you've wanted to from where you sit today what's the temperature or the appetite to look at opportunity to add to the portfolio? Chris that's a great question.
I mean I think it's a constant process of looking at ways to create more value for our shareholders and to make the company better and a longer-term value creator.
So we got a lot of parts of our portfolio or as I described really excellent positions great fiber baskets super customer list wonderful operations assets and people but there's other areas where we're still working and we'll continue to do that to improve the company.
But our focus area is really creating value and growing the value of the company.
And if M&amp;A can play a role as we've said before then it'll be on the table.
But it'll be targeted in our areas of creating value advantage positions and serving growing solid end markets not just about growth rates of unit volume or anything but really going after where we can find profit pools that we can be a competitive right to win kind of company.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Hi.
This is actually John Dunigan sitting in for Scott.
Good morning.
Just one question or a couple questions on couple of segments.
Within corrugated packaging the global cost curve appears to be flattening out due to FX with lower cost produced in Brazil and in Russia.
How is this affecting the global trade flow and the ability for North American producers to export? Industrial Packaging</span></strong> Well again I can only speak to how we're looking at it.
Yeah they've gotten more cost competitive on currency.
And we do see them in all of the markets that we operate in and so they're there.
We're competing against them.
It may cost us some margin to do that but it's also not an unlimited amount of capacities that they have in the moment to penetrate the markets that we operate in.
Okay.
And then in the printing papers segment have there been any impact from the anti-dumping duties yet and any firming up in the demand or pricing post duties? North American Papers Pulp &amp; Consumer Packaging</span></strong> Hey John.
This is Mike Amick.
As discussed a little bit earlier there has been some pullback in imports that we've experienced say over the last 18 months or so.
We think that that's – we may see a little bit more of that but it's primarily probably pretty well leveled out and we'll see how that plays out in 2016.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then finally with OCC forecast that were down about 15% 20% in 2015 and some forecast showing increase into 2016 where do you think they could be for the year or do you have any further color on that? Industrial Packaging</span></strong> On OCC no I mean commodity market global markets a lot of puts and takes very hard to forecast.
John this is Mark.
In addition to Tim's comment one of the things that we've seen in OCC is they're just a practical issue with the cost curve is that when you get in the area where prices are now you get to a point where collecting the final marginal tons becomes uneconomic.
So what ends up happening is there's some kind of self regulating supply disruption that occurs.
And so – and there's not a lot of inventory in this system normally so that's why it kind of springs around.
But we think people are collecting more which long-term is a good thing.
But we do think that there's still a practical issue of what it costs to collect that highest cost marginal ton which is probably curbside and the kind of things that municipalities are doing and then people just stopped doing it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi everyone.
Good morning.
Thanks for all the details and congratulations on the year.
I guess first question I had Mark I want to piggyback a little bit on one of the earlier questions.
So you've been in the seat now for a while and you've had the opportunity to review the portfolio and the strategy of the company.
Recognizing that things are going to be fluid going forward right it's not a static market have you in your view determined which businesses you'd like to be in which markets you want to continue to grow into or would you say you still have some further study to do in terms of the markets and your positioning there? I think we've pretty much determined where we want to take the company going forward.
And it's in the areas that we've been working on.
We want to grow our packaging business and we want to have businesses that – it's not so much the product focus but the competitive advantage.
Where we have advantaged assets and advantaged fiber basins making products for growing markets fiber-based products we win.
When we don't have that we struggle and so that's really the strategic focus of the company is improving the company.
We've got a really great company right now and it can be improved.
But that's – we know where we want to go and we know where we don't want to go.
And we'll continue to evolve.
And as we have something to talk about when we can we will.
Okay.
I appreciate that Mark.
Is it possible and maybe the answer is no but could you put a geographic tilt on what you just said? I mean do you see more opportunity in the Americas versus rest of the world or however you would frame it? I would say if you look at some of our actions over the last year both things we've done and then things we haven't done...
Right.
...I would say that our view of the Americas is strong.
We like our business again where we have advantaged positions in the value add to the renewable natural resource of wood fiber.
So the markets we serve – even China when we talked about exiting our businesses the market is still important.
That is what the Ilim joint venture is mostly about and we export 25% of what we make in the U.S.
is exported because it's globally competitive.
It's containerboard it's fluff pulp and it goes to those markets.
But we don't necessarily need to have manufacturing assets in every geography in the world.
Understood.
Two questions on rest of the world; Ilim had a real nice performance.
Is there a way you could comment to or maybe remind us on what you think the longer-term dividend opportunity is in Ilim so that you get maybe more cash flow and more attention paid for what's a very good asset relative to its carrying value on the books.
And then within Brazil recognizing there were differences in terms of your business versus maybe your peers is it possible to quantify maybe what your level of underperformance is relative to what your opportunity would be your opportunity set given your mix of business? George this is Carol.
On the Ilim dividend a real simple way to think about that is as the business performs better clearly there's cash generation.
And of course we're respectful of our joint venture partners and we have a board – very good governance of that company of which we're half the board.
So what that company does is generally the decision around that dividend is in the timeframe of the summer time where they look kind of backwards at the prior year and see the performance and the cash is there.
So as you could read into that you could expect as we evaluate the dividend for 2016 we'll be looking back at the performance of 2015 and it was very strong.
And on a real simple way is you could think about it as simply as our equity earnings could in theory match the dividend of the company.
And then that would be excluding the FX non-cash because that is non-cash.
Thanks for that Carol.
And on Orsa? Yeah George on Orsa with the earlier answer to the question I think that Mark asked on Brazil with the current economic environment it's – and being totally focused on the Brazilian market it's hard to guess on the time.
But we should be able to get that business under normal market conditions to reasonably good margins.
We will probably always have some gap if an export position of Kraftliner improves the business at any given moment in time because that's not what we do there.
We got that business to begin to develop a packaging presence in Brazil which we think long-term is a good idea.
We did it in a way that's 100% committed to the local market.
And it is different than others do it.
It's – so it's always going to have a different business model for the foreseeable future.
We need a better economy and we need to be able to get some inflation recovery which we're working very very hard on.
Okay.
Appreciate the thoughts.
I will turn it over.
Have a good quarter.
Thank you George.
Your next question comes from the line of Debbie Jones with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
I know you guys have touched on the paper business a number of times on volumes but in 2016 obviously some dynamics impacting the year – sorry 2015.
But what is your thought process on volumes going forward? Are we kind of – is the decline in paper not 3% to 5% on a go-forward basis or do you think you've hit a tipping point here where maybe it's a little bit less? Could you just comment on that? North American Papers Pulp &amp; Consumer Packaging</span></strong> Hey Debbie.
This is Mike Amick.
Just commenting on the demand environment that we have.
The data that you see out there for 2015 the overall uncoated free sheet market and paper market was down in the 1% range.
And – but if you look at it over the course of the last couple of years it's basically been down around 3% to 3.5% which is kind of what it's been tracking at and what we see happening kind of going forward.
In our business in particular we had a very strong year last year going with some very good clients and very good customers in the right segments.
We expect to do well in 2016 as well.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then if I could just ask one more about box shipments.
Tim is the implication that yeah you might be a little below the industry in Q1 but as you work on your mix of business that we could see a shift in that as the quarters progress or is that something that it may be more of a 2017 event? North American Papers Pulp &amp; Consumer Packaging</span></strong> We'll see how it plays Debbi.
I mean our view on our own business is that we'll be flat in the first quarter.
We have a view that the market will grow but we'll see how the economy plays out.
We have exposure to certain segments protein being one of them that underperformed last year given the some of the difficulties that they were – the protein customers were facing.
And that's still yet to start really recovering.
So we'll see how that plays out over 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just one last one on exports.
Just given your commentary on pricing volatility and you made a reference to weakness in Turkey should we expect your export shipments to continue to decline from the current levels that you're currently sending out? Industrial Packaging</span></strong> We don't see that in the first quarter.
We actually expect exports to rebound.
January looks like it's coming in about where we expected it February looks solid pricing could drift down.
We think it's not a huge drift but I don't know if markets are beginning to stabilize just yet.
But from a volume standpoint first quarter looks better than fourth.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Danny Moran with Macquarie.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
On – in our heat map you showed some improvement from North American packaging operations sequentially but it doesn't sound like this is going to be up too much.
Just wanted to get your thoughts you took a significant amount of economic downtime in 4Q so I would think as you lap this into 1Q there'll be a pretty nice sequential improvement.
Any – can you give any color here? Industrial Packaging</span></strong> I think it's – Danny it's Tim.
I think it's somewhat a different quarter.
We've got more outages.
Seasonally it's different.
So I think it's going to depend.
It's always a difficult quarter for us to gauge on operations.
Last two years we were impacted by weather.
So far we've kind of gotten the pass on weather.
So I think the best thing is just to let us tell you about how it went when we get to the end of the first quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thanks.
And then can you just provide any thoughts on inflation this year? I know you hit on OCC but we've seen cost deflation help out quite a bit should we expect this to continue through the year or do you think fixed cost inflation could be more than an offset this year? This is Carol.
I would say on the input side our overall view of input is fairly muted this year wouldn't call it stable I just call it muted because we got some things that are very low levels like energy.
And then we've got wood costs that have more to do with some other nature and that seem a little stubbornly high and I think Tim already mentioned OCC.
On the other side general inflation our goal is as I mentioned on our bridge on 2015 our goal is to offset all the other inflations that we see each year with our initiatives in manufacturing.
And that inflation number is probably in the range of a $200 million to $225 million and that's on people and services and what not.
And our goal on that as it is every year for International Paper is to offset that with just running better and improvement which we've been doing.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
That's helpful and all for me.
Good luck in the year.
Your final question comes from the line of Paul Quinn with RBC Capital Markets.
Hey.
Thanks very much for taking my questions solid Q4.
Just you signaled pulp pressure and I just wanted to get some comments with respect to Ilim in your North American business.
And then just on North America just Riegelwood conversion I understand that qualification for fluff by the end of the year but how do you expect the absorption of that extra 400 000 tons into the market i.e.
when will it be done? North American Papers Pulp &amp; Consumer Packaging</span></strong> Hey Paul this is Mike Amick.
In terms of the pulp as Carol mentioned in her opening slide we expect to be up and running in the May timeframe and kind of fully ramped up in terms of the production of that machine in the last latter part of this year.
In terms of the pressure that that we're seeing out there overall last year as we look at strategically where we're focused and where we're growing we had a good year in our fluff growth delivering at about 4% 4.5% on our growth so felt really good about that which is hence the need for the incremental capacity and the growth that we got planned for this year and going forward.
On Ilim? Yeah.
I'll take the Ilim question Mike.
Thank you.
Paul on Ilim we've seen some trail off in pricing as we finished the year.
We still see that spilling a little bit into the first quarter.
But it seems like the softwood pulp things are beginning to stabilize and so that's kind of how our view is right now.
Ilim is interesting because even with pricing pressures we also have an (1:00:42) ever improving cost position.
So our margins and the financial aspects of the business are still very strong.
Great.
Thanks very much.
We have reached our allotted time for questions today.
I would now like to turn the call back to Jay Royalty for final thoughts and closing remarks.
Yeah I'll let Mark make a couple of comments before I wrap it up.
Thanks Jay.
And I just wanted to kind of wrap up.
We had a very robust discussion about 2015 and also about our first quarter.
I think we're well positioned to execute well.
We've been outlining (1:01:17) some issues we got to manage through the first quarter.
And I think what we talked about in the full year we feel very good about.
International Paper is well positioned to generate very strong cash flow and generate very strong returns for full year 2016 and we look forward to tracking that along the way as we report out the quarter.
So we really are excited about the opportunities in front of us for this year.
Well thanks Mark and thanks everyone for taking the time to join us this morning.
As always Michele and I will be available after the call and our numbers are on slide 22 of the presentation.
Have a great day.
This does conclude today's presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines and have a great day.