Good morning and welcome to the Interpublic Group First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Mr.
Jerry Leshne Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
We have posted our earnings release and our slide presentation on our website interpublic.com and will refer to both in the course of this call.
This morning we are joined by Michael Roth and Frank Mergenthaler.
We will begin with prepared remarks to be followed by Q&amp;A.
We plan to conclude before market open at 9:30 a.m.
Eastern.
During this call we will refer to forward-looking statements about our company which are subject to uncertainties in the cautionary statement included in our earnings release and the slide presentation and further detailed in our 10-Q and other filings with the SEC.
At this point it is my pleasure to turn things over to Michael Roth.
Thank you Jerry and thank you all for joining us this morning.
We're pleased to report another quarter of strong revenue growth and operating profit improvement.
First quarter revenue was up 10.3% driven by an organic increase of 9.3%.
As has been the case in recent quarters a very broad cross section of our agencies contributed to this outstanding result.
Our organic revenue performance speaks to the competitiveness of our offerings particularly in the key growth areas that we outlined during our recent Investor Day presentations.
That is to say leading-edge digital capabilities strong emerging market presence and the capacity to deliver highly integrated and accountable marketing solutions.
During the quarter we saw a growth in all regions of the world led by double-digit gains in Asia Pac and Lat Am and by high single-digit increases in the U.S.
and U.K.
We've previously indicated that we had not incorporated expectations of a significant recovery in Continental Europe into our plans for 2011.
However we did have some growth in that region during Q1.
Turning to client sectors.
We also saw a consistently positive performance.
Tech and telecom financial services health and personal care auto and transportation and food and beverage all posted double-digit growth in the quarter.
Retail and packaged goods were relatively flat.
At the agency level all of our global networks grew organically with leadership in the quarter by Draftfcb Mediabrands and Lowe.
At CMG our marketing service specialist grew 7.8% organically led by Weber Shandwick and Golin FutureBrand and Jack Morton.
Our digital offerings were once again outstanding contributors to growth.
We had very strong performance at McCanns MRM unit R/GA and HUGE as well as the strong digital capabilities within our media agencies PR firms and U.S.-integrated independent agencies that you all saw on display at Investor Day.
Our agencies continue to make good strides in developing their digital offerings and attracting top digital talent.
As we said in our last conference call our expectations as we entered the year were for some sequential moderation from the very high growth rate in last year's fourth quarter.
We were very pleased with Q1 top line momentum as well as the tone of our business.
Our Q1 seasonal operating loss was $45 million compared to a loss of $59 million a year ago a 24% improvement.
It's important to note that this was primarily a result of leverage on base payroll and occupancy expenses.
Frank will have details in that in just a moment.
Earnings per share was a seasonal loss of $0.10 compared with a loss of $0.15 a year ago.
As you are aware the first quarter is our smallest quarter of the year by revenue while expenses are more consistent across the year so we typically have a loss in Q1.
While this is expected it's encouraging to see further improvement in our performance compared to 2010 which was also a year of strong improvement.
Before turning it over to Frank there are a few macro issues that many of you have raised and which I would like to touch on briefly.
First the situation in Japan.
Above all our thoughts continue to be with all those affected by the devastating earthquake and tsunami.
We've been spending a lot of time supporting our colleagues in Japan on both a personal and professional level and will continue to do so.
That's what matters most.
Of course we're now being asked what the impact of this tragedy might be on our business going forward.
To provide some context Japan represents 1.5% to 2% of our consolidated revenues.
Understandably we anticipate that we will see revenue decreases in the market for the balance of the year.
As to possible supply and inventory disruptions for example in the auto and tech sectors these will be difficult to forecast but we have not seen any material budget adjustments to-date.
And should they occur we believe they would be more a matter of timing rather than permanent reductions.
Another macro issue that is causing concern has to do with the political and social developments in many parts of the Middle East and North Africa.
Once again we are in touch regularly with agency leadership and our focus is on ensuring that our co-workers in that part of the world are safe and that we are doing everything possible to help them.
Of course the situation does raise questions about the impact the upheaval is having economically and on consumer activity.
To put this into perspective the region is approximately 3% of our total revenue base.
No single country is greater than 1%.
While Q1 revenue growth overall was solid in the region revenue is negatively expected in Egypt in light of these events.
But while this is not yet a large region for us conditions are understandably pressuring revenue for some time.
Finally a topic that's also been of significant interest is the potential of commodity price inflation to impact client budgets particularly in the food and packaged goods sector.
We have not seen marketing budgets rolled back as a result of input [ph] and oil cost inflation.
Cost inflation has always been a part of client conversations throughout economic recovery and will continue to do so.
Those are the areas of concerns we are hearing and we are actively focused on managing through them.
As you'll see in our results today the strength of our business and our model is driving results and creating value.
We have a well-diversified revenue base in terms of geographic regions and professional offerings.
Our agencies are performing across the board and we believe there is great opportunity for our industry to benefit from an increasingly fragmented media landscape.
We also continue to demonstrate expense discipline so as to stay on the path we have defined to significantly increase levels of profitability.
At this point let me hand things over to Frank for an in-depth look of our financial performance and I'll come back with some closing remarks.
Good morning.
As a reminder I will be referring to the slide presentation that accompanies our webcast.
On Slide 2 you'll see an overview of the quarter which tracks the points that Michael just made.
Q1 revenue growth was strong in both the U.S.
and international markets and across the entire agency portfolio.
Our operating loss in the seasonally small first quarter improved from a year ago to $45 million from $59 million.
We realized approximately 100 basis points of operating leverage on combined base payroll and temporary labor expense.
We also reduced occupancy expense by 80 basis points of revenue driving improved leverage on O&amp;G expense.
Going the other way severance expense was elevated in the quarter compared to a year ago 160 basis points of revenue this year compared with 80 basis points.
We view this as an investment and continue to drive efficiency as well as identify and act upon opportunities to add talent as well as reduce our expense base.
We ended the quarter in a strong liquidity position that include $1.85 billion of cash in marketable securities on the balance sheet.
This compares with $1.94 billion a year ago.
The comparison includes having used approximately $480 million during the 12 months to pay down both debt and convertible preferred stock and another $40 million in our new dividend and share repurchase programs.
Turning to Slide 3 you see our P&amp;L for the quarter.
I'll cover revenue and operating expenses in detail on slides to follow.
It's worth mentioning that other income and expense of negative $6 million reflects mainly a noncash loss on the disposition of a small agency in the quarter.
Turning to operations on Slide 4 beginning with revenue.
Revenue in the quarter is $1.47 billion an increase of 10.3%.
Compared to Q1 2010 exchange rates added 1% and there was almost no impact from net acquisitions and dispositions.
Our organic revenue change was an increase of 9.3% a terrific result.
Our strength was broad-based by region client sector and agency.
On the bottom half of this slide you can see the revenue performance of our operating segments.
At our Integrated Agency Networks organic growth was 9.7%.
Growth was driven by both U.S.
and international markets and we were pleased to see contributions by all of our global agencies.
At our CMG segment revenue increased 7.8% on an organic basis reflecting increases in both the U.S.
and international markets.
We were led by PR branding and event marketing.
Moving on to Slide 5 which provides a look at revenue by region.
In the U.S.
the organic increase was 8.8% and was driven by broad participation across client sectors and disciplines.
Leading client sectors were tech and telecom health personal care and financial services.
Auto was also a solid contributor.
We were led by Draftfcb Mediabrands and Lowe and Partners.
International organic growth was 10.2%.
In the U.K.
revenue increased 9.2% organically with a number of our agencies showing strong double-digit growth.
In Continental Europe the organic increase was 3.9%.
While we continue to see mixed results by country we are pleased with another quarter of sequential improvement.
In Asia Pac organic growth was 18.1% with India and China leading strong increases throughout the region.
Organic growth in Lat Am was again outstanding at 13.6% reflecting both the strength of the economy and our offerings in Brazil notably McCann Draftfcb and Lowe.
Our other markets grew 11.6% organically reflecting strong performance in South Africa Canada and the Middle East.
On Slide 6 we chart the longer view of organic revenue change on a trailing 12-month basis.
The most recent data point at 9.7% now includes Q1 '11 and the roll-off of Q1 last year 4 quarters of strong organic growth.
On Slide 7 we took a closer look at operating expenses.
Again Q1 is historically our smallest revenue quarter.
Our operating loss was $45 million compared with $59 million a year ago improvement of $14 million.
Salaries and related expenses were 73.2% of revenue both this year and last.
Total SRS was $1.08 billion compared with $979 million an increase of 10.3% or 9.3% organically.
Underneath that result there were a number of moving pieces that reflect improved operating leverage but also increased investment in certain areas of our business.
Base pay benefits and tax was 60.5% of revenue compared with 61.9% a year ago an improvement of 140 basis points.
Headcount growth reflects disciplined investment to find areas of growth in the portfolio such as Mediabrands R/GA HUGE and Public Relations and regionally in Brazil India and China.
Across all of our agencies we are adding digital talent.
Headcount at quarter-end was 41 800 an increase of 4% from a year ago and 1% over the first 3 months of the year.
Severance expense was 1.6% of revenue compared with 80 basis points of revenue a year ago.
Our Q1 headcount actions were focused in the U.S.
and Europe and are designed to add new talent as well as drive improved efficiency going forward.
Incentive expense in the quarter was 4.4% of revenue compared with 4% a year ago.
The increase was due to a few factors namely the strong increase in our share price during the first quarter which has an impact on our equity-based programs; and an extra month of expense this year due to the earlier grant date for the 2011 long-term incentive program.
For the full year we expect incentive expense to remain in the historical range of 3.5% to 4% of revenue.
Temporary labor expense was 4.1% compared with 3.6% a year ago.
All other salaries and related expense was 2.6% of revenue compared with 2.9% last year.
Turning to ops and general expenses on the lower half of the slide.
O&amp;G increased 5.4% compared to a revenue increase of 10.3%.
O&amp;G expense was $439 million or 29.8% of revenue compared with 31.2% a year ago.
The comparison includes 80 basis points of improved leverage and occupancy expense due to both revenue growth and rent expense that remained fairly flat.
On Slide 8 we show our adjusted operating margin history at a trailing 12 month basis which was 8.5% as of the end of Q1.
As we have said previously our objective this year is 9.5% to 10%.
On Slide 9 we turn to cash flow for the quarter.
Cash used in operations was a seasonal use of $801 million compared with $556 million in Q1 2010.
Cash used in working capital is $736 million compared with $483 million a year ago.
As a reminder we typically use cash and working capital Q1 due to the seasonality of our business while typically generating cash and working capital in Q4.
In the fourth quarter of 2010 for example we generated $639 million from working capital.
Investing activities used $17 million.
Financing activities used $45 million including our initial dividend on common stock $29 million and our first month of share repurchase activity in March $11 million.
The net decrease in cash and marketable securities in the quarter was $835 million compared with $565 million in Q1 2010.
Turning to the current portion of our balance sheet on Slide 10.
We ended the quarter with $1.85 billion in cash and short-term marketable securities on the balance sheet compared with $1.95 billion a year ago a decrease of approximately $90 million.
On Slide 11 you see our debt maturity schedule as of March 31.
Total debt including our convertible notes is $1.7 billion a decrease of $200 million from a year ago.
The schedule shows $155 million due this year most of which is short-term debt used locally for working capital purposes that typically remains outstanding.
The smaller pieces are August 2011 maturity of which only $36 million remains.
Looking ahead to 2012 and '13.
It is also worth noting that the amount shown here are the first optional put and call dates of our convertible notes rather than the maturity dates which do not occur until 2023.
The parity price per conversion is $12.42 per share.
In summary on Slide 12 we are pleased with our revenue performance in the quarter.
Our continued progress with costs and profitability means we are managing expenses carefully even as we invest for growth and efficiency.
This will allow us to continue to deliver on the marketing expansion and increase profitability that we believe are achievable going forward.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Michael.
Thank you Frank.
Well as you can see our performance in Q1 once again demonstrates the strength of our agencies their people and their professional offerings.
We saw vitality across many client sectors.
We also continued to show that we're able to manage the business effectively and convert revenue gains into improved results.
Competitive organic revenue is the best indicator that we are building a terrific talent base and that our strategic decisions are paying off.
Key developments in this area during the quarter include continued progress at McCann.
The team there is off to a good start in 2011 particularly with their successful defense of the U.S.
Army account.
McCann's strong focus on delivering integrated marketing solutions is getting traction with existing multinational clients and the agency is active in the new business arena.
Draftfcb was also a major contributor to our success in the quarter.
The agency once again grew its revenue and delivered strong profitability.
Their integrated model which increasingly features digital and shopper marketing capabilities which are key in today's world of realtime marketing.
Mediabrands continued to deliver outstanding performance during the first quarter.
We're very pleased with the leadership of all major units within the group.
While the loss of our Microsoft engagement in North America was disappointing we've subsequently seen Mediabrands re-sign major clients such as Sony to a 3-year commitment and win significant new assignments such as Hasbro.
Lowe made solid contributions to Q1 results and we're pleased with Lowe's performance and strategic direction.
With their strength in key developing markets especially Brazil and India and with the progress they're making in developing a global activation capability as well as partnering with HUGE in international markets.
CMG turned in another strong performance across PR branding and events.
We continue to see a lot of new client activity across the marketing service portfolio.
There's also a great deal of digital talent being on-boarded at all of our marketing services firms and we believe this will lead to continue organic growth momentum at Weber Shandwick GolinHarris Jack Morton FutureBrand and Octagon.
Among the digital specialty agencies R/GA HUGE and McCann's MRM posted outstanding results.
Performance at the integrated U.S.
independence was also strong led by terrific brands such as the Martin Agency Hill Holliday and Mullen.
In closing we are pleased with strong Q1 performance and our long-term view of the opportunity for Interpublic remains unchanged.
We continue to operate in a global growth industry.
What is more in a world driven by digital convergence and accelerating technology the role of marketing will grow.
As many of you have heard me say complexity is good for us because clients need expert guidance and higher-value thinking more than ever before.
The key drivers of success and value going forward are going to be digital expertise strength in emerging markets and seamless delivery on increasingly accountable integrated solutions.
The strategic decisions we've taken and the investments we made in recent years position us well for this new reality.
We've also consistently shown that we have the ability to effectively manage the business and have put ourselves in the path to competitive operating performance from a margin perspective while also returning capital to our shareholders.
We're aware that we have more difficult comparisons ahead as we move through the year which will make it challenging to sustain the very high growth rates we've reported over the last 12 months.
Nonetheless based on discussions with key clients it's clear that market has continued to look to us to help them grow.
This gives us a greater confidence that we can deliver on our 2011 targets a 4% to 5% organic revenue growth and 9.5% to 10% operating margin for the full year and continue to deliver on our commitment to increase shareholder value.
With that I'd like to open it up to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
Thank you.
Can you give us a little bit of color of how McCann performed in the quarter? And secondly you mentioned that you haven't really seen any impact from rising commodity prices in terms of your concerns going forward or at least in the quarter yet the packaged goods sector didn't see quite the robust growth than some of your other verticals did.
Maybe you can talk a bit about maybe what's driving the relatively softer performance in the packaged goods category for you guys.
Well let me answer the packaged goods first.
As you know packaged goods -- the comparisons from year-to-year are different because packaged goods as you know even during a difficult period continue to perform reasonably well in terms of growth.
Also in particular in the packaged goods we had a timing issue in Latin America concerning revenue recognition and that contributed to the -- what seems to be a disappointing result.
It's a small amount Alexia but it did distort that number a bit and we should see that positive going forward.
McCann is really excited and engaged particularly with respect to the work that they're doing with their multinational clients.
Their results for the quarter as we said were positive.
They're on track in terms of the repositioning of themselves in the marketplace.
They've added a lot of new talent.
We're excited about what they're doing and the client's reaction to the new talent has been very solid.
So we're looking forward to seeing the continue in improvement at McCann from a revenue point of view from an expense point of view and more importantly from a new business opportunity.
I think the fact that we retained the army was a good example of how we're positioned and how even on the competitive environment that they're in they have the ability to bring in the integrated marketing capabilities with world-class talent.
As far as the commodity I think I answered it on the packaged goods side.
We haven't seen it yet.
Obviously the continued focus on our pricing is consistent that we've always seen.
It's difficult.
We have to show that the work that we're doing provides ROI which is why we've invested so much in analytics and the capability to show that we're moving the needle.
And we're encouraged by what we're seeing going forward.
And then Michael on the comments on Continental Europe where you saw some nice growth and they were probably unexpected.
Can you give us a bit of color on maybe your top markets there Germany France? How they performed and sort of what was working what wasn't? Yes France -- U.K.
France are performing well.
Germany we had a slight reduction if you will in the growth.
And that had to do with some client reassignments.
But as we indicated it's performing a little better than we thought they were going to do.
We're not raising any big flags on the overall recovery.
But it's encouraging to see positive results.
What's nice in the U.K.
is if you recall previously we saw some positive results in the U.K.
particularly from events.
This time we're seeing it across the board in terms of our offerings in the U.K.
So it wasn't just one specific transaction that gave rise to the improvement.
And just last question maybe for Frank any guidance to how we should we think of severance going forward for the rest of the year? Yes Alexia we usually point out 1% of revenue is a reasonable estimate.
Right now we ran a little ahead of that in the first quarter but 1% is probably still a good number.
But as you've seen in the last couple of years with us it's -- we'll be very aggressive on the severance fronts.
We think those actions are needed for long term sustainability of the business.
And our next question comes from John Janedis from UBS.
Can you -- just going back to the retail and packaged goods categories were there any account-specific losses in those verticals? And is there any anecdotal evidence that they could maybe be leading indicators of your broader client base in terms of spend? No we didn't have any big account losses in either of those verticals.
You all know Wal-Mart is obviously part of our retail sector and they have been doing some repositioning as you may know in the marketplace.
And that had some effect on that.
Okay.
And then just back to the U.K.
Michael.
There's obviously been a lot of mixed signals on the economy there in consumer confidence but clearly hasn't seen to have had an impact on your business what are you hearing in the market? And does the outlook you have there changed at all post the March quarter? Yes we're still cautious about it.
Obviously we were pleased with the positive results.
We've added some new talent particularly we have new leadership in McCann and the region.
We have the Delaney Lund acquisition with Lowe and Draftfcb had some new talent there as well.
So we've had a lot of new people and talent and we're seeing some traction there.
As I said -- with that said we're very cautious about it but it was encouraging to see the positive results in the first quarter.
Okay.
And just maybe just one quick one for Frank.
Frank is there any kind of target for the buyback at least for the second quarter? I mean should we look at that 11-or-so million and triple that to give you like a quarterly number or no? John we're into the program one month.
The way we work it is we have daily and weekly targets.
Those targets are tied to our cash flow projections.
Q1 is our weakest cash flow quarter so you can expect as cash flow generation increases we'll be more aggressive on our buyback.
I think the key to know about the share buyback is that we announced that we're authorized to implement a program we're committed to making that program work and return capital to our shareholders as we said.
And we'll do it in a thoughtful and effective way and that's the way we’ll move forward.
The fact that -- as Frank said we are only in it one month so that should not be an indication of anything other than we started.
And next is William Bird with Lazard.
Yes just 2 questions.
On organic growth it looks like you came in nearly 2 points above your peers.
I was just wondering if there's anything anomalous or temporary that might be driving growth higher.
And then second I was wondering if you can just talk a little about utilization? How's it trending? Can you relate to the 50 bps rise in temp helps of revenues? Thank you.
Well I think the organic increase is an indication as I said of our strong offerings and our performance of our agencies.
Our comp is a little bit different than some of our competitors but that doesn't take away from the fact that we had very strong organic performance and it's a result across the board as I said of our sectors as well as our agencies.
And with respect to utilization Bill I'll just comment on overall margin target.
The margin targets that we put out were predicated on our budget.
When we look at the first quarter our performance was at or better than budget across the board for the most part.
So we still feel pretty confident in our 2011 margin targets.
And just specifically on temp help.
I was wondering what drove that increase and if that's something you expect to be sustained? Well we look at base and temp together and the 2 combined had fairly dramatic improvement in operating leverage for the quarter.
So again it's an area that we're 4-plus to revenue in the quarter which is high.
It's an area that our operators need to continue to focus on so we think that [indiscernible] needs to be below 4% but a lot of it is tied to just increased business activity.
And can you just clarify what you're saying on incentives comp? You were clear in indicating it'll come down as a percent of revs was there some kind of timing issue something that pulled forward a little bit? It was -- the first quarter was pretty much in line with what we expected.
And there's 2 components of it.
One is for efficiency and cost reduction.
There's also a component for utilizing and being opportunistic in bringing in new talent.
But we still think a 1% of revenue is probably a reasonable number for the year.
Couldn't it be a bit higher?  It could but I don't think it's going to be -- I don't think it's going to be higher than that.
Yes on the incentive side we did have some timing issues in the first quarter because of our long-term incentive was pushed forward a month.
And obviously our share price appreciation affected that number as well.
So on the incentive side we're using 3.5% to 4% for the full-year basis even though the first quarter was like 4.4% or something like that.
And next is Dan Salmon from BMO Capital Markets.
I'm just going to move away from the quarter and something that brought up at the Analyst Day and just would like to get your thoughts on going forward and that's performance-based pricing which was talked about a great deal by Mediabrands.
And I'm interested to hear about how you view that model differentiating IPG in the market.
And also the potential of seeing it at some of the other agencies particularly McCann where obviously the new management team has a history at Mediabrands.
Yes and I read your comment in your note and you raised it there.
And thank you for that.
Look we still think that's the opportunity.
And we spoke a lot about it in Mediabrands because Mediabrands is that -- their business lends itself to performance-based compensation a lot easier.
And frankly our clients in that arena seem to be embracing it better.
All I'm saying is that we continue to push for it.
Obviously Mediabrands it’s an important part of how they view their strategic advantage if you will going forward in terms of willing to put the skin in the game and assume performance-based compensation will be better for us as we go forward.
But I think long-term I think performance-based compensation is going to be the way to go for our industry.
I think it puts us in a very solid position with respect to our clients.
And the key there is going to be making sure that we have the analytics that are satisfactory to both the client as well as us in terms of the measurements.
So we haven't seen all of a sudden since Investor Day a rash of performance-based compensation contracts.
But it continues to be an important focus on -- in our negotiations with our clients as we move forward because I think it's a very effective way for us to get to the margins that I think this industry should be operating in.
And from the sounds of it that's -- you mentioned that Mediabrands lends itself particularly well there.
But do you expect to see that becoming a bigger part of some of the other agencies as well? Yes we already have an incentive comp performance in our contracts.
And of course at Draftfcb behavioral-based marketing is in their DNA.
So their model lends itself to performance-based compensation as well.
So yes I don't think it's going to be unique to the media offerings.
I believe it's going to be throughout and obviously McCann has spent a fair amount of investment in the analytics as part of their integrated offering particular with the multinational clients that they're dealing with.
So I viewed that as an important component of our margin improvement going forward.
And our next question comes from James Dix with Wedbush.
I guess 3 questions.
First you had very strong international growth in the quarter well above what I was expecting on and I think what others were expecting on.
You touched Michael on a couple key geographic trouble spots I guess going forward.
If you can give any color on the other areas and whether we should be looking for any material changes in the strong growth outlook that you saw in 1Q in some of those other areas such as in the Asia Pacific or Latin America? And then I guess secondly I suppose maybe more for Frank do you see any differences in incremental margin either by geography or by discipline that we should be thinking about just as we think about your progression towards that 9.5% to 10% goal for the year? For example is international growth does that help you more towards your potential target or is that more of a red hen [ph]? And then I have just one follow up.
Sure on the -- obviously we're excited about what's happening in Latin America China and India.
We have very strong offerings across all our multinational clients there as well as local.
So particularly in Brazil we have a strong offering obviously the transaction that we did at McCann with W [ph] already is very effective and we're very pleased with the results of that.
Draftfcb and Lowe both had very strong offerings as well as Weber Shandwick and our other marketing services.
So Latin America performed extremely well.
Not quite the 40% growth that we saw last year but obviously the comp was a lot different.
But nonetheless it was strong double-digit and we expect to see continued growth in Latin America.
The same is true for India.
We think India is a very important component of our growth plans.
And there too we have a very strong media offering as well as our multinational clients and agencies that are present there Draftfcb McCann and Lowe.
And China we're seeing strong performance.
We view China as an opportunity for us as I said before we're a little bit behind our competition in terms of our presence in China but we've made -- we're making a strong effort to increase our presence in China and our expectation is to continue that increase and follow the strong performance that were seeing over there.
On the margin Frank? James there's nothing in the revenue mix in Q1 or our view for the back half of the year that changes our view that 30% conversion on incremental revenue is still a reasonable number.
Okay great.
And then just one follow up.
You talked a little bit about Mediabrands and their compensation structure.
Could you talk just a little bit about the growth you're seeing in media buying and planning generally? Some of your peers have talked about some pretty strong growth.
I presume you're seeing that at Mediabrands but if you could confirm that.
And then just what is your outlook for that -- that discipline going forward this year especially as the ad recovery continues? Well as we indicated Mediabrands both -- all the components Mediabrands initiatives as well as UM had a very strong first quarter.
Buying you have to split buying from planning.
Obviously buying is a more difficult market to enhance margins but it's part of the integrated offering in media and therefore planning is that much more important.
We're very pleased as you know we've repositioned our offerings in Mediabrands on regions where we could compete so that we can bring all the offerings in Mediabrands to bear with respect to our client offerings.
And that's having good traction in the marketplace.
We view our media offerings under the umbrella of Mediabrands as a critical component of our growth opportunity in our margin opportunity to actually go forward.
And next is Tim Nollen with Macquarie.
Thanks.
I have 3 things please.
First on revenues we've talked about this issue of comps a few times now already in this call.
And your peers have also similar to you said that they're quite optimistic on the pace of organic growth for the bulk of the year.
But your comp shift into Q2 is very dramatic versus Q1.
You were minus 3 in Q1 last year and you were plus 8.5 in Q2.
So just to apply the same type of growth rate from Q1 this year into Q2 it would mean you'd be down 1% in Q2 and yet you're talking a very positive story.
I just wonder if there's incremental spending from clients coming through that's going to fill in Q2 or what is it that makes you that optimistic that the numbers will stay high? And this isn't just you it's your peers all saying the same thing but it's a starker contrast for you from Q1 into Q2.
Second question is the working capital figure that you pointed to and I noticed quite a sharp downturn there in the Q1 number versus Q1 last year.
I know Q1 is always seasonally low on that.
But I just wonder what was driving the figure this year versus last year? And then lastly if you could please talk about net new business even if you won't give a number of what the trend is and what accounts we need to be aware of there in play.
Thanks.
Okay.
I'll take 2 of them and I'll give the working capital to Frank.
Q1 versus Q2.
Look we don't look at it -- I know you have to model and you have to expect on a quarterly basis.
We look at it as it's on a year basis.
And that's why when we say we're comfortable with the 4% to 5% organic growth for the year it takes into consideration the lumpiness if you will of how it’s spread on a quarterly basis.
So whether it comes through on the second quarter or the third quarter we think that number -- we're comfortable with that number and obviously starting where we are in the first quarter is encouraging for us going forward.
The tone of our business -- another way of answering your question is the tone of our business continues to be very solid.
So therefore going into the second quarter there's no reason for us to believe that there is any reason for us not to be able to deliver on what we're saying.
And how it falls out on a quarterly basis we'll see.
Okay? As far as net new business the one item -- we've had 3 items 3 companies in review that everyone was watching.
One was Microsoft.
We know the results for that in terms of retaining some of the business in losing the North American site.
The Army McCann retained the Army and the other one is S.C.
Johnson which as you know we're defending.
And we hope to see results probably either the second quarter or early part of third quarter.
So in terms of net new business we should see the impact of the Microsoft loss affecting us in the second half of the year.
And as far as the rest goes there are a couple of other pitches out there that we're in the finals on.
And we hope could be successful in those.
On the working capital Frank? With respect to working capital Tim the significant use in Q1 is attributable to the significant generation in Q4.
They're directly correlated.
When you take a look at Q1 cash used as a percentage of Q4 cash generated it's right in line with what we normally would have expected.
And our next question comes from Peter Stabler from Wells Fargo Security.
Michael you mentioned at the Investor Day complexity and confusion being a friend.
You brought it up again today.
I'm wondering if you could step back and just elaborate a little bit on that? I tend to agree in my conversations with agencies and clients that this is an ongoing trend.
Help us understand whether this is a positive trend.
Can we enter a period of greater secular growth even if it's marginally greater than we saw over the last let's say decade on a normalized basis? Is increasing complexity and confusion leading to an increase in activity and creation of assets by your agencies? Or is it just more of a market condition that you can't really quantify or address in terms of growth targets et cetera? Thanks very much.
I think it's a fair question and yes I've said it a few times.
No I think it adds to growth in terms of our opportunities.
Just look at what's happened with social media okay? You get an entire new market that opens up.
Clients that are hearing a lot about it at cocktail parties.
That's all they talk about.
The CEOs attend the cocktail party and they all come back and saying " What are we doing about social media?" And we -- what we have to do is be ahead of the curve in terms of investing in assets and having people who can answer those questions for our clients as part of the integrated offering that we're providing.
So we have whole new areas of expertise.
And what's great about in social media for example it crosses all of our disciplines.
So certainly our integrated offerings in terms of our networks have social media capabilities.
Our independent agencies have social media capabilities.
And our PR agencies are where you would logically think social media plays a very important role is a very important growth opportunity.
And in fact they're delivering on it in terms of their results.
So that's just one example.
The other part of it is our clients have to figure out where do they spend their marketing dollars.
And that's where our expertise comes into play.
We have to be able to look at a total solution for our clients in terms of where they spend their dollars where do they get the best bang for the buck.
And it's incumbent upon us to have the expertise to help them do that to analyze the effect of that.
And basically ultimately our compensation on the performance of that will be decided.
So I think it is a pretty exciting place for us to be as these new media opportunities and these new areas grow.
If we're ahead of the curve or participate in that every time we were asked to be in front of our client it's an opportunity for show -- telling them and showing them our expertise and how we can help them move the needle.
So it's incumbent upon us to be ready willing and able to help them and be ahead of the curve and for them to ask.
And because it's so confusing it's impossible for all of our clients to have that kind of expertise internally.
So I think it's a huge opportunity for our industry.
I've got a quick one for Frank.
Could you tell us year-over-year headcount changes in terms of gross bodies? And then could you remind me the event marketing pass-through costs where do the -- what line do [indiscernible] up in? The headcount change Peter it's 4% year-over-year 1% for the quarter.
So we had 1% over the last 3 months.
And on the pass-through costs go through the O&amp;G bucket.
And the year-on-year pass-through cost change is de minimis.
Where in O&amp;G? Other.
Other.
Okay.
And our next question comes from Matt Chesler with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning.
As I look at your historical results it's now been 4 quarters in which you've grown faster than the rest of your peers.
So admittedly though you're predicting that sustainability of the ad market strength is getting more complex.
But what do you think is preventing or holding back the ratings agencies for taking a more constructive view? We'd like to know the answer to that too by the way.
It's our view that we should be already there.
We've always answered this question.
We have meetings -- we've had meetings and we have meetings coming up.
And obviously they have -- Accenture already has us as investment grade the other two have us on now for positive.
They're waiting to seek as you point out consistency.
We already show fourth quarter.
I would suspect that they'll look to see how we perform for this year.
And I don't think they have to but they may.
And hopefully after they see a strong performance for the year we'll see action on their part.
But frankly I agree with you.
I think all of us agree with you.
We've had 4 good solid results.
We've shown our ability to manage our business.
Certainly from a competitive point of view our organic growth shows we're competitive.
We've shown the ability to leverage the revenue and convert.
And our balance sheet is as strong as it's ever been.
And so I don't see frankly any reason why they shouldn't.
And we'll continue to push them to see it the same way.
So you're saying it might be premature to expect that 4 quarters is enough or what -- the trajectory is enough right now? Matt probably at best case an upgrade the end of this year more likely.
Yes there could be an interim move between where we are now and investment grades because there still is one more notch.
But we'd expect if we deliver on our current targets that that early in next year would probably more reasonable time run.
I also suspect the rating -- the rating agencies in the past have had issues on timing things.
And with the uncertainty in the global environment right now they may use that as a reason to hold back as well.
So it's not up to us.
We can make the case.
We certainly strongly believe that we should be there and I think in time -- at the appropriate time they'll take the action.
But nonetheless I think the way to look at us as a rating perspective is where we think where we already are there and therefore our performance and frankly our pricing should reflect that.
They were all at the Investor Day.
The feedback was very positive.
In fact S&amp;P gave us CreditWatch positive coming out of that meeting.
So all things are pointing the right direction.
It’s to Michael's point it's probably just -- it's more a matter of timing and internal process.
So if we were to assume that it's just a matter of timing -- I've always viewed your cash balance.
Your balance sheet is including some -- I don't know if it's insurance cash or cash that you need to hold because you don't have access to the commercial paper markets the way that you would.
Let's just presume that you get the ratings upgrade and you can access the commercial paper balance what do you think that does to the amount of cash that you think you need to hold on the balance sheet? Well obviously that financial flexibility helps us do a whole bunch of things.
And obviously we're looking at all of that.
Again one question that will follow from that do we see any huge acquisitions out there that we would leverage up to do? And frankly we haven't seen any.
We're not missing any huge offerings if you will.
We continue to do -- I'll answer one of the questions I'm sure one of you have in terms of what we see in the acquisition environment.
And we put out the $150 million number as a stake in the ground and we continue to see some transactions.
We'll announce a couple of small specialty transactions coming up as we said we would.
But we'll be opportunistic on the acquisitions side in the digital and the emerging markets.
The rest is just financial modeling and financial opportunities for us.
And the more that you have in flexibility the more things we can do.
Commercial paper obviously would be helpful.
And that would enable us to free up some excess cash that's on the balance sheet.
I think we've shown that we are willing -- I think the announcement of the dividend and the share buyback is a good example of how we view our responsibility to our shareholders is if we have too much cash on our balance sheet is to return it in a thoughtful way.
So as our financial flexibility expands then we will continue to look at how the best way to enhance our shareholder value.
Your next is Craig Uber with Access 342.
A housekeeping question first.
On foreign exchange given that you guys are in about 100 countries around the world.
If rates stay where they're at right now for the rest of the year how would you expect foreign currency impact your numbers for the second quarter and also for the full year? For the full year relatively flat.
I'm not at position to give you that Q2 number right now Craig.
Okay and then also just can you elaborate further on one of your comments on Continental Europe in the year? Your organic growth there the last 2 quarters I guess is between 2% to 4%.
I mean given the various cross-currents small markets there versus large proximity to the Middle East et cetera slower economies do you think that's a decent expectation to 4% organic growth in Continental Europe for you guys in the next 3 quarters? At the beginning of the year I would have thought that would be on the high side to be honest with you.
I think given the results in the first quarter probably 2% is a number that would be if we deliver that 2% to 4% I think that would be a good year.
And I'm encouraged to see that but again that one is very hard to predict.
There are a lot of things that are going on there.
We're just encouraged by what we've seen in the first quarter.
And ask the question again in the second quarter I'll have a better answer for you.
Okay then also your auto category just generally speaking.
How did that perform revenue-wise organic growth year-over-year in the quarter? And what are those clients generally telling you about you the outlook for their auto market advertising spend for the rest of the year? Yes our auto category -- what's encouraging about our auto category is it continues to be very positive.
It's in the -- the growth is in double-digit numbers.
And it's a number of auto clients that are contributing.
As you know we had some new clients last year and that's contributing to our growth.
And we continue to see the spend there.
So we're encouraged by what we're seeing.
We haven't seen any big pullbacks as a result of supply issues with respect to production.
And we expect to see that to continue.
It's a very competitive environment out there.
And they have to spend marketing dollars to sell cars.
And our last question comes from Richard Tullo with Albert Fried.
LLC</strong> 10% revenue growth very solid absolute relative basis as you alluded to before.
During the quarter the several new account wins: Hasbro and Sony.
Would you say that the performance-based marketing contributed to those wins in some shape or form? And are these performance-based accounts? I won't comment on how we structure our compensation by client.
And I would say you don't get the compensation unless you get to the finals and you're pretty well there.
So I wouldn't say that compensation -- performance-based compensation is the reason for a win but it certainly helps in narrowing any gap there might be in terms of expectation on pricing.
But unless we have the offering from a professional point of view no matter what you're pricing is going to be you're not going to -- you're not going to win the business.
So our approach is put together the best team you can with the best offering you have get to the finals and then start talking about compensation.
And if you need to bridge the gap and if performance-based compensation does that we're there.
LLC</strong> Okay and in regards to Asia-Pacific and specifically Japan.
How is that market going? Are we having discussions about reduced spends? Or are they holding tight? What is the status at this point in time? Well as I indicated frankly we had a positive quarter in the first quarter in Japan.
But unfortunately because of the events there's no doubt that that's going to be pulled back for the rest of the year.
There are 2 components.
There's the local spending and then there's the multinational spending within Japan.
And we participate in both.
I think the one that will be most adversely affected would be the local spend.
And therefore we're not projecting any growth in Japan.
And as far as the multinational spend we're watching that carefully but we still see spend in those markets.
LLC</strong> And in regards to Facebook.
If you were to sell that stake at some point this year are you more inclined to return the proceeds to shareholders pay back buy back debt? Or make acquisitions or a little bit of all? We don't look at our programs on a discreet basis.
We'll look at our overall balance sheet.
We'll look at our available cash and we'll look at the best way to enhance shareholder value.
And if it means increasing the dividend or buyback or doing something else we will do it.
But you can be assured that we're looking at the best way to enhance shareholder value because that's what our responsibilities are.
LLC</strong> And just as a follow-up with Frank.
Is it safe to assume that $30 million to $40 million in a normal cash flow environment would be kind of a run rate on the buyback program? We announced Richard that the buyback program approved by our board was $300 million.
And we didn't put a timeline on when we would execute the complete program.
As I indicated in my comments earlier we set daily and weekly targets predicated on cash flow projections.
Q1 is normally our weakest cash flow quarter.
As cash flow generation increases as it seasonally normally does you can expect to see more aggressive with respect to that program.
Well thank you all for participating.
We're encouraged and excited about our results for the first quarter.
And as I said the tone of the business is positive and we look forward to our next call with you.
Thank you very much.
And thank you for your participation in today's call.
Please disconnect your lines at this time.
Good morning and welcome to The Interpublic Group Second Quarter and First Half of 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
I would like to introduce Jerry Leshne Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning.
Jerry Leshne.
Thank you for joining us.
We have posted our earnings release and our slide presentation on our website interpublic.com and we'll refer to both in the course of this call.
This morning we are joined by Michael Roth and Frank Mergenthaler.
We will begin with prepared remarks to be followed by Q&amp;A.
We plan to conclude before market open at 9:30 a.m.
Eastern.
During this call we will refer to forward-looking statements about our company which are subject to uncertainties in the cautionary statement included in our earnings release and the slide presentation and further detailed in our 10-Q and other filings with the SEC.
At this point it is my pleasure to turn things over to Michael Roth.
Thank you Jerry and thank you all for joining us this morning as we review our results for the second quarter and first half of 2011.
As always I'll provide an overview hand it off to Frank for an in-depth look at the results then I'll return with some commentary on the agencies before we turn the call over for Q&amp;A.
As you've seen in our report this morning Q2 organic revenue was 4.7%.
Our operating profit in the quarter was $174 million compared to $177 million a year ago and operating margin was 10% compared to 11% in Q2 '10.
Diluted earnings per share were $0.19 ahead of last year's $0.15 a share.
Because 2010 was a very strong growth year for us our comps are quite challenging and that accounts in part for the moderation in our overall growth rates.
The second quarter organic revenue result of 4.7% is on top of last year's industry-leading Q2 result of 8.5%.
Likewise in the U.S.
our second quarter organic growth was 4.2% on top of 13.6% growth in the second quarter of 2010.
Two events hurt our U.S.
organic revenue growth by 2.5% in the quarter.
The loss of an account in the auto sector last year as well as the winding down of the census work this year.
We're pleased to see international organic growth of 5.5%.
From a sector perspective growth was led by clients in the health and personal care and auto industries.
And while worldwide revenue grew in June the largest month in the quarter outside North America June revenue was not as strong as we had anticipated.
Turning to cost.
Our results reflect the fact they were comping against the first half of 2010 that saw strong revenue gains but low expense growth.
At the same time we continued to make investments in payroll during the quarter to support growth in areas of our business notably in the areas of digital strategic insights and creative capabilities.
We are confident that continued disciplined investment in the quality of our people and our offerings will support the resumption of strong margin growth in the second half of this year.
This long-standing commitment to investing in our talent has been a major driver in the success of our turnaround to date.
In fact we just completed our midyear operating reviews with all our major business units and the tone of the business is strong notwithstanding the June monthly result.
Given our first half organic revenue growth of 6.8% which is fully competitive with our peer group combined with what we're hearing from our clients and from our agency leadership we remain confident that we will achieve our organic growth target of 4% to 5% for the full year.
Clients remain focused on growth and are looking to us for help in maximizing the value they can drive with their brands.
The consumer and media landscape remains extremely complex and the importance of marketing will only continue to increase.
There's also beginning to be a pickup in new business activity notably in the media arena.
During the second quarter our cost and revenue fell out of step but we see this as an interim result and all of our operating units will be highly focused on margin enhancement during the back half of 2011.
This is why we are also continue to believe we will deliver at least 9.5% operating margin for this year.
Our goal of sustained margin expansion to fully competitive profitability within the next few years which we set out in detail at our Investor Day remains unchanged.
Before closing I want to update you on other key developments that have taken place since our last call which demonstrates confidence in the long-term prospects of our company.
During the second quarter we were pleased to receive upgrades from both Moody's and S&amp;P.
Moody's took us up 2 notches to investment grade where Fitch already had us.
S&amp;P upgraded IPG to 1 notch below investment grade.
These actions further validate the great progress we've made in terms of the financial strength and performance of our company.
In terms of share repurchase program the second quarter was the first full quarter under the authorization granted by our board in late February and we repurchased approximately 11 million common shares using approximately $130 million during the quarter.
That brings us to 12 million shares and $139 million since the inception of the program.
This activity underscores that we believe that IPG represents a long-term opportunity for significant value creation and are therefore moving to deploy our capital to increase returns for our shareholders.
At this point let me turn things over to Frank for an in-depth review of the quarter and the year-to-date.
Good morning.
As a reminder I will be referring to the slide presentation that accompanies our webcast.
On Slide 2 you'll see an overview of the quarter.
We'll track some of the points Michael just made.
4.7% organic growth in Q2 somewhat stronger than international markets as a whole than the U.S.
and 6.8% organic growth for the first half of the year.
Our operating income in the second quarter of 2011 was $174 million a 10% margin compared to operating income of $177 million in Q2 2010.
To re-emphasize what Michael said earlier we expect to deliver significant year-on-year margin improvement in the second half of the year.
Diluted EPS was $0.19 per share compared to $0.15 per diluted share last year.
We ended the quarter in a strong liquidity position that included $1.82 billion of cash in marketable securities in the balance sheet.
This compares with $1.94 billion a year ago.
The comparison reflects heavy use of approximately $200 million during the 12 months to pay down debt $140 million to repurchase our shares and $55 million on our common stock dividend in 2011.
During the quarter we increased our corporate credit facility to $1 billion with more favorable terms and lower cost than the previous credit facility which increases our financial flexibility.
Turning to Slide 3 you see our P&amp;L for the quarter.
I'll cover revenue and operating expenses in detail on the slides to follow.
It's worth noting that our Q2 effective tax rate was 30.5% primarily reflecting a benefit in the quarter related to the conclusion of prior period tax audits.
Turning to operations on Slide 4 beginning with revenue.
Revenue in the quarter was $1.74 billion an increase of 8%.
Compared to Q2 2010 exchange rates added 3.6% and it was a slight decrease from net acquisitions and dispositions.
Our organic revenue increase was 4.7%.
We had organic growth in almost every region of the world.
International markets were up 5.5% and the U.S.
was up 4.2% on an organic basis.
On a sector basis we had strong growth in Auto and Health and Personal care.
We have decreases in Packaged Goods and to a lesser extent Tech and Telecom due to some softness in the latter part of the quarter.
Our other sector also decreased due to a nonrecurring project in the public sector that Michael mentioned.
In the first half of 2011 organic growth was 6.8%.
On the bottom half of the slide you can see the revenue performance of our operating segments.
At our Integrated Agency Networks organic growth was 3.9% in Q2 with growth in both the U.S.
international markets.
With strong contributions from Mediabrands and Draftfcb partially offset elsewhere by the loss of an auto sector client last year and decreases in the Lat Am region.
At our CMG segment revenue increased 9.1% in organic basis in Q2 led by double-digit increases in several international markets.
We were led by PR notably Weber Shandwick as well as event marketing and branding.
Moving on to Slide 5 which provides a look at revenue by region.
In the U.S.
the organic increase of 4.2% in Q2 was driven by growth at all of our global networks and our marketing services specialists.
We have very strong results from our Media business.
We've already mentioned that our revenue growth was hurt by the loss of an auto brand last year and by a project that did not repeat this year.
Leading client sectors in the U.S.
were Health and Personal Care and Auto Packaged Goods and Tech and Telecom sectors decreased.
International organic growth was 5.5%.
In the U.K.
revenue increased 15.3% organically driven by a number of our agencies including a strong result in our events business.
The comparison also benefit from the timing of revenue in the quarter.
In continental Europe the organic increase was 2.3% in line with our expectations for the region.
We continue to see mixed results by country.
Among our largest markets revenue increased in France and Germany.
It was flat in Italy but down in Spain.
In Asia Pac organic growth was 5.8% led by double-digit increases in India followed by growth in China.
Japan was positive for the quarter due to the contributions of multinational clients.
We saw growth in Australia though it is low-single digit level.
In Lat Am the organic change was a decrease of 1.4% driven by decreases in Brazil across most client sectors.
It's worth noting that we grew 5.1% for the 6 months and expect to resume our growth in the back half of this year.
Our other markets grew 8.3% organically reflecting strong performance in South Africa and Canada.
On Slide 6 we chart the longer view of our organic revenue change on a trailing 12-month basis.
The most recent data point is 8.7% reflects Q2 2011 and a roll-off of Q2 last year.
On Slide 7 we take a closer look at operating expenses.
Salaries and related expenses were 62.9% of revenue this year compared to 61.5% of revenue in Q2 2010.
As Michael mentioned earlier some revenue shortfall late in the quarter combined with our continued investment to grow our digital and [indiscernible] capabilities meant that cost were ultimately out of step with revenue in Q2.
The combination of base payroll plus temporary labor increased 6.9% organically compared with 4.7% organic revenue growth.
We are managing aggressively to bring this relationship back into alignment including stepped up oversight by our agencies on staffing raises and temporary labor.
In the quarter total SRS was $1.1 billion compared with $191 million (sic) [$991 million] an increase of 10.6% or 6.9% organically.
Base pay benefits and tax was 52% of revenue compared with 51% a year ago reflecting investments we have made during the last 12 months to support our strong growth.
Headcount at quarter end was 42 100 an increase of 3.5% from a year ago and 0.7% sequentially from the end of the first quarter.
The increases are in growth areas such as media digital capabilities across our networks and in our digital specialist agencies and in public relations which has also increasingly digitally-driven.
Regionally we had increases in India China and Brazil.
Severance expense was 1.3% of Q2 revenue compared with 1.1% of revenue a year ago.
Our Q2 headcount actions was focused in the U.S.
and Europe and were related to talent and leadership upgrades as well as to driving improved efficiency going forward.
Incentive expense in the quarter was 3.5% of revenue compared with 3.4% a year ago.
For the full year we continue to expect incentive expense in our historical range of 3.5% to 4% of revenue.
Temporary labor expense was 3.8% compared with 3.4% a year ago which is something we will be aggressively addressing going forward.
All other salaries and related expenses were flat and decreased to 2.3% of revenues compared with 2.6% a year ago.
Turning to ops and general expenses on the lower half of this slide.
Energy expense was 27% of revenue compared with 27.5% a year ago a 50 basis point improvement.
O&amp;G was a $471 million an increase of 6.3% and 2.8% on an organic basis.
Occupancy expense as a percent of revenue decreased 10 basis points and professional fees as a percent of revenue remained unchanged.
T&amp;E office supplies and telecom increased slightly as a percent of revenue.
Other O&amp;G expenses decreased 60 basis points as a percent of revenue reflecting leverage on general cost and depreciation.
On a year-to-year basis O&amp;G expense was 28.3% of revenue through June 30 compared to 29.2% a year ago.
On Slide 8 as usual we show an adjusted operating margin history on a trailing 12-month basis which was 8.3% as of the end of Q2 a slight decrease from the end of Q1.
Margin expansion to fully competitive levels within the next few years continues to be our primary financial objective.
On Slide 9 we turn to cash flow for the quarter.
Cash from operations was $199 million compared with $354 million in Q2 with cash from working capital contributing $67 million compared with $167 million a year ago.
Investing activities used $68 million included here under acquisitions our acquisition of a digital agency in the U.K.
during the quarter.
CapEx is chiefly for IT and real estate improvements.
Financing activities used $175 million primarily the repurchase of 11 million shares of our common stock for $128 million and our quarterly common stock dividend of $28 million.
Acquisition-related payments of $44 million primarily refers to the increases in our investment and consolidated subsidiaries.
The net decrease in cash and marketable securities in the quarter was $31 million.
Turning to the current portion of our balance sheet on Slide 10.
We ended the quarter with $1.82 billion in cash and short-term marketable securities compared with $1.94 billion a year ago a decrease of approximately $120 million.
Including the activity in Q2 that I just reviewed over the past 12 months we have used a total of approximately $200 million to pay down debt.
We were pleased to receive upgrades from 2 credit agencies during the quarter.
We also increased our corporate credit facility to $1 billion from $650 million during the second quarter.
The amended facility also extends the maturity to May 2016 from July 2013 reduces our expenses and has less restricted financial covenants.
On Slide 11 you see our debt maturity schedule as of June 30.
As reflected here total debt including our convertible notes is $1.8 billion on June 30.
We have $189 million due this year most of which is short term debt used locally for working capital purposes that typically remains outstanding.
The smaller piece is the maturity of our August 2011 note of which only 36 remains and which we intend to pay from cash on hand.
Looking ahead to 2012 and 2013 the $400 million and $200 million amounts are the first optional put and call dates of our convertible notes rather than their 2023 maturity dates.
These notes have a $12.30 parity price with our underlying common stock.
In summary on Slide 12.
For both the quarter and the half year we continue to see revenue growth rate that supports our financial targets for the full year and will support our longer-term financial objectives.
We are budgeting significantly slower operating expense growth during the second half of the year.
With the 4% to 5% organic growth we are expecting for the full year our second half targets are approximately 200 basis points of leverage compared to last year's second half.
We should come roughly evenly from 100 basis points on our salaries and related expense and 100 basis points in our ops and general expense.
If you look at the change in our operating expenses last year it makes sense that expense growth should decrease fairly dramatically in the second half of the year.
Last year operating expenses decreased 1% organically in the first half and increased over 8% in the second half.
This primarily reflects the course of re-staffing following the recession.
As a result the expense comparison if you will was more challenging in the first half of this year but will ease in the second half.
Given our seasonality in which the fourth quarter is the largest of the year the fourth quarter has always figured very importantly in our margin growth for the past few years.
We expect to do it again in 2011.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Michael.
Thank you Frank.
In reviewing the quarter and the year-to-date there are number of themes that emerge.
The strength of our professional offerings remains evident in our 6.8% first half organic revenue growth that is near the top of our peer group even though we were facing the toughest comps in our sector and slower-than-expected growth in June.
Also for the first 6 months all geographic world regions posted organic revenue growth as did all of our major global networks.
The competitiveness of our offering can be seen across the board.
You have only to look at how effectively our media agencies go to market whether it's in the global pitches or against specialist agencies for digital assignments.
Mediabrands' new emerging lab in New York and their new global cluster organization will make them even more attractive to forward-thinking marketers.
The Draftfcb-integrated model has contributed to making it among the strongest topline contributors from our portfolio.
The agency has been successfully upgrading its top creative talent in a number of key markets and a global management team that's highly disciplined and proven when it comes to delivering results.
We're seeing CMG continue to take share from the competition particularly in the PR space where Weber Shandwick is a dominant player building exceptional social media expertise and with the recent agency redesign at GolinHarris is defining the PR agency model for the future.
Strong collaboration at Octagon Jack Morton and FutureBrand is also part of the CMG success story.
We're also seeing strong revenue growth in international expansion at R/GA HUGE and McCann's MRM.
Our U.S.
Independence continued to perform well led by the Martin Agency Hill Holliday and Mullen and Lowe keeps on delivering for its largest multi-national clients and winning new assignments from them.
At McCann we're pleased to see more senior-level executives joining the organization.
There continues to be an influx of people in the creative area in account leadership roles and among its market leaders.
This type of investment in reinvigorating the Worldgroup will allow us to leverage its unrivaled roster of multinational clients.
The key for us in the case of both McCann and of the organization as a whole will be to bring a high degree of focus for the remainder of this year to balancing investment and return.
Though our profitability at midyear is ahead of where we were at this time in 2010 we are seeing signs that cost are out of step with revenue.
We're aware of the focus that is required on margin enhancement.
And in recent years we have shown that we can successfully manage to margin targets.
And as we've indicated in the past this is a seasonal business and we managed to the full year.
And looking forward to the rest of the year we clearly have the right offerings and people to compete effectively in the marketplace.
We remain confident that we will achieve our 4% to 5% organic revenue growth objective for the year and at least 9.5% operating margin which is consistent with the long-term plan for the business that we shared at Investor Day.
This level of performance combined with targeted strategic M&amp;A activity and a return of capital to our owners will allow us to continue to deliver significant shareholder value appreciation.
I thank you and let's open the floor for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
Frank could you provide a bit more detail on the revenues in the quarter specifically how significant was the drop off in June? And really I guess what was behind it? Was it just some softness in the Package Goods category in June? Was it one client-specific one region-specific? Any detail you can give us in June will be helpful.
Yes Alexia as you know June is by far the largest month in the quarter.
And we were feeling pretty good through April May.
And we did see June fall off although there was growth.
Most of the falloff happened outside the U.S.
and some of the sectors you called out were the drivers.
Some especially in Latin America we saw some revenue move out of the quarter.
But in talking to the folks down there our expectation is that there's not a pullback in spend it's just a timing issue.
And some of the markets in Europe were relatively soft in the fourth quarter -- or in June.
Let me just comment on the tone because it's a relevant answer to your question overall.
And we do see this as interim particularly as Frank pointed out in Brazil we view that particularly in the package goods side which accounted for the softness in that area as a timing issue in Brazil as well as 1 or 2 clients that we were expecting some greater revenue had some pullback in terms of government controls and so on.
So we view this as a timing issue which will make up in the back half of the year.
But overall the tone of the business continues to be solid.
And frankly obviously there's an overhang if you will in terms of what's happening in Washington and in terms of the world economic platform.
But I've been meeting with a number of our clients and the leadership indicate that even in this uncertainty they still believe they have to invest behind their brands which is why we believe for the rest of the year we'll be able to deliver the results that we said we can.
So basically I mean it sounds like it's somewhat June-specific or somewhat maybe summer-specific and so we should see maybe a better revenue picture in the third quarter? Is that what you're suggesting? And then the second part of that question is since it seems like most of sort of the surprise weakness in June was outside the U.S.
did McCann come in sort of as expected? Was McCann I guess U.S.
McCann I'm talking to did they continue to see sort of healthy or more similar growth in Q2 as they saw in Q1 adjusting for comparison? Well as we indicated we've seen growth across all our global networks okay.
And again we can't answer questions on a quarterly basis.
All I can tell you is that we know from the pipeline that there's revenue in the second half of the year.
To be frank whether it comes in in the third quarter or fourth quarter I can't comment on it.
Obviously we saw a miss if you will in this quarter.
But we're confident for the full year that it will happen.
With respect to McCann we know there are a couple of wins in the pipeline that we can't announce yet that will add to the indication of the talent having an impact in the marketplace for McCann.
So we're pleased with the direction that they are heading in and we're confident that they will deliver according to what we think they should deliver for the full year.
I guess asking the question sort of in a different way than if we can't pinpoint the revenue recovery whether it's going to be Q3 Q4 and I can understand that because obviously you don't have it until  fall [ph] have you adjusted the cost structure to assume that maybe the revenues don't come back in Q3? No I think remember we manage our business to the margins Alexia.
And as we said given the level of 4% to 5% which we think is consistent with where we will end up we manage our margins and when you add it all up comes down to at least 9.5%.
And so therefore by definition the cost will come in line with the revenue.
And again remembering the second half of the year our comps in terms of expenses become easier than what we just went through.
And Frank just went through in detail how the build up of the expenses was a mismatch to our revenue.
But as we go through the year they will fall in line with our objective.
Okay.
Then just a last question should we assume the rate of buyback continues sort of pace you saw in the quarter? One of the questions in our last quarter was everyone is disappointed in the fact that we had 3 weeks of buyback and we haven't used it all up.
I think what you've seen is an indication that we believe in the shareholder value of returning cash to our shareholders and we view this as an opportunity.
So I think you can assume we will continue to be active in the marketplace.
Again consistent with an overall plan but I think you've seen how our plan has been implemented in the past quarter.
And I think you should expect that we will continue to keep shareholder value in mind as we move forward.
Our next question comes from David Bank with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> I guess a little clarity thanks for the detail and sort of the sequential progression in the quarter.
I think you guys called out the Tech and Telecom category I was wondering if there's any more specific color you can give around what drove the volatility? And then second you kind of highlighted 2 issues on the margin side.
One was the mismatch of I guess really a mismatch of revenue and expenses right? So if revenues have kind of come in maybe where you had expected them to in the first place I mean tough question to ask but like how different would margins have looked? Yes I mean it's a great question.
Let me put this whole thing in perspective for you okay.
If you just look at our operating income number which was $174 million if we had added $26 million of incremental revenue compared to $1.7 billion of total we would have come in at $200 million operating income number and all of these organic numbers and all our margin targets would've been met.
So in terms of order of magnitude compared to where we are granted it's not where we would like to have been because of the various items we're talking about we're talking about $26 million okay.
And that certainly within the range of an area over the next 2 quarters and the run rate that we certainly are comfortable that we'll make up.
So I think it's fair to look at and if you also look at the increase in our salary and expense line compared to last year for example we were up 3.5% but compared to the last quarter we were up less than 1%.
So it's not that all of a sudden our expenses are ramping up.
It has so much to do with the comparison that we have to last year okay.
So we are on track if you will to achieve the numbers that we're saying we are.
It just happens to be that they sell out of line in this quarter.
And third quarter is still we're running into some issues on tracking but we look at it on a full year basis.
On your question of Tech and Telecom it's a big sector for us.
It's over 20%.
So we have at least 5 or 6 pluses in Tech and Telecom and we have a few pullbacks in Tech and Telecom.
So that accounts for the fact that it was down and obviously the pluses we hope to continue for the rest of the year.
And for example we were cycling through a small client that was acquired through a merger and so we see those kind of things.
So it's not that we're falling out of bed here it just happens to be that in this particular quarter some of the pluses and minuses came out not as we had scheduled them to fall throughout the year the quarter if you would.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Chris Carasis [ph] with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> It's Peter Stabler at Wells Fargo Securities.
So just a question about the guidance of 4% to 5% for the year.
If you're to take a midpoint there it implies a second half growth in the 3% range.
Can you offer a little more color on the trajectory here? I mean we all know that comps and how steep they get but are you seeing that the tone of client conversations change 3% would obviously reflect a rather market deceleration from first half so that's the first question.
And then with the second question just a little bit of clarification you called out Auto and 2.5% minus contribution from Auto and another client.
Could you give us a sense of how that impacted IAN specifically? And can I assume that the majority of that auto is Chevrolet? We don't like to call out clients but you know our business pretty well.
Let me look at it that way.
And look again when we gave the guidance at 4% to 5% for the overall year in terms of the revenue then you're talking about a 3% to 4.5% organic for the second half of the year.
And if you model it out we get to at least a 9.5% margin that we're talking about and we believe that that's a reasonable assumption to make.
And Peter we expect our normal seasonality with the fourth quarter is by far the strongest quarter.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So at this point no indications I know Q4 is we get heavily weighted projects but nothing really abnormally different in terms of the cycling of those conversations and the timing of those conversations of clients right now.
We're in mid-July visibility should be improving on Q4 correct? Right.
We are cycling through some.
And what do we say about 1% of headwinds in terms of organic? For the 2 issues that you called out in the second quarter the census work and the Auto client that's about 2% of headwind for the back half of the year.
2%.
LLC</strong> And then very quickly that 2.5% of headwinds in the U.S.
can you translate that into headwinds to IAN in this quarter where the 3.9% or is that not math yet? The majority of it was IAN.
Yes.
Our next question comes from Matt Chesler with Deutsche Bank.
Maybe you can just further go into the nature of the misalignment between revenue and cost? Are you suggesting that it's always related to the revenue shortfall due to the items that you flagged or is it also due to costs as well? Just kind of wondering the nature of those alignments I'm sure the organization is maniacally focused on delivering their margin targets.
So how do you get out of line? When did you learn about it and what are your levers as management to be able to ensure that they get back in line as we're heading into the important part of the year for your margin build? I thought I went through that in terms of my other answer but I'll briefly do it again.
The 2.5% that we referred to is on the revenue side.
And remember what Frank said and what I just said is if you look at our expenses there was a large growth last year and a slower ramping up of the expenses last year.
And then in the back half of the year we started ramping up those expenses.
So our comps for the rest of the year on the expense level since we already spent and ramped up for this year will become easier.
So the combination of the revenue side and the fact that our expense levels had leveled off okay maybe that's another way of looking at it.
But for the rest of the year we don't expect to see that type of mismatch between revenue and expenses.
And Matt to repeat what Michael said earlier if you look at it sequentially what happened to our salary line from Q1 to Q2 the increase was de minimis.
And so it's not as if we hired a whole boatload of people in the second quarter that got us misaligned.
And with respect to kind of when did we know as we said earlier the first 2 months of the quarter from the revenue perspective was strong.
And June which is the biggest month in the quarter was weaker than we expected.
Let me add to it the fact that obviously June was a bit of a surprise to us okay.
And so as you can tell we've done a great deal of analysis into what happened here.
So we have an explanation for it.
We can explain it from a mathematical point of view.
But the real issue is from a tone point of view was it a dramatic falloff in our business.
And the answer to that is no.
I mean the tone of the business continues to be exactly as we stated.
And I think that's the what we have to keep in mind.
And you made the point that we're maniacal about watching the expenses.
The answer to that is yes we are.
And we make sure that as we go through the rest of the year that what we just said in terms of the alignment in the expenses and the revenue coming to alignment as they should and that's frankly what we're focused on.
Our next question comes from John Janedis with UBS.
I think the obsession on this call from a margin perspective is that you kept the full year revenue guidance tacked at lower the top end of the margin.
And I know looking a few years back you saw some margin pressure on digital investments.
So can you just talk longer term about your confidence level that you don't need further investment that may pressure the future margin opportunities that you referenced at the Analyst Day? Yes it's a fair point.
When we say 9.5% to 10% it's a range.
And that's how we look at it.
I wish this business was as predictable so that we can model help you with your models and tell you exactly how everything is going to flow in but it just doesn't work that way.
So we always have to deal with the range.
That's why we gave you 4% to 5% on the revenue side.
And when we say at least 9.5% at least means at least.
It could be more it could be at least 9.5%.
So it's a range John and we can't be specific in it.
The point is that we have modeled out.
We have new hires built into our modeling.
We have staff level expectations from our units.
And that all takes into consideration open positions which include the ramping up if you will on the digital side and everything.
But of course hopefully we'll have some new clients that we pick up which we have to hire again.
And it may cause us to ramp up a little bit on the expense side but that's a good thing.
What we're not going to do is ramp up expenses without matching revenue that it applies to.
And I think that's when you have to get concerned.
If we're increasing expenses without the expectation or the fact of revenue then we're not managing our business correctly.
And so if there is any additional hiring we have a very tight lid on the hiring there has to be a correlation on the revenue side for us to do those hires.
Okay.
And then look if we look back to past cycles often times when we talk of the business getting pushed out it tends to really to never fully come back.
And so is the confidence and timing coming because of that's come or booked in July or what is the confidence there? It's both.
We have some timing issues on contracts.
We have some -- basically we know that there are projects out there that have been pushed off from one part of the year to the second half of the year.
So it's a combination of that.
Our next question comes from Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley.
I wanted to not ask about margins so I'll ask Frank about your cash balance and has generally we should think about sort of new IPG now that you guys are ringing into a little bit in a better position and your free cash flow ramping nicely I know you've given long-term free cash flow guidance.
Cash moves around quarter-to-quarter a lot in your business but is there a way for us to look at the cash balance and sort of think about where that should normalize to now? Looking back at IPG over the last 3 years when you are carrying well above $2 billion typically.
I'm thinking about it in the context of return to capital obviously what the potential is there.
So if you could talk about how you're funding the business how you're thinking about that stuff that'll be helpful.
Ben we're pleased at the rating agency actions we saw this quarter.
So investment grade you have 2 to 3 agencies where we hope 1/3 to get there sooner rather then later which helps in financial flexibility.
We are pleased with the bank deal we did in the quarter which again added financial flexibility.
We've been relatively aggressive in our share buyback and right now we're going to execute against that plan.
We expect free cash flow to continue the seasonal patterns that it has.
So from a deployment of that cash nothing has changed other than the scenario continues to improve.
Okay.
Is there any relationship between the timing of free cash flow generation during the year and your buyback activity? No we have a regimented program.
And if we did we do look at how our seasonal cash flows work and that's built into the program that we've got in place currently.
Yes and put it in perspective we always said we had excess cash on our balance sheet.
And the question has been what do we do with that excess cash? The fact that we were upgraded to investment grade freed up and increased our facility to $1 billion.
That freed up our flexibility to return cash to our shareholders.
So it really wasn't specifically tied to any specific cash flow event.
We've consistently said we had excess cash on our balance sheet.
Okay.
And then just Michael a couple of things that you probably can't comment on but I'll ask anyway.
Any update on SC Johnson and anything any comment whatsoever on just [ph] Media and now that that business is a little bit smaller than it was before.
We've always commented that would be an interesting addition to us but the size of it and what it would add to us incrementally at this point is not exactly high on our radar in terms of use of our cash and our financial flexibility.
And as far as SC Johnson nothing new has changed since the last time we updated everyone.
Our next question comes from Michael Nathanson with Nomura.
Frank we heard ANACOM talk about foreign exchange impact to margins.
Can you talk a bit about if currency stays where it is -- or in this quarter how much has foreign exchange impacted the year-over-year margin? For this quarter Michael it was about 20 basis points negative.
And for the rest of the year you're assuming currencies stays where it is so is that part of your maybe the reason of bringing down the range from 9.5%...
It was not a large contributor to our thought process.
Second question will be we've heard or we've seen competitors buy into Brazil get big in Latin America I know we talked about this in the past but I wonder if weakness in Latin America were made in positioning makes you think about doing more acquisitions more digital acquisitions down there? So can you claim any of this maybe an offering change or weakness in offering versus peer? No absolutely not.
We've always targeted Brazil as an area where we're going to be adding -- the CUBOCC and Washington Olivetto transaction were indication were our investments in Brazil.
And we have a couple of bolt-ons that we're dealing with in Brazil.
So that hasn't changed.
We're continuing to expand in Brazil invest in Brazil in both people and agencies that we think are a good fit for us.
So the fact that there was a decline had to do as I indicated with some timing on the revenue side and a particular client that expectations on the spend had changed.
One for both of you guys it's about visibility and I just question when you look at company and earnings typically the last month of the quarter is when they have to smooth.
So given the tone of conversations that you're getting now I kind of wonder how relevant are tones about July versus tones in September? So can you talk a bit about how your own companies deal with quarterly moves on ad spent to kind of cushion their own earnings growth? Well the days of smoothing earnings and setting up reserves and so on are -- I remember the good old days if you will those days are pretty well behind us.
Granted agencies like to lowball us in terms of the expectations.
The visibility we have into our businesses now and the reporting if you will of the CFOs into Frank and the meetings we have on a regular basis were operating units it doesn't leave a lot of room for surprises in terms of smoothing or anything like that.
Part of the tone and granted if you're managing a business you like to have some comfort zone.
And frankly the operating of the meetings that we just had we felt that the businesses were very confident in their numbers.
And frankly if that were true they would've been less confident in our meetings.
So that gives us the belief as we stated in our ability to meet our objectives.
Our next question comes from James Dix with Wedbush.
Three questions I think relatively brief.
First is your outlook for the second half of the year fairly similar to what it was 3 months ago? And if not how has it changed? Actually the outlook is similar to -- and that's when I talk about the tone of the business.
So it hasn't changed other than everyone is still raising the question of if there's an implosion in the macroeconomic side of the world then now would have an impact on our business.
But absent that yes clients are demanding more for less.
That's not new in our business.
They're asking us to show that what we're doing is moving the needle.
That's not new to our business.
They want us to see all the new offerings.
They want to make sure they're current in terms of the social media in terms of the digital type of approach in the marketplace whether they're spending their dollars in the right place but that's all normal conversation.
The good news is we're having those conversations.
If you go back to the recession we weren't having those conversations everyone was in a standstill.
So I say the tone supports in fact the tones does support what we're saying.
And if there's a hiccup in the economy that's what will affect our ability to deliver.
Okay great.
And I guess a slight follow up to that I think you mentioned in your opening remarks Michael that you were seeing some pickup in new business activity.
Is there anything particular you can highlight for us were your contention to pick up some material business? And would you say this level of new business activity now is kind of in line with what you would expect for this point in the cycle? Or is it maybe still running a little bit below what you might expect? I say the pipeline is pretty good.
And the new business picture there are number of new pictures out on the media side which I referred to.
Clearly Mobil Exxon is the big one that's out there and McCann is in the finals there.
So we're hoping that that one goes our way.
We're in the pitch for BMW.
And as I indicated there are a couple of wins at McCann that we can't specifically announce yet but that's encouraging for us.
So I'd say all the numbers we're talking about this is a good indication why we're comfortable with the forecast.
Okay Great.
And then one last one just generally in terms of salary increases that you feel you need to remain competitive with peers are you seeing any move or pressure on the salary increases you feel you need to offer or is it kind of in line with what you've been expecting? We meet with our HR committee and we have outside advisers working with us in terms of compensation.
Every once in a while there's a one-off when you're looking to hire a specific talent.
And it's competitive in the marketplace and you have to sweeten the deal.
But overall our compensation levels are competitive.
It's all factored into the numbers that we're referring to.
So if there are sums of money set aside to bring in expertise on the digital side clearly in the growth areas that's built into our plan.
And our managers manage to the margins.
So if they have to pay more to bring in those types of expertise they have to justify it on their margin objective.
Because I guess I was hearing from some peers they weren't seeing any particular pressure but they were kind of planning on low single-digit base salary increases.
Yes.
Our industry went through the recession and we held salaries.
We didn't give out increases and so and that's already built into the numbers.
Yes we did build in increases.
We did get back to normal raises and things like that.
But again it's all part of how we manage to the margins.
Our next question comes from Tim Nollen with Macquarie.
Sorry to come back to this issue about the margins and I know we shouldn't necessarily obsess about a single quarter number but if I can just .double check my understanding you're saying you expect the growth that you're talking about and you can manage margins to that but your margin target I assume is not assuming that your revenues if they were to fall below what you're saying that you could still meet that margin.
Because in that case I guess your severance expense would go up and things like that.
So am I just understanding that right your margin target is dependent on your revenue target? Well yes.
I mean whether it's specifically that target and whether we can make up any small shortfall yes.
But absent the revenue goal that we're talking about it's hard to deliver on the margins.
We have some tweaking room in between because there are levers as you point out like incentive comp.
We can take more severance and so on.
But we only have 6 months left no less than 6 months in the year.
So it's hard to do that.
I think the biggest lever there would be incentive expense.
So to the extent we're short on the profitability then you'll see a drop in our incentive expense commensurate with the miss if you will.
And by the way that's another indication that we're comfortable with our full year target.
I don't know whether I'm allowed to do this but I'll do it anyhow.
When you look at how you calculate your incentive expense you assume what your incentive expense is going to be for the full year.
If you notice for the first half we haven't taken it down.
So that's another indication that we're comfortable that we're going to indicate we're going to achieve our target.
Otherwise we would've taken down our incentive expense.
So that's a nuance that's in there but that's how the levers work.
Okay.
I just want to make sure there's a little bit of wiggle room.
I understand that there was.
So that helps thanks.
Can I just ask one other little question just housekeeping really your tax rate is 30.5 I think percent.
What should we assume for the last 2 quarters of the year and ongoing? Because I guess in a while you said it got you down in Q2 is that right? Right.
In Q2 we settled some small items.
So that drove that.
I mean we actually got cash back.
So we're still for the full year we have the 40% to 42% effective rate still reasonable.
You use that rate for the full year.
Okay got it.
Our next question comes from Dan Salmon with BMO Capital Markets.
I'll go a little outlook into the M&amp;A area and in particular emerging markets there has been a lot of activity around the group lately still mostly small things and I know you talked a bit about it's hard to buy things that are of size in the BRIC and other fast growing markets.
But what are you seeing there? Is there any sort of change in your position there? I know pricing has been a challenge but how are you looking at that as you continue to stabilize and improve the balance sheet? We have capital to spend.
We've set aside $150 million for acquisition money.
And as we went through our operating reviews just recently at the end of every meeting we ask the groups to see what opportunities they have and whether they would like to see them beef up their organizations and bring those transactions.
We've stepped up our own activity in terms of looking at specific transactions that we think are strategic to our overall plan.
So we're in the market.
We're bringing a couple of small deals that we hope to close in the next month or so and in the emerging markets in particular and of course all different disciplines.
So we are active out there but the pricing on them are very aggressive.
And we've shown for example on the Digital side we've grown R/GA we've grown HUGE we've grown MRM on a global expansion basis organically.
And we feel that that's a more effective way for us to grow those specific expertise without paying huge premiums to bring them into the fold.
And we're doing the same thing with our networks.
So for example the Blue Barracuda transaction at Draftfcb in the UK is a good example.
Here's a global network they saw a great organization with good leadership that they've been working with and so we allocated capital and we did that kind of transaction.
So we're seeing that across the globe and particularly in the emerging markets.
At this time there are no other questions.
Okay great.
Well thank you all.
I know it's a confusing quarter.
I hope we clarified a lot of the questions that you had.
We are working hard and hope you appreciate that we understand the business.
We're managing towards our objectives and we're comfortable that we will be able to deliver on that and we thank you for all your participation.
Thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the Interpublic Group Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Mr.
Jerry Leshne Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and thanks everyone for joining us.
We have posted our earnings release and our slide presentation on our website interpublic.com and we'll refer to both in the course of this call.
This morning we are joined by Michael Roth and Frank Mergenthaler.
We will begin with prepared remarks to be followed by Q&amp;A.
We plan to  conclude before market open at 9:30 a.m.
Eastern.
During this call we will refer to forward-looking statements about our company which are subject to the uncertainties in the cautionary statement included in our earnings release and the slide presentation and further detailed in our 10-Q and other filings with the SEC.
At this point it is my pleasure to turn things over to Michael Roth.
Thank you Jerry and thank you all for joining us this morning.
We're pleased to report strong organic revenue growth operating profit and net income for both the third quarter and the first 9 months of 2011.
As you have seen in our release this morning Q3 organic revenue growth was very strong at 8.7%.
Operating profit was $173 million an increase of 73% from a year ago.
Our operating margin was 10% compared to 6.5% a year ago and diluted earnings per share were $0.40 $0.16 excluding our gain on the Facebook transaction.
The $0.16 of earnings per diluted share compares very favorably to the $0.08 for the same period last year.
For the 9 months organic growth was 7.5% on top of strong growth during the same period a year ago.
Operating profit thus far in 2011 increased 38%.
In the third quarter growth was led by our businesses in the U.S.
Lat Am Asia Pac and the U.K.
We had growth in most client sectors.
Digital was a major contributor to our growth.
Our specialist agencies and just as notably the digital capabilities within our integrated agencies marketing services firms and those at our media businesses all contributed to our strong performance.
This performance further validates our digital strategy which is to ensure that all of our agencies embed digital expertise at the core of their offerings primarily through investments in talent and tools as well as targeted acquisitions where necessary.
We're pleased to see high-single to low-double-digit organic growth at all of our integrated global networks as well as double-digit growth in marketing services.
We continue to manage our growth carefully and strategically.
High-quality operating talent combined with effective business controls means that top line growth is accompanied by expense discipline and therefore converted to operating profit.
In the third quarter we achieved 350 basis points of margin expansion.
For the 9 months that number was 130 basis points.
This improvement was achieved by leveraging both our principal expense lines.
At quarter end our trailing 12-month operating margin was 9.1% which is the highest for any 12-month period at IPG in many years.
During our prior conference call we expressed confidence that the pacing of revenue and expenses in 2011 would result in strong margin expansion.
I'm sure you will agree that our third quarter results are indicative of that fact.
We believe that disciplined investment in our people and our offerings will continue to drive competitive organic revenue growth and improved profitability.
This is a long-standing commitment one that is backed by the track record of this management team and our operating unit leadership in recent years.
Our performance in the 9 months has us positioned to deliver on this year's financial targets.
We believe that we will also remain on track for fully competitive profitability and significant value creation as outlined at the Investor Day presentation we shared with you back in March.
In Q3 we also returned capital to our shareholders at a rate above that contemplated when we initiated our repurchase program in late February.
During the quarter we purchased 15 million shares using $130 million alongside $27 million in common share dividends.
Through 9 months we've utilized $269 million towards repurchase and buying in 27 million shares.
And as you know in conjunction with the Facebook transaction in August our board raised the total authorization under the repurchase plan to $450 million.
Coming into this year and on our previous conference call we shared financial performance targets with you a 4% to 5% organic revenue growth for the year and operating margin of 9.5% or better.
Taking into account our strong performance for the 9 months and balancing an appropriate degree of caution due to the current uncertainty in the global economic environment we feel we can exceed these targets this year particularly with respect to our revenue growth.
As we move forward into the fourth quarter the tone of the business remains solid.
We've seen little in the way of pullbacks among clients despite the economic climate.
The outlook of our project-based business is holding firm and the performance of the most economically-sensitive client sectors auto financial services and retail remains solid in the third quarter.
We all know that the macroeconomic picture is uncertain particularly in some markets in Europe.
In addition we will be cycling against extremely challenging comps since in the fourth quarter of 2010 we grew 11.2% organically.
Notwithstanding these hurdles we remain comfortable with our stated performance targets.
We're very pleased with the strong quarter and year-to-date which gives us a real confidence that we can drive strong value creation for the balance of 2011 and beyond.
At this point let me turn things over to Frank.
Good morning.
As a reminder I'll be referring to the slide presentation that accompanies our webcast.
On Slide 2 you'll see an overview which tracks some of the points that Michael just made.
8.7% organic growth in Q3 led by double-digit growth in the U.S.
and high growth in emerging markets internationally.
It comes on top of 9.4% growth a year ago and brings us to 7.5% growth for the 9 months.
Operating income in the quarter was $173 million 73% higher than a year ago.
To be clear the gain on our Facebook shares is reflected in other income not operating income.
Q3 operating margin was 10% compared to 6.5% in Q3 2010.
For the 9 months operating margin is 130 basis points ahead of last year and on a trailing 12-month basis operating margin is 9.1%.
Diluted EPS was $0.40 per share which includes the benefit of Facebook gain.
You'll recall that mid-August we announced that we had sold approximately half of our position in Facebook for net proceeds of $133 million which resulted in a pretax gain of $132 million.
Excluding the gain on Facebook our diluted EPS would have been $0.16 in the third quarter on 521 million diluted shares.
We ended the quarter in a strong liquidity position.
We've got $1.8 billion of cash and marketable securities in the balance sheet compared with $1.94 billion a year ago.
Comparison includes having used approximately $269 million to repurchase our shares $84 million on our common stock dividends in 2011 and $230 million during the 12 months to pay down debt.
Turning to Slide 3 you'll see our P&amp;L for the quarter.
I'll cover revenue and operating expenses in detail in the slides to follow.
Here it's worth highlighting that other income of $137 million is almost entirely the gain from our Facebook sale.
Our effective Q3 tax rate was 24.5% which includes the very low rate on the Facebook transaction.
Excluding that transaction our effective rate would've been 42.3%.
Our basic share count for the quarter was 465 million which includes the average of our repurchase activity for the period.
Corresponding number as of September 30 was 455 million.
With respect to diluted shares we had 530 million shares in Q3 this year which includes the assumed conversion of our convertible preferred shares.
Turning to operations on Slide 4 beginning with revenue.
Revenue in the quarter was $1.73 billion an increase of 11.1% compared to Q3 2010 exchange rate added 3.1% and the change due to net acquisitions dispositions was negative 70 basis points.
Our organic revenue increase was 8.7%.
The U.S.
was up 10.1% organically while Lat Am and Asia Pac posted double-digit gains as well.
International markets overall increased 6.7% on an organic basis.
We had growth in most client sectors in the quarter led by retail financial services health and personal care and food and beverage.
In the first 9 months of the year organic growth was 7.5% fairly evenly balanced between U.S.
and international markets.
At the bottom half of the slide you can see that both of our reported operating segments have contributed to our quarter and 9-month performance.
Our Integrated Agency Network's organic growth in the quarter was 8.3%.
We had strong contributions from all of our global networks including Mediabrands Lowe &amp; Partners Draftfcb and McCann Worldgroup.
At our CMG segment revenue increased 10.9% in organic base in Q3 and by double-digit increase in the U.S.
and Asia Pac with strong results in our PR and events business.
Year-to-date IAN is up 7.1% organically and CMG has grown 9.3%.
Moving to Slide 5 revenue by region.
In the U.S.
10.1% organic growth was driven by all of our global networks our marketing services specialists and a number of our U.S.
integrated independents as well.
We had strong results by Lowe &amp; Partners Mediabrands Draftfcb and McCann Worldgroup.
Leading client sectors in the U.S.
were retail financial services and food and beverage.
Turning to organic change in our international markets.
In the U.K.
our revenue increased 4.3% with contributions from a number of our agencies.
Continental Europe decreased 1.8%.
We continue to see mixed results by country.
Among our largest markets revenue decreased in France which was partially offset by increases in Italy Germany and Spain.
Europe of course has been the center of macroeconomic concerns.
The sense of our operators is that we saw some softening of activity in the quarter in certain markets on the continent.
For 9 months we increased 1.5% which is in line with our expectations.
Asia Pac grew 15.3% led by double-digit increases in each of our largest markets: China Japan India and Australia.
In Lat Am growth was 21.7% driven by very strong increases in Brazil underpinned by contributions from all of our global networks.
In the 9 months we grew 11.5%.
So while the pace of revenue by quarter was different from last year we've had very strong growth year-to-date.
Our other markets group decreased 2.6% but grew 5% for the 9 months.
On Slide 6 we chart the longer view of our organic revenue change on a trailing 12-month basis which is 8.6% as of the end of Q3.
This view effectively demonstrates what we have often said about not focusing excessively on any single quarter but keeping an eye on the broader picture of where we've come from and more recently that we have sustained a strong growth trend since coming out of the recession.
On Slide 7 operating expenses.
We continue to be pleased  with the operating discipline of our agencies which continue to move us forward on our annual and longer-term margin objectives.
Total operating expenses increased 4.5% organically compared to last year under 8.7% organic revenue growth.
For the 9 months operating expenses increased 6% compared with 7.5% organic revenue growth.
Sequentially moving from Q2 to Q3 this year operating expenses decreased $13 million.
Between Q2 and Q3 we saw greater efficiency in base payroll benefits and tax lower O&amp;G expenses and lower severance expense which was partially offset by higher accrual for incentive awards with the company's strong performance through September.
While we continue to invest in growing areas of our portfolio net headcount growth was less than 0.5% in the quarter.
Total salaries and related expense in the quarter were 63% of revenue compared to 64.8% in Q3 2010.
Underneath that base pay benefits and tax was 51.5% of revenue compared with 53.4% a year ago an improvement of 190 basis points.
Headcount at quarter end was 42 300 an increase of only 2.6% from a year ago.
The increases are in growth areas such as media and digital services throughout our agencies and as Michael mentioned and in China and in India and Brazil.
Severance expense was 1.1% of Q3 revenue compared with 1% of revenue a year ago.
Incentive expense in the quarter was 4.1% of revenue compared with 4.3% a year ago.
For the full year we continue to expect incentive expense in our historical range of 3.5% to 4% of revenue.
Temporary labor expense was 3.7% of revenue compared with 3.8% a year ago while all other salaries and related expense were 2.6% of revenues compared with 2.3% last year.
Turning to ops and general expenses on the lower half of the slide.
O&amp;G expense was 27% of revenue compared with 28.6% a year ago 160 basis point improvement.
O&amp;G was up $466 million an increase of 2.5% on an organic basis.
Occupancy expenses as a percent of revenue decreased 60 basis points result of continued focus on efficiencies in our real estate portfolio.
In addition we continue to leverage a range of expenses as professional fees decreased 20 basis points as a percent of revenue; T&amp;E office supplies and telecom decreased 20 basis points; and other O&amp;G expenses decreased 60 basis points.
Through 9 months O&amp;G expense was 27.8% of revenue compared to 29% in the prior year.
On Slide 8 we show our operating margin history on a trailing 12-month basis which was 9.1% as of the end of Q3.
This chart clearly shows that we have been very consistent in our improvement with the understandable exception of the recession in 2009.
It also shows why we are confident that the investments we have made in tools and technology and process improvements to drive greater efficiency will allow us to sustain our margin expansion growth.
On Slide 9 we turn to cash flow for the quarter.
Cash from operations was $158 million compared with $40 million in Q3 2010.
Cash used by working capital was $34 million compared with the use of $60 million a year ago.
These working capital results are seasonally typical for the third quarter.
Investing activities generated $94 million which includes the proceeds from the sale of approximately half of our investment in Facebook.
That's partially offset of course by our acquisitions in CapEx.
During the quarter we acquired 3 digital agencies a PR firm in Brazil and a highly creative group in Australia.
Financing activities used $203 million primarily to repurchase 15 million shares of our common stock for $130 million and our quarterly common stock dividend of $27 million.
Since the inception of our repurchase program at the end of February we have repurchased 27 million shares of our common stock with $269 million.
Acquisition-related payments of $22 million primarily relate to the increases in investment and consolidated subsidiaries.
We also paid $36 million at the maturity of the remaining portion of our 7.25% senior notes.
Net decrease in cash and marketable securities in the quarter was $25 million.
Turning to the current portion of our balance sheet on Slide 10.
We entered the quarter with $1.8 billion in cash and short-term marketable securities compared with $1.94 billion a year ago a decrease of approximately $140 million.
Including the activity in Q3 that I just reviewed over the past 12 months we have used a total of approximately $230 million to pay down debt.
On Slide 11 you see our debt maturity schedule as of September 30.
As reflected here total debt including our convertible notes was $1.7 billion on September 30.
$151 million shown as due this year is chiefly short-term debt used locally for working capital purposes that typically remains outstanding.
Looking ahead $400 million in March 2012 and $200 million in March 2013 are the first optional cash put and call dates of our convertible notes.
Both tranches have a $12.30 parity price with our underlying common stock.
In summary on Slide 12 we believe our results speak to the fact that Interpublic is fully competitive.
We are winning in high-growth markets and in the most contemporary digital marketing disciplines and we are executing to a high standard across our business.
We continue to realize the benefits of a globally diversified business and client base and we are seeing tangible yield on the investments we have made in tools and talent in recent years.
Now let me turn it back over to Michael.
Thank you Frank.
In reviewing the quarter and the year-to-date a few additional major headlines standout.
First our competitiveness is evident in organic growth that is at the top of our peer group despite facing the toughest comps in our sector.
During the first 9 months of this year all geographic regions posted organic revenue growth as did all of our major global networks.
Another long-term positive for us is the fact that the competitiveness of our offering results from investments that we've been making in talent so that all of our agencies migrate their offerings to incorporate fast-growth digital competencies as well as the recent acquisitions in digital and geographic growth markets.
At Mediabrands both of our global networks Initiative and UM are among the best in terms of contemporary and high-quality media thinking.
The addition of assets such as ORION Trading ID Media or our Cadreon Audience Platform which we've built based on proprietary data analytics technology allow us to deliver customized solutions for a broad range of marketer needs.
A new lab that's set to launch in New York next week will be a further showcase of the ways Mediabrands works closely with media owners and technology companies to stay on the leading edge and act as true business partners for their clients.
At Draftfcb despite the recent client loss has an equal resolve to demonstrate that the agency's integrated model is a powerful engine for growth.
Channel-agnostic marketing advise is what our clients need most especially when it's informed by the behavior-based research and analytic tools available at Draftfcb.
The agency has also been able to significantly strengthen its creative leadership.
During the quarter Draftfcb was once again a strong contributor to top and bottom line performance for IPG overall.
At McCann there's an appropriate speed and focus in the new management team's transformation efforts.
Recent wins with existing multinationals show that we are moving in the right direction.
Dynamic new leadership is joining us in key markets such as Brazil Germany and Japan as well as in North American regional level.
The emphasis on collaboration within Worldgroup is also on target as are our efforts to build an accountability practice that will allow the agency to share in the upside value of the iconic ideas it creates.
We continue to see CMG companies take share from the competition particularly in the PR space.
Weber Shandwick is a dominant player with terrific depth of management and practice area leadership.
The agency was recently named 1 of the 4 best places to work in social media by the respected Mashable news blog.
That's among all companies not just those in our sector.
GolinHarris Octagon Jack Morton and FutureBrand are also making great strides as leaders in their respective disciplines and as part of a larger integrated team.
Lowe &amp; Partners' solid performance supports the fact that the business has a clear and focused positioning as a creator of populist creative ideas that drives business results such as the terrific work for Unilever around the world and the work Deutsch is doing for Volkswagen.
It has an impressive footprint and reputation in the high-growth emerging economies and it is developing a strong offer in the area of a shopper marketing while partnering with huge digital capabilities.
All of which which put it on the track to broaden this portfolio of multinational clients as seen in the recent wins from Microsoft which have been a result of combining Deutsch's U.S.
strength and the Lowe worldwide network.
As mentioned earlier our digital specialist agencies are among the best in the business and we're seeing strong results from them.
R/GA continues to be the premier name in the space.
Growth at HUGE has been dramatic and the agency is now expanding internationally.
MRM is another strong performer.
It's worth noting that while an integral part of the Worldgroup MRM is also one of the world's largest global digital agency networks with offices in over 30 world markets.
Our U.S.
independents continued to perform well because they combine high-caliber creativity and content-creation capability deep strategic insights and digital expertise with a full range of communications disciplines from PR to CRM.
Once again the Martin Agency Hill Holliday and Mullen were particular standouts.
Our results reflect the fact that we have the right offerings and people to successfully compete in the marketplace.
And while there is economic uncertainty we have shown that we are capable of effectively controlling expenses and continuing to make margin progress in a range of revenue environments.
We've also indicated to you that we manage to the year end and cautioned against reading too much into any single quarter's results.
With respect to 2012 it's still too early in our planning cycle to comment on next year.
Though the macroeconomic environment is uncertain we will still stay vigilant on our cost.
The third quarter and first 9 months were very strong in terms of increased profitability.
Of course we leverage strong organic growth with careful expense management.
We continue to invest in growth areas of the businesses supporting our agencies as they step up the transition to digital and we expect further into high-growth emerging markets.
And we also follow through on our commitment to put cash to work through dividend and share repurchase programs.
To summarize we're well-positioned to meet or surpass our targets of 4% to 5% organic growth and at least 9.5% operating margin.
This is consistent with the longer-term plan for the businesses that we shared at Investor Day.
This level of performance combined with targeted strategic M&amp;A activity and return of capital to our owners will allow us to deliver increased shareholder value.
I thank you for your support and now open the floor for questions? Can you just dig in a bit further on the impressive revenue performance in the quarter specifically in the U.S.? Where did you really see most of the acceleration in revenue growth in the quarter? And any I guess further comments you can give us on the performance of McCann? Yes.
One of the things about our agencies if you couple the independent agencies with our global networks -- obviously as you know 60% of our overall revenue comes from North America which in this environment we think is positive.
We saw strong growth in the retail sector in particular which was very helpful to us given the performance and the spend in that investment.
The financial service sector particularly in the United States led by clients like MasterCard and eBay and of course our digital offerings of R/GA and HUGE were significant in the U.S.
growth.
So you couple all of those together I think continues to show that our footprint in the United States coupled with our overall global footprint is what's driving these strong results.
And understanding you have a more difficult comp in the Q4 that you mentioned but does it feel like this relative -- this sort of acceleration you're seeing continues into October? And then -- Michael you know I had to ask that.
And then on the severance number does that include SC Johnson in the quarter? Yes the severance number does include SC Johnson.
1.1% is a little bit higher than the numbers -- we usually tell you to use around 1%.
I think given the environment we're in and some of the performance in some of our European agencies I think a little north of 1% is a good number to use for the severance numbers going forward.
The fourth quarter we continue to say Alexia -- and I loved your headline in your note I thank you -- is we got to look at this on a full year basis.
And which is why we're saying we keep looking at 4% to 5%.
Probably we should be able to do better than that and the 9.5% or better margin.
Fourth quarter has strong headwinds and obviously if we continue to perform the way we are we're hopeful to see a good performance in the fourth quarter.
But it's just very difficult for us to go quarter-to-quarter.
But the tone is very solid.
And the key there of course is our project business and we haven't seen any pullback in the project business.
And if you recall 2008 we really didn't see that pullback until the end of November and December so.
And you've heard me say this.
This doesn't feel like 2008.
Our clients have a fair amount of cash on their balance sheets.
They have access to the capital markets and we don't get a sense of any big pullback in the fourth quarter.
So all of that leads to the conclusions we stated in terms of our goals for the full year.
Guys if we look back over to the last 10 years or so I don't think you've ever had a period where the second and the third quarter operating margins were equal to each other.
And I know the driver Frank was the base and benefits line but can you dig a little bit more in terms of specificity on that line item? And if there were no shifts of costs do we expect 2Q and 3Q margins to be close to equal going forward? John I'm not sure I can comment on the go forward of Q2 and Q3 but I think it is worth calling out again as we did in our last call that the sequential buildup of costs in 2010 was dramatic given the phasing of revenue growth coming out of the recession.
So what you saw was as growth came back in the equation in the second quarter of 2010 we couldn't hire quick enough and we had to somewhat catch-up in the back half of the year.
For 2011 right now the growth is at a more sustained pace.
And as we said in the second quarter call you should expect that H2 cost increases should not be as dramatic as they were in the prior year and I think that was evident in the third quarter.
I think it's a legitimate question to ask that as we've seen this growth do we have to hire a significant amount of people to support that? And consistent with what Frank just said again we manage to the full year.
And so we don't see a big ramp up in our cost in the fourth quarter which would give people concern.
And I think that's the discipline that we've shown we've been able to continually show in our performance.
And just quickly can you remind us how much project business added to your organic growth in the fourth quarter last year? I don't know the definition John what we could describe as a project.
I mean we saw in -- as Michael pointed out we don't see this as 2008 all over again but things you would have considered not project business in 2008 have dried up pretty quickly.
So there's a fair amount of variability against all the fourth quarter revenue.
And to Michael's point right now operators are still feeling pretty good about how business feels going into the last 3 months.
Yes but I mean -- don't think about project businesses as providing the majority of our revenue in the fourth quarter okay? We still have a regular -- the rest of our businesses to perform.
Just a couple of questions.
One clarification Michael and Frank is all the severance related to the SC Johnson account loss already accrued? There's some amount that you're going to see Ben in the fourth quarter but the majority of it was dealt with in the third quarter.
Okay terrific.
And then any comment on the buyback pace? Or maybe a better way to ask the question is are there things in the third versus the fourth quarter that we should be keeping in mind around cash flow and obviously the Facebook proceeds this quarter that we should -- that factor into how you guys think about the buyback that we should just keep in mind? One of the questions that always comes up is during this past quarter we've seen a depressed stock price which if this was a pure opportunistic buyback when we were below $8 a share or even below we would've taken all our cash and bought in our shares.
I understand that some people are of that view.
We view the share buyback program as a program.
And that is over a period of time we return cash to our shareholders in a very thoughtful way.
That said you can see we've accelerated our share buyback program and use of a by the Facebook shares but the other authorization that we had prior to the Facebook transaction and that was an indication that we did believe that our shares were oversold and there was an opportunity for us to buy in shares at what we viewed as an attractive price.
But we're not going to use our share buyback program as a vehicle to pick the right stock price for us to buy-in our shares.
So I think with the tone of us accelerating at the rate we did puts us on track to complete the share buyback program before it was originally contemplated when we instituted the plan.
But again it's not going to cause us to accelerate in a dramatic pace if the share price declines.
Got you.
I don't think you'll have that problem today.
I don't think so -- I hope not.
Thank you.
And then just lastly I mean last quarter we were all freaking out about revenue being pushed out into the rest of the year.
I didn't know -- I think you guys had called out Latin America maybe specifically Brazil.
Was that part of the acceleration in that region this quarter? Well I think what we said was some of it was timing.
And I think what you've seen is the recovery in Brazil is exactly that.
We saw the timing give rise in the third quarter.
Again it goes to the issue of we can't particularly call out exactly what quarter a lot of this revenue is going to fall in.
But aside from the timing of that particular event we've seen a very strong business environment in Brazil and it's reflected in the double-digit growth that you're seeing.
Two questions.
The first is we have seen a lot of headlines some high-profile headlines in the first half of the year on some of the kind of losses that occurred.
But those in theory did open up some opportunities as you are conflicted pretty heavily by some of them.
Can you update us on how you see new business coming together? Is there a timeframe? Is there any color you can give us on how you're sort of filling the hole in a sense looking into 2012? And the second question is a little bit of a follow-up on the last one which is if you look at what drove the outperformance can you talk about how much of it was about stuff that was within your control like increased scope of business more business earned as opposed to the actual client spend stuff that you don't so much control but certainly benefited from? Yes let me talk about headwinds.
It seems to be -- unfortunately I've always articulated that -- first of all our strongest growth comes from our existing clients okay? And I think the positive results that you're seeing is consistent with that okay? Because it's hard to cycle through the client losses that we are cycling through both in 2011 and the cycling that we have headwinds in going to 2012.
And our biggest mantra here is keep our existing clients happy and to continue to grow within those clients.
And fortunately that's what we've been able to do.
So a good portion of our growth is coming from our existing client base.
And coming into 2011 we had some difficult headwinds that we were able to overcome.
And yes we have some client losses that we have to cycle through in 2012.
That's a headwind.
But on business units in particular the ones who were -- like Draftfcb which has to cycle through that client loss they're very focused on replacing that business.
It's not going to happen overnight but they have a game plan.
They've been working on it.
You're right absolutely that it opened up a category for them which previously they couldn't approach because of the exclusivity.
But more importantly that category has opened up for all of our global brands.
And that category has some of the great multinational companies on a global footprint.
And we're already working those clients to see how we pick up revenue from those -- that sector if you will.
So I think it will take some time but I'm confident that we'll be able to overtake those headwinds particularly at Draftfcb and the rest of our global clients and networks.
On the question of timing and things like that in the good old days you can address timing and smoothing on revenue and expenses from an accounting point of view and shame on us for missing by $26 million.
I'll have to reiterate it was only $26 million in the second quarter.
But it goes to show you that we really don't have that type of control and we don't control the scope of work.
And the fact is we have a scope of work that we work against.
And the timing of that -- we don't all of a sudden run out and have all of our people complete everything at the end of the third quarter so that we can meet targets.
So what you're really asking is that we move a lot of our business from the fourth quarter into the third quarter...
No Mike.
I'm really -- that really wasn't the question.
The question was more about is it kind of about client spend that's somewhat unpredictable and maybe came in stronger? Or is it that -- are you increasing your scope of business with clients? Are there -- Are you sort of winning more wallet share out of your clients? Yes absolutely.
And that's my point about -- if you took our top 20 clients we see good organic growth from them.
And the answer to that that has historically been a key portion of our organic growth.
And yes the wallet share and the scope -- area scope.
Project business by definition is one-offs and it goes on top of our normal revenue stream.
And that's why when we say project business is strong that's good for us.
And the way we get more money from our existing client is exactly the key to our success.
And that is we bring more of our expertise we bring more of the integrated offering to the table and hopefully we bring in some of our other disciplines throughout IPG and to our existing clients.
That's how our model is supposed to work.
I was wondering if you could just talk about your relative appetite for larger acquisitions like $1 billion-plus acquisitions? We constantly look at a lot of these transactions that are out there particularly in the digital space.
We see the prices that are being asked.
And it's a time for us to reiterate our strategy on digital.
We don't believe we have to go out and buy huge digital offerings.
We have premier -- R/GA is growing dramatically on a global basis.
What we did with HUGE is a great example of our strategy and that is we bought a create company headquartered in Brooklyn and coupled it with a low footprint and the rest of IPG and their own expertise.
They're growing on a global basis.
We're very competitive on the digital basis and we pick up strategic digital transactions as you saw we did in the third quarter.
So we don't see any need for us to spend huge amount of money to add to our digital portfolio.
If we were losing in the digital environment whether it be our specialist digital agencies or our global networks like McCann Draftfcb or Lowe and if we were losing obviously with the Worldgroup having MRM -- and I already referenced them in terms of them being one of the largest global digital agencies there's no need for us to go out and spend that kind of money to bring in the expertise because we already have the expertise within the umbrella.
On the media side which is a subtle way of your question sure there are markets where we would like to have a bigger scale.
But there's no need for us to go out and spend $1 billion for us to capture those markets.
So we're going to grow those markets organically.
We're going to add to our talent pool.
If we see strategic acquisitions on those markets that will fit in within our global objective -- we've been spending about $150 million a year on acquisitions and there's no reason for us to ramp that up to $1 billion.
It's only if we were missing an expertise would we spend that kind of money right now.
And on the buyback program is it your intention to have buybacks mirror cash flow as you figure out how to deploy it for a year? Well clearly cash flow was a factor that goes into buybacks.
Remember we had built up an excess cash position on our balance sheet as we were going -- as we -- going through our turnaround period.
And given the confidence level that management and the board has in our business offerings and the future of IPG that certainly added to the fact that we implemented a dividend as well as the share buyback program.
But you have to keep sight of your cash flow before you go out and continue particularly with share buyback.
The dividend we believe you don't institute a dividend if you're not highly confident that it will continue out into the out-years.
So we will be very conscious of our cash flows which continue to support the buyback program and the dividend that you see.
And I may have missed it in your last response and I apologize but on new business just wondering how new business opportunities look right now.
Actually there are announced global pitches that are out there.
McCann Worldgroup is in the finals of the Exxon pitch.
General Motors has some big media as well as a pitch going on right now which we're participating in.
As Exxon goes we don't see any big global pitches.
But on the other side we are winning business.
I always comment about this whenever we lose business it's always out in the papers.
When we win business from multinational clients they like to keep it quiet.
So it just so happens when we win business we can't announce it.
When we lose business it's all over the papers.
So we've had some good client wins already which are adding to our growth numbers and we're very pleased with it.
I'd rather win the business and not announce it than not have it.
Revisiting some of the Investor Day commentary I think Frank that you gave and thinking about 2012 I understand visibility is poor it's cloudy you're in the middle of discussions with clients about projected scope of work et cetera.
But in your longer-term ramp towards competitive level of margins kind of laid out a 30% incremental margin target or metric if you will and just thinking about 2012 organic growth I would say the street's probably looking at anywhere from 1% to 4% somewhere in there.
What do you need on organic growth to get to that kind of incremental margin? And in kind of a bear-case scenario if the clouds darken and build a little bit more here and we're looking at a poor year for 2012 can you still build margin? Can you still step forward? On Investor Day discussion Peter we used a growth rate of 4% to 5%.
We saw the 30% conversion rate on that was reasonable and we still think that based upon where we are today.
If we see growth pull back a bit some more can we still have margin improvement? I think we can yes.
We've got a number of initiatives around the company with respect to investment against tools and technology and back-office consolidation and shared service.
So there's a whole bunch of other things going on to drive operating efficiency.
And I think we're already seeing some of the benefits of that in our cost controls this year.
If we enter a period as we did and I don't believe we are of 2009 it's obviously difficult to expand margin in that environment.
But on a flat to slightly positive organic growth for '12 we should be able to expand margin.
It just won't be expanding at the rate that we've expanded it obviously in 2011.
But I think flat to positive we should be able to expand margin.
Great.
And a quick revisit to a prior question on the new business versus organic growth from existing clients.
I guess just to rephrase did you see anything in this quarter which kind of disproportionately changed the contribution of those 2 buckets? Or was it kind of a normal we have new business money come in and we have growth from existing clients? Yes I think it's a combination of that.
And frankly the strength of our digital offerings is very powerful.
And if you take our MRM you take HUGE and you take R/GA those 3 offerings are growing at very attractive rates.
And the fact that they're global I think is adding to those results and frankly which is why -- it adds to our comfort level on growth going into the out-years.
My questions have been basically answered.
Just 2 quick touchups please.
My understanding coming into Q3 was you were still cycling against some cost  build up from last year.
I just want to clarify that that is more or less out of the system now on a relative basis when you started rebuilding cost last year.
And then secondly again on new business obviously there was at least one very high-profile loss.
I don't know if you'd care to give a figure or a trend on that new business in the quarter.
But maybe another way to ask it would be is would net new account wins in Q3 contribute to ongoing growth or perhaps withdraw from that? Well I'll let Frank answer the question on the cost.
But we're still net new business negative and we still have headwinds going into 2012.
But there were obviously wins to offset the headwinds we had on those clients coming into the third quarter and some of it were client-specific.
So if we had a headwind for example on Microsoft which we did the fact that Deutsch won business from Microsoft in terms of their Windows and their B2B business that obviously offsets some of the headwinds.
So that's the kind of stuff that we're talking about.
The one client at Draftfcb that is discrete and that's a headwind going into 2011 and we're starting to build up revenue against that loss.
Tim on the cost side what we said was we don't expect to see the second half costs accelerate compared to the first half some of the pace -- the same pace we saw 2010.
But let's remember that you have sequential revenue growth Q3 to Q4 that will require some incremental cost but we don't expect that cost to be at the same pace that we saw growth in the prior year.
Yes let me clarify one other point.
For example on General Motors MRM continues to win digital business and scope on its projects with General Motors.
So on an IPG basis we had a headwind from the loss of Chevy at Campbell-Ewald and yet MRM is growing General Motors so that accounts for a part of the -- obviously a good part of the makeup on that particular client.
Okay.
So after the losses that we all know about the trend in replacing that is positive? Correct? Yes it's flat to positive but obviously our goal is to turn positive.
Two things one on growth which you guys have discussed a little bit before for 2012.
You've talked as of third quarter that you're showing that your competitive levels in terms of your offering and ability of win in the market that seems a little bit modest given today's results but obviously you also have some headwinds which you've also talked about some client losses.
So looking forward is it best for us in terms of modeling to think about whatever our industry growth assumption is and make some haircut to it for you just given known headwinds? Or do you think maybe you're still positioned to grow in line with the industry whatever that's going to be next year? And then second just in terms of margins now that it looks like 2011 seems to be more in hand in terms of hitting your targets just thinking about the longer term progression towards that 13% that you laid out in your Investor Day could you just refresh or update in any way where you expect the bulk of that leverage to come from? Roughly what proportions from leverage against salaries and then versus other things? Yes I'll handle the headwinds issue.
I'll let Frank talk about the margins.
Well I think you already said we expect to convert the revenue with a 30% conversion and that's how we get to the 2013 target using the growth assumptions of 4% to 5%.
If I was modeling on a very conservative basis I think your approach to industry norm minus headwinds would be a very conservative way to look at our numbers.
That said I do believe that we're very focused.
We've opened up category here as a result of one of the big losses.
We have had wins -- new business wins and we've had successes in growing organically.
So obviously we wouldn't view that as a good performance okay? And certainly when we outlined our budgets and our goals for the year I wouldn't view that as a -- we wouldn't walk away being satisfied with that performance.
And James on the margin progression I think given where we are through 9 months we still believe that the bridge we built you for Investor Day is still very accurate.
There are some growth components to it and I think most of the leverages have come out of base salaries.
Okay.
So basically that slide in your presentation pretty much still holds? Still good.
Most of my questions have been answered but I was wondering if you could give us a little better breakdown by industry group how you guys did here.
I'm particularly curious in the quarter how auto did and what were some of your weaker categories? Well auto is where we were clearly cycling through the loss of Campbell-Ewald.
It was still positive but it wasn't at the double-digit growth that we saw in the second quarter.
That said we do have some wins particularly as I outlined at MRM and the spend at some of our existing other auto clients.
It was in the low-single digits in terms of auto.
Retail was particularly strong for us as I said before that being up double -- well into the double digits.
Financial services the same thing.
Health and personal care was high-single digits for us as was food and beverage.
What categories were weak in the quarter? Packaged goods was a little bit soft and that reflected as transitioning through a particular client as you know.
And tech and telecom which is a big sector for us was in the low-single digits.
And there we had a couple of small clients that we're still cycling through.
But our big tech and telecom clients provided some growth to us.
What is your general sense of for 2012 the categories that you perhaps are most concerned about as you look out for the 12-month period? Is it the same categories that were weak in the third quarter? Are they...
I think packaged goods is always the one that you get concerned about.
I think historically on a full year basis we see slow growth but it's consistent.
So I think that's a reasonable assumption for packaged goods going forward.
Everyone is always concerned about the auto sector given the cyclicality of that.
And if we're entering into a double dip is there going be a pullback there? We haven't seen any indications of that.
And I think our offerings in the auto sector continue to be very strong.
Remember in addition to General Motors we do Volkswagen Hyundai and Chrysler.
So those are -- we have -- and Subaru if you will.
So we have offsets to one particular company and I think that bodes well for us.
And I think again in a difficult environment financial services and retail always are a question but so far we've been very pleased with the spend in those markets.
And is your thoughts on auto in the fourth quarter do you expect it to do better than you saw in the third quarter? Well we continue to see solid spend there.
I can't comment yet with fourth quarter still ongoing.
Okay.
Well I thank you all for your support and obviously we're quite pleased with this quarter and we look forward to you -- with you sharing our year-end results.
Thank you again.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning and welcome to the Interpublic Group Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Mr.
Jerry Leshne Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
We have posted our earnings release and our slide presentation on our website interpublic.com and we'll refer to both in the course of this call.
This morning we are joined by Michael Roth and Frank Mergenthaler.
We will begin with prepared remarks to be followed by Q&amp;A.
We plan to conclude before market open at 9:30 a.m.
Eastern.
During this call we will refer to forward-looking statements about our company which are subject to the uncertainties in the cautionary statement included in our earnings release and the slide presentation and further detailed in our 10-K and other filings with the SEC.
At this point it is my pleasure to turn things over to Michael Roth.
Thank you Jerry and thank you all for joining us this morning.
We're pleased to report strong financial results for the fourth quarter and full year driven by organic revenue growth for 2011 at the high end of our industry and significant improvement in both operating margin and earnings per share.
Beginning with revenue our organic growth was 6.1% for the year.
This is ahead of the 4% to 5% growth we had targeted.
Our fourth quarter organic growth was 2.8% and given the challenging comparison to Q4 2010 organic growth of 11.2% this is a solid performance.
For the full year all of our global networks grew organically.
We grew in all client sectors and in most regions of the world with Continental Europe the sole exception as we expected.
Our digital capabilities whether embedded across our organization or within digital specialist agencies contributed significantly to our growth.
This performance speaks to the quality and competitiveness of our offerings as well as to the power of our diversified model and geographic reach.
Throughout the year we continue to invest in talent and tools so as to better meet the needs of our clients in the dynamic media and marketing environment.
At the same time our operators remained disciplined in their expense management which allowed us to effectively convert incremental revenue to operating profit.
This was clearly evident in our Q4 results.
Operating profit increased 17% from a year ago to $385 million with operating margin expansion of 210 basis points to 18.6%.
For the full year our operating profit increased 25% to $687 million.
Operating margin expanded by 140 basis points to 9.8% within the targeted range we had set early in the year.
Again it's worth noting that all of our global networks and all world regions other than Europe improved operating margin during 2011.
Frank will provide details on the various key efficiency metrics but there's one I want to call out.
We posted the highest revenue per employee recorded by our company in over a decade.
Diluted EPS for the quarter was $0.50 compared with $0.36 a year ago an increase of 39%.
For the full year diluted EPS was $0.99.
Excluding the Facebook gain recorded in the third quarter full year diluted earnings per share would have been $0.76 an increase of 62% from the 2010 EPS of $0.47.
Our capital return programs have also been a significant area of sustainable value creation.
At this time last year we initiated our share repurchase program and common stock dividend.
These were important milestones for our company.
We're pleased to report that during 2011 via buybacks and dividends we returned a total over $500 million to our shareholders.
Today we're announcing a number of steps that will further utilize our strong financial position for both return of capital and debt de-leveraging.
First our board has authorized a new repurchase program in the amount of $300 million.
This is in addition to the $50 million of capacity that remained on our existing authorization as of January 1.
Second we've elected to exercise our option to call our 4.25% convertible notes $400 million outstanding.
This action will eliminate convertible equity of 33 million shares that is presently in our diluted share count.
Overall 2011 was another very strong year for us.
We demonstrated the vitality and competitiveness of our professional offerings converted top line growth into significant gains in profitability and further improved our capital structure.
This progress positions us to deliver on the 2014 goals we set at our Investor Day which will allow us to drive continued value creation going forward.
At this point let me turn things over to Frank for some additional color on our financial performance.
Good morning everyone.
As a reminder I will be referring to the slide presentation that accompanies our webcast.
On Slide 2 you'll see an overview of our results.
Organic revenue growth was 2.8% in Q4 on top of 11.2% a year ago.
This put organic growth for the full year to 6.1%.
Operating income in the fourth quarter increased 17% from a year ago to $385 million.
Q4 operating margin was 18.6% compared to 16.5% in Q4 2010.
All our agency teams did a terrific job at driving incremental profitability.
We had strong operating leverage on our salaries and related expenses with improvement in all categories.
Full year operating margin grew 140 basis points to 9.8%.
Operating profit conversion based on our constant currency revenue growth was just north of 30%.
Michael spoke to our outstanding year-on-year improvements in EPS.
Diluted earnings per share in Q4 was $0.50 compared to our $0.36 per share in Q4 2010.
For the full year diluted EPS was $0.99 or $0.76 excluding our gain on Facebook which compares favorably with $0.47 in 2010.
We ended the year in a strong liquidity position with $2.32 billion of cash and marketable securities on our balance sheet compared with $2.69 billion a year ago.
The comparison includes having used $401 million in 2011 to repurchase shares and $111 million on common stock dividends.
It also includes net cash proceeds of $134 million from our Facebook transaction in August.
As you've heard this morning our board has authorized a new $300 million share repurchase program.
We also announced that we are exercising our option to call our $400 million 4.25% convertible notes.
The notes which include 33 million dilutive shares will be redeemed for cash effective March 26.
Turning to Slide 3 you'll see our P&amp;L for the quarter.
I'll cover revenue and operating expenses in detail in the slides that follow.
It's worth noting here that our effective tax rate was 25% which includes a net benefit from the reversal of valuation reserves related to certain tax assets outside the U.S.
Excluding the tax benefit our effective Q4 rate would have been approximately 34%.
For the full year excluding the Facebook transaction in Q3 and other changes in tax reserves during the year our underlying effective rate would have been approximately 35%.
Our average basic share count for the quarter was 448 million compared with 475 million a year ago.
During Q4 we used $130 million to repurchase 15 million shares at an average cost of $8.98.
Our activity brought the beginning basic share count for 2012 down to 441 million a 7% decrease year-on-year.
Turning to operations on Slide 4 beginning with revenue.
Revenue in the quarter was $2.07 billion an increase of 3.4%.
Compared to Q4 2010 the change due to net acquisitions and dispositions was positive 40 basis points while exchange rates added 20 basis points.
The resulting organic revenue increase was 2.8%.
The U.S.
was up 2.2% organically on top of 13.1% last year.
International markets overall increased 3.6% including a great result in Latin America which grew over 30%.
On a sector basis for the quarter we were led by growth in tech and telecom auto and transportation and retail.
On the bottom half of this slide you can see that our Integrated Agency Network segment grew 1.4% organically in the fourth quarter on top of 10% a year ago.
Organic revenue growth was 5.3% for the full year.
At CMG organic growth in Q4 was 11%.
We had outstanding performance across public relations events and branding.
For the full year CMG's 9.8% growth compounded double-digit growth in 2010.
Moving on to Slide 5 revenue by region.
In the U.S.
we had 2.2% organic growth against 13.1% growth rate a year ago.
Public relations branding experiential marketing disciplines as well as our specialty digital agencies all had strong quarters.
Leading client sectors were auto and transportation food and beverage and retail.
U.S.
growth was 6.1% for the full year.
Turning to international markets.
Again these are organic numbers.
U.K.
revenue increased 2.5%.
We are very pleased to see this result on top of 17% growth in Q4 2010.
Continental Europe decreased 3.2% in Q4 as macro conditions continue to weigh on client spending.
This was true for both local and multinational clients and in most national markets on the Continent.
For the full year our organic growth on the Continent was flat.
Asia Pac grew 1% in Q4.
We had strong growth in China and Australia partially offset by decreases in Japan where we have a significant presence and in some of the smaller markets in the region.
In Lat Am Q4 growth was 30% on top of 20% a year ago.
All of our global networks contributed to this result.
We saw notable increases across our multinational client base and had strong growth in Brazil Chile and Mexico.
For the full year we grew 17.8% in the region compounding 16% in 2010.
We continue to build on our highly competitive position in this part of the world.
Our other markets group increased 0.8% for the quarter and 3.4% for the full year.
On Slide 6 we chart the longer view of our organic revenue changes on a trailing 12-month basis.
This of course includes the lows of 2009 and the highs of 2010.
The most recent data point is 6.1% our result for the full year 2011.
Moving on to Slide 7 and our operating expenses.
Our operators did a terrific job in Q4 and throughout the year managing costs.
Our investment in tools analytics and information systems continue to show returns in the form of improved efficiencies.
In the fourth quarter total operating expenses increased only 0.6% organically compared to last year.
For the full year operating expenses increased 4.5% compared with our 6.1% organic revenue growth.
Sequentially as we moved from Q3 to our much larger fourth quarter our expenses for base payroll benefits and tax decreased $4 million.
Expenses for temporary labor also decreased.
While we continue to invest in the many growing areas of our portfolio net headcount growth was less than 0.5% in the quarter.
Total salaries and related expenses in the quarter were 54.9% of revenue.
This compares to 56.8% in Q4 2010 a 190-basis-point improvement.
Our leverage improved on all expense categories within salaries.
Base pay benefits and tax was 42.7% of revenue compared with 43% a year ago.
Headcount at quarter end was 42 400 a year-on-year increase of 2.8%.
This is attributable to our investment [indiscernible] growth in media and public relations and digital services throughout our agencies at our digital specialist agencies as well as in high-growth markets including China India and Brazil.
Severance expense was 2.1% of Q4 revenue compared with 2.7% a year ago.
We took actions in Q4 to align our headcount with 2012 budgets by market and to upgrade our competitive positioning in selected markets.
For the full year severance expense is 1.5% of revenue which is the same level as 2010.
Incentive expense in the quarter was 3.2% of revenue compared with 3.5% a year ago.
For the full year incentive expense was 3.7% of revenue within the range we had previously indicated.
Temporary labor expense was 2.9% of revenue compared with 3.1% a year ago.
All other salaries and related expenses were 4% of revenue compared with 4.5% last year.
For the full year 2011 total salaries and related expenses was 62.8% of revenue compared to 63.3% of revenue in 2010 a 50 basis point improvement.
Turning to office and general expenses on the lower half of this slide.
This continued to be an area of improvement for us in 2011.
For the 12 months O&amp;G expense was 27.4% of revenue compared to 28.2%.
That's a decrease of 80 basis points for the year with improvement across all our major expense categories.
Looking at the quarter O&amp;G expense was $549 million 26.5% of revenue compared with 26.6% a year ago.
Underneath that occupancy expense as a percentage of revenue decreased 40 basis points.
This was a result of both our revenue growth and decreased rent expense.
For the full year occupancy expense decreased 50 basis points as a percentage of revenue.
We continue to see reductions in our real estate footprint as you can see in the appendix of our presentation.
Our metric on square feet per employee improved to 234 from 245 square feet 12 months ago.
You may recall from our Investor Day that we're targeting 220 square feet per employee by 2014.
Looking at the professional fees and T&amp;E categories both decreased 20 basis points as a percentage of revenue from a year ago.
All other O&amp;G expenses as a percentage of revenue increased 70 basis points from a year ago.
We had higher depreciation expense due to the write off of some leasehold improvements.
We also had higher pass-through expenses which were offset by higher revenue.
For the full year this category decreased 10 basis points as a percentage of revenue.
On Slide 8 we show our operating margin history on a trailing 12-month basis which was 9.8% for 2011.
As you can see we've improved consistently under revenue growth.
We remain confident that the investments we are making in tools and technology and shared services and process improvements are the basis for further sustained progress.
Turning to the current portion of our balance sheet on Slide 9 we ended the year with $2.32 billion in cash and short-term marketable securities compared with $2.69 billion a year ago a decrease of approximately $370 million.
The comparison includes over $500 million returned to shareholders in 2011 in the form of share repurchase and dividends.
We also had net cash inflow of $134 million from the sale of approximately half our interest in Facebook.
On Slide 10 we turn to cash flow for the quarter.
Cash from operations was $717 million compared with $979 million a year ago.
As a reminder cash flow in our business is seasonal.
We tend to generate cash from working capital in the fourth quarter and use cash in the first quarter.
Cash generated by working capital in Q4 was $344 million compared with $639 million in last year's fourth quarter.
This year’s result is a more typical level of our business.
Cash generated from working capital in Q4 2010 was unusually high due to very strong growth by a number of our businesses led by Mediabrands.
For the full year cash from operations was $273 million.
That consisted of $632 million before working capital and cash used by working capital of $359 million which mainly took place in the first quarter of this year.
Moving on to investing activities in the quarter.
We used $68 million in Q4 primarily for CapEx and acquisitions.
During the quarter we closed on several acquisitions.
These included a marketing service agency in Brazil digital agencies in the U.K.
in the social media and eCRM space a leading PR firm in Germany and a highly creative agency that joined the Lowe network in Australia.
Financing activities used $118 million in Q4 primarily to repurchase 15 million shares of our common stock for $132 million and our quarterly common stock dividend of $27 million.
The net increase in cash and marketable securities in the quarter was $517 million.
You can see our cash flow schedule for the full year in the presentation appendix.
It's worth noting a few items.
CapEx for the year was $140 million.
Cash used for acquisitions was $63 million for the year.
We budgeted around $150 million for 2011 so we did not invest to the budgeted level.
Our acquisition pipeline is robust so we'll see some of that investment carry over to this year.
We continue to focus on acquisitions in digital as well as high-growth marketing disciplines in key world markets.
Our cash taxes were $102 million.
Excluding the Facebook transaction this represents a rate of 16% of pretax income so we continue to utilize our operating loss carryforwards which allows us to continue to benefit from a cash tax rate significantly lower than our effective book rate.
Looking forward to 2012 we expect our cash tax rate to approximate 25% as we have nearly exhausted all our NOLs in the U.S.
On Slide 11 you see our total debt outstanding at year end and over the past few years.
The trend line depicts our de-leveraging which has seen us take total debt from $2.3 billion at the end of 2007 to $1.8 billion at the conclusion of 2011 which includes our 2 convertible notes.
We announced today that we are exercising our option to call our 4.25% $400 million notes effective March 26.
There are 33 million common shares related to these convertible notes which will be eliminated from our diluted share count.
For EPS purposes since the call takes place near the end of our first quarter we will show reduction this year of approximately 3/4 of that total with the entire 33 million next year.
Calling these converts is accretive for our shareholders reduces our outstanding debt and further strengthens our financial position.
Given the current favorable rate environment and our improved credit standing we are carefully considering issuing new straight debt in amount less than $400 million we are calling so we will de-leverage.
As a result we will be filing a shelf registration statement later today with the SEC.
In terms of additional opportunities on the horizon our 4.75% $200 million convertible notes are similarly putable and callable in March of next year.
Also beginning July 2013 the call option on our $600 million 10% senior notes due in 2017 become more economical.
In summary on Slide 12 during 2011 we once again had strong revenue growth converted that growth to profit at a high rate and achieved our margin target for the year.
We will continue to invest in areas of the business that are driving growth.
At the same time we remain confident of our ability to manage expenses and drive continued profit improvement.
Our balance sheet continues to be a source of value creation.
Our announcement this morning of additional share repurchases and debt reduction speak to our confidence in our financial position and our continued ability to generate significant operating cash flow on a sustained basis.
Now let me turn it back over to Michael.
Thanks Frank.
Building on a very good 2010 result we continue to show organic revenue growth that is at or near the top of our peer group.
Our conversion was once again excellent and this led to the margin expansion of 140 basis points and the 9.8% operating margin we achieved is a level of profitability that IPG has not obtained in over a decade.
As a result the state of our business is strong.
This performance keeps us on track to deliver on our goal of fully competitive profitability in 2014.
Combined with our strong financial position enhanced capital structure and a return to investment-grade credit ratings positions us to further drive shareholder value going forward.
Strategically the actions we've taken in recent years have significantly bolstered our portfolio.
Mediabrands continues to deliver a fully contemporary and competitive offering in an area of the industry that is becoming increasingly vital to every marketer's success.
Our investments in talent along with the leadership we've attracted and developed gives Mediabrands outstanding management depth at all levels.
Their digital and specialty offerings from Cadreon to The Audience Platform to the new IPG Media Lab as well as ID Media Geomentum and ORION are second to none and the group is leading the way in developing pay-for-performance models an area which will continue to be a priority for us at Interpublic.
Our investments in digital talent across the group and our decision to hold all operating unit leadership accountable for delivering native digital expertise are also proving out.
The social media capabilities at CMG are best-in-class and the market share gains consistently posted by our PR agencies Weber Shandwick and GolinHarris as well as Octagon and Jack Morton reflect the degree to which we've been investing in digital talent at all of these agencies.
At McCann MRM is among the industry's leading global digital networks with offices in over 30 markets and a strong track record of growth in recent years.
R/GA is not only the most celebrated digital agency in terms of awards and press recognition it is also a creative force that is now serving clients from 8 offices in Latin America Asia and Europe.
HUGE is on a similar growth pattern and we will soon have an announcement of how we are looking to further leverage the great technology talent that's at the core of that agency.
At its U.S.
operations Draftfcb already has more than 350 people in the digital practice.
They're fully embedded in the agency's integrated behavior-based agency model.
In 2011 Draftfcb worldwide once again delivered outstanding top and bottom line performance.
Our U.S.
integrated agencies continue to perform at an exceptional level.
From Mullen Hill Holiday to Martin Agency and Deutsche a Lowe &amp; Partners Company all of these agencies have strong full-service offering that span every consumer touch point strategic and creative talent that comes up with big brand ideas and leading edge digital capabilities that include Web development and social media digital media planning and app development as well as a full range of analytic tools.
Turning to the high-growth markets where we also are well positioned.
Across the portfolio we're very strong in India and Brazil where in 2011 we saw organic growth of about 20% for the full year as was true in China.
At the agency level it bears noting that McCann Worldgroup remains one of the industry's most powerful global networks capable of delivering a full range of marketing service capabilities in over 100 world markets with strong teams across Latin America and key Asian markets.
In 2011 McCann continued to improve its financial performance and expand margins as well as further upgrade senior talent throughout the organization.
Lowe is well positioned in India and Southeast Asia and has an outstanding agencies and world-class creative talent in all the key Latin American markets.
Draftfcb has one of the most powerful holistic offerings in India a strong Brazil to hub Lat Am operations and is the clear market leader in South Africa from which it plans to build its business in that emerging continent.
Our Middle East operations under the MCN umbrella are among the largest and best in that region and will surely be a long-term driver of growth for both our clients and for our businesses.
Our step-up investments in India over the past few years and our recent focus on Brazil are bearing fruit.
In 2011 we closed over 20 additional acquisitions and our M&amp;A pipeline is strong.
While we don't believe there are any holes in our offerings on a macro level we will continue to bring a disciplined approach to identifying and integrating acquisition partners that can help us move the business forward.
This includes seeking out quality assets in high-growth geographic markets and among businesses in the more dynamic areas of marketing services such as shopper marketing PR and healthcare communications.
Our primary focus in digital will continue to be growing talent and capabilities organically but we will seek bolt-ons that extend our digital reach or represent a good client fit.
This is especially true in the international markets such as with the recent digital deals we've completed in the U.K.
Germany the Nordics Brazil and India.
While digital and emerging markets and marketing services led the way this past year contributions to our growth came from across the portfolio.
There was consistency in terms of performance among our largest multinational clients and a local client base as well as all client sectors.
All of our major agencies contributed to our positive organic growth.
The tone of our business remains solid.
An increasingly sophisticated digital media ecosystem represents an opportunity for us or as I often say complexity is good.
As in the recent news that suggest improvements in the U.S.
economy since our revenue mix in the developed markets skews towards the U.S.
with less exposure to Europe than our competitors in the emerging markets our recent results have been very strong and we'll continue to invest behind our agency brands there.
Now turning to 2012 there remain significant macro uncertainty on the global level.
We're facing revenue headwinds due to some client losses and it is still early in the New Year.
As a result we're targeting 3% organic growth for 2012.
It bears noting that the revenue headwinds will likely be front-loaded in the first 6 months of the year and as is our practice we'll update you regarding our outlook and the tone of the business on our quarterly calls.
As was evident with this year's organic revenue growth our offerings is strong and despite revenue headwinds we believe there's more upside in the current new business pipeline than we had at this time a year ago.
Specifically we're seeing more midsized opportunities across the portfolio and a few large pitches that could represent significant gains for us.
Draftfcb has started the year strong with digital and CRM wins at Discovery and Cox communications while Mullen has added business from Google and earlier this week U.S.
Cellular.
At McCann the agency extended its global relationship with American Airlines and was tapped by Merck to handle creative duties on several brands.
MRM has further extended its GM relationship in a number of international markets and recently won business at Computer Science Corp.
and J&amp;J.
Lowe won the global Becel business from Unilever late last year and Deutsche continues to earn new assignments from Microsoft.
R/GA just announced that it's growing its relationship with Unilever on top of big wins with McCormick's O2 and Grey Goose in 2011.
Recent headline wins at HUGE include Comcast and Under Armour.
There's a great deal of new business activity across the board at Mediabrands led by wins at Exxon and LifeLock.
And at CMG we have a robust pipeline both domestically and internationally.
Our demonstrated ability to convert incremental revenue into margin growth should allow us to increase operating margins in 2012 by at least 50 basis points above the 9.8% we're reporting today assuming a 3% organic revenue growth.
Of course our goal is to exceed that performance.
Our agencies are moving in the right direction and supporting the evolving needs of our clients.
We're building on strong positions in emerging disciplines and geographic regions.
We're committed to continuing to return capital to our shareholders.
These are accomplishments we can all be proud of.
Above all they reflect the great professionalism and hard work of our people around the world.
Our recent progress and outstanding 2011 results also gives us confidence that we can keep moving the business forward and continue delivering shareholder value and appreciation.
I thank you and we'll open up the floor to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Alexandria Quadrani JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Alexia Quadrani.
First off could you give us some specifics about McCann's performance I guess specifically in the fourth quarter? I know you gave us a lot of color for the year but I'd love to know how McCann did in Q4 versus your expectations.
And then when you look at your guidance for 2012 specifically the top line guidance of 3% organic revenue growth I guess first thing does that assume some new business coming in? And secondly do you assume McCann has sort of outsized growth in 2012 maybe to make up for a little bit of more softness at Draftfcb given the SC Johnson loss? Well let's focus on 3% because I think that's the relevant question here.
One is of course as I said we have headwinds of 2% to 3% coming into 2012.
So when we say 3% for the year that takes into effect the headwinds we have so therefore there’s assumed revenue growth either from our existing clients or from new business which is why I referenced some of the new business wins that we're already experiencing in the first quarter and the solid pipeline we have.
So that number that we're using takes into consideration any client losses and frankly some levels of success in our pipeline.
If you contrast it to where we were in 2011 when we started 2011 we had 3 major clients up for review and some we were moderately successful on and obviously SC Johnson we lost.
We're not in that position for 2012 and as I say that I touch wood okay.
But so we see there's some clients up for review not of the magnitude we had before.
And frankly there are active pitches going on right now where we see upside.
For example the Bank of America review that's there.
Hill Holliday is leading our charge there.
They're an existing client so there is risk there.
But we feel we're well positioned on that pitch.
The Unilever media we're incumbent in some parts of their markets.
We hope to obviously retain that and expand markets.
So there are opportunities for us to improve.
McCann a lot has made note of some of the client losses because frankly whenever McCann loses a client it gets headlines.
But what you don't see is client wins that they're receiving from existing client base where they're expanding relationships.
We do our budgeting process from the bottoms up and obviously that reflects improvements from McCann in 2012.
And as I indicated in my remarks McCann improved in 2011 so they showed revenue growth.
They showed margin improvement.
So notwithstanding some client losses that get headlines we believe McCann is very well-situated from a competitive point of view moving forward.
Research Division</strong> And just last question.
On Continental Europe and the performance you saw there in the quarter did you see any I guess notable change toward the end of the quarter or into January? Was there further deterioration or was it relatively stable throughout the quarter? Relatively stable is an interesting way of putting it.
Look we knew we have challenges in Continental Europe.
Our results reflect that.
But as I indicated this is not unexpected from us and frankly for 2012 we're not counting on a major recovery.
So it didn't deteriorate any worse in December if that specifically is your question but obviously we're not assuming a huge growth in 2012.
Next question comes from John Janedis UBS.
Research Division</strong> Frank we haven't seen the salaries and related line as a percentage of revenue this low in maybe about a decade or so.
So I'm wondering were there onetime items in there or timing issues? And can you talk more about the levers coming in 2012? No John.
I mean look the progress we've made has been on managing base and benefits and to some extent offsetting that temp labor.
But the incentive expense and severance has been relatively stable and we've just seen continued pressure by our operators to drive the base benefits and tax down.
And when you look forward to 2012 and the incremental leverage we hope to get in margin expansion on the 3% growth rate the 2 big areas we'll continue to focus on is aggressively driving greater leverage out of base benefits and our temporary labor.
There are only so many levers that we have and those are the key ones as Frank points out.
And we manage to margin and all our business units our performance is matched up against that.
So that is the key area of focus throughout the world for all of our operators.
Research Division</strong> Frank is the assumption that that severance number stays around 1.5% then? Yes John.
I mean we historically have guided people to 1%.
It's been tracking higher so it's probably going to be somewhere between 1% and 1.5%.
But to the point Michael made is our operators are incented to deliver margin so to the extent the severance number is higher than that they've got to go find incremental savings somewhere else within their cost structure.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Michael just back to Continental Europe the read through from what you just said that the people on the ground there that you have they're saying that things are not getting better they've kind of stabilized.
And also can you just talk about new business there? Yes a lot of the business -- we have a mix of local business and multinationals there.
And look it's very cautious there and everybody is concerned.
So we're just basically forecasting a very slow improvement and no big pickup but the tone is cautious.
There's no question about it.
We have some local wins and some existing clients spending money but I wouldn't say that the recovery is taking hold and we've seen bottom.
I think a lot is going to unfold as this action is taken in the money markets and Greece and so on and how it all affects it but there's a caution up there that continues.
Next question comes from Ben Swinburne Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A couple.
Frank can you maybe talk -- you talked about working capital both in the quarter and the year.
And I know you guys have a long-term view of where your cash flows are headed but maybe you can just talk a little about what we should expect a normal year to look like for working capital maybe a year that looks like what you guys are guiding for in '12.
And then on the buyback authorization extension and the convertible bond you mentioned that Q1 is usually a working cap outflow.
So should we assume not much in the way of buybacks in the first quarter outside of the redemption? And any comment on how the $300 million sort of fits into the full year? Do you expect this to offset in the year or something that's just sort of out there depending on what the stock does.
Let me talk about the buyback and Frank will talk about working capital.
We have a yearly program for buybacks okay? Some of it is open market some of it is a program buyback.
So we will continue throughout the first quarter in the buyback.
Obviously we're out of the market as certain things come up but it's a full year program.
And Ben on the working capital you've been around the story a long time in this industry.
I mean there's a lot of volatility.
And if you go back and look over time you can see in a normal year as long as primarily your media business is growing or your revenue is growing the model's working capital-accretive.
What we saw in 2010 was just an unusually significant working capital generation in the fourth quarter.
We had a very significant new client come on in media.
Our Mediabrands group did very well.
Our overall company did very well in the fourth quarter which gave us a $600-plus million generation of cash in Q4 2010 probably almost 2x what we normally see.
That unwound in the first quarter of '11 which gave rise to the full year.
So if you go back and look over the last 3 years we've generated about $500 million from working capital.
So again you can expect continued volatility and I think that Q4 2010 was a bit of an anomaly and it cycled through in the first quarter this year.
We would expect 2012 to be more normalized.
I'm not ready to put a number on what exactly that means.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No that's very helpful.
And then I didn't know if you guys had a currency number you want us to use at this point in the year.
I know it's early but there's been some volatility there as well.
Relatively de minimis Ben.
Next question comes from David Bank RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions I guess one backward-looking one forward-looking.
So backward-looking if you look at the domestic organic growth performance versus the peer group you obviously faced some really really difficult comps and you didn’t lag the peers to a certain extent but you faced by far more challenging comps.
How much of the delta versus the sort of industry do you think was about comps versus headwinds in business wins and losses? Is it that same sort of 200- 300-basis-point delta? And the second question is as you look going forward and I know it's probably hard to quantify this but when you gave your 3% organic target how much of it is a function of growth in existing client business versus new wins? Yes.
I mean that's a question on growth from new business versus existing clients.
That is an issue that we constantly address.
The significant part of our growth is coming from existing clients and that's where the opportunities are both from a margin point of view and organic revenue growth.
Obviously whenever there's new business out there we want to participate.
We want to win our fair share.
But the key to these assumptions are retaining clients and growing existing clients from an organic point of view.
On the 300 basis point question 2011 didn't have -- we had 2% headwinds going into 2011.
I would say that when you back out the headwinds and the difficult comps I think we're still slightly ahead of our peer groups in terms of the fundamental organic growth and part of that has to do with our weighting between U.S.
and foreign.
We're overweighted in the U.S.
We had strong performance in the U.S.
and I think that's what accounted for our organic growth.
LLC Research Division</strong> Specifically in the fourth quarter though you think that's -- the answer's the same for the fourth quarter? ? Yes pretty much so.
We had some timing issues in the fourth quarter on some small revenue items in some of the Asia Pac countries.
But I think again we look at this on a full year basis and I think going into 2012 our weighting in the United States is going to do us well.
Next question comes from Peter Stabler Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Michael I just wanted to ask you a question about visibility.
Our sense is that kind of secular changes occurring across the traditional advertising landscape are leading clients to try to be more reactive to business results not lock into long-term commitments kind of be a bit more nimble.
Is that something that you see? And how would you characterize your visibility today versus where we were a year ago? I think multinational clients are looking at full year.
Obviously they'll wait depending on how business situations are by location.
But there's no question that the multinationals are looking to expand markets particularly in the emerging markets.
And they have programs and we're working with them to spend those dollars.
So we have that kind of visibility.
It's the project-based businesses that we always are careful about because when business is suspect that's the stuff that gets pulled back.
The long-term brand building launching new products and things like that we have visibility into that and when we do our business forecasting it's bottoms up.
So what happens is our agencies know what launches whether it's a new car whether it's a new product and in what regions.
So there is a fundamental investing in brands that we see.
It's the project business that is the wildcard in a lot of these numbers.
And frankly the tone right now and I think you've seen it in some of the articles that are out there multinational clients are increasing their marketing spend because they see the return on investment as real and it's our job to show them that what we're doing helps them move the needle.
And if it moves the needle then they're happy.
Even in a difficult environment I mean that's how you build brands and you capture market share.
The key here is our ability to show that there's a return on investment and frankly the pay-for-performance model that we're using more in the Mediabrands environment lends itself to that type of environment.
And that is if you spend your dollars and we're successful in helping you move the needle we'll get paid for it.
So I think there's visibility into product launches brand building and gaining market share.
The project-based business is where we don't have as long a vision into the future.
LLC Research Division</strong> One quick follow-up if I could.
Could you remind us the largest markets in the all other bucket? It's Canada.
Canada is the largest.
Next question comes from Bill Bird Lazard.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk a little bit about how you see the pacing of the 2012 margin climb? Bill I would imagine given the seasonality of our business I think it would be consistent with prior years.
The first quarter is usually from a profitability perspective very weak.
Second quarter is usually stronger.
Third quarter is relatively weak and you have an awful lot of your profit coming in the fourth quarter.
I hate to bring a sore point up but if you remember 2011 we always look at our numbers on a full year basis and there may be hiccups on quarters as we experienced one in 2011.
We continue to manage our businesses to the full year and that's how we give our guidance and that's frankly how our businesses are operated.
So it's hard for us.
Obviously the first quarter is always a more difficult quarter for us.
But again we take that into consideration in the models and how we forecast for the year.
Research Division</strong> And on Q4 severance was a little bit above trend.
I was just wondering how best to interpret that.
It was actually down year-on-year and for the full year Bill it was 1.5% the same it was last year.
It's usually a heavier quarter just because we're looking at the subsequent year's budget and to the extent we're falling short of where we need to be it usually causes us to take actions with headcount and that drives the severance number.
Yes and incidentally those reductions are in the markets that are having problems so you see -- Continental Europe that's where you see the severance action.
So we have to match revenue and expenses and if we're not forecasting a big recovery in Continental Europe you can expect severance in Continental Europe to match the lack of revenue growth.
Research Division</strong> And finally what's your expectation for CapEx for 2012? $150 million is probably a good number Bill.
The other piece of that is what are we forecasting for M&amp;A right? And although we were short of spending our dollars in 2011 we're going to use around $200 million for 2012 which is a rollover of some of the stuff we have in the pipeline in 2011 and our expected budget for '12.
Our next question comes from Matt Chesler Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Let me just re-ask Bill's question about the margin progression in 2012.
So we know -- with 2011 in mind in terms of the progression towards the 50 basis points for the full year which is your full year target maybe the answer is obvious because of your comments about the revenue headwinds in that first half.
But is this a year where again we'll see most of that forward progress in the latter part of your fourth quarter even? Matt again I would look to the phasing you've seen over the last 2 or 3 years.
As Michael pointed out we build our budgets bottoms up for the year.
Quarterly phasing of those annual budgets there's some art to it right? But we're focused on building our plans for the year and we hold our operators accountable for delivering their annual results.
We do phase it but again there's always movements quarter-to-quarter as Michael pointed out like we saw in the second quarter last year where we got a lot of pressure because our revenue was short.
We said the majority of it will slip into third quarter.
It did.
I think your observation on the headwinds is a valid one.
We have to make up some ground.
Also new business wins don't kick in the second you win them.
So I mean you have to factor all that in but our business unit’s factor in as well existing client growth and where this launches and so on.
So it's a combination of making up any shortfalls and existing client pipelines.
And so that's why we don't give quarterly guidance because we know that there are cases where this is going to be lumpy.
And I think what you're seeing is we put out numbers that we believe we're going to deliver on a full year basis and so far we've been pretty good at that.
Research Division</strong> On the revenue headwinds are they concentrated to any particular market perhaps the U.S.
because of SCJ? And in Latin America growth has been incredibly strong.
You guys are performing well broadly there.
Could we see significant double-digit revenue numbers there continue for a number of quarters? And finally just an update quickly on the NOL position in Europe would be great too.
All of that okay.
Look obviously Latin America is hot.
There's no reason to expect us not to continue strong performance.
They have a few events coming in Latin America like the Olympics and the World Cup.
So that obviously will help in terms of the momentum in Latin America.
Plus it's a solid environment where we're seeing a lot of growth.
I think the headwinds are probably more domestic than international particularly because of SCJ although there was a foreign component with SC Johnson as well as the Microsoft runoff that's embedded in there.
So I think it's more skewed to the United States.
On the NOLs Matt we started the year with $1.7 billion $1.8 billion.
We used $400 million of losses which leaves us about $1.4 billion left with about $1.1 billion of them being attached to Europe.
James Dix Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 things.
I guess just a little more color on maybe the U.S.
growth.
You talked about the headwinds maybe falling more in the U.S.
I guess especially in the first half of the year.
When you look at your 3% organic are you expecting U.S.
to be kind of at the end of the day kind of in line with that or any material deviation from that for the full year basis? And then the second question was just -- incentives they dropped a little bit as a percentage of revenue in the fourth quarter.
I'm just wondering whether you thought -- for the full year you were basically paying out a fairly full bonus pool.
And kind of what we should be looking for kind of that typical 3.5% to 4% range for 2012? Well our incentives are based purely on performance so I think 3.5% to 4%.
Hopefully we'll hit 4%.
I mean that means we exceeded our budgets and everybody's going to be happy with that.
As far as U.S.
look we're 55% in the United States and so obviously that gets factored into our growth numbers to that effect.
So again we can't talk about it by quarter but obviously our results are skewed to the United States.
Well thank you.
And again thank you all for your support and it should be an exciting year for us.
Thank you.
Thanks everybody.
Thank you for your participation.
That does conclude today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning.
And welcome to the Interpublic Group's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Mr.
Jerry Leshne Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
We have posted our earnings release and our slide presentation on the website interpublic.com and we'll refer to both in the course of this call.
This morning we are joined by Michael Roth and Frank Mergenthaler.
We will begin with prepared remarks to be followed by Q&amp;A.
We plan to conclude before market open at 9:30 a.m.
Eastern.
During this call we will refer to forward-looking statements about our company which are subject to the uncertainties in the cautionary statement included in our earnings release and the slide presentation and further detailed in our 10-Q and other filings with the SEC.
At this point it is my pleasure to turn things over to Michael Roth.
Thank you Jerry and thank you for joining us this morning as we review our first quarter results.
As usual I'll start out by carving the key highlights of our performance.
Frank will then provide additional detail on our quarter.
I'll conclude with an update on our agencies and full year outlook to be followed by a Q&amp;A.
Beginning with revenue.
In the first quarter our organic rate -- growth rate was 2.8%.
Our comparison to last year was the most challenging among our peer set because of our industry-leading 9.3% organic revenue growth in Q1 a year ago.
Given this difficult hurdle our 2.8% organic growth represents a solid result.
Regionally we were led by double-digit growth in Asia-Pac fueled by a broad cross-section of our agencies followed in turn by growth in Lat-Am the U.S.
and U.K.
Revenue decreased in Continental Europe where macroeconomic conditions not surprisingly continued to pose a challenge.
We saw growth at our IAN sector which consists of our global advertising networks our media operations the U.S.
integrated independents and our digital specialty agencies.
CMG's strong performance reflects the continuing growth of our marketing services specialist agencies and public relations that is Weber and Golin experiential and sports marketing as well as branding and identity.
Once again digital services made a very strong contribution to our growth.
This was true for the embedded capabilities at all of our global advertising networks within Mediabrands at the U.S.
integrated independent agencies and across the marketing services agencies that are part of CMG.
It was also the case at our digital specialist agencies which continued to show strong growth and are making good progress in extending the service offerings and broadening the geographic reach.
Turning to our client sectors.
We had double-digit growth in the auto and transportation and retail sectors as well as growth in financial services and food and beverage.
The tone of our continuing business remains solid but we did experience the negative revenue impact related to last year's account activity that we identified on our last call.
Those headwinds were mainly felt in our consumer goods and tech and telecom sectors both domestically and internationally.
Turning to operating expenses.
Results in the quarter reflect continued careful cost management.
This type of discipline is something that we trust you've come to expect from this management team.
Our Q1 seasonal operating loss was $39 million a 13% improvement compared to a loss of $45 million a year ago.
On a trailing 12-month basis our operating margin was 9.8% maintaining our performance for the full year 2011 a level of profitability that Interpublic had not achieved in over a decade.
Other Q1 highlights saw continued progress in decreasing  outstanding shares and reducing our debt.
During the quarter we repurchased a further 5 million shares using $53 million along with our quarterly common stock dividend of $26 million.
Given the seasonality of our cash flows we chose to moderate the pace of our repurchase activity in the year's first quarter.
For the 12 months ending March 31 we have returned over $550 million to our shareholders via common dividends and the repurchase of 46 million shares.
This is an accomplishment of which we are proud and one that speaks to our confidence that we can continue to build on the strong performance and positive momentum of recent years another area in which we've taken significant strides in strengthening our balance sheet and overall financial position.
In late March we took another positive step in this regard by retiring our $400 million 4.25% convertible notes which eliminates 33 million shares from our diluted share count.
Concurrently we issued $250 million of new 10-year senior notes with a 4% coupon thereby lowering our total debt by $150 million as a result of these 2 transactions.
With the first quarter behind us we remain solidly on track to deliver on our 2012 targets as we continue to drive value for our key stakeholders going forward.
I'll turn things over to Frank now for some additional color and join you after his remarks.
Good morning.
As a reminder I will be referring to the slide presentation that accompanies our webcast.
On Slide 2 you'll see an overview of our results.
Organic growth was 2.8% in Q1 which as Michael pointed out was on top of industry-leading organic growth of 9.3% a year ago.
We continue to narrow our Q1 seasonal operating loss which was $39 million this year.
Compared to last year's first quarter we drove 50 basis point of operating leverage from our ops and general expenses primarily on occupancy costs.
Trailing 12-month operating margin was 9.8%.
The conversion rate on our constant currency revenue growth to operating profit for the trailing 12 months remains in excess of 30%.
Our Q1 earnings per share was a seasonal loss of $0.10 the same level as a year ago.
We maintained strong liquidity with $1.59 billion of cash and marketable securities on the balance sheet at quarter end compared with $1.85 billion a year ago.
That comparison includes having used over $700 million to repurchase shares pay common dividends and pay down long-term debt over the past 12 months.
The retirement of our convertible notes in the first quarter dramatically reduces our diluted share count while our deleveraging is the latest step in a series of moves that have seen us lower our debt by $730 million over the past 4 years significantly strengthening our financial position.
Turning to Slide 3 you'll see our P&amp;L for the quarter.
I'll cover revenue and operating expenses in detail on the slides that follow.
Our average basic share count for the quarter was 438 million compared with 476 million a year ago a decrease of 8%.
During Q1 we repurchased 5 million shares at an average cost of $10.61.
We had $298 million remaining on our board authorization as of March 31.
Turning to operations on Slide 4 beginning with revenue.
Revenue in the quarter was $1.51 billion an increase of 2.2%.
Compared to Q1 2011 the impact of change in exchange rates was a negative 110 basis point while net acquisitions and dispositions added 50 basis points.
The resulting organic revenue increase was 2.8%.
The tone of business was solid across most of our businesses and regions of the world although our growth rate also reflects the revenue headwinds that Michael mentioned earlier.
As you can see on the bottom half of this slide our Integrated Agency Networks segment grew 1.7% on top of 9.7% a year ago.
Organic growth at our CMG segment was 8.6% with solid performance across the marketing services portfolio led by strong regional growth in Asia-Pac the U.K.
and Latin America.
Moving on to Slide 5 revenue by region.
In the U.S.
we had 2.7% organic growth.
Our independent agencies Lowe &amp; Partners Worldgroup and our specialty digital agencies all had a strong quarter.
Turning to international markets; again focusing on organic growth.
U.K.
increased 2.5% on top of 9.2% growth in Q1 2011.
Growth was fairly broad-based across our agencies and disciplines as well as client sectors.
Continental Europe decreased 5.5% in Q1.
Macro conditions continued to weigh on client spending while last year's account losses also weighed on performance.
Asia-Pac organic revenue growth was 16.9% in Q1 which is a terrific result on top of double-digit growth a year ago.
We saw strong growth in media marketing services and at McCann.
We had double-digit increases in Australia China and Japan.
Reported growth was 21.7% which includes revenue of our recent acquisitions in that region.
In Lat-Am Q1 organic revenue growth was 4.4% on top of double-digit growth in Q1 2011.
We were led by strong regional offerings of McCann Lowe and CMG.
R/GA offices in Sao Paulo and Buenos Aires also contributed.
Our other markets group decreased 2.8% due to decreases in Middle East and Canada partially offset by growth in South Africa.
On Slide 6 we chart the longer view of our organic revenue change on a trailing 12-month basis.
Most -- the most recent data point is 4.7% which is updated to include Q1 2012.
Moving on to Slide 7 on our operating expenses.
Total operating expenses increased 2.2% organically compared to last year.
Our operators continue their effective focus on expense management.
For the trailing 12 months operating expenses increased only 3.1% organically well below organic revenue growth of 4.7% during the same period.
Total salaries and related expenses were 73.3% of revenue in Q1 compared to 73.2% of revenue last year.
On a trailing 12-month basis to March 31 total salaries and related expenses were 62.8% compared to 63.5% from the same period a year ago.
Again we tend to recognize expenses relatively evenly across the 4 quarters while Q1 reflects the seasonality of our revenue.
Our total headcount at quarter end was 42 500 a year-on-year increase of 1.6%.
The increase reflects our investment of growing disciplines such as media and public relations and in digital services throughout our agencies.
It also reflects growth in markets such as China India and Brazil.
Offsetting these investments were net reductions in certain markets such as Continental Europe where our focus has been managing our workforce to the appropriate revenue base.
Severance expense is 1.4% of Q1 revenue compared with 1.6% a year ago.
Incentive expense in the quarter was 4.4% of revenue both this year and the year ago.
For the full year we continue to expect incentive expense to remain in the range of 3.5% to 4% of revenue.
Turning to office and general expenses on the lower half of the slide O&amp;G was $441 million an increase of less than 1% both organically and reported.
O&amp;G expense was 29.3% of revenue compared to 29.8% a year ago.
Underneath that 50-basis-point improvement we drove 40 points of leverage in occupancy expense which is due to both our revenue growth and lower lease expense.
On Slide 8 we show our operating margin improvement on a trailing 12-month basis with the most recent data point of 9.8% for Q1 2012.
As we said on our Q4 call our target level for this year to improve at least 50 basis points on the way to our objective of fully competitive profitability over the next few years.
Turning to the current portion of our balance sheet on Slide 9.
We ended the quarter with $1.59 billion in cash and short-term marketable securities compared with $1.85 billion a year ago a decrease of approximately $270 million.
The comparison includes over $550 million returned to shareholders over the last 12 months in the form of share repurchases and common stock dividends as well as net debt reduction of $150 million in our long-term debt.
We also had cash inflow last year of $134 million from the sale of approximately half our interest on Facebook.
On Slide 10 we turn to cash flow for the quarter.
Cash used in operations was $498 million compared with the use of $801 million a year ago.
As a reminder cash flow in our business is seasonal.
Working capital tends to generate cash in the fourth quarter which is followed by the use of cash in the first quarter.
In this year's first quarter cash used in working capital was $445 million compared with the use of $736 million a year ago.
We pointed out in our last conference call that we expect to see more moderate cash use in Q1 this year as the follow-on to more moderate cash generation of the proceeding fourth quarter.
In investing activities we used $21 million in Q1 primarily for CapEx.
Our financing activities used $229 million which includes net debt reduction of $150 million.
We also used the $50 million -- $53 million per share repurchases and $26 million on our quarterly common stock dividend.
Net decrease in cash and marketable securities in the quarter was $729 million.
On Slide 11 you see our total debt outstanding at quarter end and at year end from 2007 through Q1 2012.
This depicts a reduction of total debt which has seen us take total debt from $2.35 billion at the end of 2007 to $1.62 billion at the end of March 2012 a decrease of $730 million.
By retiring the convertible notes in Q1 we eliminated 33 million shares from our diluted share count.
For EPS purposes since the retirement in the current near the end of the first quarter you should be aware that we will show a reduction for the full year of approximately 3/4 of that total with the entire $33 million out for next year.
It is also worth noting that at the end of February S&amp;P upgraded our outlook to positive and just last week Fitch reaffirmed our investment grade rating with an outlook stable.
Looking ahead over the next 12 to 18 months we'll have additional opportunities for debt reduction and to further improve our balance sheet and reduce our effective cost of debt.
In summary on Slide 12.
We are pleased with our performance in the quarter.
This organic growth that reflects the strength of our offerings and our globally diverse businesses.
We continue to effectively manage costs and believe we remain on track to deliver our financial objectives for the year.
Now let me turn it back over to Michael.
Thank you Frank.
As you can see our first quarter performance represents a solid beginning for 2012.
Organic revenue growth on top of the very strong Q1 last year demonstrates that our agencies continue to be highly competitive in the marketplace and contributions came from across our portfolio.
The companies within CMG continue to win market share and we are leading the industry in areas such as PR experiential and sports marketing.
Of the growth -- other growth drivers in the quarter included our U.S.
integrated independents Mediabrands and Lowe.
Across the group digital services were strong.
During our recent calendar view meetings with our major operators one of the recurrent themes has been [Audio Gap] continue to adapt our various offerings to meet the demands of marketing in a digital world.
Whether it be at Mullen or Deutsche Weber Shandwick or UM at least half and as many 3  and 4 new hires coming on stream are individuals who bring digital expertise into our agencies.
We continue to see the benefits of our digital strategy in which the primary pillar is embedding digital talent at all of our agencies.
Of course having best-in-class digital specialists like R/GA HUGE and MRM as well as leading-edge offerings such as Cadreon and the audience platform further enhances our digital capabilities and our overall performance.
Since the beginning of the year we've begun to build new business momentums and we are net new business positive for the first quarter.
The commonwealth win at McCann will see us add meaningful incremental GM markets and revenue internationally.
Worldgroup has also added a number of wins in its healthcare group.
Draftfcb made good strides in replacing its SCJ revenue domestically with digital and CRM wins on Cox Communications and Discover Card and also had significant assignments on the healthcare front.
Our U.S.
independents and Mediabrands had strong new business in the quarter.
The new business pipeline is solid.
At this time last year we had a number of major clients in review.
That is not currently the case.
Instead of defending we are involved in a number of new business opportunities in which there is significant upside.
It also bears mention that our performance in the emerging economies remains strong.
Coming off combined organic revenue growth greater than 25% in Brazil India and China in Q1 of 2011 we saw additional double-digit growth in this group during the first quarter.
This result was led by China where our CMG agencies McCann and Mediabrands led the way.
Draftfcb also won a number of important new clients in the market.
In Brazil performance was led by Lowe CMG and R/GA.
McCann also performed well in Lat-Am.
In India we've had a very significant market presence overall with Draftfcb Lowe and McCann all having outstanding agencies.
As you saw last year we've begun to be more active on the M&amp;A front.
We do not see any area of vulnerability in our portfolio but we are committed to investing in targeted transactions that enhance our agency brands particularly in high-growth capabilities such as digital and marketing services as well as high-growth geographic markets.
There's never been a greater need for informed advice as companies in every industry and all regions of the world seek to navigate an increasingly complex digital media and consumer ecosystem.
We are well positioned to capitalize on these opportunities.
In summary we are pleased with the Q1 results.
We know that Q1 is our smallest revenue period seasonally and while the headwinds we are facing will be less pronounced in the second half of the year we have consistently cautioned against putting too much weight on a single quarter's results.
That said we remain comfortable with the full year 2012 goals of 3% organic revenue growth and at least 50 basis points of operating margin improvement that we shared with you on our last call.
We are solidly on track to deliver on those targets.
The significant deleveraging we've undergone and the strength of our balance sheet provide additional powerful leverage that should allow us to continue to support the needs of our business return capital to our owners and drive shareholder value.
The challenge for our management teams and for our people is to remain focused on the needs of our clients and building their businesses which in turn will allow us to build on our success and create sustained value going forward.
I would now like to open the floor for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Alexia Quadrani of JPMC.
Research Division</strong> If you can give us a bit more detail on the impact of the client losses you were dealing within quarter.
Was January the first month of the revenue loss from SC Johnson? And do you think we'll be hit with the same sort of magnitude in the second quarter? And then when do you circle pass through any other notable client losses that are still impacting the quarter? Yes.
Thank you Alexia.
Well we had indicated they actually -- and we started seeing the loss of SC Johnson in December of last year.
So it didn't wait until January before we saw any impact.
What we said in our call that we expected about 2% to 3% of headwinds for the full year and while we indicated it was over-weighted if you will in the first half of the year.
So we will continue to see those headwinds certainly through the first 6 months but we will continue to see some headwinds through the balance of the year.
If you -- what's interesting about the headwinds is that it's somewhat overweighted in the U.S.
Lat-Am and Continental Europe which explains some of the lower organic growth numbers that we're putting out there with respect to those markets.
So if we use the first half of the year if we use anywhere from 3% to say 3.5% in terms of headwinds that should give you a good idea and that should start trailing off towards the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> And then other -- were there anything else real sizable that's also I guess above the normal course of business that also impacted Q1 or is it really the SC Johnson? Obviously that was a big factor.
Of course we had the Microsoft media and we did have the Home Depot media flowing through.
But again Alexia if we look at it from a full-year perspective when we say we're comfortable with 3% organic that takes into account the headwinds and basically how we see the flow-through impact of that throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> So it sounds like if the headwinds are the same and not getting any worse maybe even getting a little bit better in Q2 and comps get a little bit easier we should see I guess there's -- I know you don't give quarterly guidance but there's a reason to believe things get a little bit better in the second quarter in terms of...
It only took you a few minutes before you ask already about the second quarter Alexia.
But look we again -- we don't give quarterly results forecast.
We look at it from a full year.
Obviously there's some new -- there's some opportunities into -- new business wins that will factor into our results.
So all we can say is that you see the existing headwinds that we have.
We are comfortable with our overall objective.
I hope to see some good positive announcements on some of the new business opportunities we are seeing and all of that will impact our second quarter results.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Well just one more but bigger -- big-picture question.
On McCann in the U.S.
I know you highlighted in some of your prepared remarks about the strength you're seeing outside the U.S.
In the U.S.
itself are you seeing -- did you see growth year-over-year at McCann? And I guess any color on where McCann is versus where you hoped it to be at this point? McCann obviously we've made continuing investments in new talent in McCann.
And just recently I met with the senior management team there.
I'm feeling real good about our leadership at McCann and where that's heading.
They have terrific plans in terms of opportunities that are out there.
Of course once in a while you see some losses and I'll anticipate the question before it comes.
We just recently saw movement of some business out of McCann L.A.
Not significant in terms of dollars but it is with Nestlé.
On the other side you'll see an announcement recently of McCann U.S.
winning a new project with Nestlé Waters.
So that's the nature of our business.
We win some business we lose some business.
When we give you a full year forecast it factors in all the business opportunities and potential [indiscernible] we see.
David Bank of RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
The first here is if you look at the growth that you generated in the first quarter and then I guess extrapolate it to your guidance for the full year could you talk about how much of that organic growth or how much growth is sort of a function of new business wins versus existing clients? And has that -- did that surprise you at all in the first quarter? And the second sort of related question is if you think about the agency business you kind of win some and you lose some.
We obsess about these headwinds and stuff but the reality is sometimes you win sometimes you lose.
If you look at the 200 to 300 basis point headwinds how much of the 200 to 300 basis point is really kind of above and beyond in your mind that win some lose some? Yes let me talk about the first.
This is the first quarter so it's hard to pinpoint exactly how much is new business versus not but the fact is in the first quarter the growth that we're seeing is from our existing clients okay? The roll off of our losses we know and how that's going to impact us and that's why we give you the numbers that we've given you but we won't see new business wins impact until later on in the year.
We're starting to see some of it in the second quarter but it should be through the rest of the year.
The other thing to keep in mind is that if you look at the organic changes in our first quarter last year we had some -- a very impressive organic growth in the quarter.
For example in the U.S.
we had an 8.8% organic growth in the first quarter.
So that's a very difficult hurdle with some headwinds to overcome so we're pleased with the changes that we're seeing in the United States facing that kind of organic growth.
The same when you go to Lat-Am.
Lat-Am we had almost 14% organic growth in the fourth -- in the first quarter last year so to show growth on top of that is fairly impressive.
So that's exactly why when we give guidance if you will we talk about it from a full-year perspective because we look and anticipate some loss business we know what our existing client base we've already stated that our strength is in our existing client base.
We win some we lose some.
And the bulk of our organic growth from our existing clients is what drives our business.
And that's how we operate our businesses.
LLC Research Division</strong> But I guess -- if I could just sort of follow-up so I think we understand then you guys have been really transparent in pointing out the headwinds.
If you look at the year.
Is it -- normally like what is kind of the normal range of headwind? I guess what I'm asking? Where wouldn't you point it out? If it was like 100 basis point in either direction.
Last year we had about 2% headwinds.
So to put one on top of the other if every year we're going in with 2% and last year we had terrific organic performance versus our sector so we were able to on a full year basis overcome 2% headwinds.
Obviously we're driving to do the same for this year it is only the first quarter.
We'll be announcing some positive wins.
We have a whole year ahead of us and so that is if you want to keep that in mind we've been able to overcome those kind of headwinds before.
And still show very strong performance.
John Janedis of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Frank can you talk a little bit more on the leverage and the occupancy line? I think you've got a team working on that but is that a good run rate on an absolute dollar basis going forward or were there some onetime items in there? John there was no onetime items.
We've seen progress on that line for multiple quarters.
I think our centralized real estate team does a terrific job.
We're constantly trying to co-locate agencies and markets take advantage of scale drive competitive pricing in markets on lease terms and we've been seeing that benefit consistently.
So there's not a real estate transaction that can get executed anywhere in the globe that doesn't go through that group.
And the group's doing a terrific job and we expect it to continue to do a terrific job.
Research Division</strong> That wouldn't move very much I guess through the next couple of quarters? I don't expect to see.
Again we want to see consistent progress John but if you go back and track it there's a magnitude of the progress over the past 8 10 quarters we're starting to hit a ceiling specially as the global real estate markets starts to turn and pick up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you guys talk a little bit about how your multinational clients are thinking about their spending in Continental Europe? Meaning are they reallocating to other faster growing markets outside of Europe? Or are they just taking the money and pulling back on that budget? And also do you think we're bottoming in Europe yet? I wish I knew the answer to the question whether we -- I hope we bottomed in Europe.
Look we had good results in the U.K.
That's a positive sign but obviously the rest of Continental Europe is challenging and there are pockets of light and there are still issues.
Our multinational clients are focused on emerging markets period.
That's not news and frankly they go where the money is and where the opportunities are.
So that's why it's so important for us to have very strong offerings in those markets whether it would be Lat-Am whether it be Asia-Pac and the rest of China and India but also in markets like Indonesia and Africa and Turkey.
These are markets that our clients are looking at to invest money and gain market share and that's where we're going to see significant growth in the years to come.
So it's not a question of just taking money and cutting back here and investing there.
They are investing in growth period.
And if there's an opportunity to invest in growth they will spend those dollars.
Peter Stabler of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to get a little bit more color on CMG if we could.
First of all any onetime items in there? I know it tends to be more of a project-based business.
And secondly can you give us a sense of the component there? Is this really being driven by predominantly PR? And then how does this visibility for you for CMG kind of compare  to IAN? Yes I mean you're absolutely right.
The CMG business tends to be more of a project-based business.
We're trying to get that to a model of recurring revenue stream.
We're making some success there but clearly it's always interesting when we do forecasting for those businesses.
Because it's a project-based business most of their business is to be generated as we say.
But they consistently outperformed so we're very comfortable with those numbers.
We've had a very strong market in particularly in the PR side.
Weber Shandwick and GolinHarris continue to be best in class.
They win awards that reflect that but the results -- more importantly their results reflect that.
Our sports marketing group:  Octagon is having a very good year; as well as Jack Morton which is our experiential marketing.
So although Weber Shandwick  and PR and Golin are the biggest piece of CMG we are seeing good performance across all the businesses within CMG.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And I'm wondering you might be reluctant to provide this but in terms of looking at Europe if CMG is call it 17% of your revenue globally.
I mean are we talking about a distribution in Europe that is radically different? Is CMG 5% of the business over there or? Without getting specific numbers Peter it's small.
The distribution is smaller in Europe.
But they've actually invested in our growing especially in the U.K.
Matt Chesler of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So it was a good start to the year.
Can you give us a sense as to if you wouldn't mind revealing how this compared to your internal budgets whether it was revenue or profitability or both? Just trying to get a sense whether -- you gave guidance.
It's only been a month and a half and this is just the first quarter of the year but whether you're feeling incrementally positive or in terms of hitting your full year target or whether your confidence is pretty equivalent to what it was when you first offered the guidance a month and a half ago? Well I wouldn't say that we're solidly on track to deliver on these targets if I wasn't comfortable with those numbers.
I hate to do this because all the accountants are going to look at me funny.
But take a look at our incentive comp as an example okay? We base our incentive comp on a full year basis okay? And then we have to amortize it through the year.
So that is one line if you want to look at I don't particularly like looking at it but I know you're going to ask for example.
So I'll use that went.
Our incentive comp is in line frankly it's a little higher but it's in line with what we forecast for the full year.
In order for us to do that we have to be comfortable with the full year and we have to show that where our plans are coming out are consistent with that.
That's the simplest way I can tell you that we're comfortable with the full year.
Look we want to drive to beat that.
That's our objective all right? We set targets that we think are a bit of a stretch but are attainable and that all our business units put together plans on where they think they can do better.
So we're comfortable where we are right now for the first quarter.
Certainly we've got a lot of time left in the year but the tone of our business all indicates that we should be able to deliver on these results and hopefully we'll do a little better.
Research Division</strong> Quick question for Frank.
Frank can you sort of lay out your thoughts as to deleveraging further from this point in time? I mean the way that you handled the transactions in the quarter are somewhat indicative of a current desire to delever a bit so far this year but really not clear what's your thoughts are beyond that point? I mean Matt you can expect to see further deleveraging for us I don't want to put a number on it and we've got material opportunity a year from now when we've got some more converts out there depending on what share price is.
And we also have some expensive securities that mature in 2017 with a coupon of 10% that we can buy in or refinance at a slight premium.
So those are things you can expect this management team to be aggressive in looking at options and driving the cost of our funding down plus probably deleveraging along with it.
Research Division</strong> And when you talk about deleveraging Frank I mean are you talking about sort of the multiple or are you also referring to absolute pay down of gross debt.
And just on those 10%s when is the first opportunity that you're able to go at them? Second quarter of next year we can go at them with a locked-in premium which is manageable because right now they're trading at a very expensive premium.
So we probably won't touch them until that strike price is locked in.
And you can expect actual gross debt to come down somewhat.
A good example of our approach to the balance sheet is look at our debt offering.
We borrowed 250 we were very pleased with our ability and our reaction in the marketplace.
It was oversubscribed many times over.
And frankly we could have loaded up on debt there at a very attractive rate and we chose not to.
And so we chose to take that $150 million and reduce our debt.
So I think that should give you a good indication one of our confidence in our ability to perform in the future and 2 where we look to see where we put our capital.
And so we can -- the Board authorized the new share buyback program of $300 million which we are now starting to eat into so we finished the $450 million authorization.
And from a balance sheet point of view we're very comfortable but as Frank said we're going to be very opportunistic in terms of the marketplace and where do we use our capital and what are the right objectives.
Our objectives are to grow our business and enhance shareholder value.
And that's the analysis we go through every time we see an opportunity.
Michael Nathanson of Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple.
Let me start with China for a second.
If you look at your Asia-Pac number for this quarter how big is China within Asia-Pac? And in terms of the business you're winning what's the difference there between your CMG offerings and IAN? So what's driving China and how big is it? Well we don't give out specific numbers by country.
We do -- Asia-Pac we do give out numbers.
It's -- obviously Asia-Pac is becoming a bigger piece of our business.
Overall let's assume Asia-Pac is 11% or so.
And clearly China is an important part of that although it's certainly not the largest part of Asia-Pac.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of how do you get bigger in China? How do you go about it's now fourth or maybe the third biggest advertising market in the world.
So how do you to get into China more aggressively? Yes.
We are -- the first thing you have to do in China is to make sure you have new talent and good talent.
And if you look at for example we just beefed-up our talent in McCann in China with the addition of Jesse and some other people.
CMG has repositioned its offerings in China and so talent is what drives the business in China.
It's kind of a illusory to go out and buy businesses in China that frankly a year from now they're not even going to be there.
So we will be strategic if we see some attractive bolt-ons if you will to any transactions in China.
We will look at them.
We'll try to get comfortable with retention of the people and the book of business.
But our primary focus in China is to grow organically through getting great talent and working with our multinationals as well as focusing on local clients.
For example some of our businesses because of our multinationals have a good core agency and they're growing locally which is I think eventually as we go out beyond the key cities we have to be able to have talent to focus on that growth locally.
And that's how we're going to grow it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can I just ask one for Frank.
I guess the deleveraging have been a little bit less aggressively than maybe I would've have thought given how much cash you have on the balance sheet.
So just can you walk me through the thinking for both of you guys of I know the rates were low -- you took advantage of that -- but why even go to debt market when you have so much cash on your books? Is there just a level of cash you want to always have just in case? So walk me through why you didn't tap into that market to this point? As Michael pointed out in his comments earlier.
There are a bunch of cash calls around trying to drive shareholder value.
So we're trying to manage our way through where we put our money against M&amp;A where we put our money with respect to share repurchase where we put our money in dividends.
So we're looking at multiple uses for our cash.
When we evaluated our options the 2 things we concluded on was one we wanted to deleverage and we will continue to delever and we wanted to do it in a way that was thoughtful and take advantage of very very attractive markets.
So I think the transactions we did delevering by $150 million and also tapping a very attractive debt market I think was a very well balanced thought-out strategy.
And I think going forward you'll continue to see us in a similar path.
We look at all options that I think will be fairly thoughtful around what we're going to do with respect to delevering further and also tapping a very attractive capital markets.
The same kind of conversation we had on whether we do share buybacks versus dividends.
And frankly one of the issues that we have to address is whether the tax law is going to change and what impact that will be.
So we want to make sure we are flexible in terms of our cash and basically to meet the objectives of our shareholders.
I mean certainly there's an argument aside from not tapping the debt market at all there's an argument that giving rates being so low we should have borrowed as much as we could and be opportunistic and then figure out what to do with the money in terms of whether it be share buyback or whatever.
We don't want to be knee-jerk reaction to that but we want to make sure we're participating.
So I think the message you should take away from what we did in the debt offering is we were opportunistic we saw some good rates and we took advantage of it.
We were conscious of our investment grade rating and we still have one more to go.
And we want to make sure by the end of the year we're positioned so that we finally get them to move on that and we're hopeful that they will.
And so all of our various constituencies are affected by whatever decision we make and by our dividend policy by our share buyback policy by deleveraging.
All of that rolls up into how we enhance shareholder value and we will continue to make those calls as they come up and as we see opportunities.
I think that's what you want us to do in terms of our management team.
Tim Nollen of Macquarie.
Tim Nollen from Macquarie.
Two questions actually please.
First just following up on the cost questions.
I think it's nice to see staff cost organically rising just about in line just below a fact I guess organic revenue growth and even better to see the O&amp;G line and remaining very very low.
Could you just let us -- do you have specific targets in mind that gets you to what you're considering a peer level performance a few years out in terms of those 2 lines? I think I know what they are but I just want to make sure you're on track and what those numbers are.
And then secondly could you please talk about what you're seeing in terms of shifting budgets from TV or the broadcast or cable into online video industry-wide what you're seeing and more importantly for you how that impacts you if at all? The shifting is the ongoing question.
Every year everyone says TV is dead.
Everything is going online and yet you see organic growth in TV.
So here I go I mean I'm just going to tell you and I said it in my remarks advice in terms of way you spend your money right now is critical.
Analytics in terms of where you spend your money are critical which is why we're investing our money in talent and resources and tools to make that decision.
Clearly online spending and video and the web are all significant growth opportunities and we have the resources and talents to work it but traditional TV hasn't gone away.
Now you can look at the forecast and say that the rate that it's going eventually Internet is going to overtake it who knows.
But right now we have to be able to be responsive to all of that and in some cases traditional TV works.
In some cases it doesn't.
And we do see a considerable amount of our client dollars focusing on digital and web-based video.
And certainly the issue of the over-the-top and all these things are issues that we have to be able to address.
And frankly that confusion is good for us because that's where we earn our stripes in terms of advising our clients.
And Tim on the cost profile as we close the difference between where we are and competitive margins we hope to continue to see progress against the O&amp;G performance although we're starting to bottom out.
So the real leverage is going to be around staff costs.
And when you look at a fully loaded staff cost ratio that number has got to be less than 60%.
And right now it's -- we've made significant progress but we need -- there's still room to grow.
When we look at the various components it's getting greater operating leverage out of our base salaries and being very aggressive in things like temporary labor.
And it's an area that all of our operating groups have been extremely focused on for years have invested aggressively against technology and tools to allow them better visibility into things like staff utilization.
And it's the metric quite frankly every time Michael and I meet with our operating folks we spend the most time on other than revenue.
So that's the area that if we are going to close the gap or when we close the gap that's the area we need to see the greatest leverage.
So even staff costs currently rising about the same pace as organic revenue growth you're looking for efficiencies there that can keep that ratio down.
Sure.
I mean and again the real estate discussion or the comments we made earlier is a good case in point.
The reference I made to the people we are hiring have digital expertise goes to that issue.
What you have is an employee base that some of whom haven't gotten the experience or really bought onto to the new digital environment.
And when you bring in talent that is it makes it much more efficient.
And by the way our staff cost ratios are going up but organic is going up more it's not the same.
So that's a good sign when that happens okay.
Because that's where you see the leverage drawn on our people and to the extent we're able to see talent in the marketplace and bring them onboard that's how we become more efficient going forward.
Anthony DiClemente of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> It's clear to me that your clients your existing clients need the advice on what to do in the environment.
I'm wondering if your clients are looking at digital as way to use earned media as opposed to paid media with respect to new projects.
So that's okay for you guys you're still providing the consulting but I'm just wondering are they looking to do more with less? And people talk about that in the context of social media understating -- dollars estimated on social media understating the true activity.
So I'm wondering -- your thoughts on that and I have a follow-up for Frank.
No absolutely.
I mean that's the holy grail.
I mean if they can start shifting that and we can provide the tools and resources and content right because you need content to be able to do that then that is certainly a key objective.
And frankly if we're a part of making that happen that's what our tools and resources are supposed to be able to do.
Research Division</strong> Making what happen exactly? Making it -- allowing them to do more with less paid media dollars? Making that possible? Is that what you mean? Yes.
I mean and look that's the game on the social media and -- but you still need content.
You still need things that measure it.
You still need access to the consumer and that relationship and what else are they looking for and how do you build that platform.
And that's what we do.
Research Division</strong> Thanks Michael.
Frank what I'd love to get is a better feel for incremental margin in the model.
Not sure if there's a clean way for you to help us with this but like for example if after all is said and done for 2012 if you were to print 4% organic revenue growth how would that flex your 50 basis point improvement in operating margins for example? Well we had said going into '11 incremental margin on growth of 30% was a reasonable assumption.
We reiterated that on our last call.
When you look at trailing 12 months incremental margin as of 3/31 it's north of 30%.
So if we in fact exceed the 3% is there an opportunity to expand that 50 basis points margin...
Sure.
Right? And so 30% assumption is still a good assumption.
Research Division</strong> But I think that using your current numbers it's actually more like -- I could be wrong but it's more like higher than 50% incremental margin as it stands? Well again if I look at what my trailing 12 is after 3/31 it's 38%.
Yes.
When we modeled out and we had our Investor Day when we showed our glide pass if you will to achieving competitive margins if we use a 30% conversion rate that's how we're going to get there.
So if we do better we'll get there sooner.
James Dix of Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions for you.
First when you last reported the big account review out there was Chevy where you got a win.
I'm just curious at this point what are the big account reviews out there for you both where you can pick up business and any significant ones where you might be defending [ph] ? And have do you look at your position on them and the likely timing of when you'll find out? And then second your severance for the quarter was really dead in line with what I was expecting.
I just want to know if you can give a little color as to where you are expecting severance for the year as a percent of revenue especially given the geographic trends growth trends you're seeing in particular the declines in Europe.
Although you've been fairly vocal about things you have not expected a lot of growth in Europe this year.
The 2 biggest pictures out there frankly are opportunities for us.
One is Unilever Media.
As you may know right now the bulk of our Unilever media is in Latin America and we are very comfortable with where we stand on that and we view our opportunities with respect to inroads on the global media pitch.
Hopefully will be positive and we're actively engaged in that discussion as we speak.
So the downside on that one is not significant.
The upside we think could be very beneficial to us.
The other one is the Bank of America.
There Hill Holliday is leading our pitch there.
We have an existing relationship with Hill Holliday and Bank of America which is outstanding.
We certainly are comfortable and we believe our existing business is solid and we view that as an opportunity as well.
We don't have any other big pitches.
We have the post office with respect to Campbell Ewald and Draftfcb that as you may know has been extended.
So that will play out towards the end of the year.
The other 2 pitches we would hope to see in the first half of the year resolved.
But we don't have any other big clients up for review and frankly which is why my comment was I think our opportunities on the upside in terms of new business.
James on severance.
For the first quarter the majority of the severance was in Europe.
For the full year we historically guided people to 1%.
We've trended over that for the last few years probably 1.5% of revenues is a reasonable number and I think that the variable in that discussion again is Europe.
Well thank you very much for joining us.
We look forward to our call with respect to our second quarter results.
And thanks for joining us.
Good bye.
This concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the Interpublic Group Second Quarter and First Half 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Mr.
Jerry Leshne Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Thank you as well for your patience this morning as the release was behind schedule due to problems at our service provider.
But we have posted our earnings release and our slide presentation on our website interpublic.com and we'll refer to both in the course of this call.
This morning we are joined by Michael Roth and Frank Mergenthaler.
We will begin with prepared remarks to be followed by Q&amp;A.
We plan to conclude before market open at 9:30 a.m.
Eastern.
During this call we will refer to forward-looking statements about our company which are subject to the uncertainties in the cautionary statement included in our earnings release and the slide presentation and further detailed in our 10-Q and other filings with the SEC.
At this point it is my pleasure to turn things over to Michael Roth.
Thank you Jerry and thank you for joining us for our review of our second quarter and first half 2012 results.
As usual I'll start out by covering the key highlights of our performance Frank will then provide additional details on our results and I'll conclude with an update on our agencies and outlook to be followed by a Q&amp;A.
To begin with the highlights we're pleased to report Q2's diluted earnings per share growth of 16% along with operating margin expansion that supports our targets for the year.
Our organic revenue growth in the second quarter was 0.8% and 1.7% for the first half of the year.
In the U.S.
our organic revenue decrease in Q2 was 3.2%.
The approximate 5% impact of last year's account losses more than offset sound U.S.
performance.
We had growth at several of our integrated agencies and across the CMG portfolio.
Our digital services continue to make strong contributions.
That includes both the capabilities we built within our agencies and of course our digital specialty agencies.
Internationally organic growth in the second quarter was 6%.
In the Asia Pac and LatAm regions double-digit growth was due to the strength of all our global networks: Media businesses digital capabilities and our marketing services specialists.
In the U.K.
we again had solid growth in Q2 while in Continental Europe organic revenue decreased moderately due to continued macro challenges.
Turning to the client sectors.
We had growth during the quarter in auto and transportation financial services and food and beverage.
As expected we had decreases in the tech and telecom and consumer goods categories.
It's worth noting that absent the loss of SC Johnson the consumer goods category showed solid growth a sign that our U.S.
business is solid.
In health care we continue to see industry-wide softness due to patent expirations and regulatory uncertainty.
Retail sector revenues in the quarter decreased due to some pullback from existing clients.
These trends weighed particularly heavy on our U.S.
revenue in the quarter.
For the year-to-date we are net new business positive.
I'll cover specific wins when I provide detail on the agencies in my closing remarks.
But we've seen good results thus far this year in major pitches such as Bank of America Unilever as well as with growth with current clients like Microsoft and General Motors.
While first half revenue growth is below our full-year objectives we are targeting a stronger second half and our full-year objective continues to be 3% organic growth.
Moving to operating expenses and margin our results continue to reflect careful and effective cost management along with disciplined investment in the growth areas of our businesses through talent acquisition and development as well as targeted M&amp;A activity.
Q2 operating margin increased 30 basis points to 10.3%.
For the first half of 2012 our operating margin was also up 30 basis points compared to a year ago.
On a trailing 12-month basis our operating margin increased to 9.9% which is once again the highest level of 12-month profitability that IPG has posted in over a decade.
We are well-positioned to deliver on our 2012 objective of 50 basis points or more of margin improvement.
Q2 diluted earnings per share were $0.22 an improvement of 16% from a year ago.
Diluted shares decreased 13% as a result of our share repurchase program and the elimination of the convertible notes retired earlier this year.
We continue to place a priority on returning capital to shareholders in the quarter.
During the second quarter we repurchased another 6 million shares bringing our first half total to 11 million shares.
Along with our quarterly common stocks dividend we returned over $170 million to shareholders in the first half of 2012.
Given the seasonality of our cash flows we are planning to increase our share repurchase activity in the second half of 2012.
With that as an overview I'll turn things over to Frank who will take us through our financial performance.
Good morning.
As a reminder I will be referring to the slide presentation that accompanies our webcast.
On Slide 2 you'll see an overview of our results.
Organic growth was 0.8% in Q2 result of solid international growth of 6% organically and lower U.S.
revenue.
Q2 operating income was $176 million.
Operating margin was 10.3% an improvement of 30 basis points compared to last year second quarter.
The sequential progression of our expense base from Q1 to Q2 continue to be very well controlled.
As a result trailing 12-month operating margin increased to 9.9% and conversion of our constant currency revenue growth to operating profit is well over 30% for the trailing 12 months.
Our Q2 diluted earnings per share was $0.22 compared to $0.19 a year ago.
We maintained strong liquidity with $1.5 billion of cash and short-term marketable securities on the balance sheet at quarter end compared with $1.8 billion a year ago.
That comparison includes having used $640 million to repurchase shares pay common dividends and pay down long-term debt over the past 12 months.
To be clear the comparison does not include our remaining stake in Facebook.
Turning to Slide 3.
You see our P&amp;L for the quarter.
I'll cover revenue and operating expenses in detail on the slides that follow.
It's worth noting a couple of items.
Our effective income tax rate in the quarter was 32.3% which due to discrete items in the quarter is below what we consider underlying run rate this year of around 37%.
Our average basic share count for the quarter was 437 million shares a decrease of 8% from a year ago.
Average diluted shares for the quarter decreased 13% which reflects the retirement from convertible debt in March.
Turning to operations on Slide 4 beginning with revenue.
Revenue in the quarter is $1.72 billion a reported decrease of 1.4%.
Compared to Q2 of 2011 the impact of changes in exchange rates was a negative 280 basis points.
It's worth noting that we were well-matched in functional currencies between revenue and operating expenses so there was minimal impact to our operating income and margin from change in exchange rates.
The effect of net acquisitions and dispositions added 60 basis points of revenue growth.
Our organic revenue increase was 0.8%.
In the first half of 2012 organic revenue growth was 1.7%.
As we called out on our last conference call revenue headwinds are approximately 3% for the year and our first half weighted with more U.S.
impact than international.
They mainly impact client categories in the consumer goods and technology areas.
As you can see on the bottom half of this slide the organic revenue change at our integrated agency networks IAN segment was negative 0.5% for the quarter.
This is where the revenue headwinds from prior year account losses are.
First half organic growth was 0.5%.
Organic growth at our CMG segment was a strong 8%.
We have solid performance across our marketing services portfolio and strong growth in every -- in nearly every region of the world.
First half organic growth was 8.3%.
Moving to Slide 5 revenue by region.
In the U.S.
our organic decrease of 3.2% was a result of underlying growth being more than offset by client losses from last year.
We saw a growth in the U.S.
from several of our integrated independent agencies Lowe &amp; Partners and CMG.
We had client sector growth in U.S.
in auto and transportation and financial services.
Health care continue to be soft.
The retail sector decreased due to reductions spent at specific clients.
Pass-through revenues also weighed on our U.S.
organic revenue performance.
As you know these pass-through costs are profit neutral but they accounted for 90 basis points decrease in organic growth from last year's Q2.
Turning to international markets.
Organic growth outside the U.S.
was 6%.
U.K.
revenue increased 4.2% in Q2 on top of 15% organic growth a year ago which is a solid result.
Growth was led by our events business the continued international expansion of R/GA and our media business.
Our reported increase also includes the contribution of several acquisitions we completed over the last 12 months.
Continental Europe decreased 2.5% in Q2.
Given macro conditions that continued to impact client spending this was not a surprise.
We had growth in Germany and France but it was offset by decreases in other countries.
On a reported basis we have double-digit percentage decreases in the quarter and the half in Continental Europe.
That is due to the effect of the stronger U.S.
dollar against the euro.
Asia Pac continues to be very strong.
Organic revenue growth was 14.3% in Q2.
We saw a strong growth in our media business in marketing services and at McCann.
This includes both new business wins and growth in existing clients.
We have double digit increases in China Japan India and Australia.
In LatAm Q2 organic revenue growth was 27.2% included broad-based growth across all client sectors.
We were led by double-digit growth from McCann CMG and media and had strong increases from Draftfcb Lowe and R/GA.
Growth was outstanding in Brazil Argentina Chile and Mexico also had strong growth.
Our LatAm organic growth for the first half was 16.7%.
In our other markets group revenue decreased 4.2% organically in the quarter due to decreases in South Africa and Canada partially offset by growth in the Middle East.
On Slide 6 we chart the longer view of organic revenue change on a trailing 12-month basis.
The most recent data points is 3.7% which is updated to include Q2 throughout 2012.
Moving on to Slide 7 at our operating expenses.
Our operators continue their effective focus on expense management.
In Q2 total operating expenses increased only 0.4% on organic basis compared to last year.
Sequentially moving between Q1 and Q2 operating expenses remained very well-managed and for the trailing 12 months increased only 1.8% organically well below organic revenue growth of 3.7% over the same period.
Total salaries and wage expenses were 63.5% of revenue in Q2 compared to 62.9% of revenue last year.
On a trailing 12-month basis to June 30 total salaries and wage expenses were 63% compared to 63.8% for the same period a year ago.
Headcount at quarter end was 42 800 people a year-on-year increase of 1.7%.
1/3 of that increase was from net acquisitions completed over the last 12 months.
The remaining hiring reflects investment and growing disciplines such as media public relations and the digital services throughout agencies.
It also supports growth in markets such as China India and Brazil.
Offsetting these investments were reductions in Continental Europe and the U.S.
tracking our revenue decreases.
Severance expense was 1.2% of Q2 revenue compared with 1.3% a year ago.
Incentive expense in the quarter was 3.3% of revenue compared with 3.5% a year ago.
For the full-year we continue to expect incentive expense in the range of 3.5% to 4% of revenue.
Turning to office and general expenses on the lower half of the slide.
O&amp;G was $450 million in Q2 a decrease of 2.3% on organic basis from a year ago.
O&amp;G expense was 26.3% of revenue compared to 27.1% a year ago an 80 basis point improvement.
We drove 40 basis points of leverage on occupancy expense as we continue to find efficiencies in our real estate portfolio.
We had 50 basis points of leverage on our other O&amp;G category.
This is due to lower pass-through costs which I previously mentioned.
For the trailing 12 months O&amp;G expense was 27.1% of our revenue compared with 27.9% a year ago.
On Slide 8 we show our operating margin improvement on a trailing 12-month basis with the most recent data point of 9.9% for Q2 2012.
As we have said previously our target level for 2012 is to improve at least 50 basis points with our objective fully competitive profitability by 2014.
Turning to the current portion of our balance sheet on Slide 9 we ended the quarter with $1.5 billion cash in marketable securities compared with $1.8 billion a year ago a decrease of approximately $300 million.
The comparison includes $490 million return to shareholders over the last 12 months in the form of share repurchase and common stock dividends as well as a net reduction of $150 million in our long-term debt.
The effect of the stronger U.S.
dollar on our international balances also reduced that comparison by $80 million.
We had a net cash inflow in August of 2011 of $134 million from the sale of approximately half of our interest in Facebook.
A restricted marketable securities line seen here of $136 million is our remaining 4.4 million shares in Facebook mark-to-market as of June 30.
The restriction refers to the 180 day period from the Facebook IPO date or until mid-November.
The significant increase in value from our cost base is recorded as unrealized gain in equity and not through the income statement.
On Slide 10 we turn to the cash flow for the quarter.
Cash provided by operations was $157 million compared with $199 million in Q2 2011.
Cash used in working capital was $16 million in Q2 '12 compared with the contribution of $67 million last year.
In investing activities we used $77 million primarily for acquisitions and CapEx.
Acquisitions in Q2 reflect our emphasis on high-growth disciplines in expanding our digital capabilities.
They include a London-based European digital search specialist group a full service digital agency in France and a health care market research access agency in the U.K.
Our financing activities used $112 million the largest component of which was $65 million for share repurchases $26 million on our quarterly stock dividend and $35 million to acquire additional interest and consolidate subsidiaries.
The net decrease in cash and marketable securities in the quarter was $72 million.
On Slide 11 you see our total debt outstanding at quarter end 2012 and at year end from 2007 through 2011.
This depicts our reduction of total debt over the last several years.
Since the end of 2007 we reduced total debt by over $700 million.
The net decrease of long-term debt of $150 million during 2012 took place during the first quarter with the retirement of $400 million 4.25% convertible notes net renumerations of $200 million 4% notes.
Looking ahead over the next 12 months we will have additional opportunities to further improve our balance sheet and reduce our effective cost of debt.
In summary on Slide 12 we saw some pressure on U.S.
revenue in the quarter offset by very strong revenue growth internationally.
We will cycle through the revenue headwinds by year end and we are managing through this challenge effectively.
We are therefore on course to deliver the margin expansion that we have targeted for the full-year.
This is a credit to our operators who are managing expenses very effectively.
Our cash flow and balance sheet continue to make significant contributions to value creation including 16% diluted EPS growth in the quarter.
With that let me turn it back over to Michael.
Thank you Frank.
As always at this time of the year we review first half results with our operating leadership.
We access the tone of business and gauge our outlook for the balance of the year.
The tone of the business remained sound though the overall macroeconomic climate will require continued vigilance and caution.
As we have shown we effectively manage the business to deliver on our margin objectives.
Overall our pipeline remained solid and the revenue of our agencies need to convert in the back half of the year in order to deliver their plans as largely consistent with the trends from past years.
For the year we remain net new business positive.
Significant wins in Q2 came from Bank of America Microsoft Unilever SeaWorld Aetna Ernst &amp; Young and MillerCoors digital.
We continue to see the benefits of our digital strategy in which the primary pillar is embedding digital capabilities at all of our agencies enhanced by best in class digital specialties.
Our investments in emerging markets are also being rewarded.
In the quarter Brazil India and China posted combined organic growth of greater than 30% and year-to-date that number is more than 20%.
Contributions to this strong performance are coming from across the portfolio with all 3 global ad networks Mediabrands and CMG all playing a part.
The global expansion of R/GA is also taking hold and contributing to our growth as are MRM's international operations.
CMG posted strong performance across-the-board at Weber Shandwick and GolinHarris as it expands its global footprint Octagon and Jack Morton.
We saw good wins at a number of our U.S.
independents and for marketing service offerings in other areas of the group such as Momentum worldwide.
Other notable events in the quarter included strong performance at Cannes which validates the creative capabilities of many of our agencies.
Of the 5 Titanium Lions awarded to ideas that redefine markets and drive exceptional business results our agencies won 2.
One from Lowe in Columbia and the Titanium Grand Prix for R/GA on Nike.
R/GA also took home the Grand Prix in the digital category.
On the M&amp;A front the pipeline is strong.
We are further increasing our digital footprint especially internationally and are looking to add our presence in emerging markets including the BRICs.
But also developing economies such as Indonesia Columbia Mexico and Vietnam.
We also continued to look at high-growth marketing services such as PR shopper marketing and the more sophisticated capabilities in the health care space.
Frank mentioned the deals we closed in Q2.
In early Q3 we've already finalized transactions in the PR space in London for a full service digital agency in South Africa and a scientific content specialist health care agency in Japan and just recently a leading retail design company in New York that will give Momentum an even more powerful global shopper marketing capability.
And we have another -- a number of other transactions in process that we believe will close shortly.
Additional developments that bear watching are the launch by Mediabrands one of our strongest performance of the brand programming network a third global full-service network that should help us be more active in the pursuit of new clients and the continued rollout of Cadreon our very successful demand-side platform which should be active in 8 international markets by year end.
In looking at the year-to-date we see that we have posted both organic growth and margin expansion for the first half.
We've outlined for you the factors that weighed on Q2 organic revenue growth but we also have demonstrated our ability to manage through this and deliver to the bottom line increase EPS and continue to return capital to our owners.
It's important to note that our comps in the third quarter will be challenging given that we posted organic revenue growth of 8.7% and increased margin by 350 basis points in Q3 last year.
However as we've often indicated to you we managed the full year and we set our financial objectives on a full-year basis.
For the full-year 2012 our objective remains organic revenue growth of 3%.
Given our revenue performance through June we are targeting a stronger second half to achieve this goal.
The services that we provide to our clients remained in demand due to the speed of change in digital media.
And our agency brand delivered full contemporary offerings and are competitive in the marketplace.
With respect to profitability our objective remains to deliver 50 basis points of margin improvement or better.
Our ability to effectively manage expense is something that this management team has demonstrated in a range of revenue environments.
Focusing on our clients will be key.
We also stayed disciplined on cost and on deploying our financial resources and the strength of our balance sheet to support the needs of our business return capital to our owners and drive shareholder value.
Thank you.
I will now open up the floor to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Alexia Quadrani JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Could you just provide a little bit more detail on the softness in U.S.
organic revenue growth in the quarter? The comps did ease meaningfully yet results were a little bit softer? Was it primarily the pullback you saw in the -- among the retail clients? And if you can also remind us what the headwinds from the account losses the impact will likely be in Q3.
Yes Alexi.
Well first of all as I say indicated the pullback in the U.S.
we had approximate 5% headwinds in the U.S.
as you know notably from the loss of Microsoft on the media side and SC Johnson.
And that's reflected in the sectors that we're focusing.
The additional pullback was in particular with respect to retail.
We saw a specific pullback at some of our retail clients as well as health care.
I think health care everyone has seen that because of patents coming off-line and some regulatory issues we've seen some pullback.
So if you look at it I think it is -- from a combination point of view of the headwinds which are significant and the particular pullbacks in those lines of a -- those particular companies in those sectors that accounts for the reduction if you will in organic growth in the U.S.
If you pull those out and obviously they're there and we recognize we have to deal with that but our businesses otherwise are solid in terms of growth.
If you look at financial services they grew food and beverage grew auto and transportation grew.
And obviously as I indicated consumer goods -- if you just it add back SC Johnson we had a good growth in the quarter.
So I think the sense is that there's nothing fundamentally wrong with our business offerings in the U.S and our pipeline is solid and our businesses are performing.
It's just taking us a little bit longer to cycle-through those headwinds.
For the second half of the year we're expecting 2.5% to 3% of headwinds throughout the second half.
We don't do it by quarter Alexia.
But by year end we will cycle-through all of that.
Research Division</strong> And any sense if the pullback in the retail group or the retail clients was it Q2 specific? Or should we assume that pullback may continue to be a headwind in the second half? I wish I could tell you it was all just a timing difference but I think a lot of it is subject to the macroeconomic environment.
So let's assume some of it is timing and let's assume some of it may be some type of pullback for the year.
But we'll see how -- frankly we'll know that in the in 4Q when obviously those are very sectors strong for us and we'll see a real sense of their spend.
We already have seen some pickups if you will in some fall programs and we've seen some recent wins in those categories.
So I'm cautiously optimistic.
Research Division</strong> And just one last one.
If you could update us on McCann? I don't think you mentioned it as one of the agencies that were particularly strong in the quarter.
I'm assuming maybe some of the retail clients were there.
Any update on McCann you could give us in U.S.
I know that...
Yes.
McCann had a solid quarter for us and I didn't mean to exclude them.
I think the transformation of McCann is moving on.
We've made some personnel changes that are very strong in terms of taking us into the future.
We've had our operating review with Nick and the team and they're confident in their ability to deliver on their results.
And we support them in terms of some of the acquisitions we've been doing are in support of their offerings particularly in the health care side of the business which is very solid.
The Worldgroup piece of the business particularly Momentum and MRM have very strong offerings and with the personnel changes and the movements we're making our offerings in McCann we are comfortable with the transition and we are watching it go forward.
So frankly the results in the quarter were solid for McCann.
Our next question comes from David Bank with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
The first is you kind of clarified the 3% organic revenue growth target.
But given the volatility between domestic and international I was wondering if you could give a little more clarity on what the acceleration you were expecting between -- or changing conditions you're expecting between those 2 geographic categories for the balance of the year? And the second is could you give -- kind of talk about the ORION-Pitney Bowes partnership and how that sort of impacts the business itself in terms of potential operating savings for you and potential kind of revenue growth? Let me take Pitney Bowes.
In the interest of full disclosure I'm on the Board of Pitney Bowes.
By the way there was -- I can officially say this there was no connection between my involvement of this and the relationship with IPG and Pitney Bowes.
We have ORION Trading which is one of our successful units part of the Mediabrands.
They have very strong unique offerings particularly in the broader side of the business.
They saw a niche in terms of the ability to provide some outsourcing of printing facilities and frankly they were looking for a partner that can deliver on a global basis and Pitney Bowes was able to do that.
I think it's a unique offering.
We think there's a huge opportunity for us in terms of servicing clients.
This isn't necessarily just for IPG.
This is for an offering of ORION Trading to the marketplace.
So it's a unique offering.
We already have some business in the pipeline but that one is just a new offering.
We're  excited about it.
We're particularly excited I am that it relates to Pitney Bowes.
But we will see that as it unfolds.
It's a very unique offering.
It provide savings on the printing side and so far it's been well-received in the marketplace.
As far as the organic challenges for us look the U.S.
is still -- obviously it provides 57% of our revenue for the first 6 months and generally that's where we are for the full-year.
It's an important part of our offering.
Our independents as well as our global networks have strong offerings in the United States as well as the rest of our businesses marketing services PR and these are very solid offerings and they're performing well.
We are very comfortable with these offerings.
If you look at the macroeconomic environment the United States growth depending on whose forecasting you use is in the low single-digit numbers.
And so what we put out for the year of 3% organic growth reflects those type of markets as well as cycling-through our headwinds that we had from lost clients.
Obviously a significant part of our growth comes from our existing client base.
We have a couple of new wins that we've announced.
We have a couple that are yet to be announced and we have some pitches out there that we're in the finals on.
So all of this as we roll it all up count on a recovery a growth in the United States but not as large as we are seeing in the emerging markets.
Asia Pac Latin America we've seen strong double-digit growth and that's consistent with where we're forecasting from a global perspective.
So if you look at our business you see our business lining up pretty much where the growth in the world is and we're falling in line with that's -- tells us that we're very competitive in all of those markets.
And as a result we're comfortable with the numbers that we're putting out there.
LLC Research Division</strong> So is that -- do I take away from that that your outlook for the outside of U.S.
market should be pretty consistent with what we've just seen? Well a lot of it has to do with our comps to last year.
I mean for example we were just looking at this morning Brazil we were up organically 50%.
That's a pretty good number.
If I can [indiscernible] we can grow our business 50% every quarter I'd be a happy camper.
So a part of it has to do with our comps but we do believe solid double-digit growth is consistent with the macro forecast that we're seeing and we're delivering on those kind of results and frankly in some markets better.
So I think that will -- that clearly is consistent with the marketplace.
We always have to put in the caveat of the macroeconomic.
We had some good news this morning in terms of the European issues but we don't -- that's today's news who knows what's going to tomorrow.
So that's why we always say we're cautious because obviously this will spill over to other markets if it doesn't -- if we don't solve these problems.
But our numbers are consistent with the global forecasting that we've seen out there.
Our next question comes from John Janedis with UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One Michael if you look back historically do retailers tend to be a leading indicator for the broader client base that you have? And maybe from a margin perspective if you can't hit the 3% I'm wondering how much below that 3% organic can you do and still hit that 50 basis points or more target on margin? We've always said John if we see slight organic growth we can expand margins.
And I think we said that on Investor Day when you asked the same question.
And I think we've shown our ability to manage our expenses very carefully.
Now in order to continue to grow margin in a lower growth environment we have to be able to do that.
And I think if you look at our track record you've seen us do that.
So we're very comfortable with our ability to manage our margins in even a small growth environment okay.
And I think this quarter is a perfect example of how that works.
We're ahead of the issue.
We knew we had some headwinds.
We knew we lost some business.
We have to take some costs out of the business and as we pick up new business we add staff and we only add staff as it follows the revenue.
So I think -- I hope we're getting credibility on the ability to manage even in a lower growth environment.
As far as retail being a leading indicator certainly some of this is unique to specific clients if you will and their challenges in terms of margin improvement and footprint.
Some retailers are using this as an opportunity to gain market share.
So although with some leading indicators certainly on the consumer side I wouldn't use it as a major indicator for our global revenue.
Research Division</strong> Frank maybe a quick one for you.
You've done a great job over the years on the O&amp;G line.
Historically you've obviously talked about the leverage in the SRS line and the need to see the revenue growth to do that.
Assuming that you guys have that 3% organic can we see the improvement in that line this year? Yes John we've seen it.
If you look year-to-date we have seen SRS in the trailing 12 months we've got 70 to 80 basis points of incremental leverage.
So that's there as you well know that is going to be a key component of us closing the gap between our current margin performance and competitive margins.
We're getting the point in O&amp;G especially in occupancy.
We'll continue to focus on it but most of the runway going forward is going to have to be in the SRS area and we have seen progress.
Now if I might add.
If you look at our footprint in terms of real estate footprint I think we've always said we've done a tremendous job on that but we keep seeing new opportunities.
And I think our results for this quarter are reflective of the fact that when we see opportunities to consolidate space to be more efficient in terms of fee per square foot per individual we've been doing a great job in that and we're seeing the effects of that and we keep doing it and we expect to continue to keep our eye on those opportunities.
Our next question comes from Matt Chesler with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> It fully seems to be that as you look through the quarters of that last month sort of drives the full quarter result.
If you look back at the second quarter was there anything about June that either increased your confidence in the full-year or made you a little bit more cautious? Yes I think it's a fair question.
We looked at June and that's where we see -- we saw a big impact on the U.S.
side of the business.
That's where frankly the specific client spend that we were looking for really showed up.
So hopefully as I indicated some of that is timing and we'll see a pickup on that.
I think as the economy unfolds for the rest of the year that will decide whether that pullback is greater or less for the rest of the year.
But it was in June and mainly it was in the U.S.
Research Division</strong> I can't help but ask you if you've seen it continuing to July.
We've been focusing on preparing for this call.
Research Division</strong> On the buyback you indicated it's going to pickup in the back half of the year.
Is there any -- should we have an expectation as to whether that will be proportional to your cash flow? Although it's kind of hard for that to be since the first half cash flow is negative and it should be positive in the second half.
Well that's why we say we've been a little bit less in the first half and we expect to ramp it up in the second half.
We have a $300 million authorization from our Board.
We never said that we were going to take the whole $300 million and do it all in one year.
But it looks like we're spending a fair amount of it and if you read into my statement that would be a little more aggressive in the second half of the year that's exactly what it means.
So if we spend $118 million to $120 million in the first half of the year and I indicated that we'll going to be a little more aggressive in the second year half then our intention is to be more aggressive.
So I think you can interpolate from that.
Research Division</strong> When is the next opportunity that the Board can discuss revisiting or upping that allocation? Well the Board can do it anytime they want.
But we like to do this on a regular basis.
So come next year we will take a look at our authorizations obviously on the dividend as well as the buyback.
We've had some healthy discussions with our investor base as to their preference as to whether dividends make more sense than buybacks.
At that point in time we'll make a presentation to our Board and they will make a determination of what we do with our cash flow and any excess cash we have on our balance sheet.
And we'll be responsive to what the marketplace is looking at.
Of course we have to be sensitive to any potential changes in tax law as to whether dividends are preferable to buybacks.
All of that gets factored in.
We also have a little thing that we call Facebook investment.
If you recall the last time when we did have an opportunity to sell our Facebook shares we used that as an opportunity to use of the entire proceeds from that transaction to increase our authorization.
In November our restrictions on our Facebook shares come off and we're free to do whatever we decide to do.
We've indicated that our Facebook investment is not strategic and will be opportunistic in the marketplace and what we do with the proceeds if and when we sell will be up to our Board and the market conditions.
So that's another avenue we have in terms of returning money to our shareholders.
Our next question comes from Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you guys a little bit on the revenue outlook as well.
You called out a 5-point hit to U.S.
organics in Q2 from account losses.
Can you help us think about Q3 and into Q4? That would seem to be a number you have a decent grasp on just because you obviously know what happened last year? Yes.
I think what we said was we said for the second half of the year not by quarter we have 2.5%to 3% as it rolls off.
By December all of it will have rolled off and we'll start 2013 a fresh.
We don't -- Research Division</strong> Just to be clear the 2.5% to 3% is overall or it is that the U.S.
I think the 5 points was the U.S.
number.
Correct.
Correct.
We said 3% for the year first half weighted.
So first half is in the 3.5% range that will incur the back half is something less than 3%.
And to Michael's point we haven't given any color around quarters.
That's for the back half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you mentioned the Latin American comp I don't know if you have basis point number you'd throw out for that piece.
I know Q3 was up a lot last year particularly in Brazil but you can see the LatAm number just trying to think -- it would seem like Q3 is a tough comp in general and so I just wanted to ask about that piece as well? Well we  had 8.5% revenue in the third quarter last year.
That's a pretty tough comp in this environment and last year in the third quarter if you recall last year our second quarter we had some Latin American revenue that flipped from the second quarter to the third quarter and that was in that comp number last year.
So what that says is we continue to be bullish about our outlook for Brazil and Latin America.
We have a tough comp but we still think the businesses there are solid across-the-board.
And for the year we're comfortable with how it falls into our overall numbers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just going back to the cash flow statement on acquisitions.
I know last year you sort of underspent your budget for the year sounds like you got a lot of activity going on currently.
I don't know if there's any way to put a finer point at what you expect for acquisition spend for the year 2012? Ben we had said about $200 million of new money for the year that's still probably pretty good number.
Yes.
By the way that's just a guideline.
If we see some really attractive transaction out there that we can't pass on we'll look at it.
But so far we haven't seen that.
And to your comment about underspending last year the reason we underspent there was a number of transactions that were deep into the pipeline they just didn't close until this year.
So the pipeline has been on -- has been consistently robust actually for the past 3 years.
What's encouraging is that our acquisitions are across-the-board.
All our different segments and agencies on a global basis are -- obviously they're digital.
We've had some search companies in the mix.
We have health care companies.
We have PR companies we have digital companies both in Europe and Latin America and India.
So I like the fact that we're spending our money where the money -- where the growth is and that's obviously good and we're enhancing our offerings where we need it.
So in McCann for example the question was about McCann we added to their health care offerings if you will.
We added or we will be adding something hopefully in the digital capabilities in Europe.
So I think this is a good opportunity for us to enhance our overall offerings and there are some transactions that are there that we find very attractive.
Our next question comes from Peter Stabler with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> So a couple of questions.
First on CMG continued strong growth there.
I know that the PR assets are best in class.
Can you give us a sense of your visibility into subsequent quarters on PR then I got -- and all of CMG for that matter? And then I've got a quick follow-up.
Sure.
It's always scary.
CMG we like to think of CMG as a retainer base recurring model.
And we're doing a lot of things particularly in the PR side and the event side that will enable them to do that but we still have a long way to go.
So we have what is known as to be generating where the business that we hopefully identify but having yet realized.
And in the CMG space that's a big number because that's the nature of that business.
It is project-oriented and what's interesting is every year we go through the angst of going through that and every year they do great.
And that's a credit to our people both at Weber Shandwick and now GolinHarris is rolling out on a global basis and having great traction.
Jack Morton as well as Octagon and FutureBrands are having very solid years.
And -- but it's a -- and that was sort of bite your fingernail business.
But for -- we're very fortunate when you have best in class offerings they continue to deliver and I don't see any reason why they shouldn't continue to do that.
They're gaining market share.
It's not just growth in the business.
When you look at our competitor's results particularly in the PR side where we do have some visibility into what our competitors are doing I think you continually see Weber Shandwick outperform our competitors on the PR side and that's a tribute to that business.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then the new business success that you called out Michael.
Just given the fact that 3% still remains a target I mean 2Q is a large quarter.
We've got to assume really pretty substantial growth in the second half.
Can you give us a sense to whether there's new business wins? It seems like they're going to be full contributors to both Q3 and Q4.
It's not as if some of these things are going to ramp really slowly and only trickle in later in the year.
Is that a fair assessment? Yes I mean like I said we're counting on a stronger back half of the year and certainly some of the wins that we've already achieved are in those numbers.
Frankly there's a couple of wins in there that we haven't announced that we hope to see flow-through if you will particularly in the fourth quarter and hopefully we'll be able to announce some of those wins as well.
So we don't just pick of these numbers out of the air.
Each of our business units do a roll up of where their pipeline is and where their new business flows in and that's how we develop the numbers that we use.
So clearly new business is an important part of it.
The real strength in our company is growth from our existing businesses and that's where it's at.
And like I said in some of our existing clients we already see some fourth quarter campaigns that we're going to be working on which is giving us some comfort obviously as we go forward.
LLC Research Division</strong> And lastly I know the U.K.
is a real small number so need to be very careful with the organic growth numbers here.
You see Olympics bump here? Yes actually we will see a small Olympic bump particularly on the event side of the business because that's where you see it.
And we will see a small bump but it's not going to make the year if you will.
But it's nice to see and we're excited about it.
Our next question comes from Dan Salmon with BMO Capital Markets.
Michael you mentioned as you noted that across the industry there's a lot of weakness in health care but also cited it as one of the areas where you're investing in.
Are there may be drugs in your clients' pipelines that you're seeing? Are there specific areas of health care that you see rebounding that's driving that investment? Yes I mean that's a great question.
Obviously certainly that's a question that our Board asked.
If some softness [indiscernible] acquisitions so it's a fair question.
Look we think health care is a very important -- we're very strong first of all in our offerings.
All of global networks Lowe Draftfcb and McCann have very strong health care offerings.
We have strong health care offerings on the PR side of the business as well as well as the event business.
So we see that as a very important segment of what we do.
And frankly yes there will be new drugs coming down the pipeline.
Just to give you an idea health care is about 15% of our overall business which is a nice sector for us.
And yes there's consolidation in that business but the research extending through all of these things are an important piece of this.
And we have the digital offerings if you will and the data to help our clients in that environment.
So it's not just patents pulling off the line here.
And yes some of our clients are pulling back in that area but we are trying to help them.
We're here to help and certainly the recent transactions that we've been doing on research and the data and the digital part of it goes along those lines.
So we still think it's a great growth opportunity for us.
McCann health care for example is doing very well as well as our other health cares.
And we see some unique pullbacks because of specific drugs and hopefully we'll see them turn that around.
Our next question comes from Michael Nathanson with Nomura.
Inc.</strong> I have -- I have still one for Michael and one for Frank.
Michael can I just get back to you with the question for a second? The question was I think more narrow on maybe your sports and marketing offerings in the U.K.
but in general what kind of bump do you think you guys get from the Olympics in maybe late 2Q early 3Q? Is there anything you can quantify for some of your response to work you're doing.
Yes we're doing it obviously.
It's -- This is some -- a bump but I don't give out the number.
It's not a material number.
Frankly we're more excited about what's happening in Brazil.
The FIFA Cup we see is a big opportunity for us.
We have strong offerings down there.
We've already won some assignments for the FIFA Cup and we're going to have a very strong presence there as well as the Olympics in Latin America.
So frankly we're looking more forward to those Olympics and what we're seeing here in the U.K.
As you know as you may not know McCann did the advertising for the McCann -- for the London Olympics.
Wasn't a big revenue generator for us but it gave us more exposure and that's what we're looking for in that market particular marketplace.
So Olympics is a good thing for us.
It's a good chance for us to meet some clients and work with them but it isn't a big revenue enhancer for us.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then to Frank I know generally you shy away from giving too much color for guidance.
When we look at you incremental margins and look at your third quarter margin from last year which was about highest margin I think third quarter we've seems maybe a decade right? When we look at this year's incremental margin for the rest of the way should we be expecting this to be more heavily fourth quarter weighted than it has been in a long time? So how do you -- how should we prepare our own thinking about the margin lift the rest of the way? Michael your comment about the third quarter is exactly right.
It was the strongest revenue growth and margin growth we've seen here in a decade.
So we're looking talking full-year for the back half of the year would have put -- it would put a lot of that the growth pressure on the fourth quarter.
And Michael and that's why -- it's not just because we had a little issue in the second quarter that we talked this way.
When we were overperforming in the first quarter we said the same thing all right.
You have to look at this business on a full year basis.
We don't have -- our clients aren't interested in our quarterly performance okay? And it doesn't come in at a level basis.
So it really doesn't make sense.
And I know you have to put together a model.
I know you have to extend out what this all looks like.
But we truly manage our business on a full-year basis.
Our expense profiles are on a full-year basis our revenue forecasting our new -- everything is on a full-year basis.
So it kind of frustrating.
Put it in context and I said this last year I'll say it again.
If you look at our quarter we had $1.7 billion of revenue in the quarter.
The differential is $35 million if you were to take a consensus number on the revenue number versus where we're at.
$35 million in the quarter on $1.7 billion for a full year.
It's not insignificant in the quarter but for the full year we managed our business and all of these gets factored into it which is why even in the first quarter when we outperformed we stuck to our target of 3% organic growth and everyone kept saying "Well why aren't you upping that?" And the answer was we weren't upping it because we know we have headwinds.
We know that this is a full-year business and that's how we manage our business.
So I wish I could tell you what is going to be in the third quarter but we can't.
Our next question comes from Tim Nollen Macquarie.
Most of my questions have been answered already but I do have one more and that is regarding your tax rate and NOL usage please.
Assuming with Europe down on revenue terms it's difficult profitably there.
I don't know if you care to comment on that but if you could at least let us know what to think about tax rate going forward please? We have said 37% for the full year was a reasonable number and we still think that's a reasonable number.
We had a number of discrete items this quarter that pushed it down to 32 33 but 37 is probably a good number for the year.
And on the NOLs you're exactly right.
We were overweight in the NOLs in Europe Europe profitably is key to that.
And with Europe down on revenue utilization will probably be stressed a bit.
Okay.
Well thank you again.
We appreciate all the support and we still have a half a year to go and look forward to our next call.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for participating in today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the Interpublic Group Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
If you do have any objections then please disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Mr.
Jerry Leshne Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
We have posted our earnings release and our slide presentation on our website interpublic.com and we'll refer to both in the course of this call.
This morning we are joined by Michael Roth and Frank Mergenthaler.
We will begin with prepared remarks to be followed by Q&amp;A.
We plan to conclude before market open at 9:30 a.m.
Eastern.
During this call we will refer to forward-looking statements about our company which are subject to uncertainties in the cautionary statement included in our earnings release and the slide presentation and further detailed in our 10-Q and other filings with the SEC.
At this point it is my pleasure to turn things over to Michael Roth.
Thank you Jerry and thank you all for joining us for our review of our third quarter and 9 months 2012 results.
As usual I'll begin by covering key highlights and developments.
Frank will then provide additional financial detail.
I'll conclude with an update on our agencies to be followed by the Q&amp;A.
Beginning with revenue in the quarter our organic decrease of 0.9% was made up of 5.2% International growth and a 5.4% decrease in the U.S.
These results reflect greater caution on the part of our clients particularly in September headwinds from 2011 losses and extremely challenging third quarter comparisons.
As you recall our industry-leading growth of 8.7% in last year's third quarter was driven by 10% growth in the U.S.
and benefited from a revenue shift of $26 million from Q2 into Q3.
In addition we continue to see the impact from last year's account losses which was 2.5% in the quarter also notably in the consumer goods sector and in the U.S.
that number was approximately 4%.
In the U.S.
we had growth at our media businesses our digital agencies and the marketing service specialists in our CMG segment as well as a number of our integrated U.S.
independents.
From a sector perspective we grew in the auto and financial services verticals while the softness that we noted on our second quarter call in the pharma and retail sectors continued in Q3.
The solid International results were on top of an outstanding performance in several markets a year ago.
We were led by a U.K.
market with an organic increase of 25% which included several large assignments related to the Olympics.
The Asia Pac region had solid growth on top of a 15% increase a year ago.
In LatAm organic growth was flat from last year.
But it's worth noting that Q3 last year featured over 20% growth in LatAm and the region is up almost 10% organically year-to-date in 2012.
Turning to expenses.
Our results in the quarter reflect careful and effective cost management.
Sequentially from Q2 to Q3 all of our major expense categories were flat or decreased.
The only exception was pass-through expenses which are directly offset in revenue and this was due to our high volume of Olympic projects connected to the London games.
Q3 operating profit was $131 million and operating margin was 7.9%.
Profit performance in the prior year period was the best of any third quarter in our company's history which made for another tough comp.
Q3 diluted earnings per share of $0.15 compares to $0.16 in Q3 '11 excluding the impact of our Facebook transaction a year ago.
In the third quarter we continued to drive value from our balance sheet.
We repurchased approximately 8 million shares in the quarter for $83 million.
This brings our repurchases to 19 million shares and 201 million through the 9 months.
Over the past 12 months we put approximately $600 million to work in the form of share repurchases dividends and retiring long-term debt.
Diluted shares in the quarter decreased 15% from last year's third quarter due to our share repurchases and elimination of a convertible debt issue earlier this year as well as dilution from our convertible preferred shares last year.
Looking ahead Q4 is always critical since it is our seasonally largest quarter and our most significant profit contributor.
We expect to achieve revenue and profit growth in the fourth quarter.
With respect to the full year we anticipate positive organic revenue performance.
Given our growth through the 9 months and client caution we now expect a lower rate of growth for the year than we have previously targeted.
In 2012 we will see year-on-year improvement with respect to operating margin.
On a trailing 12 months to September 30 our margin increased 30 basis points.
This demonstrates that we can enhance profitability at lower rates of revenue growth.
Once again Q4 will be key but we believe that with organic revenue growth of at least 1% for the full year and a continued focus on cost a 50 basis point improvement in operating margin remains attainable.
By the end of the fourth quarter we will finish cycling the impact of last year's account losses on our top line.
Consequently we're confident that we will be in a position to grow at the rate of our industry in 2013.
Our track record of cost discipline means that with competitive growth we are well positioned to achieve further margin expansion ultimately to our stated goal of fully competitive profitability.
We continue to repurchase our shares and have additional accretive opportunities in our debt profile available to us over the next 9 months to drive incremental value creation.
Now I'll turn it over to Frank and after his remarks I'll return with some observations on the tone of our business at our agencies.
Good morning.
As a reminder I will be referring to the slide presentation that accompanies our webcast.
On Slide 2 you'll see an overview of our results.
Our organic revenue change was a decrease of 0.9% in Q3 against 8.7% growth last year.
We continued our strong expense discipline across the company.
Our quarterly progression from Q2 to Q3 was well controlled and year-end expense growth was 1.2% organically.
Q3 operating income was $131 million and operating margin was 7.9%.
Q3 diluted earnings per share was $0.15.
We ended the quarter with $1.2 billion of cash and short-term marketable securities on the balance sheet.
That total does not include our ownership interest in Facebook and reflects our share repurchase dividends and deleveraging activity over the past 12 months.
In that time we also invested $190 million in acquisitions focused in high-growth digital marketing services and specialty disciplines as well as high-growth markets around the world.
Turning to Slide 3 you'll see our P&amp;L for the quarter.
I'll cover revenue and operating expenses in detail in the slides that follow.
Our average basic share count for the quarter was 431 million a decrease of 7% from a year ago which reflects our share repurchases activity over the past 12 months.
Average diluted shares for the quarter decreased 15% which also reflects the retirement of convertible debt earlier this year and dilution from our convertible preferred shares in Q3 2011.
Turning to operations on Slide 4 beginning with revenue.
Revenue in the quarter is $1.67 billion a reported decrease of 3.2%.
Compared to Q3 2011 the impact of change in exchange rates was a negative 310 basis points.
The effect of net acquisitions and dispositions added 80 basis points of revenue growth.
The organic decrease was 0.9% or $16 million.
Over the first 9 months of the year organic revenue growth was 0.8%.
As we called out in our last conference call revenue headwinds are approximately 3% for the full year and they were 2.5% in Q3.
As you can see on the bottom of the slide the organic revenue decreases at our Integrated Agency Network segment was 4% in the quarter reflecting greater than 3% headwinds.
Last year's third quarter organic growth for IAN was 8.3%.
Organic growth at our CMG segment was 14%.
This includes project work from the Olympics in the U.K.
as well as solid growth across our portfolio of marketing services specialists including PR events sports marketing and branding.
This performance is on top of Q3 2011 organic growth of 10.9%.
Moving to Slide 5 revenue by region.
In the U.S.
our decrease was against growth of 10% last year and reflects domestic headwinds of nearly 4%.
We saw growth in the U.S.
for our integrated independent agencies our media businesses and at CMG.
We had client sector growth in the U.S.
in auto transportation and financial services.
The consumer goods sector decreased and as of Q2 this year the retail sector decreased but this was compared to a 30% increase a year ago.
We continue to see softness across much of the pharma category due to in large part to the industry's patent cliff.
Turning to International markets.
Organic growth is 5.2%.
That's on top of solid growth of 6.7% a year ago.
The U.K.
was a key driver.
Organic revenue growth was 25.3% which was helped by a portfolio of Olympic project work across a range of clients.
Continental Europe was flat organically in Q3.
We continue to grow in Germany our largest market on the continent.
We had a small decrease in France.
It's worth noting that we continue to see pressure on the markets such as Italy and Spain due to the harsh economic environment.
On a reported basis double-digit percentage decreases in the quarter and 9 months reflect the effect of a stronger U.S.
dollar against the euro.
Asia Pac grew 5.3% organically and is up 11.7% for the 9 months.
Q3 performance was on top of 15% growth a year ago.
We were led by growth in media and marketing services with notable increases in Australia China India and several smaller markets in the region.
We grew with existing clients as well as new client wins.
In LatAm Q3 was flat against 22% growth a year ago.
The 9 months organic growth is 9.7%.
In our other markets group revenue decreased 1.8% organically which reflects decreased revenue in Canada as well as in the Middle East and North Africa region partially offset by growth in South Africa.
On Slide 6 we chart the longer view of our organic revenue change on a trailing 12-month basis.
The most recent data point is 1.4% which is updated to include Q3 2012.
Moving on to Slide 7 on our operating expenses.
Our operators continue their effective focus on expense management.
In Q3 operating expenses were flat to down in all of our major expense categories with the exception of pass-throughs that increase with growth in our events business.
From a year-on-year standpoint operating expenses grew only 1.2% organically including the growth of our pass-through expenses but the decrease in our top line put pressure on our expense leverage in the quarter.
Total salaries and related expenses were 63.7% of revenue in Q3 compared to 63% a year ago.
On a trailing 12-month basis to September 30 salaries and related leverage was 63.1% compared to 63.4% the same period a year ago an improvement of 30 basis points.
Our leverage on base payroll benefits and tax was 53.8% in Q3 compared with 51.1% -- 51.5% a year ago which is primarily due to our revenue decrease.
Average Q3 headcount grew by 2% compared to the same period a year ago with approximately half of our increase from net acquisitions.
The balance of our hiring reflects organic investment in growing disciplines including media public relations and in digital services throughout our agencies.
It also supports our growth in markets such as China India and Brazil.
Offsetting these investments were decreases in Continental Europe and in the U.S.
tracking revenue decreases.
Quarter-end headcount was 43 500.
Severance expense was 1% of Q3 revenue compared with 1.1% a year ago.
Incentive expense in the quarter was 2.3% of revenue compared with 4.1% a year ago.
Q3 reflects our lower incentive accrual compared to Q3 2011 due to our latest projections for full year revenue.
Turning to office and general expense on the lower half of the slide.
O&amp;G was $475 million in Q3 which is an increase of 2% from a year ago due to higher pass-through expenses.
O&amp;G increased $22 million on an organic basis $21 million of which was pass-through expenses.
These are direct costs offset in revenue.
Moving on we drove 20 basis points of leverage on occupancy expense compared to a year ago as we continue to find efficiencies in our real estate portfolio.
Occupancy was 7.2% of revenue compared with 7.4% a year ago.
On Slide 8 we show our operating margin improvement on a trailing 12-month basis with most recent data point of 9.4% for September 30.
Turning to the current portion of our balance sheet on Slide 9.
We ended the quarter with $1.2 billion in cash and short-term marketable securities excluding our remaining ownership in Facebook compared with $1.8 billion a year ago a decrease of approximately $600 million.
Comparison includes $440 million returned to shareholders over the last 12 months in the form of share repurchases and common stock dividends as well as a reduction of our long-term debt by $150 million.
We've also invested approximately $190 million in acquisitions over the past 12 months.
Restricted marketable securities line seen here $95 million is our remaining 4.4 million shares of Facebook mark-to-market as of September 30.
The restriction lapses in the middle of the next month.
On Slide 10 we turn to cash flow for the quarter.
Cash used in operations was $104 million compared with cash generation of $150 million in Q3 2011.
Cash used in working capital is $240 million compared with the use of $34 million last year due to the impact of trailing account losses and our slower Q3 growth.
Investing activities we used $131 million primarily for acquisitions and CapEx.
Acquisitions in Q3 reflected our emphasis on high-growth disciplines and expanding our digital capabilities.
Our acquisitions in Q3 included a health care technology and market research specialist agency and a leading shopper marketing agency.
Financing activities used $98 million the largest components of which were $83 million for share repurchases and $26 million for our quarterly common stock dividend.
The net decrease in cash and marketable securities in the quarter was $313 million.
On Slide 11 we see our total debt outstanding at the end of Q3 as well as our year end from 2007 through 2011.
Our total debt reduction since the end of 2007 has been nearly $700 million to the level you see here of $1.68 billion.
Over the next 9 months we will have additional opportunities to address nearly half of our outstanding total to further improve our balance sheet and reduce our effective cost of debt.
In March of next year we can call our $200 million a 4.75% convertible debt which includes 17 million diluted shares.
In July we have the option to call our 10% $600 million senior notes at a price of 105.
Turning to Slide 12 in summary we are managing a challenging top line with disciplined cost control.
We continue to utilize our balance sheet to drive value with additional opportunity in front of us and we remain confident of our ability to drive margin improvement with sustained growth.
With that let me now turn it back over to Michael.
Thank you Frank.
Well as we already noted during the third quarter the combination of increased client caution deep comps especially in the U.S.
and headwinds from 2011 client losses again concentrated in the U.S.
outweighed our growth internationally and at a number of our agencies.
The momentum at Mediabrands and across the CMG portfolio continues to be positive.
Those agencies are picking up new assignments building leading-edge digital expertise and winning market share particularly at Weber Shandwick and GolinHarris.
We are also seeing strong performance at R/GA and HUGE as well as within the digital capabilities embedded throughout all our agencies including the U.S.
independents.
Draftfcb has made progress in replacing revenue from 2 large client losses developing its offering in digital and marketing services and effectively managing cost.
Lowe continues to build on its leadership position with Unilever and is a top creative network focused on emerging markets.
The transformation at McCann continues.
Major clients are increasingly seeing the best of its integrated marketing solutions and we are committed to supporting this great brand by investing in its talent and its resources.
New business performance this year is on a more solid footing and we were net new business positive through the third quarter.
Year-to-date performance in the BRIC markets has been very strong with growth north of 12% on top of an even better performance in 2011.
Relative to our peers we are very competitively represented in emerging economies in our revenue mix so we should continue to enjoy the benefits of being in those high-growth markets.
We have outstanding agencies in India and Brazil across all our global networks.
Brazil and Argentina are also providing to be promising markets for our digital agencies and a great source of digital talent.
As we said before our investment in China will largely be organic through talent acquisition and development.
The other high-growth area of the business is digital.
We continue to see significant progress across the portfolio.
This is an area that has contributed very good growth year-to-date.
We'll stay focused on adding to our capabilities through hiring and training as well as incubation of new capabilities such as MAP our digital audience platform and automated trading desk.
We'll also support further international expansion for R/GA and HUGE on top of a tactical digital M&amp;A activity at our major global networks.
To reiterate we expect to see organic revenue growth in the fourth quarter and to achieve positive organic revenue performance for the full year.
We're committing to delivering year-on-year improvement in operating margin for 2012.
From the second to the third quarter of this year we continue to demonstrate strong expense management.
In fact over the past 12 months organic cost increases have lagged organic revenue growth.
Therefore as mentioned earlier a 50 basis point improvement in operating margin remains attainable with annual organic revenue growth of at least 1%.
It's worth noting that our 2012 incentive compensation plans were built around the revenue and margin targets we set going into this year.
So accountability for performance against these goals is very much in place.
Looking forward we should be going into 2013 in a much better position than we did this year.
We're positioned to achieve competitive growth which in turn will allow us to deliver further margin expansion.
We've also called out additional opportunities in our debt profile that will present themselves in the next 9 months and our share repurchases and dividend programs will continue to be strong drivers of value creation.
While this year has proven to be more challenging on revenue than anticipated we continue to manage the business effectively.
The quality of our offerings is sound and we're focused on making improvements where and when required.
We have great digital expertise and precedents -- presence in high-growth emerging markets.
Above all our ability to help clients manage in an increasingly complex consumer and media landscape represent a significant opportunity.
These factors position us well for the balance of this year and to create shareholder value in the years to come.
Thank you.
I will open up the floor now to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Alexia Quadrani from JPMC.
Research Division</strong> Just -- if you can give us a little bit more color on the weakness in the U.S.
How much worse I guess was September versus the rest of the quarter? And anything one-time-ish in it or should we just assume that the pullbacks will continue? I know you have some very difficult comps in the quarter.
Just trying to quantify how much the weakness was sort of incremental client caution that you mentioned or just some sense of what the trend is in the underlying business going into Q4? Alexia we were positive in July and August in terms of organic growth.
So frankly the decline in September was a bit of a surprise to us.
But frankly we're seeing that in the whole industry.
I think we've seen it in all of our peers who I've mentioned.
Obviously that's -- there wasn't any one specific items that caused that and what we're seeing as a general tone is this concern and uncertainty with respect to the macroeconomic environment.
And I think not just our industry I think we've seen it in -- with respect to all industries that we're seeing caution in terms of expenditures.
And until this macro uncertainty is removed I think we can't say with certainty what the outcome is going to be.
That said the fourth quarter has traditionally been our strongest quarter.
And remember last year in the third quarter we had this shift from the second quarter into the third quarter of a single item of around $28 million which distorted the comps.
So I think what we're seeing is consistent with what the industry is taking into account.
Our comps of last year had some client losses.
And we're cautious but as I indicated what we're saying is with at least 1% organic growth for the year we should be able to expand our margin to at least a 50 basis point mark that we had indicated.
But there's some uncertainty out there and I think we're just going to have to manage our business.
The cost controls that we have within our company I think are coming through very strongly and you see that.
And of course our model is a vary based -- variable cost-based model which is how you see the change in our incentive comp which reflects it.
Remember our businesses are compensated including the corporate by the way on revenue and margin.
So when you see a pullback in either of those 2 then there's adjustments in our incentive comp.
That's how our model is built and that's how our forecast and our modeling going forward takes into consideration.
Research Division</strong> And when you look at the very strong performance you had in the U.K.
you mentioned the Olympics obviously was a big factor there.
Could you tell us if you think you would've had positive organic growth in the U.K.
aside from the Olympics? Yes.
It wouldn't have been 25% but the answer is yes.
And our next question comes from Michael Nathanson from Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I have 3 for you.
Just following up on the Olympics question.
If you guys had the pass-through cost of $21 million then logic would say that the revenues are going to be somewhere in the low $20 million range right? That's kind of a logical assumption.
There's some margin in that number Michael.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So I'll put a little margin okay.
I just want to get that clear.
Second thing is I guess going back to the weakness in September.
At what point when you're in the fourth quarter do you feel like you have a handle on fourth quarter organic? I mean is December the most important quarter -- the most important month in the quarter will 2 to 3 months give you confidence? At what point when you come back to the market do you have a better sense of what fourth quarter looks like on organic? Remember a lot of our project business is in the fourth quarter.
And December is the critical month.
If you remember historically whenever you look at whether there were good years or bad years -- and certainly that -- not that I think we're in that position.
But when we saw 2008 December is where it really came -- basically the project business stopped okay? We don't expect that to happen but certainly December is a critical month.
So what we see in October and November is much the business as usual and we just sort of see how it comes out in December.
And we won't have visibility into that until we're close to it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question's for Frank.
On flexibility of costs in the fourth quarter aside from the comp -- the performance comp is there anything else you have in terms of flexibility that you can bring down if you see that organic revenue coming down? Or are you pretty much locked in with a lot of your cost buckets in the fourth quarter? The biggest thing as you know with fourth quarter being our largest revenue quarter from a seasonality perspective you've got correlated sequential growth and expenses.
We're very focused now on managing that sequential increase in costs against that revenue right? So that's the message out for everybody is focus very hard on kind of what our run rate was coming out of Q3 be very disciplined about adding cost as that seasonal revenue comes in on -- in Q4.
This doesn't start if -- the basic thrust of your question is this doesn't start tomorrow all right? And at the end in the second quarter we did our bottoms up and we said we better be careful with our cost increases.
So we started managing those cost items that potentially are variable at the end of the second quarter and that's -- and you're seeing some of that right in the third quarter.
So I think that's a good example of how we are -- we have visibility into the cost side of our business and we take actions as quickly as we can to make sure that the impact of those actions that we take are felt as soon as possible.
And our next question comes from Benjamin Swinburne from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is Hersh Khadilkar actually on behalf of Ben.
Just wondering given the more cautious tone on the top line environment does it change your view on the buyback pace for this year and next? No.
I think that's one of the great stories of our company and that is we have a very strong balance sheet.
We continue to anticipate that to be the case.
And certainly by year end and -- we continue to have what an excess cash position and financial flexibility on our financing.
And as we indicated we're committed to the buyback program.
And we see that as a great indication to our shareholders that we're committed to enhancing shareholder value and therefore that's why we put in the buyback program and the dividend in the first place.
And we see no reason at this point to change our views on that.
Our next question comes from John Janedis from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Frank you've talked historically about the need for leverage in the SRS line to hit the long-term margin targets.
I think this year most of the margin leverage comes from O&amp;G.
And so when we look ahead to next year what kind of growth do we need to see on organic for improvement in SRS? John I think we've demonstrated that with any growth we've gotten leverage out of SRS right? So if you look at trailing 12 months we've generated 20 or 30 incremental basis point of margin as of September 30 and most of that is coming -- or a good proportion is coming out of SRS.
So we're very confident with sustained growth we can continue to drive leverage and that will be a key contributor to getting us to competitive margins.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then separately I guess there's been a lot in the press about the pharma category.
Michael can you give us an update on those clients and maybe how that might translate into a headwind next year if at all? Yes.
I mean what you -- there are a number of things that you're seeing in the pharma business.
One of note of course is the consolidations that are out there.
And frankly we -- pharma is a very important sector to us and health care is 15%.
And we continue to view that as an opportunity for us evidenced by the acquisitions that we've made in that category.
So what we're experiencing right now is the -- a lot of these drugs are coming off patent but there is a pipeline of new drugs and launches.
And frankly we are experiencing some wins in terms of new products going to market and this is on a global basis.
And so I think it continues to be an important sector for us.
And I think as we move out into 2013 and beyond pharma will come back in these launches of new products and we certainly have the capability within that sector to compete very effectively and add to our growth as a result of it.
I might add -- I know the questions are going to be on new clients.
The J&amp;J consolidation was out there and we had -- I know Jerry had a lot of questions on it.
So let me cover some of it right now.
Good news for us on J&amp;J particularly on the media side we mentioned in the last quarter that J&amp;J had a review going with respect to its European media.
I don't know if it's been out in the press yet but we did pick up incremental -- and on that one we weren't really doing any European media business for J&amp;J and we were successful in picking up new markets with respect to that review.
So we're very excited about that and it shows how strong our relationship with J&amp;J is on the media side.
So the next question is we do have a review on the U.S.
side of the media but I think the fact that we've picked up incremental business in Europe is a strong indication of our relationship on J&amp;J and how they view our media offerings.
So we're comfortable with that review as it proceeds.
On the consumer brand review that they had again our strength in J&amp;J is in the ACUVUE in the pharma business and the media business.
We had some consumer brands particularly Tylenol that we did lose.
But again the overall strength of our J&amp;J business is in the other sectors.
And our next question comes from Peter Stabler from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Wondering if we could get a little bit more detail about Q4 and the headwinds.
You provided us some information and I apologize if I missed this.
Could you give us a sense of what the U.S.
headwinds are in Q4 and total? And then I got one quick follow-up.
The U.S.
headwinds are 3% to 4%.
And particularly in the consumer goods sector.
And for the aggregate it's around 2.5%.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And we all know that you're in the thick of talking to clients about 2013.
Commentary coming out of your European competitor suggest not just fear I guess but also kind of hesitation.
And just wondering if you could give us any color on the nature of the conversations.
Do you feel like nominal GDP growth for you is realistic? You've already commented on your confidence around competitiveness.
But if you had to take kind of an early look at 2013 any guidance would be great.
Well Magna put out a -- they put out their release did they not? Yes okay.
I'm sorry.
They did pull back slightly in terms of the macro impact on a global basis.
So I think that's really what we're -- frankly what we're seeing.
The conversations that we've been having with our multinational clients of course is caution.
But they also are viewing this as an opportunity so -- which is exactly why you're seeing some strength in the emerging markets because that's where our clients see the battle to be won or lost.
So we are seeing very strong conversations about how they can either launch products or gain market share in those markets.
And what we're doing is we're putting together plans to help them effectively gain market share or launch in those areas.
And so I think that conversation and our results reflect that that they're still going on.
And I don't think you're going to see major pullbacks in those markets because what I view as our enlightened clients view this as a good opportunity to gain market share.
So we're right next to them in terms of helping them to do this.
Of course there's caution as I indicated and particularly in Europe.
But actually when you look at our overall International results they're positive which given the competitive set in that area we're very proud of the results that we're seeing on the international markets.
So I think there's caution.
We're concerned.
But I don't see this as wholesale cutbacks the way we've seen in the past.
And our next question comes from Matt Chesler from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to revisit the earlier question.
I think the question was trying to get a sense for any of the revenue implications in 2013 from some of the consolidations that didn't go your way.
Because I know you had made a comment earlier that you were net new business positive through the third quarter but a couple of those consolidations didn't go the way -- I know some of them weren't as big as the headlines appeared.
But do you – as you go into 2013 what's the implications from those losses? Yes.
I think the big one that you're referring to -- we can't really comment on specific clients.
But the one that you're referring to is the Pfizer consolidation.
And as we indicated there was some impact of that.
A lot of it was local business that we already do and it's not taking into effect until the end of '13 and '14.
So we don't have a lot of visibility into that right now but frankly it's sort of business as usual for us.
So we -- as we indicated we didn't think that's going to be a material impact for us certainly going into 2013.
On the other side of it we have been picking up additional product launches on a global basis whether it be in McCann health care or Draftfcb and our pharma offering at J&amp;J continues to see that as well.
So although there may be some exposure as a result of the consolidation at Pfizer we are seeing some positive impacts and wins in our other pharma sectors.
Research Division</strong> Would you go as far as to say that you're entering 2013 with a tailwind or is it...
I wouldn't mention that.
First of all I told the team I don't like to jinx thing.
I'm kind of superstitious.
So I'll keep it where it is right now and we're net new business positive for the first 3 quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay right.
And then in terms of the buyback do you think of your investment in Facebook is it something that's supplemental to your current authorization or that would just help you deploy what you've already committed to? Well I think if you look at our best -- past actions when we sold the other half the immediate thing we did was increase our authorization.
I think that should give you an indication on how we view the Facebook and proceeds if and when we realize them.
My lawyers are looking at me like crazy.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of the bigger bucket for base benefits and tax.
What kind of leverage and what should we be expecting in Q4? Is it possible that that can be down sequentially given the -- that you guys got an early start on your expense controls? We don't expect this to be down sequentially Matt.
I do think -- we are expecting to see greater leverage out of it.
Just because of the seasonality revenue growth that would be very difficult to do to reduce it.
Our next question comes from Anthony DiClemente from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple.
I'm sorry if you said this but Frank did you -- were you able to parse out in the U.S.
what the tailwind from Olympic-related work in the 3Q was in terms of basis points? What we said was it came at -- there's about $20 million of incremental Olympic work in the U.K.
Research Division</strong> In the U.K.? Okay.
U.K.
Research Division</strong> What about the U.S.? Again that's -- there's no incremental Olympic revenue in the U.S.
Well let me just comment about Olympics.
Down the road it's not immediate but obviously in Brazil we have some engagements with respect to the FIFA and the Olympics in place.
So that's pretty exciting to see down the road.
So there are opportunities.
Right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Frank I know you have some issues that come up in 2013 I mean your balance sheet.
So converts to call I think that's March and you've got 10% notes that you could potentially term out midyear next year.
I guess the question is is there any reason at all that you would not look to refinance those issues at much lower rates? No.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right that's good.
Okay.
Okay great.
And then...
Well you heard my comments and saying we see opportunities on our balance sheet.
That's what we were referring to.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Okay got it loud and clear.
And then -- and finally Mike for you -- Michael for you.
I wonder -- it's just kind of interesting that CMOs in the U.S you wouldn't be using this type of environment with capital kind of a little bit easier to just go after market share and so it's -- I understand there's caution.
But I'm just wondering is there anything else going on with respect to how CMOs are looking at the world? Are they taking incremental dollars and perhaps doing some more on their own in terms of earned media? Maybe you could just provide us an update on what you're seeing in digital and technology.
Are people maybe allocating dollars more efficiently to mobile or to social? And just wondering if what's happening is that because usage and time spend is moving towards those types of platforms that they can perhaps spend and campaign a bit more efficiently? It's a great question.
And the fact is that's where a lot of the action is taking -- look just take a look at the increase in digital overall and you can see how it's outpacing spend in other outlets.
That doesn't mean TV and cable is not growing.
It is.
But "the Internet" and digital is growing at a faster rate.
The notion of paid and earned media you're spot on on the point that our clients are looking to us to make sure that they get better reach more effectiveness with less expenditure.
And I was waiting to use this phrase on this call and I'll use it and that is that confusion is good.
So this is where we earn our keep.
And yes the clients are saying "I want to gain market share.
I want to increase my exposure to the consumer base.
But I want to do it in a much more efficient way." So we are seeing that and ultimately -- and I don't -- they're looking to see more earned than paid and it's incumbent upon us to have the tools and resources to do that.
So we are seeing the impact of that and frankly you're seeing a lot of that.
A lot of the reviews that are out there are on the media side and the reason for it is because everyone -- they're looking for efficiencies.
I might add by the way on the Unilever media pitch I think that came to a close after the last announcement we had.
And on that one we retained the business we had and we picked up some incremental business there which also was good.
But what they're looking for is for us to use all the tools and resources to be more efficient in how they spend their dollars.
So it's not that they're taking the dollars and spending it elsewhere.
They just want to get more for the same amount of money that they were spending.
And in some cases there's pressure on their P&amp;L and they're concerned about where to spend their money on a macro basis so we see some pullback.
That's not the same as where we experienced before just a total stop of marketing dollars.
And our next question comes from James Dix from Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> Two -- just a couple of things.
Just going back to September which seems to have been a tough month industry-wide.
Do you have any other color as to where you saw geographically any more increased caution than anywhere else? Because for the quarter at least your International growth beat my expectations and seemed pretty strong.
And so I was curious as to whether you had any more color as to what you saw in September specifically by geography and whether that kind of mix of concern by geography is continuing in -- so far in the fourth quarter.
Yes.
I think most -- not most of it a good part of it was here in the United States and that was reflected in our results today.
And frankly the impact on retail is one of the areas that we've seen it.
I think that's where the question of macro impact of getting our act together in Congress and the uncertainties in terms of the fiscal cliff that we're facing and I think you're seeing it on the retail sector.
So it's likely to spill over to our caution on the part of our clients on the retail side and so I think a portion of it is coming through there.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then secondly I mean if you were able to achieve your 1% organic growth or at least that for the year what are the items that could cause you to have less than 50 basis margin improvement for the year? Is it just the mix of the growth versus headcount? Or I'm just trying to understand kind of how those dynamics could play out for the full year and what you're seeing in the fourth quarter.
Well one of the items that's in there frankly that would impact it would be severance all right.
To the extent we have to take actions and we see softness in the revenue then historically because of our variable cost model it comes out in headcount.
So you might see some -- right now we're using 1% in severance.
So you'll see a slight tick -- pickup in severance.
The rest of it is pretty consistent of what we've seen in the past.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess finally on incentives for the year.
I know you've talked about 3.5% to 4%.
I mean it sounds like part of your lower accruals in the third quarter was due to the lower organic growth.
Any general sense at this point as to what we should be modeling for that for the whole year or is it just too hard to say? I'd probably say 3% to 3.5%.
And our next question comes from David Bank from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Frank I feel like every call for the past couple I've asked you this question which was when you think about the minimum amount of tailwind you need to get the operating leverage for the 50 basis points of margin improvement what's the minimum amount of revenue you need? And I guess where the question is getting answered here in that this year at least it sounds like you don't need any more than 100 basis points necessarily to get there.
So I guess I'll take one more shot at it.
What do you think is the minimum amount of revenue growth you need to get the 50 basis points of improvement? And then recognizing that this was a -- and there's a bunch of extraordinary things going on this year in terms of client headwinds and just general environment what do you think you need on a more sustained basis over the next couple as you target the margin improvement? What is the minimum amount of revenue growth you think you need to get the operating leverage? I'll try again David.
For this year as we called out in Michael's comments that we believe with 1% growth 50 basis points is attainable.
What puts that at risk is the comment Michael just made.
If in fact as we go through 2013 planning and revenue concerns move to next year and we need to take action with respect to headcount because it's a variable cost model as Michael called out there could be some severance pressure on it right? So if we've got to take severance actions we're going to go ahead and do that and that may put the 50 basis points at risk.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess I'm asking though like could you do it at lower than 1% or is that the kind of -- is that the...
We said 1% gives us 50 -- 50 basis points is attainable right? So...
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then more on a going-forward basis? Going forward I think we're still in the same place as where we were on Investor Day when we put the longer-term model in front of the investment community.
We were at 4% to 5% growth.
We think we can get 100 basis points of margin improvement and we're still there.
So we'd like to see -- as Mike said we're going to be competitive with respect to top line.
What that means based on macroeconomic situation we're not sure yet.
We're not ready to commit to that yet.
But we think with 4% to 5% growth we can get back on the margin trajectory that we called out on the Investor Day over a year ago.
Let me weigh in a little bit here.
We've consistently said that what we need is growth to expand margin.
Remember we're still not at competitive margins okay? So we're in a little different position in terms of margin expansion.
So when we say we need -- whether it be 1% we can expand margin.
I think what we've shown if you look at our results through the 3 months we've had a 30 basis point margin expansion okay? And so the point here is that directionally we still have the opportunity to expand margin in a low-growth environment.
To get to the competitive margin obviously we have to step up and have greater revenue.
But for the thesis of whether we're in a position to expand our margin then we don't need those kind of growth levels to consistently do that because of the variable cost model that we have.
And if we weren't managing our costs as effectively as we are then we couldn't make that statement.
Now -- and I -- and you're seeing this in -- across all businesses now and certainly in the United States.
The issue is a revenue issue.
It's not a cost issue.
Businesses have learned how to manage their cost profile.
So even though people are meeting their objectives they're meeting it by the cost side of the business not the revenue and that's really what's driving the macroeconomic concerns.
And that is at some point in time we have to convert to a more growth on the revenue side than expense management.
And that's the concern that I think you're seeing across all sectors.
And so we see growth.
We see margin expansion.
But until we get real revenue pickups in terms of the macroeconomic side that's when you see the greater expansion on the margin for us going forward and that's a truism.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess just one quick follow-up.
You've definitely have sort of spoiled us in your ability to generate the operating leverage off of a less robust revenue base growth.
So the question really is in -- and I don't know if you can answer this one.
But can you keep doing this? If you get -- no one really knows what next year holds exactly to within 100 or 200 basis points.
But if you were to only grow say 100 basis points next year do you think 50 bps of margin expansion is doable again? Well I'm not going to pin 50 basis points.
What I'm going to tell you is I just said...
LLC Research Division</strong> I tried Michael.
That on margin -- with revenue growth we continue to be able to expand margin.
And yes the answer is we can keep doing that because we have a variable cost model.
And -- but it's not going to grow at the rate that we'd like it to grow in a more robust environment.
That's not even a robust environment.
Our Investor Day we said 4% to 5% organic growth okay which is historically what our industry has been able to grow.
And what's holding the industry from historically getting there has been the macroeconomics.
Remember our position in -- and we've proven it is that we have competitive offerings.
So now it's -- we're crossing the street with the crowd looking at macroeconomics.
And so in a lower growth environment then we can still grow margin but it's not going to be at the growth rate that we would all like to see.
But it's a revenue issue.
It's not a cost issue.
And I do have a question from Dan Salmon from BMO Capital Markets.
Two questions.
First notwithstanding all the broader issues you've already discussed how are you thinking clients may time their decisions on budgets for next year in light of things like the U.S.
fiscal cliff coming right up at the end of the year? Do you expect a delay in terms of when you'll be hearing back from clients? And then just secondly any changes in the labor market for digital talent these days? Well the changes are that it's continuing -- it's not a change.
It continues to be very competitive.
I think we're seeing less turnover.
When you have a difficult economic environment you don't see a lot of people jumping jobs.
But it's still -- that's the area that we're still seeing a lot of competitiveness in terms of recruiting.
The good news is we have great agencies and great clients so we're -- we are -- have good places for those talented people to go and feel comfortable with the work they're doing.
So I think it's a challenge but we're up to it.
And if you looked at our headcount improvement or increase if you will on the digital side and in the media side is where we're seeing our growth.
So it shows we do have the ability to hire in there.
When our clients are going to see the light? If all -- if everyone gets their act together and we have resolution of all the fiscal cliff and the sequestration and all the stuff that's out there then I think 2013 will be a pleasant surprise for everybody.
And -- but we're not going to see it all of a sudden in December the floodgates are going to open up and happy days are here again and we're looking at huge growth rates.
So I think it'll happen but it's just a question of when all these other issues and Europe let's not forget the issues in Europe all come together.
And if we get resolution of all this then I think we can return to the days when we see good solid growth in our industry and we'll see the margin expansion that we were talking about.
But it is not a light switch that all of a sudden they just open up the floodgate.
Because remember this takes a while for people to get their plans together and for us to put -- to work with them in terms of how to spend their money.
We are now approaching 9:30.
We will return the call back to Michael.
Well thank you very much again.
Look forward to our next earnings call and thanks for your participation.
Thank you.
And that does conclude today's conference call.
You may all disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the Interpublic Group Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce Mr.
Jerry Leshne Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
We have posted our earnings release and our slide presentation on our website interpublic.com and we'll refer to both in the course of this call.
This morning we are joined by Michael Roth and Frank Mergenthaler.
We will begin with prepared remarks to be followed by Q&amp;A.
We plan to conclude before market open at 9:30 a.m.
Eastern.
During this call we will refer to forward-looking statements about our company which are subject to uncertainties in the cautionary statement included in our earnings release and the slide presentation and further details in our 10-K and other filings with the SEC.
At this point it is my pleasure to turn things over to Michael Roth.
Thank you Jerry and thank you all for joining us for our review of our fourth quarter and the full 2012 results.
As usual I'll begin by covering key highlights.
Frank will then provide additional financial information in detail and I'll conclude with an update on our agencies the tone of the business and significant developments to be followed by a Q&amp;A.
Beginning with revenue our fourth quarter organic increase was 0.4% which brought us to 0.7% for the full year.
After 2 years of organic growth results that were among the best in our industry we faced challenging comps as well as revenue headwinds in 2012 of approximately 3%.
While we were able to show growth despite these significant hurdles it was not at the levels we had originally targeted when we came into the year.
It's important to note that as we enter 2013 our performance in terms of client retention and new business has improved markedly and we have fully cycled the 2011 client losses.
Turning back to the full year 2012.
Results in many of the world's most dynamic emerging markets including Brazil China and India were consistently strong.
These were offset by lower client spend in the U.S.
and macro challenges in Europe which we had noted in our third quarter and continued in Q4.
By region our fourth quarter largely tracked the trends we had noted throughout the year.
Organic growth in LatAm was 8.6% and in Asia Pac market it was 11.4%.
Our growth in Asia Pac over the last few years has made it our largest region outside the U.S.
having surpassed Continental Europe in 2012.
Continental Europe our organic revenue decrease was 2.6% for the year reflecting the ongoing challenges of regional economic conditions.
In the U.K.
revenue grew 4.8% for the full year.
Overall our international organic revenue growth was 3.8% for the year.
In the U.S.
the organic decrease of 1.8% for the year reflects 4% of domestic headwinds that we called out for you at the beginning of the year.
It is clear that the difference between our organic performance in 2012 and that of our peers was primarily the result of account losses in 2011.
We're turning the page to 2013 with much improved net new business performance over the course of 2012.
The key for us is that our offerings remain fully competitive.
Not only are we seeing strong growth in emerging markets but our digital offerings also continued their strong growth in 2012 at both our pure play digital agencies and the embedded digital capabilities throughout all of our agency brands.
Turning from revenue to expenses.
Our results continue to reflect careful and effective cost management.
During the quarter total operating expenses decreased organically by 1.4% from a year ago and for the full year increased by only 0.005% organically.
This performance enabled us to maintain our operating margin level of 9.8% despite a year that was more challenging to revenue than expected.
For the full year diluted earnings per share were $0.94 and excluding our Facebook transactions diluted EPS was $0.82.
We continue to be very active in using the strength of our balance sheet to drive value creation.
In Q4 we repurchased 14 million shares bringing our activity for the year to 33 million shares and $351 million.
In addition we were opportunistic in the capital markets with the issuance of $800 million of debt at the lowest rates in IPG history.
The funds will be used to finance 2 debt calls in March and July of this year.
We also sold our remaining investment in Facebook and in so doing increased our existing share repurchase authorization by $100 million.
We are pleased to announce today 2 additional measures: an increase of 25% to the quarterly dividend and additional share repurchase authorization in the amount of $300 million on top of the $100 million remaining on our repurchase authorization as of January 1.
These are further signs of the strength of our financial condition and our confidence in the operating trajectory of our business.
Over the past 2 years since initiating our return of capital programs we've put nearly $1 billion to work for shareholders in dividends and the repurchase of 75 million common shares.
We've also retired an additional 33 million diluted share equivalents in convertible debt.
As we move into 2013 macro conditions remain uncertain in many of the world's larger markets.
And as a result our outlook for the year is appropriately measured.
That said we remain confident in the value of our services and competitiveness of our agency brands as well as our continuing strong cost disciplines.
Accordingly with 2013 organic revenue growth consistent with our peers we will resume the expansion of our operating margin.
With organic growth in the 2% to 3% range an improvement of 50 basis points on this year's operating margin of 9.8% is an achievable target.
We've shown that we can drive significant margin expansion when we deliver organic revenue growth at or above industry levels.
Continuing that progress so as to reach competitive margins of approximately 13% under U.S.
GAAP remains a top priority for us.
Alongside that objective we plan to continue to use our financial strength to drive EPS growth and shareholder value creation.
I will now turn it over to Frank to continue the discussion of our performance.
Good morning.
As a reminder I will be referring to the slide presentation that accompanies our webcast.
On Slide 2 you'll see an overview of our results including a number of the highlights Michael called out.
Q4 organic revenue growth was 0.4%.
We grew 1.8% internationally and decreased 1% in the U.S.
Full year organic growth was 0.7%.
Our operating expenses remained very well controlled with the increase from Q3 to Q4 associated with our much larger revenue quarter in Q4.
Year-on-year total operating expenses decreased organically in the fourth quarter.
Q4 operating income was $410 million and operating margin was 19.9% the highest level IPG has attained in 10 years an improvement 130 basis points from a year ago.
This brought our margin for the full year to 9.8%.
Q4 diluted earnings per share was $0.68 which includes the benefit of a gain in the sale of our Facebook shares which is reflected in other income.
Excluding Facebook our diluted EPS was $0.56 in the fourth quarter.
For the full year our diluted earnings per share was $0.94.
Excluding the impact of Facebook EPS was $0.82.
We ended the quarter with $2.59 billion of cash and short-term marketable securities on the balance sheet.
That total includes cash proceeds of approximately $800 million from our debt issuance in November which is earmarked for the call of 2 debt issues in March and July of this year.
Average diluted shares decreased 11% for the year.
Our basic share count outstanding on 12/31/2012 was down to $414 million.
As you have seen in our announcement earlier today our board has authorized a 25% increase to our quarterly dividend from $0.06 to $0.075 a share and a new $300 million authorization for our share repurchase program.
Furthermore we have exercised our call of our convertible notes which includes approximately $17 million diluted shares.
Turning to Slide 3 you see our P&amp;L for the quarter.
I'll cover revenue and operating expenses in detail in the slides that follow.
Here it's worth highlighting other income of $95 million consists almost entirely of the Facebook gain.
Our effective Q4 tax rate of 29.5% reflects the impact of Facebook and discrete tax items.
Excluding those effects our normalized tax rate would have been 34%.
For the full year our normalized effective tax rate was 38.5% with similar adjustments for Facebook and discrete tax items which is in the range we have indicated in the past.
Turning to operations on Slide 4 beginning with revenue.
Revenue in the quarter was $2.06 billion which is a reported decrease of 40 basis points due to change in currency exchange rates.
The FX impact was a negative 130 basis points.
We added 50 basis points due to net acquisitions and dispositions and our organic increase was 0.4%.
For the full year organic revenue growth was 0.7%.
As we mentioned in our calls throughout 2012 revenue headwinds from lost accounts in 2011 were approximately 3% for the full year and a bit north of 2% in Q4.
As you can see on the bottom half of the slide our Integrated Agency Network segment where these revenue headwinds are almost entirely concentrated was flat organically in the quarter.
Organic revenue decline for IAN for the full year was 0.8%.
Organic growth at our CMG segment was 2.7% in the quarter.
This is against double-digit growth a year ago and continues the solid performance of our marketing service specialists including PR branding and sports marketing.
For the year CMG grew 8.2% with strong performance across all businesses.
Moving to Slide 5 revenue by region.
In the U.S.
our organic revenue decrease was 1% during the quarter which reflects domestic headwinds of approximately 3%.
By client sector we saw continued growth in the U.S.
in tech and telecom auto and transportation and financial services.
The consumer goods sector decreased due to an account loss last year and the retail sector also continued to be soft.
The pharma sector increased though only slightly due to new assignments while we otherwise continue to see the category softness.
We had growth in many areas of the U.S.
portfolio including our media business our integrated independent agencies CMG and McCann Worldgroup.
Turning to international markets.
Organic growth was 1.8% in the quarter driven by Asia Pac and LatAm.
This brings full year organic revenue growth internationally to 3.8%.
Asia Pac increased 10.8% organically for the quarter 11.4% for the full year.
For the quarter we were led by growth in media and marketing services.
Among our agencies Draftfcb grew notably.
We also had double-digit increases in Australia India and several smaller markets.
For the full year we had double-digit growth in China driven by growth with existing clients as well as new client wins.
In LatAm Q4 increased 6.6% a very solid performance on top of 30%-plus growth a year ago.
We were led by marketing services media and McCann along with contributions from new offices of R/GA and Huge.
We saw growth from multi-national and local clients and from new client wins.
For the full year organic growth was 8.6% compounding double-digit growth in each of the previous 2 years.
Brazil our largest regional market increased high-single digits for the full year with growth across marketing disciplines.
Turning to the U.K.
our organic revenue decrease was 6.9% in Q4 primarily due to project assignments that did not repeat from a year ago.
We have a relatively large events business in the U.K.
and as we have seen before it can lead to volatility in quarterly growth.
For the full year U.K.
organic revenue growth was 4.8%.
Continental Europe decreased 2.5% organically in Q4.
While we continued to grow in Germany our largest market on the continent we had decreases in France Italy and Spain as well as a number of smaller markets.
In our other markets group revenue increased 2% organically in the quarter which reflects our growth in the Middle East North Africa region and South Africa partially offset by decline in Canada.
On Slide 6 we recap the longer view of our organic revenue change on a trailing 12-month basis.
Most recent data point is 0.7% our 2012 result.
Moving to Slide 7 and operating expenses.
Our operators continue their effective focus on expense management while also investing in talent and capabilities to build our offerings around the world.
From a year-on-year standpoint in the fourth quarter total operating expenses decreased 1.4% organically which includes a notable decrease in incentives demonstrating the leverage on this expense line and our commitment to a culture of accountability.
For the full year total expenses increased only 0.5%.
Total salaries and related expense were 55% of revenue in Q4.
Base payroll benefits and tax was 44.3% of revenue in Q4 compared with 42.7% a year ago.
Underneath that Q4 headcount grew modestly compared to the same period a year ago approximately 2% with over 1/3 of our increase from net acquisitions.
The balance of our hiring reflects organic investment growing disciplines in regions which was partially offset by a decrease in the U.S.
and Continental Europe consistent with revenue decreases.
Sequentially compared to Q3 our headcount decreased slightly as we were aggressive with our severance actions where required.
Year-end headcount was 43 300.
Severance expense was 1.6% of Q4 revenue compared with 2.1% a year ago though higher than we had anticipated going into the quarter due in part to senior-level changes at McCann.
Most of the actions we took in Q4 were to align our headcount with 2013 budgets by market and discipline.
For the full year severance was 1.3% of revenue.
Incentive expense in the quarter was 2.2% of revenue compared with 3.2% a year ago which reflects a Q4 decrease of 30%.
For the full year incentive expense decreased 20% and was 3% of revenue the low end of the range we indicated during our last conference call.
For the full year 2012 total salaries and related expenses were 63.1% of revenue.
We remain focused on our objective of moving this ratio to 60% or less.
The keys here are competitive organic growth over time and continuing to leverage our investment in business tools analytics and processes.
Turning to office and general expenses on the lower half of the slide.
Fourth quarter O&amp;G expense was $520 million or 25.2% of revenue an improvement of 130 basis points compared to a year ago with leverage on nearly all major expense categories.
For the full year O&amp;G expense was 27.1% of revenue compared with 27.4% a year ago.
Our improvement of 30 basis points is due to leverage on occupancy expense and professional fees.
Occupancy was 7% of revenue for the full year 2012 an improvement of 20 basis points.
Square feet per employee declined again during the year to 230 a 20.1% decrease since our year-end 2005 continuing our progress to our objective of 220 square feet per employee.
On Slide 8 we show our operating margin history on a trailing 12-month basis with the most recent data point of 9.8% for 2012.
In '12 our limited growth made it challenge to expand margins for the 12-month period but we also had strong performance from our operating teams on expenses.
We are confident that our expense discipline positions us to resume our margin expansion in 2013 under competitive organic revenue growth with the ultimate goal of reaching peer-level profitability.
Turning to the current portion of our balance sheet on Slide 9.
Our year-end position in cash and short-term marketable securities was $2.59 billion compared with $2.32 billion a year ago.
The comparison includes $800 million this year from our November debt issuance and net cash proceeds of $95 million from the sale of our Facebook shares in November.
It also reflects over $450 million returned to shareholders during 2012 in the form of share repurchase and common stock dividends and a reduction of our long-term debt by $150 million in Q1.
On Slide 10 we turn to cash flow for the quarter.
Q4 cash from operations was $802 million compared to $717 million a year ago including $408 million from working capital compared with $344 million.
Full year cash from operations was $357 million compared with $273 million in 2011.
As a reminder our operating cash flow is seasonal.
Our business tends to generate significant cash from working capital in the fourth quarter and use in working capital in the first quarter.
Investing activities in Q4 generated $22 million which includes proceeds of $95 million from the sale of our remaining investment in Facebook.
Financing activities generated $570 million which includes the proceeds from our November debt issuance.
Primary uses of cash include $150 million for repurchasing 14 million common shares and $25 million for our quarterly common stock dividend.
The net increase in cash and marketable securities in the quarter was $1.39 billion.
Cash flow for the full year appears in our presentation appendix.
It's worth noting a few items namely CapEx acquisitions and tax.
Our CapEx was $169 million.
As usual this was divided between our IT investments and improving and refreshing our real estate.
Our targeted CapEx as we have said previously is approximately $150 million annually while in any given year it can be north or south of that as level's a resulting of timing.
During 2012 we invested $146 million in acquisitions.
This included several digital specialist agencies around the world acquisitions in healthcare marketing and a leading shopper marketing agency.
Our M&amp;A pipeline continues to be very strong.
While timing can shift between periods we continue to target $150 million to $200 million annually.
We remain focused primarily on high-growth disciplines and markets expanding our digital capabilities and opportunistically strengthening our presence in key world markets.
Cash taxes for the year were $96 million.
Excluding the effect of the Facebook transaction this represents a cash tax rate of 17% of pretax income.
We continue to benefit from our operating loss carryforwards and a cash tax rate lower than our effective book rate.
In 2013 we estimate our cash tax rate will be in the range of 20% to 22% still lower than our expected effective book rate of 37% to 39%.
On Slide 11 is our total debt at year end from 2007 through 2012.
You can see our trend of deleveraging over this period.
The increase at our year end 2012 was temporary due to the double carry of $800 million we issued in November to finance the redemption of 2 debt calls in March and July.
Excluding the redundant $800 million the pro forma year-end debt level was $1.652 billion.
Last week we announced the call of our $200 million 4.75% convertible notes effective March 15.
There are 17 million diluted shares related to these convertible notes.
To the extent note holders participate in the call and do not convert their shares will come out of our diluted share count.
Should some note holders convert to common stock we intend to address those shares in our open market repurchases.
Additionally in July we plan to exercise our option to call our 10% $600 million senior notes at a price of 105.
Slide 12 shows the total of our average basic and diluted shares over the last 3 years and at the far right depicts the total as of year end 2012.
You can see that average total shares decreased approximately 14% between 2010 and 2012.
Most of that reduction happened between 2011 and '12.
A starting position for this year 2013 is 457 million on the right.
That is already a going-in decrease of 5% from the 2012 average.
As we pointed out with our board's action this week the total of our repurchase authorizations is $400 million and we are addressing these shares in our remaining convertible debt.
Turning to Slide 13.
In summary while top line growth was challenging we are well positioned for 2013.
We continue to build on a record of strong expense discipline.
With a return to growth we expect to resume our margin expansions in '13.
We have significantly decreased our outstanding shares with more to come this year.
Our plans to call both of our remaining convertible debt and our 10% note will remain in a meaningful benefit to interest expense beginning in July of this year all of which means we are positioned for strong comparable EPS growth.
With that let me turn it back over to Michael.
Thank you Frank.
Well 2012 challenged us in terms of growth but we proved our ability to manage cost continue to invest in growth areas of the business and drove significant value creation through our strong balance sheet and return of capital to our owners.
Our results reflect strength in the digital capabilities across all our agencies which continue to position us to capitalize on the rapid changes that are taking place in the media and consumer environment.
This was evident across the portfolio at stand-alone digital specialists such as R/GA and Huge within our global networks in all marketing disciplines and at our integrated U.S.
independent agencies.
Mediabrands posted very strong performance demonstrating that the new media model we introduced 5 years ago continues to evolve ahead in the marketplace.
Both UM and Initiative are strong brands and the early indicators are that our recently created third network BPN is getting traction and opportunities for growth.
The emerging media capabilities at Mediabrands such as our automated trading desk social and mobile offerings and ORION holdings are posting growth as they expand further into international markets.
Our focus on marketing services is being rewarded as CMG posted strong performance for the year.
Across the disciplines major brands such as Weber Shandwick GolinHarris and DeVries in PR Octagon in sports marketing Jack Morton in experiential marketing and FutureBrand are all growing share in their respective areas of expertise and show great progress in building their digital talent base.
Our U.S.
independent integrated agencies are also very strong.
They include Hill Holliday Mullen The Martin Agency and Deutsch which works with Lowe internationally.
The caliber of this group was highlighted by the recent announcement of AdAge's A-list of the industry's top 10 industries.
Along with R/GA Mullen and Deutsch were on the list as was Lowe whose Colombian operation Lowe-SSP3 was named International Agency of the Year.
Lowe continued to grow with Unilever its largest client win sizable accounts in key growth markets such as Brazil and India and further improve its standing as one of the industry's most creative global networks.
At McCann we made a necessary management transition to a successful long-time leader within IPG Harris Diamond supported by 2 outstanding advertising executives Luca Lindner and Gustavo Martinez who joined Harris in the newly created Office of the Chairman.
The team has been well received by clients and other key constituents as well as internally.
They've begun to add talent in key need areas and we believe the company is on the right footing to deliver growth and enhance profitability.
While Draftfcb cycled through a number of account losses it nonetheless delivered on its profitability goals.
The challenge for the organization is to take its fully integrated model and combination of art and science to the next level so as to drive organic growth.
Upgrades in key creative roles domestically and a closer alignment with Mediabrands globally will help it in this regard.
As we previously indicated we're working with management to recruit the next leader for the agency.
That process has been moving along and we should name a new CEO by the end of the first quarter.
In emerging international markets our results were strong last year on top of outstanding performance in 2011.
Across our 3 global advertising networks Mediabrands and CMG our presence in these markets has been significantly strengthened in recent years through our M&amp;A activity and organic investment in talent.
In the aggregate we are now well representative relative to our competitors in key growth markets with notable strength in India Brazil and the MENA region.
Operationally during 2012 we continued to show that we are increasingly disciplined and financially sound.
We opportunistically tapped the capital markets to prefund future maturities locking in the lowest rates in our history.
With our board's ongoing support we used our balance sheet to further drive shareholder value through our dividend and share repurchase programs both of which we have enhanced to date showing the continued confidence in the future of our business.
Our credit profile was recognized by our extremely successful debt issuance during the fourth quarter.
Most important though was our ability to respond to a volatile economy and our revenue headwinds by closely managing costs also evident in our aligning incentives to the reality of our performance.
Looking forward the macro business environment remains uncertain in many of our larger markets with measured growth expected in the U.S.
Continental Europe remaining challenged and emerging markets likely to garner greater spend on the part of our clients as was the case last year.
Key client sectors will remain highly competitive with auto consumer technology financial services and retail likely to lead the way.
For the most part clients have strong balance sheets and there was a continued willingness to invest particularly behind those services where we can demonstrate our effectiveness.
We are coming into this year in a much stronger position than 2012 with respect to account retention and new business activity.
Our pipeline is strong with opportunities from existing clients as well as net new client pitches and we have fully competitive offerings across our portfolio.
We expect to return to organic revenue growth performance commensurate with that of our peers in 2013.
With growth in the 2% to 3% range we are confident that we can convert at a high level and resume the trajectory of margin expansion that we've shown in recent years which would make a 50-basis-point improvement on top of this year's 9.8% operating margin an achievable target.
Combined with our strong balance sheet and return of capital programs this should put us in position to deliver EPS growth and enhance shareholder value in 2013 and the years to come.
We thank you for your support and now we'll turn it over to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Alexia Quadrani JPMC.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us a sense of how revenues are trending so far in 2013? I guess any colors you can give us in terms of client budgets and their outlook? And do you think you'll get positive organic revenue growth in the first quarter? Alexia always asking for the next current results.
Look the trend from the third quarter to the fourth quarter was positive.
So obviously we would hope that to continue.
We don't give quarterly guidance Alexia as you know.
The good news is for example in 2013 we had some nice wins in our portfolio.
Most notably was the SABIC win in Saudi Arabia.
They are a global petrochemical diversified company.
And what we were most proud about that was that it was a pitch head to head against our -- all of our holding company competitors and the integrated offering including Weber Shandwick and McCann really showed well in that pitch and we're really excited about it.
There are other wins in -- so far in 2013.
So as we indicate we're positioned for 2013 to deliver peer-level organic performance and expand margins.
Let me -- and while you're here let me just comment on the 9.8% because I know that's one of the questions.
When we come to year end we take a look at a lot of actions we can do in terms of achieving our targets and our stated goals particularly at the end of the -- in the first -- fourth quarter we faced issues like severance and obviously incentive comp and we can take actions that potentially could hurt us in the future to achieve short-term goals.
So for example we made some changes at McCann as we all know and that carried with it a severance expense.
So if you recall we had indicated severance expense in the range of 1%.
We ended up for the year at 1.3% and we've decided that these are the actions that we need to take to position us for 2013 and as a result that additional severance impacted our margin.
The same is on incentive.
Although we've indicated incentive comp is one of the key variables in our variable cost model we still have to pay incentives to motivate and reward good performance and certainly among our agencies we had very high-performing agencies that we had to compensate appropriately for their performance.
So all of this together sort of indicates that we were a little disappointed in the margin.
We're hitting 2013 with some good news behind us and frankly in our pipeline we see some potential opportunities that if they come to fruition I think you'll be very pleased as we would be in terms of the revenue outlook for 2013.
Research Division</strong> And then Michael just to follow up on it I was pleased to hear that McCann Worldgroup was a positive contributor in the quarter.
Looking at 2013 I know it's still early days after the change of management there but do you think it could be I guess a real positive contributor in '13? Or do you think it'll still sort of trail the rest of the company's results? Well look I've -- Harris and the team and I have been in a lot of meetings with them with clients.
I think they really have been making their presence well felt within our existing clients.
As you know existing clients is our main source of revenue growth and I'm very pleased the way Harris and the whole team have been received by our client base.
So I think with respect to existing clients I'm comfortable in terms of where we are and I do believe that their offering is evidenced in the SABIC as well as some other wins that we have out there.
Remember wins from existing clients don't make the headlines the way pitches do so it's not that McCann isn't winning business out there.
They have won business and therefore I'm comfortable that the direction that the new team at McCann is taking will enhance our overall profitability and move us forward.
The next question comes from John Janedis UBS.
Research Division</strong> Michael obviously Europe's been fairly sluggish for a few quarters now.
Embedded in that guide of the 2% to 3% does Europe need to move into positive territory? And is your visibility better today versus this time last year? No it does not have to move into positive territory.
We said this before.
We are not assuming a big recovery in Europe and it would be great if it's there.
Obviously when you see a positive number for us in the U.K.
it's reflected in our results and we're pleased with it.
But I don't see any great green shoots if you will that would turn that around in the short term and therefore we're not counting on it with respect to that number that we gave you.
Research Division</strong> In terms of visibility across the broader platform? Well visibility in the U.K.
-- in Europe who has visibility in Europe? Every day we wake up in the morning and we see new news out there.
Look Germany is doing -- performing for us.
We hope that continues.
We hope France stabilizes.
That's an important factor for us but we don't see any great visibility in terms of the turnaround nor are we accounting on it.
What we have to do is manage our costs with the consistent notion that we don't see the big recovery.
So a fair amount of severance cost that you see comes out of rightsizing our businesses in those markets that are -- that we don't see turning around quickly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then both you and Frank spoke about some of the changes at McCann and related severance.
With Harris now in the role for 3 months or so do you see much more in terms of incremental personnel change? And is there a potential for severance to tick up this year? Or do you think you're done there? We always put out 1%.
We always debate what the right number is for severance.
We manage our severance based on the needs of the businesses.
So as I said we had put down guidance on severance of 1%.
We came in at 1.3%.
If you want to do the math if you add the 0.3% to the 9.8% you get to 10.1%.
I know we don't have the luxury of doing that but the point is we make business decisions based on the needs and on long-term value creation.
We think Harris and his team are focusing on talent where the growth areas are.
I expect to see some additional talent added to McCann.
That's consistent with where we said we would be and so that's all built into our plan.
Whether there's extraordinary severance as a result of that we don't expect that but we will see some key talent people being added into the growth markets to help us along in terms of the competitive offering.
Your next question comes from David Bank RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions on the sort of balance sheet generally.
The first is if you look at the combined retirement of the debt that's going to be funded by the $800 million you prefunded can you give us a general sense of how much interest expense annual interest expense reduction we should expect from that? The second question is you re-upped the buyback authorization but could you give us a little bit better sense of timing as to when you expect to complete that $300 million? And I guess the last question is when you look at your slide on sort of bank covenant leverage and you're below 1.9x slightly and you've got another kind of almost full turn of capacity and at very low leverage how did you kind of -- how do you arrive at capital return decisions at this point because it seems like you have a little bit more dry powder than suggested by the current authorization? Well first of all what we said when we did the debt refinancing that in 2013 we'd have a slight positive effect.
In 2014 it should be about $0.05 and Frank and the team are shaking their heads.
So that should be a $0.05 a share for us in 2014.
The -- when we embarked on the "turnaround" of IPG we said we were going to bolster our balance sheet build up our cash reserves to secure any company that's going through a turnaround.
We wanted to make sure we were well positioned.
And what we said was that at the point in time when we felt we had sufficient visibility into the trajectory of where we were heading we would start returning any excess cash that we had on our balance sheet to our shareholders.
So when we instituted the dividend and started the share buyback program that was us making good on the promise that we had excess cash on our balance sheet.
We view shareholder buybacks and dividends as a critical component of enhancing shareholder value and I think the $1 billion that we've returned to shareholders is a pretty good indication that we meant it when we said it.
Obviously as you go forward the timing of when we buy in our shares is we like to use it on an orderly basis according to a program as we roll it out.
But it's always a lever that you have in terms of share buyback whether it be opportunistic or whether you wait as the visibility into the year goes on.
And I think that's the way any normal company handles share buyback.
So I think the key here is we've indicated how we view returning capital in the form of dividends and buybacks and we will continue to do that but we're not going to go out and say exactly when we're going to buy it and when we're going to increase it or not.
I mean -- but I think you should get a pretty good indication of our board's view on enhancing shareholder value.
On the covenants Frank? Yes.
David we look at our leverage constantly.
Right now we're comfortable with where we are.
We think that we've delevered at an appropriate level.
We constantly look at maturities when they come due.
I think you've seen us be very opportunistic in the capital markets to continue to strengthen our balance sheet but right now we're very comfortable with where we are from a leverage perspective.
Your next question comes from Matt Chesler Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> You talked about a 2013 growth outlook of 2% to 3%.
Can you walk us through how you got to that as a sort of an appropriate or the most reasonable realistic outcome? Just like to get a sense for whether any past account activity is going to contribute negatively or positive to that number.
And does net new business this year have to be positive for you to deliver on that? Well what we have said was coming into 2013 the amount of headwinds -- as we've said ad nauseam we had to -- overall 3% headwinds coming into '12.
That number for 2013 is about 0.5% to 1% okay? So that is factored into the headwinds for 2013 okay? You then overlay on top of that the various forecasts for our industry.
Of course the one we pay most attention to is Magna and its forecast for the global advertising environment and frankly that's in the 2% to 3% range.
So we're consistent with where we see Magna forecasting.
Obviously if the overall result in terms of organic growth for our industry is higher than that we would hope to participate in that.
So using the 2% to 3% organic growth for the year we -- and looking at our levers to enhance our margin obviously SRS and a few other G&amp;A type reductions we're comfortable we can expand our margin.
We used the 30% conversion rate on the incremental revenue.
Whenever we delivered peer-level performance or better on the organic side we've converted at at least 30%.
So that's how we get to those numbers.
And Matt also behind that are bottoms-up budgets by agency by client that incentive targets for all of our people around the world are tied to.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just talk a little bit about Mediabrands.
I heard you in the prepared remarks about how Mediabrands was a positive contributor and you're clearly feeling good about that business.
But can you put that in the context of some of the news articles that we read in the trade press or other places about some of the significant changes that you're making within that organization whether it's kind of Draftfcb or otherwise? Yes.
Look Mediabrands is a great success story for us at IPG and we're quite pleased with its performance and its direction.
Basically the changes that are being made at Mediabrands are to further enhance their offerings and be competitive in the marketplace.
By using Mediabrands as a focal point in the key markets it avoids a lot of duplication in certain areas.
It isolates some of the offerings that both UM and Initiative can tap into without certainly violating any conflict issues but it basically focuses the business units in the markets that are growing with the resources that are necessary.
So I think Matt and the entire team have done an outstanding job in really focusing on the needs of the clients in those marketplaces and what are the tools and resources that are necessary to compete.
With respect to the changes at Draftfcb when we formed Mediabrands what we said was that we were going to align our global networks with the brands within Mediabrands.
Initiative was aligned with Draftfcb and that has been the strategy throughout our planning process.
What we're doing now is basically solidifying the relationship between Draftfcb and Initiative so that we know where the resources are.
They'll be within Draftfcb.
They'll be where we --- they have to be in the marketplace but they'll be aligned directly with Initiative which is what it takes as far as the integrated offering goes in the marketplace.
So all these changes are consistent with what we said the direction of Mediabrands was heading.
Your next question comes from Ben Swinburne Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I guess 2 for you Michael one on Asia and China.
You mentioned the strength in those markets has become now a pretty big business for you guys.
Are there ways to sort of supercharge that growth by being more acquisitive? Or are these markets where you really need to build organically on the ground rather than go sort of buy your way into more client penetration? And then at the risk of beating a dead horse on the 2013 outlook and thanks for humoring me it seems like from quarter-to-quarter the psychology in the industry can swing wildly so I don't want to read too much into what we've heard so far but it does feel like there's some incrementally constructive views of 2013 in the last couple of months.
Surprising to me anyway post the fiscal cliff resolution but it does seem like the outlook has gotten a little bit more rosy from maybe bleak 3 or 4 months ago.
Do you share that view? We heard from Omnicom and a couple others.
Or are you feeling a little bit more cautious maybe than they are? I know it's hard to be at -- to put yourself in their shoes but just I wanted to see if you'd comment on that.
Yes.
Look we've seen better results in terms of revenue in the fourth quarter than the third.
That's no reason for us and I said to raise the flag and victory is here.
Well obviously seeing the strength in our global markets is encouraging and fortunately for us -- I mean the statement that our Asia Pac has exceeded Continental Europe for us is a pretty big statement.
Unfortunately one's going one way and the other one's going the other and that's how that happens.
But I do think that we do continue to see strength in India Brazil in China obviously Australia.
So Asia Pac is performing well and it's going to be a key component of the organic growth that we stated to you.
How we get there in those markets is both: we have organic growth and acquisitions.
I think if you look at the transactions that we've embarked on certainly in India and Brazil we've made acquisitions in digital in media in traditional advertising and those type of transactions were add-ons to our various offerings whether they be Mediabrands or our global networks McCann Draftfcb or Lowe.
So those type of transactions are built into our pipeline in terms of acquisitions and probably will continue.
China we have a little different strategy in that we chose to expand in China which we have been doing organically more than through acquisitions because frankly the acquisition route in China unless there's something really big out there is a difficult one and we're more comfortable adding key talents in the various networks that we have and respond to client needs in China that way.
So it's a mixed bag in terms of organic as well as acquisitions but I think the results that we've posted show that we've been very responsive to the marketplace.
Our growth in Brazil is very exciting and our offerings down there are truly among the best in the region.
Your next question comes from Peter Stabler Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple for Frank if I could.
Based on your prepared remarks Frank you've suggested that margin opportunity going forward is really going to be salary and related.
I think you put a 60% of revenue target out there over the long term.
Could you help us understand a little bit of the moving pieces in there? If we look at base benefits and tax a bit of deleverage in the quarter and for the year.
Can we see some improvement in base benefits and tax? Or are the improvements you're targeting really going to be in the other buckets going forward? And then secondly does it matter where growth comes from? And when I say that does it -- from a margin perspective if CMG or IAN diverge significantly from recent trends does that impact potential margin growth or is it really a neutral? And then likewise on a regional basis? If the U.S.
continues to be very sluggish would that impact your margin target of 50 bps? Peter on the margin growth side the critical component here is growth and converting that growth at -- we put out a number of 30% and we're pretty comfortable with that.
And we've seen in years with growth we've achieved it.
So if you do the math and whether it be 2% or 3% convert at that level you may need some incremental leverage in O&amp;G but not much so that we're factored on -- we're focused on is continuing to drive greater leverage from our people.
And we saw this year in a no-growth environment it's tough right? We saw base and benefits move up a little bit and we offset that by reduction incentives.
That's not a sustainable model.
We need growth.
With respect to the margin profile without getting into specifics there are certain regions that are higher-margin regions than others.
So there is some merit to -- depending on where the growth happens how does that impact the overall product sure.
Right? And the U.S.
is our strongest from a margin perspective without the -- throughout the whole portfolio.
So that does matter.
Yes and so does the mix of business.
I mean all our businesses don't have the same margin.
I know your next question is which ones or why.
We're not going to do that but the answer is the mix of our business has an impact as well.
Your next question comes from Brian Wieser Pivotal Research.
I just want to drill on a bit into both McCann and Draft because you did mention some favorable trends there.
Did you see the -- what was favorable? Was it inside of some of the sub business units? By that I mean McCann Erickson versus MRM versus Momentum? Or -- and it's the same for Draft.
Was it -- did you see strength by country? Or was it by particular kind of client? One of the questions we tend to hear a lot about is are these entities broken and of course we know that these are global networks that have a lot of strengths.
So I'm just curious if you could characterize where the strength is because we know it's there.
It's just hard to tell from outside.
Well I'm glad you say neither of these say global networks are broken.
All right.
There are areas for improvement that we've been focusing on it.
I think the key issue in Draftfcb is that it was cycling through some client losses and when you do that I mean it's a tremendous accomplishment to be able to achieve your targets on profitability when you have to cycle through client losses.
Of course they've added new business during that period and those -- and that business that was added goes to the issue of their competitiveness in the marketplace and that was good.
So the SeaWorld one Fidelity win these are the kind of wins that Draftfcb posts and they started recovering against the client wins that they had.
So we're comfortable with the competitiveness of their offering.
A good amount of their wins are both in above the line as well as below the line as they say but they don't view Draftfcb and nor do we in that context anymore.
They're a fully integrated network and that's the type of businesses that they compete in and win on.
McCann certainly international was a good component for McCann and that shows the breadth and the strength of the McCann Worldgroup.
Your point on the Worldgroup versus McCann Erickson MRM is a very powerful offering and showed some great client wins notably at GM for sure their healthcare businesses Momentum.
So they have very strong businesses in their own rights but the McCann Worldgroup includes McCann Erickson.
And when we talk about McCann we talk about the entire global network which continues to be one of the premier global networks in the business.
And what we've been doing is enhancing its overall talent and business focus to bring it to the levels that we believe it should be at.
Your next question comes from James Dix Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 things.
I guess if you could give a little color on what you think the predictability is of your full year margin and revenue targets given you have a fairly high reliance on the fourth quarter every year in particular over some higher-margin revenues including our presumed some pay-for-performance items which will get trued up toward the end of the year? And are there any systems or initiatives which you think you're putting in place on the inside that are improving your ability to kind of track that as you go through the year? And then I guess just secondly how best should we think about the timing of achievement of your long-term peer margin goals? Is it -- is the best thing to kind of assume roughly that 30% incremental flow-through and then pencil it out based on whatever our own growth assumptions are? I just want to raise that just because it doesn't look like the industry's going to be getting to that 4% to 5% organic growth level which I think was kind of a key assumption back at your Investor Day.
So I just wanted to kind of revisit that with you.
Yes.
Jim I think that's a fair point.
When we had our Investor Day it seems like years ago we did use a 4% to 5% growth number to achieve our competitive margins by 2013.
Given the reductions in revenue growth that we've experienced during this period I think it's fairly safe to say by doing the numbers as you just did it's moved out about a year in terms of achieving our target.
I think the key here is that trajectory is where we're heading and we will get there.
It make take us a year or so longer but we're focused on getting there.
As far as the reliability of our forecast in the fourth quarter it's not quite the music business.
I'm dating myself when I talk about the music business where the records would sell in the last month of the year and that was the whole year.
And so we do it from a bottoms-up as Frank indicated and the cyclicality of our business is built into our forecasting.
It may not be 100% accurate but it's there.
James remember it's thousands of clients in 100 countries right? So it's difficult to get any degree of predictability.
Well thank you very much.
We appreciate the support and we look forward to an exciting 2013.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for attending.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the Interpublic Group's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Mr.
Jerry Leshne Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
We have posted our earnings release and our slide presentation on our website interpublic.com and we'll refer to both in the course of this call.
This morning we are joined by Michael Roth and Frank Mergenthaler.
We will begin with prepared remarks to be followed by Q&amp;A.
We plan to conclude before market open at 9:30 a.m.
Eastern.
During this call we will refer to forward-looking statements about our company.
These are subject to uncertainties in the cautionary statement included in our earnings release and the slide presentation and further details in our 10-Q and other filings with the SEC.
At this point it is my pleasure to turn things over to Michael Roth.
Thank you Jerry and thank you all for joining us this morning as we review our first quarter results.
As usual I'll begin by covering the key highlights of our performance Frank will then provide additional detail on the quarter and I'll conclude with an update on our agencies to be followed by a Q&amp;A.
We're pleased to report a first quarter that represents a solid beginning to 2013.
This includes revenue growth consistent with targeted range for the full year continuing discipline on expenses and further return of capital to shareholders including an additional share repurchase authorization and a higher dividend as previously reported.
On top of that during the quarter we won a number of new business assignments in highly competitive circumstances.
Year-to-date we are solidly net new business positive and our pipeline of opportunities is promising.
Beginning with revenue our organic growth rate in the quarter was 2.3%.
This is on top of 2.8% growth a year ago and in line with our full year target range of 2% to 3% organic growth.
Regional performance was led by double-digit organic growth in 3 important areas of the world: LatAm the U.K.
and the Middle East.
In Asia Pac our growth was 4.3% on top of 16.9% a year ago very strong performance in light of that difficult comparison.
In Continental Europe our organic change was a decrease of 5.8% which reflects the ongoing challenges of that region's overall economic environment.
As we've indicated previously a recovery in Europe has not been factored into our annual targets.
It's also worth noting that the region represents 10% of our total revenue for the quarter.
Overall our international organic growth was 4.9%.
In the U.S.
organic revenue growth was 0.5% reflecting some trailing account losses that are front-loaded in the first half of the year.
For the full year we anticipate competitive domestic organic growth.
During the quarter we had a strong performance at many of our agencies including our marketing services specialists within CMG our media business and a number of our domestic integrated agencies.
Turning to operating expenses results reflect continued capital cost management.
Total headcount grew by less than 1% sequentially.
It's worth noting that severance expense was elevated in Q1 due to both headcount actions in Europe and the transition of senior leadership at some of our agencies.
Office and general expenses was also very well controlled across all major categories such as occupancy T&amp;E travel and offices supplies while pass-through expenses increased from a year ago.
This results from higher business activity and are directly offset by revenue growth.
Heightened activity on the new business front in Q1 meant the level of upfront investment in payroll temporary labor and general expenses in the quarter.
Our account wins during the first 3 months of the year position us to leverage that investment going forward.
Another Q1 highlight was continued share repurchases.
During the quarter we bought back 6.2 million shares using $76 million and our Board has increased our authorization by $200 million to a total of $500 million.
And in February as reported our board also increased our quarterly dividend by 25%.
Since initiating our return of capital programs 2 years ago we have returned a total of $1.1 billion to shareholders in dividends and through the repurchase of 81 million shares.
We retired an additional 33 million diluted share equivalents through the redemption of a convertible debt.
On Q1 seasonal loss per share was $0.14 compared to a loss of $0.10 a year ago.
Our average shares outstanding decreased 5.3%.
Over the course of the year we should continue to see benefits from the reduced outstanding share count in our EPS performance.
A noteworthy trend for us in the quarter was the number of client new business wins that we've begun to see.
These were led by our success in securing Chevrolet's branding work in the U.S.
adding to our global responsibilities on that iconic brand as well as the global SABIC assignment won in a holding company shootout and the retention of the U.S.
Postal Service and of course the highly competitive Acura win.
I'll have more on this in agency-specific closing remarks but it goes without saying that these were very encouraging developments.
Now I'll turn things over to Frank for some additional color on the quarter and I'll rejoin you after his remarks for an update on the tone of our business.
Thank you Michael.
Good morning.
As a reminder I will be referring to the slide presentation that accompanies our webcast.
On Slide 2 you'll see an overview of results.
Organic growth was 2.3%.
That includes 4.9% growth internationally where the standouts were LatAm and the U.K.
In the U.S.
growth of 0.5% includes some very strong agency performances and also has the impact of accounts loss last year most of which should cycle through by midyear.
Our seasonal operating loss in the quarter was $42 million compared with the loss of $39 million a year ago.
We had $1.65 billion of cash and marketable securities in the balance sheet at quarter-end which includes our pre-funding from last year of this year's debt reduction.
Turning to Slide 3 you'll see our P&amp;L for the quarter.
I'll cover revenue and operating expenses in detail in the slides that follow.
It's worth pointing out that the tax benefit on our seasonal pretax loss was $12 million this year compared with $19 million a year ago due to some volatility in our effective tax rate caused by the jurisdiction of the specific agencies generating the losses.
Our average share count for the quarter was $414 million compared with $438 million a year ago a decrease of 5.3%.
We had 429 million basic shares outstanding on March 31 which is higher than the Q1 average because it includes the conversion in mid-March of essentially all the 200 million of our 4.75% convertible debt into 16.9 million common shares which are already in our diluted share count.
With the action of our board to increase our repurchase authorization by $200 million we intend to address those new basic shares over the balance of this year.
The total of our repurchase authorizations remaining at the end of Q1 was $524 million.
Turning to operations on Slide 4.
Revenue in the quarter was $1.54 billion an increase of 2.4%.
Compared to Q1 2012 the impact of change in exchange rates was a negative 80 basis points while net acquisitions and dispositions added 90 basis points resulting organic revenue increase was 2.3%.
By client sector our first quarter was led by strong continuing growth in auto and transportation.
We had mid-single-digit growth in several sectors tech and telecom health care and financial services.
Our consumer goods sector was up but only slightly.
We had decreases in retail and food and beverage the latter due in part to client turnover last year.
As you can see on the bottom half of this slide the organic change in our Integrated Agency Network segment was a negative 0.1%.
This reflects the effect of client losses that fall mainly in the first half of 2013.
At our CMG segment of marketing services specialists organic growth was 14% reflecting increases across our events branding and public relations disciplines and double-digit growth in both the U.S.
and international markets.
Moving on to Slide 5 revenue by region.
In the U.S.
organic growth was 0.5% which reflects strong growth at several of our agencies offset by the impact of certain account losses last -- loss last year.
It's worth noting that the total U.S.
growth was 1.7% which includes our domestic acquisitions over the past year.
Turning to international markets the U.K.
increased 10.1% organically reflecting strong growth in marketing services at CMG at our media business and at McCann.
Continental Europe decreased 5.8% organically.
There was a notable decrease in a number of the smaller national economies across the region.
In addition France decreased somewhat more than recent trend while Germany was flat.
In Asia Pac our largest market outside the U.S.
organic revenue growth was 4.3% in Q1.
That is on top of 2 years of double-digit increases in Q1.
We continue to expect strong growth for the full year.
Among our largest markets in the region we saw the strongest Q1 growth in Australia and India.
In LatAm Q1 organic revenue growth was 16.1% powered by performances at McCann that includes a number of new client wins.
We also had strong growth in our media business.
Our Other Markets group increased 9.1% organically driven by strong performance in the Middle East.
Moving on to Slide 6 we chart the longer view of our organic revenue change on a trailing 12-month basis.
Most recent data point is 0.6% which is updated to include Q1 '13 and the roll off of Q1 '12.
We have targeted 2% to 3% for the full year 2013 on our February call.
Our growth in the first quarter and net account wins put us in a strong position to achieve this target.
Moving on to Slide 7 operating expenses.
Our agency leadership continue to manage expenses effectively while also investing in growth areas of the business around the world.
Total salaries and related expense was 73.4% of revenue in Q1 compared to 73.3% last year.
Severance expense was higher this year by $5 million or 30 basis points in the comparison.
Again it bears mention that while Q1 is a small-revenue quarter we recognize expenses relatively evenly across the 4 quarters and this is reflected in the seasonality of our results.
Our total headcount at quarter-end was 43 600 a year-on-year increase of 2.7%.
The increase reflects organic investment in our acquisitions to support growing disciplines such as media and public relations as well as digital services throughout our agencies.
And it also reflects growth in markets such as China India and Brazil and some staffing investment as a result of increased new business pitches and wins.
Offsetting these investments were net reductions at certain markets such as Continental Europe.
Our focus there has been managing our workforce for efficiency and positioning for growth when it does eventually return.
Severance expense was 1.7% of Q1 revenue compared with 1.4% a year ago.
Our incentive expense in the quarter was 4% of revenue compared to 4.4% in Q1 2012.
The decrease was due in part to lower long-term incentive accruals for performance periods that include last year when we underperformed relative to our targets.
Again keep in mind that Q1 is our smallest-revenue quarter.
For the full year we continue to expect total incentive expense in the range of 3.5% to 4% of revenue.
Turning to office and general expense on the lower half of the slide O&amp;G was $453 million compared to $441 million a year ago.
This increase of $12 million is due almost entirely to higher pass-through expenses which is offset in revenues and are profit-neutral.
Compared to a year ago we drove 20 basis points of operating leverage in each of the 3 areas: our occupancy expense professional fees and travel and office supplies.
Our teams continue to do a terrific -- do terrific work in maximizing efficiencies.
The offset in Q1 was in our other O&amp;G category which includes the pass-through expenses.
In total O&amp;G expenses were 29.4% of revenue compared with 29.3% a year ago.
On Slide 8 we show our operating margin history on a trailing 12-month basis.
The most recent data point is 9.7%.
As we said on our Q4 call our target level for this year is to improve 50 basis points to 10.3% on the way to our objective of fully competitive profitability.
Turning to the current portion of our balance sheet on Slide 9 we ended the quarter with $1.65 billion of cash and short-term marketable securities compared to $1.59 billion a year ago an increase of approximately $60 million.
The comparison includes over $480 million returned to shareholders in the last 12 months in the form of our share repurchases and common stock dividends as well as $800 million on the balance sheet this year from our November debt issuance.
On Slide 10 we turn to our cash flow for the quarter.
Our use of cash in operations was $775 million compared with the use of $498 million a year ago.
As a reminder cash flow on our business is seasonal.
Our working capital tends to generate cash in the fourth quarter which is followed by the cash used in the first quarter.
In this year's first quarter cash used in working capital was $722 million compared with the use of $445 million a year ago.
In terms of our investing activities we used $51 million in Q1 for acquisitions and CapEx.
Our financing activities used $104 million which includes $76 million for the repurchase of 6.2 million shares at an average price of $12.17 per share.
Our common stock dividend used $31 million.
Slide 11 charts our debt reduction over the last few years.
Our total outstanding at March 31 includes $600 million of double-carry from our debt issued in November 2012.
That number had been $800 million on December 31.
Our $200 million 4.75% convertible notes were exchanged for equity in March at the election of noteholders following the exercise of our call.
Looking ahead we plan to call our $600 million 10% notes in July which will end this short period of double-carry and result in significantly lower interest expense.
In summary on Slide 12 we are pleased with our operating performance and new business in the quarter.
We continue to effectively manage costs and believe we remain on track to deliver our financial objectives for the year.
Now let me turn it back over to Michael.
Thank you Frank.
Well the combination of the solid first 3 months new assignments coming onstream and our proven ability to closely manage the business puts us in a position to achieve our financial targets for 2013 of 2% to 3% organic revenue growth and 50 basis points of improvement in operating margin.
Performance from our operations in high-growth markets continues to be very good in terms of revenue growth.
We're also seeing the benefits of our longstanding commitment to embedded digital talents and expertise across all agencies and capabilities whether at our U.S.
integrated independents our global networks or our marketing service specialists.
Digital talent accounts for a significant majority of the hiring we are doing throughout the group.
For example with over 500 professionals from a range of disciplines the social media capabilities that have been developed organically within CMG are among the most powerful in our industry.
This is a key reason why during the quarter we continue to see the group including Weber Shandwick GolinHarris Octagon Jack Morton and FutureBrand win market share lead the industry in terms of creative recognition and add to the deep bench strength of management talent.
At McCann we've begun to see demonstrable progress from the newly configured leadership team.
The consolidation of Chevrolet business in Commonwealth for McCann is a testament to the agency's creative and strategic capabilities.
The IPG SABIC win was led by Weber Shandwick Jack Morton and McCann's collaboration.
And the recent win of the U.S.
Postal Service is another sign that the agency is gaining traction.
Just last week McCann New York was named Agency of the Year by the Art Directors Club following on other high profile honors at leading Asian and European creative awards competitions.
Similarly at The Festival of Media Agency Asia our Mediabrands unit was also the most awarded group of agencies.
The new organizational model that Mediabrands recently introduced is making more of our top talent accessible to clients and this has been very well received.
And we continue to see upside in leading-edge capabilities such as the audience platform which spans areas such as mobile and social as well as the Cadreon automated trading desk.
Our recent acquisition of the leading digital media agency in the India Interactive Avenues as well as a mobile transaction in Australia will help Mediabrands to further build out these strong capabilities.
Of course having highly competitive digital specialists like R/GA Huge and MRM enhances our overall digital offering.
R/GA recently added offices in Austin and Los Angeles to its growing network while Huge has expanded into San Francisco and Portland to support client needs.
MRM is working closely with McCann on a number of major client initiatives and was recently named a Top Interactive Agency by BtoB Magazine.
Another area in the portfolio in which we have a number of outstanding agencies is among our integrated U.S.
independents.
Mullen's performance in the marketplace has been outstanding capped by their Acura win.
We're also seeing good results and an evolution of the go-to-market strategy at Hill Holliday Deutsch and The Martin Agency.
A number of these agencies are combining more regularly with Lowe to collaborate on new business requiring global or pan-regional solutions.
Lowe's performance in the quarter was solid.
Of course the agency's creative reputation continues to grow and we're looking forward to strong performance from them again at this year's upcoming Cannes award competition.
At Draftfcb we've begun to add to the agency's creative talent base with significant new hires in North and LatAm and the promotion of a long-time top talent to the European chief creative role.
This is also ahead of the arrival of Carter Murray who we named CEO a month back.
Despite knowing of the possibility that Carter's starting day could be delayed we feel strongly that we've recruited the right person for the role and he will bring vitality deep understanding of brands and client relationships and new business drive that Draftfcb needs to go forward.
In conclusion we're pleased with the Q1 results.
Of course we know that this is traditionally our smallest revenue period of the year and we have consistently cautioned against putting too much weight whether it'd be positive or negative on any single quarter's results.
But since the beginning of the year we've begun to build significant new business momentum.
We have a proven track record of controlling costs and managing to the margin.
Therefore we remain comfortable with our full year financial goals for 2013.
The significant deleveraging that we have accomplished and the strength of our balance sheet provide additional levers that allow us to support the needs of the business by investing in talent and targeted M&amp;A while simultaneously returning capital to our owners.
This combination of factors outstanding agency brands with strong capabilities in high-growth areas such as digital and emerging markets plus the focus on cost management and strong financial foundation positions us well to create significant shareholder value this year and beyond.
With that I'd like to thank you for your support and open the door for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Alexia Quadrani JPMC.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
First could you give us any color about I guess what organic -- domestic organic growth would've looked like if you didn't have those headwinds? I guess even generally if -- would it look more like the company-wide number you delivered around your target? And then the second question you mentioned incremental expenses that you are building up in front of the new business wins you recently pulled in.
Will we see some of those expenses in front of maybe a lot of the revenues in the second quarter? Yes let me talk about the headwinds.
We have previously said last year for the full year the headwinds would be in the 50 to 100 basis points.
However it was for the year.
But we also said it would be front-ended so you can assume it was up front since it was more weighted in the U.S.
about 2% in the first quarter were the headwinds.
So if you take the 2% and add it to the 0.5% that should give you a reasonable idea in terms of what the U.S.
organic would've been.
I might add that the similar high headwinds are in the second quarter Alexia.
As far as the expenses go there's no question that we had pitch expenses in the first quarter which fortunately resulted in new business wins and some -- as indicated we had some additional severance in the first quarter.
So what we do is we obviously spread out incentives and things like that for the full year and we've built up some expenses in the first quarter that we expect to see convert to revenue for the balance of the year.
Obviously new business comes on over a period of time.
It all doesn't come in at one particular time.
But certainly the expenses that we incurred in the first quarter will give rise to revenue.
And you still have -- Alexia have some pressure in the second quarter because of the timing.
People are working against these new business opportunities now and when the revenue comes onstream maybe a little bit disjointed with the expenses being incurred.
Research Division</strong> So the expense will be a little bit front-end loaded in Q2 versus the revenue.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> But you do still see some of the revenue from the new business? And I know you -- I know those business coming in and out.
I'm talking about more the bigger headline wins.
Will you see some of those coming in Q2? We'll see some of it in the second quarter and the rest in the third and fourth quarter.
Your next question comes from John Janedis UBS.
Research Division</strong> Michael it seems like you got a much broader auto client base versus a couple years ago.
And I'm wondering has the mindset among clients changed in terms of conflicts to compete for the business? And if so is that a trend across industries? Yes I know it's a fair question John.
In the old days each of the holding companies were sort of wedded to one of the big majors.
We still are candidly.
It's by agency and I think what it shows is the depth of our talent across all the different agencies that we have.
So clearly McCann is a General Motors agency and we'd like to think that that will continue obviously by adding the additional Chevy work.
But the other strong agencies are out there.
And yes the competitive nature of this and the conflict issues throughout our industry has been dealt with more on a agency basis than a holding company basis which frankly is good for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then Frank can you help us think a little bit more about your margin expansion this year meaning you've obviously done a great job in O&amp;G over the past few years.
But over the 50 bps of margin target for this year is that split fairly evenly between O&amp;G and SRS? I think you'll see more of it John in the SRS line as we convert growth.
Yes I might add John we still have some agencies that are conflict-free on the auto side so we have room to grow here.
But of course it's on an agency-by-agency basis and we do have other agencies working on General Motors as well and we're very cognizant of conflict issues.
Your next question comes from William Bird Lazard.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could just talk about your credit.
What has S&amp;P laid out as a requirement to get pushed up to investment grade? We think that we're there and the issue continues to be consistency in terms of our performance.
And if you just look at the percentages and debt-to-equity and all the metrics that are typically used as evidenced by the other rating agencies that do have us as investment grade we think that they should be there.
But again frankly last year's results which had a bit of a hiccup if you look at it from our stated objective that goes for the issue of consistency.
So our goal is to continue to deliver as we promised show it on a consistency basis and we would expect to see that reflected.
Research Division</strong> Separately Michael could you talk a little bit about McCann? Can you talk about whether there's been any tweaks or changes in strategies since the change in leadership? Well I think the fact that we've seen some good traction on business wins indicates a confidence in the marketplace in new management as well as the capabilities of McCann.
Strategy I think what we're focusing on is clearly retention of our existing clients.
One of the great strengths of McCann is its global client portfolio.
And I know Harris and the entire team had been focused on servicing those multinational clients and making sure they're getting the best we have to offer.
So that strategy has always been there but it's much more concentrated now.
And now McCann is out there in terms of pitching new business and converting to wins which we've seen.
The U.S.
Post Office is -- although it was an IPG client at Campbell Ewald it's nice to see McCann -- it was a competitive pitch among a very -- a number of agencies -- to see McCann win that.
And I think they're on the front foot in terms of new business efforts out in the marketplace.
They're in a number of finals in terms of new business pitches.
So I think the morale there is much higher.
The talent is stronger.
Just yesterday we announced some major changes in terms of new people particularly at McCann Erickson so I'm very encouraged by what we're seeing at McCann.
And the strategy is very simple: Service your existing client grow from within and win more than your fair share in new business pitches.
Research Division</strong> And on severance do you expect that to be up in the June quarter as well? We always state that the severance numbers we use 1% to model.
Of late we've seen it a little bit higher.
We're still sticking to the 1% in terms of the modeling.
But as you go through the transition that we've been going through and when you see the economic environment in Europe we're always looking to rightsize our businesses to match revenue.
So I would say you're going to see severance slightly higher than 1% possibly but again I'd continue to drive towards the 1%.
Bill people get compensated on the margin they delivered.
So if their severance creeps up they've got to absorb that through revenue growth rather than cost reductions.
Your next question comes from David Bank RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
Just the first one I think there's a decent amount of visibility in terms of what's going on on the domestic side given the new business wins and the comping against the losses and so I think we see the progression there.
Can you give a little more color on the international side particularly the growth in regions like the U.K.
which I think were really surprisingly strong for the quarter? What's the sustainability of that trend? What specific drivers more on the international side? And then second question sorry for the long question but under the "no good deed goes unpunished" category the new business momentum has been really good.
The margin discipline has been really solid.
What has to go wrong for you not to kind of hit these targets? Thanks David.
Well let me answer that one.
The easy part of that is macro environment.
We always said there's no structural reason for us not to continue to expand margins and attain our goal of competitive margin.
So what we look at very carefully obviously is the macroeconomic environment and so we're subject to that.
We can't do much about it.
We can be -- as you indicated we can be very focused on cost discipline and managing our businesses.
But without growth in the overall economic environment it's tough to expand margins.
And frankly that was proven for us in 2012.
We've always said that if we see growth certainly in the 2% to 3% range we should be able to expand our margin as indicated by our goal to expand by 50 basis points for 2013.
So again I think the real -- the answer here is macroeconomics that can go wrong.
You always worry about losing clients especially given the size of our multinational clients but I'm very comfortable right now certainly with the changes we've made in McCann and the effort that's being made across all of IPG to keep that backdoor closed.
I'll say that now and tomorrow we'll find out something.
But we're very focused on client retention because I've always said that so much of our new business comes from organic growth from our existing client base and that's where we have to continue to be very strong.
Your question on international look McCann in Latin America is very strong.
We've seen strength in Latin America across all of our global networks; Lowe is very strong in Latin America; Draftfcb.
So what's great about that is what you get is when you have 3 global networks like we have and we see recoveries in certain markets.
India is another example where we have very strong global disciplines and agencies and they're performing well.
So it's not by accident that when you see one region down and other regions are up we're participating in that.
In the U.K.
we certainly have a very strong event business.
One was -- last year we had of course the Olympics and that was reflected in our strong growth in the U.K.
But if you were to take the event business out of the U.K.
in the first quarter and again it's just one quarter but I believe we had a 6% organic growth without the event -- special event in.
So we have McCann our media business are all solid in the U.K.; obviously Lowe.
So we have very strong offerings in the U.K.
It always been -- has been an important market for us and I'm pleased to see that kind of result in that very competitive environment.
Your next question comes from Matt Chesler Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> The momentum that you're talking about shows that you're making really good progress on improving the performance of a number of your agencies and your networks particularly McCann and McCann Erickson in the U.S.
So presuming that you keep the backdoor shut and the progress continues into the back year when you look across your portfolio what are the other areas of the business that you would want to catch up and still expect some significant improvement from to take you from where you hope to be at the end of 2013 to where you want to be in 2014? And I ask the question not to focus on the negative but to think about where the opportunity will be after we get to wherever you hope to be at the end of the year.
Yes well we -- Lowe continues to be -- the progress of Lowe I indicated we had good solid results from Lowe in the first quarter.
We still have room for improvement in terms of the margin expansion at Lowe.
So that certainly is one of the things that we've been focusing on very carefully and investing in Lowe to increase.
They've done a great job in focusing on their key markets and talent and leveraging their global capabilities where needed.
So we're looking for improvement in margin at Lowe.
Obviously Draftfcb is another area.
And the fact that we're bringing Carter onboard and the investments we're making at Draftfcb in talent is an indication that we're addressing the issues that we did have some client losses at Draftfcb.
And although we're very comfortable with our client base at Draftfcb we want to make sure it stays that way and we're backing -- we had some client wins at Draftfcb.
We want to continue that momentum.
But that's an area that with Carter coming onboard we expect to see investments in talent and go-to-market strategies.
So I would focus on those 2 global agencies as opportunities for us.
Obviously media continues to be a very good performer for us.
There are a lot of media pitches out in the marketplace and we certainly have the best-in-class media offerings.
So I would look to seeing an expansion in terms of client wins on the media side.
And I think the other aspect that we're seeing SABIC is a good example of RFPs coming into IPG from the holding company's perspective.
And the marketplace looking for the best of IPG and that's one area that I think we've proven ourselves that we're very capable of doing that.
We have a number of IPG solutions in the marketplace.
The SABIC win it was a head-on competition between us and the other holding companies and we fared well.
We have 1 other going on right now in terms of a holding company pitch and we're cautiously optimistic on that one.
So I think those are the trends we're seeing in the marketplace.
And the marketplace -- you have to bring your best solutions to our clients and we've been using a notion of open architecture for years and I think I'm very pleased with the fact that we're starting to see real traction on the ability for our agencies including our independents.
When you see independent agencies tapping into Lowe for example for multinational pitches if you will and responses to their existing clients that's a good indication of the depth of our resources.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And there was an earlier question that was talking about the on-boarding of clients and the contribution to revenue and the relationship with costs.
If you think about it for a fiscal year basis on a net-net basis these are great wins for you and it positions you really well.
For the full year do they contribute incrementally on a net basis to the achievement of the 50 bps margin target? Yes I mean they all won't be on-boarded for the full year but certainly their revenue will contribute to our expansion.
But again the point here is when you onboard new clients you build up you have to hire talent and it's not until they're fully up and running do you really see the margin contributions that you expect to see with the fully serviced client if you will.
So it'll ramp up.
It's all not going to happen -- you don't wave a magic wand and all of a sudden you ramp up and the margins are delivering.
It takes over a period of time to do that but I certainly rather be in that position than not have them.
Your next question comes from Ben Swinburne Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Two for Frank on the -- on some of the numbers.
On the cash flow side Frank should we assume the buybacks this year sort of pace with your cash flow generation? I think from a -- certainly from a working cap perspective Q1 is usually a low quarter.
So any color on that would be helpful.
And then maybe another sort of housekeeping one just on the Olympics.
Can you just remind us of the Olympic headwinds this year the timing are they all in Q3 or is it more spread out and any way to sort of size those as we think about the rest of the year? Thank you.
It's a good assumption Ben to look at buybacks and the phasing in correlating with kind of our cash flows which are seasonal as you know as you pointed out that the first quarter is usually working capital negative.
So they usually track pretty close.
With respect to the Olympics and the third quarter which was a big impact the actual headwinds I can't remember what that number is quite frankly in the U.K.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But it's all concentrated in Q3? Yes Q3 it's the U.K.
On the share buybacks if you just take a look at the first quarter our average price was a little bit over $12 $12.25.
So we don't look at it as certain price targets.
The way to do this is over a period of time do it on a program basis.
We do have some flexibility to move on blips of our share price but the right way to do this is consistent with our cash flow and over a reasonable period of time.
Otherwise it distorts the marketplace and it's not -- it's consistent with what -- the way we've done it in the past and it's worked well for us.
Your next question comes from Robert Fishman Nomura.
Research Division</strong> So while your European competitors spend a lot of time discussing digital in great detail we know you don't break out digital revenue specifically.
That said we're wondering if you could try to give us a sense of how much your digital initiatives are contributing to your overall growth.
And if you don't want to go there maybe discuss how quickly some of your more digitally focused agencies like Huge or R/GA that you touched on in your prepared remarks are growing.
Well yes again you're right and it's a standard question we get.
We don't silo our digital offerings.
We happen to have R/GA Huge MRM which are separate if you want to call them digital agency.
I wouldn't call them pure-play digital agencies but they are viewed that way in the marketplace.
But all our agencies we -- frankly we just had a board meeting up in Boston.
And when we review our capabilities of our agency you can see all the digital capabilities there.
And if you look at for example Weber Shandwick the capabilities of Weber Shandwick particularly in the social media environment so it really is across the board.
All of our agencies have very strong digital capabilities.
That said R/GA and Huge are expanding globally.
R/GA is in Latin America it's in Asia Pac it's in the U.K.
it's in Budapest.
So R/GA is expanding globally and that's consistent with their growth if you will.
And Huge is expanding globally as well.
So we are making investments in the expansion of those if you want to call them pure-play digital agencies but all of our agencies have digital capability and we don't keep track of it.
I find it hard to believe that people can really keep track of their digital play.
Even in the siloed environment it's hard to keep track of it so that's the reason we don't put it out there.
But it's a significant part of our growth and our future which is why we're making the kind of investments in talent that we've been making.
Your next question comes from Peter Stabler Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> A question on Europe.
I realize it's only 10% in the quarter.
But I guess I'm just trying to get a sense of whether you were significantly surprised by the continued weakness here.
I guess to put it another way what's your visibility in Europe? Is it more difficult in Europe given all the uncertainties to look out multiple quarters than it is let's say in the U.S.
even though you might be dealing with similar multinational clients? And then can you touch on -- I think you said that your expectations for the year don't include any sort of estimate for a recovery in Europe? Recovery is probably not the word any of us would use.
I guess...
Right.
LLC Research Division</strong> We're trying to understand if your expectations bake in a level of continued decay or whether you think that there's at least stabilization that might be possible.
Yes I think one of the problems you run into in our first quarter is the size of the numbers.
It doesn't take much either in positive or negative to have a material impact on the organic growth or lack of all right? And I think we're seeing that in the first quarter.
It's certainly -- 5.8% is a higher number than we would've expected but again that's not a material number if you will.
I would expect absent a further deterioration in Europe that that number would get more in line with the low single-digit negative number which was similar to what we had in 2012.
So that is more in line.
But again if it varies from that it's not going to have a significant impact on us because of -- as that number goes negative and the other numbers go positive it becomes a smaller number in relation to our total revenue and profitability.
So we don't like to see it go that way but of course that's the benefit of a holding company.
The visibility the issue we have there is local business.
And we get better visibility into our global clients in terms of what their budgeting for their spend in those markets.
But it's the local clients that are more subject to cutbacks on a short-term basis.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just one quick follow-up there Michael.
Do you think you guys are any more or less exposed to local than your peers who generally talk about half the business being in these markets being global and half being local.
Well frankly we're not based over there so certainly some of our competitors have a greater percentage of their business in those markets and I think you've seen it in their results.
So I would say they're more exposed to it than we are if you just look at the percentages.
And that's all I can comment.
I don't know with the rest of their business.
Your next question comes from Tim Nollen Macquarie.
I have another question on margins please just to make sure I understand the shape of operating margins this year.
You've been saying Q2 might be a little bit on the light side for understandable reasons of account losses and ongoing pitches.
But if you have ongoing pitches and the pipeline is still good might that continue through and how much impact does that have? And to make it more of a positive tone if you're going to be flattish on margin I'm not going to pin in a number on you but if let's say it's flattish doesn't that imply like 100 basis points of pick-up in the second half? And then if that all pans out as such and you do win some business and you keep driving costs down aren't we talking about a lot more than 50 basis points of margin pick-up next year? Well the answer to your question is I hope we're that busy in pitches and spending money and converting it later on.
Okay? I view that as money well spent.
So if the explanation not that I believe that's in fact going to be a truism but if the explanation is that the ramp-up of expenses is greater because of pitch activity and we convert it to new business I think you'll accept that explanation.
But yes I know this is the way we manage our business and we build up expenses for the pitches and we onboard people.
What's interesting about our business since we have some time let me talk about it.
When you win new business you actually have to go out and recruit a significant amount of people to service those businesses.
And so that's one of the explanations you see in a mismatch if you will on bringing new clients onboard because you want to hire them as quickly as possible so that you're ready to take on and onboard the revenue stream.
So that's part of what we're seeing.
And yes it may give some pressure on margin during that period evidenced in the first quarter but it should give rise to a greater expansion of margin.
And obviously when that happens we'll build it into our forecast.
And Tim winning some meaningful accounts earlier in the year is helpful to the margin progression.
Okay? Sure.
Any -- do you dare or care to make a comment on next year? No.
I just have to say the first quarter doesn't make a year.
Yes sure but I think you tell from the tone of most of these questions we're pretty pleased with the way it looks and if it pans out it's looking better.
When you -- I can tell you this much.
At this point in the year versus last year we're in a much better position so that's encouraging for us.
And like I say if we keep the backdoor closed then obviously that's the way we want to operate our business.
Okay.
Can I ask just ask one quick follow-up please on the U.K.? I heard your answer before and you have good businesses and operations there.
But the economy in the U.K.
isn't really that much different from the Eurozone.
Why would you be so strong so consistently in the U.K.
versus pretty negative in Europe? Again it's -- the numbers are not that big.
So what we need is one particular client to spend in the first quarter and it somewhat distorts.
I'm not putting the U.K.
in the category of an emerging market like Latin America.
It's nice to see it positive but I don't know whether we can continue to show those kinds of organic growth in the U.K.
Your next question comes from Dan Salmon BMO Capital Markets.
Michael you've -- you always take a lot of pride in Interpublic's role in sports marketing in Octagon.
Would you ever have any interest in any of the assets at IMG? I think we are well represented by Octagon.
They're doing a great job.
They are certainly a force in the marketplace and we're comfortable with the work that they're doing and their size.
Your next question comes from James Dix Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> With all the new business coming in the door you might have been excused for forgetting about the macro environment.
But just turning back to it how did your performance by region compared to your internal expectations for the first quarter? And how do you feel about the overall macro environment now versus a couple months ago? And then I just have a follow-up Mike.
Yes this isn't that far from when we did our year-end numbers and we gave out our 2% to 3%.
We haven't changed on that.
I think that certainly the tone of the business is better than it was last year but I'm not raising any flags in terms of our victory in terms of turning the corner and getting back to the levels of 4% to 5% growth that we would like to see on an ongoing basis.
So we're still cautious about it.
And I think 2% to 3% is a fair number to use given the macroeconomic environment that we're in.
We still have problems in Europe and the spillover effect of that is real.
The United States although it's growing is not growing at the rates I would like to see it growing at.
And we still have issues obviously in Washington and what impact it has on confidence.
I mean this business is based on confidence.
And until we get all these issues behind us it's going to be hard for us to put out a number that shows any strength in the economy greater than the low-single digits that we're talking about.
So the surprises -- Europe was a surprise but how do you predict small numbers like that and the effect of it? So I think it was pretty consistent with what -- we do our forecasting on a bottoms-up.
We're not -- no one is really great on a quarter-by-quarter basis in terms of how you can forecast this business.
So that's why we were very careful in saying this is a full-year analysis and that's how we manage our business.
So I'm very comfortable now with the numbers we've given and it looks like given the fact that we have these positive news in our ability to achieve it.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then one follow-up on expense.
Just as we see the new business wins come in and the associated expenses any particular line items we should be focusing on? I mean is it all going to be in base salaries or are there any other of the subcomponents which you provide all this detail on that we should be thinking about as well? Yes well first of all base salaries is obviously an important factor.
As you ramp up people to service the business your salary levels go up.
We use temporary help during the period until we just -- our full-time capabilities within it.
And sometimes you see a little ramp-up in occupancy because we actually have to take some space for these people.
For example Mullen is going to beef up its presence on the West Coast because of the Acura win.
So those are the kind of things that we're in a process of addressing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So temporary help maybe and maybe some in the O&amp;G line other than just the base salaries line that we'll be focusing on.
Right.
Your next question comes from Brian Wieser Pivotal Research.
Quick question on the pass-throughs.
I was wondering how much of the organic growth was attributable to that.
And secondly I was just wondering if you could talk about some of the APAC markets.
You mentioned that Australia and India were up.
By inference some of the other major markets were not or they were less up.
Just curious if you could talk about that region and your expectations for the rest of the year.
Yes we had some more difficult comps in China that we had to deal with.
We had an event in China so we've -- the growth in China was not consistent with that because of that comp if you will.
Japan was relatively flat slightly up I believe.
And Australia as I said and India were very solid.
And LatAm we talked about.
In terms of pass-throughs as Frank indicated in his remarks and I indicated in mine the pass-through costs well the growth in our expense line is probably similar to what you see on the growth side.
All of the growth Brian in the O&amp;G side as we said in the comments was primarily pass-through.
So if we stripped out the 0.7% from the organic growth would that be a more accurate number if you stripped out pass-throughs? Almost all of the growth in the O&amp;G line comes from pass-throughs.
If we provide an update in there you can do that.
At this time I will turn the call back to Mr.
Roth for final comments.
Okay well my final comments are we're excited we're encouraged by what we see in this first quarter and we thank you for all your support.
And we still have the rest of the year to go so we're working hard.
Thank you very much.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for attending.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the Interpublic Group Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Jerry Leshne Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
We have posted our earnings release and our slide presentation on our website interpublic.com and we'll refer to both in the course of this call.
This morning we are joined by Michael Roth and Frank Mergenthaler.
We will begin with prepared remarks to be followed by Q&amp;A.
We plan to conclude before market open at 9:30 a.m.
Eastern.
During this call we will refer to forward-looking statements about our company which are subject to uncertainties in the cautionary statement included in our earnings release and the slide presentation and further detailed in our 10-Q and other filings with the SEC.
At this point it is my pleasure to turn things over to Michael Roth.
Thank you Jerry and thank you all for joining us this morning as we review our second quarter and first half results.
As usual I'll start out by covering the key highlights of our performance.
Frank will then provide additional details on the quarter and I'll conclude with an update on our agencies the tone of the business to be followed by the Q&amp;A.
We're pleased to report a quarter that saw solid growth in many key world markets.
In the U.S.
which is our largest market growth accelerated during Q2 from recent levels.
In LatAm we again had an outstanding performance.
And in Asia Pac we posted solid growth on the top of challenging year ago comparisons.
Overall our second quarter organic growth was 2.2%.
Underneath that number U.S.
growth improved to 3.3% with contributions from a wide range of our agencies.
And let's not forget we were cycling through the last of our headwinds in the market of approximately 2%.
We were led by our marketing service specialists at CMG Mediabrands McCann Huge Deutsch and several of our integrated agencies.
Leading domestic client sectors were auto and transportation consumer goods food and beverage and health care.
In the Latin American region organic growth was 16.1% which was on top of 27% a year ago very strong performance.
In Asia Pac our growth was 4.5% which also was on top of double-digit growth in Q2 2012.
Our results also reflect the continued challenging business conditions across Continental Europe where our Q2 organic revenue change was a decrease of 8% due largely to decreased spend across the region by multinational and local clients particularly in June which had weaker-than-expected performance.
Revenue from acquisitions added over 1% to our consolidated organic growth.
This is a result of further investments in high-growth marketing disciplines such as digital shopper marketing and certain areas of health care as well as acquisitions in high-growth and strategic international markets.
Another highlight of our second quarter was the continued momentum we saw on the new business front.
To our already strong record of account wins for the year which in Q1 included Chevrolet in the U.S.
Acura and SABIC we added headline wins with Cadillac Amazon Media and Zurich Financial.
These developments speak to the high quality of our offerings.
Increasingly they also reflect our ability to deliver open architecture solutions that pull together the best customized teams to meet client need and solve for specific marketing or business problems.
Our first half has been very strong in terms of new business.
However only a limited portion of the revenue from these new wins was a factor in our second quarter.
This reflects the unusual lag in our industry between the announcement of a new assignment and the point at which revenue kicks in.
Turning to operating expenses and profitability in the quarter.
Operating margin was 10% and operating profit $175 million compared to 10.3% and $176 million in Q2 last year.
The comparisons reflect the investment required this year to secure as well as to service our strong new business pipeline.
This means we incurred some expenses in Q2 ahead of related revenue on some of our recent wins.
But these are significant new assignments accretive to our results and that investment will pay off going forward.
The other key factor that weighed on profitability in the quarter was the impact of challenging business conditions in Continental Europe.
We will be very focused on converting revenue growth to profit at high rates in the second half of 2013 as we have done in recent years.
We'll also be vigilant in managing the impact of declining revenue in Europe.
These will be the critical factors in delivering on our margin objective for the full year.
Earnings per share for the second quarter was $0.18 compared to $0.22 a year ago which benefit from a lower effective tax rate.
Other items of note in Q2 involve additional progress in our programs to return capital to shareholders and further strengthen the balance sheet.
During the quarter we bought another 7.5 million shares using $105 million.
Since initiating our return of capital program in 2011 we have returned a total of $1.2 billion to our owners through a combination of dividends and the repurchase of 88 million shares and we've retired an additional 33 million dilutive share equivalents through the redemption of convertible debt.
In addition earlier this week we completed the redemption of our $600 million 10% notes which we had refinanced at some of the lowest rates in our company's history.
We will begin to see significant interest savings from this transaction beginning in this year's third quarter.
Year-to-date our performance in the new business arena has been noteworthy and our results at major industry award competitions have been very strong this year.
This is a reflection of our strong talent base across all our marketing disciplines particularly in terms of creativity and our digital expertise.
We also continue to see the benefits of our successful deleveraging and the financial strength of our company.
A combination of competitive top line growth and expense discipline will allow us to deliver on our full year objective of 2% to 3% organic revenue growth and 50 basis point improvement in operating margin.
I'll now turn things over to Frank for some additional details and will rejoin you after his remarks.
Thank you Michael.
Good morning.
As a reminder I will be referring to the slide presentation that accompanies our webcast.
On Slide 2 you'll see an overview of results.
Organic growth was 2.2% which includes 3.3% in the U.S.
and 0.8% internationally.
Growth in LatAm and Asia Pac was strong.
Our decrease in Continental Europe was steeper in the quarter than recent trend as was our U.K.
result.
Q2 operating profit was $175 million and margin was 10%.
Margin pressure was attributable to 2 primary factors: first the high rate of new business additions; second the revenue decrease in Europe.
We had $1.62 billion of cash and marketable securities on the balance sheet at quarter end.
As Michael mentioned earlier we had just completed the very accretive call at 105% of our 10% notes.
Pro forma for that transaction our cash balance will be reduced by $630 million.
Diluted EPS was $0.18 compared with $0.22 last year when our tax rate was significantly lower.
Turning to Slide 3 you'll see our P&amp;L for the quarter.
I'll cover revenue and operating expenses in detail in the slides that follow.
It's worth noting here that our Q2 tax rate was 41.9% which is high for us due to greater losses in certain foreign jurisdictions particularly in Europe where we received no related tax benefit.
In contrast last year's Q2 included a low tax rate of 32.3% having benefit from discrete items in the period.
We still believe our normalized rate for the full year will be in the 37% to 39% range as we said on our Q4 call.
Also near the bottom of this slide average diluted shares were 448 million which is a decrease of 6.2% from last year as a result of our share repurchase program.
At quarter end there was 420 million remaining under our current repurchase authorization.
Turning to operations on Slide 4.
Revenue in the quarter was $1.76 billion an increase of 2.4% compared to Q2 2012.
The impact of a change in exchange rates was a negative 100 basis points while net acquisitions and dispositions added 120 basis points.
The results in organic revenue increase was 2.2%.
Worldwide by client sector we were led by strong growth in auto and transportation followed by health care financial services and consumer goods.
We had decreases in retail and in tech and telecom sector.
As you can see on the bottom half of the slide the organic increase to our Integrated Agency Network segment was 0.8%.
The IAN segment grew both in the U.S.
and internationally.
However this is the part of the portfolio which saw most of the decrease in Continental Europe.
At our CMG segment we again saw strong performance with 9.3% organic growth in the quarter and 11.5% in the first half.
We had very strong growth across public relations sports marketing and events.
Moving on to Slide 5 revenue by region.
In the U.S.
organic growth was 3.3%.
This is well above the level we had been tracking for several quarters and reflects strong growth across many of our agencies and client sectors.
It's also important to note that our total growth in the U.S.
was 4.8% which includes 150 basis points from net acquisitions over the trailing 12 months.
Turning to international markets the U.K.
decreased 1.3% organically in Q2 where it remains up 4.4% year-to-date.
Performance in Q2 was primarily due to lower spend by existing clients.
Continental Europe decreased 8% organically.
It's clear that macro conditions continue to weigh on clients willingness to invest in the region.
Revenue in the month of June was under notable -- notably more pressure than we had seen earlier in the quarter.
Germany which is our largest market in the continent and which had been stable last year decreased in Q2.
France Italy and Spain were each negative as well.
The continent was 11% of our Q2 revenue.
We have done extensive work to lower our expense base in Europe and we'll continue to manage expenses to the revenue reality we face.
In Asia Pac our largest market outside the U.S.
organic revenue growth was 4.45% (sic) [4.5%] in Q2 on top of 14.3% a year ago.
Our growth was led by the Australian market followed by India.
We continue to expect solid regional growth for the full year.
In LatAm Q2 organic revenue growth was 16.1% an outstanding performance.
We had contribution from McCann Lowe Media and CMG across all of the largest markets.
Our Other Markets group decreased 1.8% organically.
Moving on to Slide 6.
We chart the longer view of our organic revenue change on a trailing 12-month basis.
The most recent data point is 0.9% which was updated to include Q2 '13 and the roll off [ph] of Q2 '12.
Moving on to Slide 7 operating expenses.
Total salaries and related expenses were 63.8% of revenue in Q2 compared to 63.5% last year.
More than 6 months our SRS ratio was 68.3 compared with 68.1 last year.
Severance expense in the first half was higher this year by 20 basis points.
As a reminder the first half will be a seasonally lighter revenue for us which impacts our sale -- our salaries ratios.
Our total headcount at quarter end was 44 800 which is an increase of 2.7% over the course of the quarter.
Over 40% of our additions were due to acquisitions closed in Q2 mainly in India.
We also added talent to support our growth in LatAm Asia Pac and new business wins in the U.S.
as well as our high-growth digital marketing services and media disciplines.
Offsetting these recent investments were reductions in areas of the portfolio where our revenue decreased.
Incentive expense in the quarter was 2.8% of revenue compared to 3.3% in Q2 2012.
Through 6 months expenses for our long-term incentive programs decreased from last year due to shortfall in our 2012 performance compared with target.
Through 6 months our expense for annual incentives in 2013 is at the same level as it was a year ago.
Our expense for temporary labor was 3.6% compared with 3.7% a year ago.
Turning to office &amp; general expense in the lower half of the slide.
O&amp;G was 26.3% of revenue in Q2 the same level as a year ago.
It was $461 million compared to $450 million a year ago.
Most of the increase was due to higher pass-through expenses which are offset in revenue and are profit neutral.
As you can see on the slide occupancy increased $3 million which resulted in higher lease costs under renewal in New York and a double carry rent expense during agency relocations.
On Slide 8 we show our operating margin history on a trailing 12-month basis.
The most recent data point is 9.6%.
Turning to the current portion of our balance sheet on Slide 9 we ended the quarter with $1.62 billion of cash and short-term marketable securities which compares to $1.5 million a year ago an increase of approximately $110 million.
The comparison reflects that we returned over $528 million to shareholders over the last 12 months in share repurchase and common stock dividends.
As we've already mentioned our June 30 cash balance includes $630 million which was subsequently used to redeem debt.
On Slide 10 we turn to cash flow for the quarter.
Cash provided by operations was $184 million compared with $157 million a year ago.
Working capital was a source of $17 million compared with a use of $16 million in Q2 2012.
Our investing activities used $43 million chiefly for CapEx and acquisitions.
Our financing activities used $122 million which includes $105 million for the repurchase of 7.5 million common shares at an average price of $14.09 per share.
Our common stock dividend used $32 million.
Slide 11 charts our debt reduction over the past few years.
We had a short period of double carry following our debt raise last November which is reflected here on 12/31/2012 and 6/30/13.
Pro forma for the redemption completed on Monday total debt of $2.3 billion on June 30 would be reduced by $600 million to $1.7 billion.
You'll recall that in November we prefunded the redemption at a blended rate of 3.2% which means the annualized reduction to our interest expense will be approximately $40 million.
We will record a charge in Q3 for the $30 million cash premium paid to redeem the 10% notes plus the write-off of unamortized costs.
The total charge of approximately $45 million will be below the line and will not impact Q3 operating profit.
In summary on Slide 12 we are pleased with our growth in certain key markets in Q2.
As we move to the second half of the year we are focused on profit conversion under our revenue growth as well as managing through the challenges in Europe.
At this point I'll turn it back over to Michael.
Thank you Frank.
Well at the midpoint of the year there are significant accomplishments that demonstrate the underlying strength of our agency brands and our long-standing commitment to organically developing digital talent and embedding it throughout our organization.
These are the factors that are driving solid organic revenue growth and a strong record of new business wins which continued in the third quarter.
We remain new business positive for the year-to-date and trailing 12 months and we continue to see a solid pipeline of opportunities across our organization.
The quality of our product is also highly competitive and trending positively.
At Cannes the industry top award competition which recognizes the most outstanding work from the full range of marketing disciplines and across all media channels IPG agencies took top honors.
We won 30% of the Grand Prix awarded more than any other holding company including in the cyber direct film integrated and PR categories.
Draftfcb and McCann both enjoyed their best performance in many years and McCann Australia's Dumb Ways to Die was the most awarded campaign in the 60-year history of the festival.
Whether in PR in health care communications or sports and entertainment and interactive marketing our agencies consistently distinguish themselves in terms of industry recognition.
This clearly shows that we have the people and the expertise to help our clients generate the kind of big ideas they need to win in the marketplace.
At CMG we continue to see our agencies win market share invest in digital talent and capabilities as well as partner effectively to deliver an integrated offering.
Weber Shandwick and GolinHarris are best-in-class in the PR sector just as Octagon and Jack Morton lead the way in this respective areas of expertise.
Mediabrands once again delivered strong results with a progressive and client-centric operating structure that combines traditional media clout and leading-edge offerings across all digital platforms as well as the industry's most developed pay-for-performance model.
McCann continues to show progress.
New business has been positive senior talent is being added and the organization is building momentum.
It also benefits from a global network that is second to none and ideally suited to helping multinational clients succeed in the world's high-growth markets.
Draftfcb has faced revenue challenges this year to its 2012 client losses but its holistic and highly accountable marketing approach remains right for today's clients' needs.
The agency has made progress in raising the bar on its creative product and we believe it'll attract talent and new business once the new leadership is in place.
Performance at our U.S.
integrated agencies was solid in the quarter and for the first half.
This group is particularly strong in key areas such as digital strategic planning and creative.
We've also been pleased to see successful management transactions at a number of these agencies that will ensure continuity and continued success.
Late last year the Martin Agency named Matt Williams as its new CEO.
And during the second quarter at Hill Holliday Karen Kaplan became only the third CEO in the agency's 45-year history.
More recently we announced a management succession at Campbell Ewald where Jim Palmer assumes the CEO role.
After an intensive 3-month collaboration that was instrumental in our Cadillac win we also announced that Campbell Ewald would become part of Lowe representing the network in the U.S.
and providing it with a base from which to grow in this key market.
Both the Lowe and Campbell Ewald leadership teams are very enthusiastic about this new partnership as are we.
In conclusion our second quarter results showed good revenue growth as we built on new business momentum that's been apparent since the beginning of the year.
With growth we have a proven track record of controlling costs and managing to the margin.
This will be a primary focus for us and our operating teams during the balance of this year.
The significant deleveraging we've undergone and the strength of our balance sheet provide additional powerful leverage that allow us to support the strategic needs of our business and also return capital to our owners.
We have outstanding agency brands that are well positioned to help clients succeed in an increasingly complex media and consumer landscape.
Our long-standing strategy of embedding digital at the core of all of our offerings and agencies continues to prove itself and our capabilities in high-growth BRIC and other emerging markets are strong across our major networks.
This combination of factors plus the strong financial foundation and a focus on cost management will allow us to deliver on our full year targets of organic revenue between 2% and 3% and a 50 basis point improvement in operating margin.
This in turn will drive continued shareholder value this year and in the years to come.
With that I thank you for your support.
And at that we open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Alexia Quadrani of JPMC.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
First you mentioned that the headwinds of I guess 2% is still hitting the second quarter from losses last year.
Were there any -- was there any incremental benefit I guess in the third -- in the second quarter that was a bit of an offset from your sort of bigger headline wins like Chevy? Or is that really going to impact starting in Q3? Thank you Alexia.
And boy thanks for joining us this morning Alexia.
I don't know what time it is but thank you.
Well first of all obviously we do have revenue in the second quarter from the new wins.
But as we indicated we're ramping up on the employee base and costs associated with that win.
So we don't see a lot of incremental margin in the second quarter.
Frankly that's one of the reasons we have a drag on margin in the second quarter because we've added to our employee base.
Just to give you a perspective our employee base and headcount exceeded by -- we added in this quarter a couple of hundred employees so we won't see that impact until the third and fourth quarters.
So there were some revenue but not big margin improvements.
Research Division</strong> But if you're going to take a look at the third quarter -- and Michael I have to ask about the third quarter.
What took you so long Alexia? Research Division</strong> Taking a look at that I mean would you expect with the headwinds coming off maybe more of a benefit to the top line with some of the bigger account wins maybe coming on board? Would you expect a pick-up? And then I guess more specifically on the weakness you saw in Europe in the month of June I guess any color you can give us on that? Any onetime issue nature? Do you think it'll continue to be a bigger drag for the full quarter in Q3? Well if you do the math obviously with our first half year results we're expecting improvement in our margin in the second half as well as an increase in revenue because of our new business wins and frankly some new business wins we hope to announce in the third quarter.
So that's how -- and the reason we were able to affirm what we said in terms of our objective of 2% to 3% organic and an increase of 50 margin points if you will.
So yes we think the second half -- and traditionally our second half is stronger on the revenue side and we convert in the second half of the year.
So that is the reason we're affirming if you will.
As far as Europe as we indicated June came in as a surprise to us in terms of its impact particularly in Germany.
Germany was positive last year so there was a harder comp in June if you will for Germany.
But that's still was an area that we have some concern about in terms of watching.
And obviously whenever we see a decline in revenue we look at expense rightsizing if you will.
We don't have a lot of -- we never counted on a big recovery in Europe as we've said in the prior calls but this one particular impact in June was a little bit more dramatic than we were expecting.
Hopefully we'll see better recovery but at this point we can't comment on that.
Our next question is from John Janedis of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Sticking with Europe Michael your results were a little bit weaker than some of your peers.
Can you attribute that at all to maybe your market or category exposure? And do you need to see any kind of improvements to deliver the margin target? Well clearly if you look at auto and transportation which obviously was a very strong sector for us most of the growth was in the United States.
So that could account for some of it.
If our competitors are stronger in Europe on the auto sector that the answer to that would be yes okay? The other thing is this business we all have different clients in different sectors.
In some quarters we outperform our competitors.
In other quarters it's the reverse.
And a lot of it has to do with where our clients come out.
We have large multinational clients all over the globe if you will.
And in some cases our clients spend differently.
Unfortunately our clients don't focus on our quarterly earnings.
So therefore how they spend is a different function.
But I think you raise an interesting point on the auto sector because we are overweighted if you will on U.S.
auto and that actually bodes well for us for the rest of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you just give us an update on McCann? And at this point is Paris' full leadership team still in place? Yes.
McCann is -- first of all we were very pleased with its performance in Cannes.
I mean everyone -- historically everyone looked at McCann as this strong global agency and everyone looked to these smaller shops on the creative side.
I think the performance of McCann and Draftfcb in Cannes was an indication that you could be a global network and really succeed on the creative side.
So we're very pleased with the changes and the impact that both Harris and Gustavo and Luca are having in the marketplace particularly with our multinational clients.
One of the issues I've always said is we want to make sure that we keep the back door closed.
And I think the entire team they've been out there Harris I know and Gustavo and Luca are all traveling and they're meeting with our clients and I think they've done a tremendous job in settling down our multinational clients as well as focusing on new business.
And I think that bodes well for us in terms of our achieving our objectives.
And certainly McCann is in a stronger position now that it's been in and we expect it to continue.
We're always looking to add talent.
We just announced Chris Macdonald coming into the United States.
That's a great addition to the McCann team.
But we're always looking at it but we're very pleased with our ability to recruit and the people we have right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So one final question for McCann then Michael.
Is it fair to say then any kind of incremental severance is now behind it? We always -- it's an interesting question because we always say our severance number is around 1% and we never -- we're always exceeding it.
I think what that does is it shows that we are very strong in terms of matching our expense profile with our revenue.
So if we're at 1% to 2 % -- 1.2% or 1.3% going forward.
I think that seems to be more consistent as we go forward.
And then again in Europe it take -- the impact on Europe it takes us a little more on severance because of the social rules out there.
And if actions have to take place in Europe those severance numbers are a little bit higher.
But that's something we're going to look into as we go forward.
But I think we view it -- whenever we take severance actions we look for the payback on those actions.
And obviously we take them with a view towards improving our margin on a longer-term basis.
Our next question is from David Bank of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> So somebody had to ask about 3Q.
I guess I'll push it a little bit further than that.
No good deed goes unpunished right? Right.
LLC Research Division</strong> So when you guys entered the year and you kind of set the guidance hurdles obviously you knew there were some business coming in.
But it sounds like there has been some additional momentum gains that have probably pleasantly surprised you.
And you're not going to benefit from the full efficiencies and revenues of all that business especially as you kind of onboard people and costs associated with rolling it out.
So my question is clearly you head into 2014 with the cost baked in and the momentum like really formed.
So if we think about you being able to do 50 basis points on 2% to 3% in '13 can you give us some context for why it shouldn't be better in 2014? Well with -- I'd like to get through 2013 before I give you guidance on 2014.
But if we keep the back door shut and we continue to improve on the revenue side and the macro economics continue to be growth if you will as opposed to entering into a recession I think 2014 should be fine.
And -- but at this point we're focused on getting through 2013.
But we're very focused on keeping the back door shut and looking at our costs because what you don't want to do is get ahead of it and anticipate a lot of things that until they happen you don't want to have a cost profile.
It's not you kind of build it and they will come.
And I think that's one of the fundamental differences in our business these days.
And that is even when we pitch new business we have to ramp up.
And clients are understanding that -- you don't have 100 people waiting in a room to jump on new business as soon as it comes in the door.
So whenever we have a pitch and it's a big one -- take for example the Acura win at Mullen.
We've added a significant size of a headcount to support that business and it was well understood in the beginning that we have to ramp up to do that.
And that's the way our business model operates.
So that said if we keep our back door closed we continue to focus on our existing clients and when new business pitches come up hopefully we'll win our -- more of our fair share or our fair share of new business wins then 2014 should be okay subject to macro economics.
That's not forecast for 2014 but it's a mechanical calculation.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can I just ask one quick follow-up? Sure.
LLC Research Division</strong> I think in your commentary you had mentioned something about June being a bit of a surprise kind of turned down in different places.
And I was wondering if there's any more color on what drove it.
And did you see a continuation of the -- do you see a continuation of the trend like what happened? Well in June what I said was in Europe we saw a spike down if you will particularly in Germany and France actually.
But that's -- I didn't say that was true for the rest of the company I was focusing on why our European numbers were down.
And July isn't over yet so it's hard for me to comment on what impact it has on the rest of the year.
But again it's 11% of our total revenue.
Not that that's insignificant but we didn't build in big recoveries for Europe.
So that's why we're comfortable stating where we are in terms of our ability to achieve our goals.
And we saw David softness in both global accounts and local accounts in both of those markets.
Our next question comes from James Dix of Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple questions.
I guess just looking at the first half how did margins come in versus your internal expectations? Obviously as you had to adjust them for new business wins? And also just within that are incentives through the first half of the year kind of running kind of in line with or above or below kind of your original plan for the year? And then I just have 2 follow-ups from that but I'll just stop there.
Well first of all I think Frank answered the question on incentives.
It's -- because of our long-term incentives and we have to true it up and last year we were a little bit off that accounted for some of the diminution in our incentive expense.
And we manage this business on a full year basis.
And whether we were on target or not clearly whenever you have new business and you have to ramp up the ramp-up isn't built into your objectives for the year for the -- so if you want to look at it that way you don't build in.
Unless you know the business wins are there you don't build it into your plan.
So that's why we look at this business on a full year basis and there'll be spikes up and down on a quarterly basis.
That said what we're saying is that our incentives are in the range of 3.5% for the full year.
That's a reasonable number to use based on us achieving our goal of the 50 basis point improvement.
And it's clearly one of our levers so that if we fall short then you can expect to see our incentives reflect that we fall short.
We have a pay-for-performance model in terms of our networks as well as in corporate and -- but we don't really see that until frankly the fourth quarter.
James on the margin expectation it's probably tracking below where we thought for a very good reason because we've been very heavy on the new business.
And for the softness in Europe if you just take the second quarter there's probably a 50 basis point impact on the second quarter margins for those 2 events.
Just the onboarding of people behind the new business wins which is again we'll see the return on it in the back half of the year.
And then there's softness in Europe where -- when you see June weaken you can't adjust your cost base that quick so that had a negative impact.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Of those 50 basis points would you say still a majority of that was due to just the ramping on -- for the new business? Between the 2 events I called out it was 50 basis points.
I don't want to be any more granular than that.
Research Division</strong> Okay no more granular than that.
Okay.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And then I guess just intangibly then I mean are you feeling more or less confident in your full year outlook than 3 months ago or kind of about the same given all of the moving parts with the new business in Europe? What we always do is we have our agencies and our network come in and talk about pipeline.
I like our pipeline where it is now.
We know we have some potential wins in the third quarter hopefully will be announced.
And a lot of our forecasting is based on to -- what we call "to be generated " which is business that we expect to win and so on.
So right now we're sticking to our -- what we said our objectives were.
Obviously the new business wins will help us in achieving our goals.
And like I said we're going to focus on revenue generation cost containment in terms of getting our margins in line and keeping the back door closed.
I mean -- and this business is just about that.
Make sure you have the right talent make sure you have the right offerings and service offerings that are competitive in the marketplace don't let your expenses get out of line and win new business as it comes up.
And right now we're on track to do that.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then my last one is just given the huge growth you've been seeing in some quarters specifically Latin America I was wondering if you could just comment a little bit on the growth of the overall market there and whether you're seeing any changes in competitive structure which are helping you on a more recurring basis.
Are certain competitors just falling by the wayside? Or -- I was just kind of curious as to your color on what's going on in that market there.
Well we've -- in Latin America we've always -- all of our networks our global networks and our media offerings always -- and our marketing services business in -- are very strong in Latin America.
We've done transactions in Latin America to bolster it.
For example with McCann the W acquisition CUBOCC on the Mediabrand side.
So we're very comfortable with our positioning in Latin America and I think our performance reflects the fact that we are competitive across-the-board and that kind of improvement just basically proves that fact.
We have a lot of exciting things going on in Latin America particularly in Brazil with the World Cup and with the Olympics coming down.
So there's nothing to indicate that Latin America is going to have a dramatic reversal.
Obviously some of the social issues that have happened in Brazil raises some concern.
But frankly right now we're very excited about what's happening down there and we continue to invest in our people down there.
And frankly our clients are investing there which is why we're seeing the improvement that we're seeing.
So we're very comfortable with that market.
India is another area where we've invested very strongly.
In fact the last quarter we had 3 transactions pretty much close in India whether it be in the PR side of it on the media side of it and on the advertising side.
So India performed high single digits in the quarter and we see India as being a strong market for us going forward.
So I think on the emerging markets I believe we're very well positioned in terms of our global offerings and we continue to invest behind our brands in those locations.
Our next question is from Brian Wieser of Pivotal Research.
I was wondering can you talk about the costs that you tend to incur when you're actually launching a pitch or when you're choosing to participate in a pitch? Generally speaking how do you think about benchmarking? So I think that most investors are unaware just how expensive some of these participating in pitches are let alone winning them.
So that was my first question and then I have a follow-up.
Yes.
I mean you're absolutely right.
I mean you've been on the other side so you know.
It's not unusual to see -- incur $1 million of expenses on a pitch.
You want to put your best foot forward and these days it's very competitive.
What's interesting is that we're chasing businesses that historically some of our global networks would have been too small for them.
But right now given the competitive nature of the landscape we're all chasing businesses.
And fortunately the benefit as the holding company model is we have a number of offerings compete -- competing for the same business.
So one of those -- take for example if we have 2 or 3 agencies competing on a particular client and one of them wins the other 2 has incurred expenses that they're not going to recover.
So we have to be very careful in terms of picking our battles.
But yes it's not cheap to chase these expenses -- these new businesses and they run into millions of dollars.
And that's why we say if you're going to do it you got to win it.
And so we take it very seriously.
And you're right.
And that certainly accounts for part of the expense profile that we build in to our forecast.
And Brian we see it in a temp labor line.
The agencies that are more active pitching their temp labor spikes.
Got it.
And then clearly so you really incur the costs at the time of the pitching and it's not being deferred? Sure sure.
Never -- nothing's deferred.
Right.
Yes clients are great.
They say "Put your best foot forward." We go out and we incur production costs.
I mean if you look at some of the major pitches we're actually running commercials to show our capabilities and our strategic thinking.
And the economics of this is such that if you win and the strategic thinking and the creative that went into the pitch is the one that's adopted then obviously you recoup it faster.
You don't have to reshoot a lot of it.
But there's a lot of mechanics here.
And you're absolutely right it costs money to win business.
And I think you're seeing that in our results in the first half.
But the good news is we won.
That's true.
So -- and just one.
One other question then on Draft.
Can you update us on the timing around the arrival of the new management team? And is it safe to say that any strategic changes or reorientation or any other changes are going to be waiting until then? Or is it like status quo for the agency until then? Yes we were thinking of a -- certainly we've been looking at strategic changes.
Carter will join us sometime in September and we're excited about that.
In the meantime we're managing our business.
And Neil Miller and the team at Draftfcb are doing a tremendous job.
And in fact we just had some positive news on some clients.
And so it's not that we're sitting around waiting and we are doing recruiting.
We are doing some recruiting along the way.
Whether the timing of the recruiting will take place at the exact time Carter comes in at we're running out of time so it probably looks that way.
But we're excited about what's on the horizon.
Some of the people we've been talking to are really excited about potentially joining Draftfcb or frankly have already signed on to join.
And so I'm real excited about the team that when Carter finally arrives he'll be joining in terms of what the future of Draftfcb will hold.
In the mean time we're taking a -- over here in corporate we're taking a close role if you will in the future of Draftfcb and managing it through this interim period.
Our next question is from Craig Huber of Huber Research Partners.
Maybe a housekeeping question first please on currency.
Frank if the currency rates held flat like they are say now for the rest of the year what would the currency impact you think be for the third quarter and fourth quarter on your overall revenues please? Probably for the third and fourth quarter somewhere between 1.5% and 2%.
And for the full year about 1.5% negative.
And then my other question is is there any client reviews of significance here in the U.S.
or overseas that investors should be aware of? There are no significant reviews.
We do have Pizza Hut up for review.
It's a high-profile client.
We've had it for a number of years and a number of IPG agencies are pitching that business.
But absent that we don't have any big clients in review.
Every time I say that I worry when I get back to the office.
I get a phone call saying we have a big one in review.
But right now I'm knocking on wood here we don't have any big clients in review.
And then my final question Mike.
On your 2015 operating margin goal of 13% at the peer level of goals margins out there what is your thought on what sort of average organic revenue growth you would need here for the next 2.5 years in order to get to that full year of 13% margin goal for 2015? Well right now obviously we've used -- historically our business has been 3% to 5% -- we're not quite there yet.
Our forecast on -- from Magna is certainly for this year is 2% to 3% maybe a little higher there.
I think between 3% and 5% in terms of organic growth is something that you could use in terms of overall macro impact.
Our next question is from Peter Stabler of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones for me.
Could you please remind us of the geographic distribution of your first half headwinds this year? And then secondly you alluded to a fairly sizable contribution in the U.S.
from acquisitions.
Could you just help us remember what those assets were? The bulk of the headwinds were in the U.S.
And on the U.S.
acquisition front we had a shopper marketing company that we bought.
We had a health care company that we purchased.
And those 2 are the largest.
Right.
The Chase Design and...
Hudson.
Hudson Global.
Our next question is from Matt Chesler of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions to help think about how the year plays out from here.
One is focused on the U.S.
So there were 200 basis points of remaining headwinds in the second quarter that you just finished.
Do you have any that are worth calling out in the third quarter? Or should we be thinking that those are pretty much behind you? And then just related to the Olympics clearly you benefited in the third quarter of last year in the U.K.
I presume a lot of that was events related.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> What was the distribution of the work that you can call out as globally? And to what extent did you have some of that in the third quarter in the U.S.
last year or anywhere else? No I think the bulk of it was in Europe and it was Olympic-related.
So that is a headwind if you will in terms of comparisons.
We don't have another Olympic in the third quarter.
And I think last year we disclosed it was $20 million to $25 million.
$25 million yes.
But on other side of it there wasn't a lot of margin associated with that business.
No.
You want to do something about that at CMG right?.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But did you have any significant Olympics-related work that was serviced out of the U.S.
as well? Yes no.
No.
No we don't have any particularly in the U.S.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then I'm just interested in a little more color about some of the potential new business that you hope to announce in the third quarter that you referenced a couple of times on this call.
So are these situations where you pretty much won the thing but you're waiting approval from the clients? Or you're just really close and you're feeling good about that? And then just can you scale some of those? Are they on the level of the few that you announced for the second quarter? Well no you don't get a -- there aren't big pitches like Cadillac lying around out there.
There are a couple of media clients that are of size and I'm fairly superstitious.
So until it's signed and we can announce it I don't like to count it as a win.
But we're feeling positive about some of these on the media side and some traditional pitches as well.
So again there aren't any really big pitches out there right now.
And as I said you never know.
But right now we have some big say some media pitches out there.
I'm reluctant to tell -- to name them because frankly some of them may not have been announced and I don't want to jump in.
But I think our pipeline is solid.
Let me put it to you that way.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in Europe it sounds like the weakness that you saw in Germany France and IAN that maybe wasn't in auto and transports can you talk to the categories that drove some of that? Or CPG was a broad [ph] ...
What's interesting it was across-the-board.
We were looking to see if it was one particular area so that we can call it out and say it was an anomaly.
But frankly -- again remember the size of our business there is not significant.
So therefore small impacts add up and that's what you're seeing.
So you're not seeing a $10 million reduction falling to the bottom line.
It's a lot of small stuff across these different markets that have affected us.
And again that's a -- hopefully that will be a rub of the green in terms of our clients in terms of how they look at their spend but we can't comment on that here.
Our next question is from Ben Swinburne of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Frank you gave some really good color on the quarterly impact from some of the moving pieces.
But one was pass-through you mentioned up front in your prepared remarks.
Can you just remind us sort of regionally where that shows up.
And on the expense side I believe that's other O&amp;G but just a little color on...
Yes it's in the O&amp;G line.
It makes up almost all of the year -- the quarter-on-quarter year-on-year increase.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So the -- it's profit neutral.
When I look at my actual cost base with O&amp;G they're effectively flat.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And is that mostly U.S.
or just basically in line with your broader regional mix? It's somewhat consistent with our regional mix.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Perfect.
And then I wanted to ask on the balance sheet side and working capital as it relates sort of to the new IPG with your current ratings and balance sheet strength but also then in terms of the ask from some big clients about turning the agencies into financing partners.
Maybe you could put those 2 variables into the -- into your answer.
But you -- I think you ended the quarter if you pro forma for the redemption at like $1 billion -- one of your lower cash balances in a long time.
Are you -- how should we think about your kind of net debt and gross debt plans going forward? And do you have any comment on how these payment term requests may or may not impact working capital particularly as we move into the back half of the year? On the balance sheet we -- if you recall we had intentionally built up our cash on our balance sheet to get through the rating agencies and through the "turnaround." And we always said we had excess cash on our balance sheet.
And the fact that we returned $1.2 billion to our shareholders is a pretty good indication that we felt that and it was time for us not to -- there was no need for us to carry that excess cash on our balance sheet.
So right now we have -- after we pay off -- you take out the $600 million assume we have $1 billion or so of cash on our balance sheet we also have $1 billion credit facility available to us and other resources so we're very comfortable with our liquidity position.
And frankly you don't want to carry all that cash on your balance sheet.
It costs you money to do that.
And frankly we'd rather give it to our shareholders.
So I think what you're seeing now is a good indication of what our balance sheet should look like.
And the fact that we had onetime items for example the sale of Facebook and we just took all of that cash and returned it to our shareholders.
So we're very comfortable with our liquidity our cash available to us to meet our needs with our balance sheet.
And hopefully the final rating agency will realize the strength of our business and our balance sheet to give us that final upgrade so that we'd have investment grade across-the-board.
On the issue of terms procurement has been around forever.
They're always arguing about fees.
That's the nature of the business.
And on one side our clients are correct in asking us to be more efficient in terms of how we do the work.
And we do that and we work very closely with our clients in terms of the FTE model that's developed.
And we have to be more efficient.
And in this environment given the pressures of margins both for our clients as well as us it's incumbent upon us to be able to do that.
And in terms of terms particularly on the media side which is the one that you're probably referring to everyone says we're not a bank.
And we're not a bank.
And I think we've taken the position as well as some of our competitors that those type of terms historically in our industry this is the way we pay our vendors when we get paid and that's the way it should be.
And frankly they shouldn't be looking to us to do their financing.
And frankly -- and that's the way the model should work.
And we have not seen a major impact on our business model if you will that would affect our business going forward right now.
And frankly hopefully -- a number of the multinational clients have come out and said "We're a partnership and this is the way we should operate." And frankly I agree with that.
Most of our clients look at us and say "You're entitled to make a return on your business and we're prepared." And we're prepared to say you know what particularly on the media side our pay-for-performance model reflects the fact that it's a partnership.
And if we do it well we should get paid for it and that's how we get nice margins on the media side of business.
So a lot's been talked about it but I think on that particular aspect I think we've all been fairly consistent that this is the way -- the historical way of doing it is the way it should be.
Well I thank you all for participating.
I hope you have a good rest of the summer and stay cool.
And we'll talk to you next quarter.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may disconnect your phones at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the Interpublic Group Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jerry Leshne Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
We have posted our earnings release and our slide presentation on our website interpublic.com and will refer to both in the course of this call.
This morning we are joined by Michael Roth and Frank Mergenthaler.
We will begin with prepared remarks to be followed by Q&amp;A.
We plan to conclude before market open at 9:30 a.m.
Eastern.
During this call we will refer to forward-looking statements about our company.
These are subject to uncertainties in the cautionary statement included in our earnings release and the slide presentation and further detailed in our 10-Q and other filings with the SEC.
At this point it is my pleasure to turn things over to Michael Roth.
Thank you Jerry and thank you for joining us this morning as we review our results for the quarter and 9 months year to date.
As usual I'll start out by covering the key highlights of our performance.
Frank will then provide additional detail.
I'll conclude with an update on our agencies to be followed by Q&amp;A.
Beginning with revenue we're pleased to report a quarter of solid growth in most key world markets and across our top 20 clients.
Our organic growth was 2.8% in Q3.
In the U.S.
our growth was 3.7% accelerating from the first half of the year reflecting growth by McCann Mediabrands and our PR agencies as well as our digital capabilities across the portfolio.
The leading client sectors helping to drive growth in the U.S.
were auto and transportation health care consumer goods food and beverage and financial services.
It bears noting that given our strong portfolio of domestic public sector clients U.S.
organic growth was adversely affected by 100 basis points in the third quarter as a result of the government cutbacks.
In the Asia Pac region organic growth was 11.3% reflecting strength in most national markets including double-digit growth in Australia India and China across a broad range of our agencies.
Asia Pac now our largest international region grew to nearly 13% of our revenue base for the third quarter.
In the LatAm region as well our agencies continued their strong performance with revenue up 8% organically in Q3.
We've grown the market by approximately 50% organically over the past 3 years.
In the U.K.
we decreased 9.3% organically but last year's 25% Olympics-related growth was a particularly steep comparison.
Underlying revenue growth remains solid.
Excluding events the U.K.
grew 5.7%.
It's worth noting that the Olympics revenue in Q3 '12 contributed over 1% to our total growth last year making this year's overall Q3 comparison more challenging by that amount.
Against the context of growth in most major regions Continental Europe remained the exception.
As we have seen in the first half our results continue to reflect the region's challenging economic conditions with revenue decreasing 5.9% in Q3.
During the third quarter we continue to build on a strong new business record for the year.
We added notable headline media assignments with Hershey's and Nationwide Financial.
Our Lowe London office successfully defended its Morrisons assignment and Draftfcb similarly retained the Kmart creative work in U.S.
Both were important votes of confidence from valued clients as was McCann's win of Pillsbury.
Along with significant wins earlier in the year this makes new business for the first 9 months of 2013 a highlight of our performance.
Turning to operating expenses and margin in the quarter.
We were pleased to again record another quarter of disciplined expense management.
Q3 operating margin grew by 40 basis points to 8.3% from 7.9% a year ago.
The comparison includes the impact of Continental Europe which weighed on our margin results for the quarter.
Operating profit increased 7.7% to $142 million compared with $131 million in Q3 '12.
During Q3 we took another important step in our successful transformation to a simpler and lower cost capital structure.
We redeemed our $600 million 10% notes which we had refinanced at a blended rate of 3.2%.
And as you can see in our report this morning we've already begun to realize significant interest savings from this transaction.
We also remain committed to our share repurchase program buying in an additional 6.2 million shares using $100 million.
Since initiating our return of capital programs in 2011 we've returned a total of $1.3 billion to shareholders through a combination of dividends and the repurchase of 94 million shares.
And we've retired an additional 33 million diluted share equivalents through the redemption of convertible debt.
We currently have $320 million remaining on our authorization.
Following the quarter earlier this month we reinforced the conversion of our remaining $222 million of convertible preferred stock to 17 million common shares.
The transaction eliminates the 12 million annual preferred dividends and as the preferreds were already dilutive there's no increase to our fully diluted share count.
In Q3 diluted earnings were $0.11 per share as reported and $0.17 per share excluding a charge for the early debt redemption.
The latter result compared favorably to EPS of $0.15 a share a year ago.
For the 9 months we are tracking against our targeted organic revenue range of 2% to 3% for the year.
In terms of margins both the macroeconomic conditions and our performance in Continental Europe have been more challenging than expected.
In addition expenses for new business activity have also been significant while revenue related to our wins is not fully reflected in 2013.
We will continue to drive to our target of 50 basis points of margin expansion for the year.
However delivering such a result will depend on a very strong performance in the fourth quarter.
Furthermore we are considering targeted year-end actions required to appropriately position the business for further operating margin expansion in 2014 and beyond.
I will talk more about that in the Q&amp;A.
At this stage I'll turn things over to Frank for some additional color and join you after his remarks for an update on our agencies the tone of the business and our outlook on the remainder of this year.
Thank you Michael.
Good morning.
As a reminder I'll be referring to the slide presentation that accompanies our webcast.
On Slide 2 you'll see an overview of results.
Organic growth was 2.8% which includes 3.7% in the U.S.
and 1.6% internationally.
In the U.S.
it's our fourth consecutive quarter of stronger growth.
Our growth in Asia Pac and LatAm was terrific.
Our revenue decreased 9.3% organically in the U.K.
which was expected against last year's Olympic revenue in our events business.
Excluding that business organic growth in the market was approximately 5.7%.
Continental Europe continued to be weighed down by the difficult regional economy.
Q3 operating profit was $142 million and margin was 8.3% an increase of 40 basis points from a year ago.
We had $1 billion of cash and marketable securities on the balance sheet at quarter end.
As Michael mentioned earlier we completed a very accretive call at 105 of our 10% notes.
Our Q3 charge for the transaction was $0.06 per share net of tax.
Diluted EPS was $0.11 as reported and $0.17 excluding the debt redemption charge compared with $0.15 last year.
Turning to Slide 3.
You'll see our P&amp;L for the quarter.
I'll cover revenue and operating expenses in detail in the slides that follow.
Here it's worth noting the debt redemption charge of $45 million appears in our other income expense line below operations.
It reflects the $30 million cash premium to redeem the 10% $600 million notes and another $15 million of unamortized costs and discounts.
Turning to operations on Slide 4.
Revenue was $1.7 billion in the quarter an increase of 1.8%.
Compared to Q3 2012 the impact of change in exchange rates was a negative 140 basis points while net acquisitions and dispositions added 40 basis points.
Resulting organic revenue increase was 2.8%.
As you can see on the bottom half of the slide the organic increase at our Integrated Agency Network segment was 4% reflecting balanced growth between the U.S.
and international markets.
At our CMG segment our organic decrease of 2% was due to last year's Olympics revenue spike in Q3.
The very strong performance of our public relation agencies continued in the quarter and our organic revenue growth at CMG was 6.4% for the 9 months.
Moving on to Slide 5 revenue by region.
In the U.S.
organic growth was 3.7%.
This reflects growth in all our global networks our media business nearly all of our U.S.
independents and the CMG group of marketing service specialists.
Continental Europe decreased 5.9% organically.
By country Germany increased in the quarter while France Italy Spain and most other national markets decreased.
The continent was 10% of our Q3 revenue.
While we have done extensive work over the last few years to lower our expense base in Europe this is an area we'll be evaluating in the coming months so as to ensure that we manage expenses with current revenue reality thereby positioning ourselves for operating leverage when growth returns.
In Asia Pac organic revenue growth was 11.3% in Q3.
By market our growth was led by strong increases in Australia India and China.
There are [ph] notable increase in our media business as well as increases at McCann and our marketing service specialists.
In LatAm Q3 organic revenue growth was 8% with contributions from many of our agencies including Lowe Mediabrands and CMG across most of large national markets.
Our Other Markets group increased 3.1% organically.
Moving on to Slide 6.
We chart the longer view of our organic revenue change on a trailing 12-month basis.
The most recent data point is 1.8% which is updated to include Q3 '13 and the roll-off of Q3 2012.
Moving on to Slide 7 our operating expenses.
The sequential development of expenses from Q2 to Q3 remained well controlled.
Total salaries and related expenses were $1.09 billion a decrease of $27 million from the preceding quarter.
Underneath that comparison expenses for base salaries employee benefits and payroll tax decreased $11 million from Q2.
Severance expense for the quarter is 1.2% of revenues.
Total headcount at quarter end was 45 300 which is an increase of 1% from June 30.
We added new talent to support our growth in LatAm Asia Pac and in the U.S.
for new business as well as our higher-growth digital marketing services and media disciplines.
Our expense for temporary labor was 3.8% of revenues.
This is a bit higher than we would have liked due to the high level of pitch activity in the quarter.
Incentive expense was 2.2% of Q3 revenue while other salaries and related category was 2.5% of revenue.
It's worth noting that our ratio of total salaries and related expenses to revenue in Q3 was 64.3% which is higher than last year due almost entirely to the higher level of pass-through revenue in our Olympics work a year ago.
The effect on our operating leverage however is offset in our O&amp;G expense ratio.
We had very strong leverage in the quarter as lower pass-through revenue expenses had the opposite effect.
Turning to office and general expenses on the lower half of the slide.
O&amp;G expense was $465 million or 27.4% of Q3 revenue.
Professional fees decreased sequentially as did expenses for T&amp;E office supplies and telecom.
Our occupancy expense was approximately flat with Q2 level.
Our other O&amp;G category increased from Q2 due to higher pass-through expenses but decreased from the third quarter of 2012.
On Slide 8 we show our operating margin history on a trailing 12-month basis.
The most recent data point is 9.7%.
Turning to the current portion of our balance sheet on Slide 9.
We ended the quarter at $1 billion of cash and short-term marketable securities which compares to $1.2 billion a year ago.
The comparison reflects that we have returned over $540 million to shareholders over the last 12 months through share purchases and common stock dividends.
On Slide 10 we turn to cash flow for the quarter.
Cash provided by operations was $161 million compared with the use of $104 million a year ago.
Working capital was a source of $38 million compared with the use of $240 million in Q3 2012.
Our investing activities used $45 million for CapEx.
Our financing activities used $730 million primarily $600 million for the redemption of our 10% notes and $100 million for the repurchase of 6.2 million common shares at an average price of $16.11 per share.
Our common stock dividend used $31 million.
Slide 11 charts our debt reduction over the past few years beginning in 2007 with $2.3 billion.
We had a short period of double carry following our debt raise last November to refinance 2 debt issues in 2013.
That's reflected here on 12/31/2012.
Following the redemption of our $600 million 10% senior notes however our debt level was down to $1.7 billion as of September 30.
In summary on Slide 12 we are pleased with our growth in most key world markets in Q3.
We built on our 2013 new business record.
Our expenses remain well controlled as a result of the investments we have made in analytics tools and talent in this area.
We continue to see developments in our capital structure that are value creating for shareholders.
We eliminated a sizable piece of expensive debt the call of the 10% notes.
And the conversion of our convertible preferred frees up $11.6 million in annual dividends that were flowing to the preferred stockholders.
Our balance sheet has never been in better shape.
We are focused on continuing our top line momentum managing through the challenges in Continental Europe and expanding margins.
Now let me turn it back over to Michael.
Thank you Frank.
The underlying strength of our agency brands is driving organic revenue growth.
This reflects new assignments from existing clients as well as net new business which has been quite strong for us this year.
We are new business positive for the year to date and trailing 12 months.
Across the organization the pipeline of opportunities continues to be solid with the greatest need being for integrated and accountable solutions.
During the quarter we saw contributions from McCann Mediabrands Lowe and across the CMG portfolio particularly at Weber Shandwick and GolinHarris which continue to win market share domestically and internationally.
In fact earlier this week the Holmes Report named Interpublic as its first PR Holding Company of the Year.
At CMG Jack Morton Octagon and FutureBrand also remained on positive trajectories.
McCann Worldgroup is showing consistent success on the new business front both in the U.S.
and in a number of international markets.
As important its clients are consistently seeing the strengths of its best-in-class global integrated marketing services.
Results from creative competitions also continue to show good progress with recent major wins at regional competitions in Asia and Central Europe.
At Draftfcb we're already seeing new energy since Carter Murray came on board last month.
Feedback from across the agency including clients and staff has been very positive.
We started to see senior talent joining the organization and we'll soon be reviewing the positioning of agency with the new team with an eye to developing a plan that sets the network up for a resurgence in 2014.
Lowe continues to build on its leadership position with its largest client Unilever.
The new alignment with Campbell Ewald in the U.S.
is going well and the joint agency leadership is already in the market introducing the offering to search consultants.
The SEAT win with Huge was an encouraging development that demonstrates the value of Lowe as a top creative network focused on key emerging markets supplemented by a leading-edge digital partner.
Mediabrands continues to win business at both of its global networks while building its leadership in dynamic media landscape with offerings such as ORION Trading and Cadreon digital buying platform which we have taken global in the past few years.
Most recently the MAGNA Consortium is a clear statement that we will be a leader in the fast-growth automated buying space.
Clients value these innovations in today's increasingly complex media environment.
In emerging markets our position remains strong.
All 3 of our global networks have high-quality agencies in both India and Brazil.
Mediabrands and CMG are also well represented and we have recently bolstered their offerings through acquisitions.
We have one of the top multidiscipline groups in the Middle East and North Africa region as well as a solid partner in Russia.
In China we continue to invest in talent and organically grow the business.
In both the quarter and year to date we've seen strong results in these key markets off of tough comps from the prior year.
With organic revenue growth of 2.4% through 9 months we are tracking within our targeted revenue growth range of 2% to 3% for the year.
In terms of margins as you've heard this morning the combination of performance in Continental Europe which has been lower than expected due to the regional operating environment and increased investment to support new business wins has made the first 9 months of the year more challenging than anticipated.
We will continue to drive to target our 50 basis points of margin expansion in 2013.
However delivering such a result will depend on a very strong performance in the fourth quarter.
Performance against both our growth and profitability goals is essential to continuing to drive shareholder value.
Accordingly it is how we are measured and it has direct impact on our incentives.
Accountability for delivering on our full year targets is therefore very much in place.
We're seeing the teams across the organization are clear on that linkage of pay and performance.
Looking forward it's good to know that this year's business performance is on solid footing.
Growth in emerging regions has been strong.
Relative to our peers we are very competitively represented in these high-growth economies.
So we should continue to enjoy the benefits of that element of our revenue mix.
We're seeing significant progress and success across the portfolio of our digital services.
This is an area that's contributed very good growth year to date.
We will stay focused on adding to our capabilities organically through hiring and training as well as incubating and growing newer capabilities such as the multichannel automated media buying.
We'll also continue to support the growth of our digital specialist R/GA MRM and Huge on top of tactical digital M&amp;A activity at our major global networks.
The transformation of our balance sheet to one that is both simpler and more economical has put us in a strong financial position.
Only a few years ago our total debt was $2.3 billion.
Today that's down to $1.7 billion.
Previously our debt included $800 million of convertible debt.
Today we have no converts.
Our average cost of debt was 7% in 2009.
Today it's 4%.
A few years ago we also had a $525 million of convertible preferred stock senior to our common.
Today all of that is gone.
And our total eligible diluted share count which not long ago was $560 million is down to $441 million a decrease of over 20%.
All of this represents another powerful source of continued value creation for our shareholders.
Above all the ability to help clients manage in an increasingly complex consumer and media landscape represents our most significant opportunity.
At a time of change and uncertainty in our industry what we need to do is keep being committed to servicing our clients and the quality of our work.
We've proven that we have sufficient scale and expertise to compete effectively in the media and digital arenas.
But bigger doesn't mean better when it comes to creativity consumer insight client service or the integration of marketing disciplines.
Those are all areas where our agencies excel and in which we have a full range of capabilities that position us well to create further shareholder value in the years to come.
Thank you.
And I'll now open up the floor to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Alexia Quadrani of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
First on the U.S.
organic growth that you saw in the quarter.
Could give us a bit more color in terms of maybe what verticals really saw pickup versus the previous quarters? And on the new business front impacting U.S.
organic growth I guess how much of a ramp of business you saw last year are you seeing now flow into it? And should that ramp further in the fourth quarter? Thank you Alexia.
Well clearly what you -- given the strength in auto and transportation it's not a surprise to see how strong we were in the quarter on auto and transportation.
Health care also was strong in the quarter.
We were up actually 15.5% as well as consumer goods food and beverage.
We had a slight dip in tech and telecom but for the year that's still positive.
And financial services was slightly off in the quarter but again on a year-to-date basis we were positive.
The one area that we continue to have a bit of a drag is in retail.
But across all sectors we have very strong offerings and obviously we're quite pleased with the performance within the U.S.
I made reference to the fact that we have a large business of government business if you will.
And we actually -- a lot has been written about impact of the shutdown.
And so it was important for us to call that out.
And we actually did have an impact in the quarter on our organic as a result of this shutdown.
So I know we don't get to back that out but if you look at the 100 basis points then you see what our true performance and our strength in the U.S.
is reflected.
On the question of new business we haven't seen the full impact of our business wins in 2013 which obviously bodes well for us in 2014.
So we start seeing some of it in the third quarter.
We'll see more of it in the fourth quarter.
But the true impact of our new business wins is in 2014 and as Frank pointed out we're seeing an impact of ramping up on the cost in our new business pitch expenses through the year.
Research Division</strong> And then in the fourth quarter should you see a bit of an impact then also in the government shutdown and in the Q4 numbers if you saw it in Q3? And I guess is there any sort of number you guys have internally where you need to get on organic revenue growth estimate in the U.S.
to hit that margin target for the year? Yes.
Thanks Alexia.
Well obviously when we -- I know it's difficult to understand when we say we expect -- we need a strong fourth quarter.
I mean the result of that is really -- gets to the core issue here and that is what effect the Continental Europe is having on our results.
To put it in context Continental Europe is 10% okay which is not a large number.
But the other side of it is it's still important enough.
And given the scale that we have frankly the lack of scale we have in Continental Europe changes in Continental Europe for us have an impact on our margin.
If you would look to a year-to-date basis if we were to have performed on the organic side similar to what we performed last year so let's assume a 2% to 3% drop in organic instead of the rate that we see now we would have had approximately a 50-basis-point improvement in margin.
So Continental Europe is having an effect on our margin.
So therefore when you look at the fourth quarter unless we see a turnaround in that in the fourth quarter it's going to be hard for us to achieve those numbers.
And that's why we put it in that context.
But again we are seeing positive things happening in the U.K.
McCann is performing well obviously in the U.K.
and in Europe.
Gustavo and his team and all of them in the McCann are having good success with existing clients in Europe.
So we're doing things to bolster that performance in Europe.
And candidly if you look at the way we've approached Europe in the past our first line of defense is to right-size our expenses with our revenue and that's the reference of the comment that we're going to take a look at year-end actions here.
Clearly we need to take a look at that in a very hard light in terms of what our expected revenue is.
The other is talent and adding to our portfolio.
You've seen us take action in Europe.
For example with Lowe when we needed to bolster our performance of Lowe in the U.K.
we've added an acquisition of Delaney Lund and that's performing well for us.
And therefore Lowe has been better positioned in the U.K.
So we're also looking at talent.
And Draftfcb for example recruited Nigel Jones from Publicis to head up global strategy.
So we're strengthening our offerings in Continental Europe and we're really positioning ourselves both from the cost side and from the talent side and our offerings to better position ourselves in that marketplace and that'll include some tactical acquisitions as well.
So it is 10% but we are doing the best we can in terms of rightsizing it and hopefully we'll see some turnaround in that market and we should benefit from that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just my question about the government shutdown that should be again a headwind in Q4 as well or do you see...
Again we don't know -- you tell me what the government's going to do in the fourth quarter.
But fourth quarter involves a lot of project business and some of that business is project-based.
So it's going to be hard for us to project that.
But potentially there's an impact of that in the fourth quarter as well.
Your next question is from John Janedis of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Michael can you dig a little bit deeper into Europe? Your organic growth has been lagging a little bit here.
What do you attribute that to? Have you had any leadership changes in those markets? And do you potentially have more exposure to slower-growing disciplines in the region? Again it goes to my point that I answered before and that is our scale since it only reflects 10% changes in our client spend has more material effect on us than frankly some of our competitors.
And that's a function of our clients.
Some clients are spending more than others and small cutbacks have a more material impact with us.
I don't think -- in fact recently if you look at how McCann is doing in Europe and the strength particularly in auto I think it bodes well for us in terms of our performance.
So on the vertical side I don't believe we have any weaknesses in terms of our competition.
I think it really comes down to that our size of our business there is more subject to variations due to fluctuations in local markets and some global spend [ph].
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as a follow-up to Alexia how big is the government for you? I don't recall it being a huge number.
And when exactly did you start to see it? Was that like a late Q2 event? Or what was the timing of that? Yes.
In the U.S.
our global business on a global basis like a little bit over 3%.
But in the U.S.
it's about 3% as well.
And we started seeing some cutback in the second quarter but clearly in the third quarter we saw that directly.
And I think you have to look at not so much the shutdown but I think sequestration had an impact on that.
Government spending was cut across the board as we all know as a result of sequestration and that had a direct impact on our businesses there.
And I think we are probably a little bit overweighted on the government side of the business which is a good thing but during this period it adversely affected us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe Frank one quick one for you.
You touched on the pressure -- or some of the pressure on the SRS line.
You've historically said that you need revenue to see leverage as we know.
Given all you've done would it be fair to say you need maybe a somewhat more globally consistent number in key markets? And would that number be like a 3% number or greater to see the leverage? Yes John you're right.
We do need revenue and we need revenue growth.
And the impact on our SRS again we can keep pointing to Europe but with such decline in the top line it distorts all of your key SRS ratios which we're seeing in the consolidated numbers.
So it's not just 3% growth.
We need to see stabilization in some of these markets that have been kind of killing us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on the expense side then you've kept them modest.
Will there be any catch-up when the revenue accelerates in any market outside of Europe or you're good there? I think we're fine.
And we're scrutinizing it.
But again I think we're positioned well once growth comes into markets to leverage it with the exception of Europe.
It's a down roughly 6% through the 9 months.
Our headcount's only down 2% or 3%.
So we haven't been able to keep up with the decline.
And Michael pointed out we came into the year thinking a year similar to last year down 2% to 3%.
Down 6.5% through 9 months is something we've got to address.
When you look at kind of sequentially in the quarter the first 2 months of the quarter were in line with expectations.
September which is 40% of our revenue in that market was down 6% 7%.
So that gave us cause to say "Okay let's look at the fourth quarter and see what actions we need to take " and gave rise to the comment that Michael made in his opening comments.
Our next question is from David Bank of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I think we're all struggling a little bit to extrapolate beyond what we're seeing right now because there are so many moving parts.
And I guess I'll ask a hard question that I'm hoping will make things a little bit easier which is one of 2 things has to happen in Europe right? Things will get better or you will make these targeted expense costs -- address targeted expense initiatives.
So given that you will do something or something will happen and given the limited visibility and what we could see right now for the fourth quarter and frankly for the year how do you help us think about what the potential is for margin expansion the following year when one of those 2 things will happen right? There has to be kind of a target in your mind at this point because you're not going to do nothing.
So what can we expect in the current macro for margin expansion next year? Well I think the most significant impact in the margin expansion opportunity for us is when we get the current business wins cycling through for a full year in 2014.
And given the fact that we should be able to convert that revenue at a 30% conversion then that will significantly add to our margin expansion okay? Obviously we will do our best by year end to position ourselves going into 2014 to right-size our course profile against Europe.
So if you think that Europe will continue to be a drag then whatever actions we take in the fourth quarter should be able to position us in 2014 to put us back on a margin expansion environment out there in terms of Continental Europe.
So I think the way to look at it is the fourth quarter will be telling on our impact of Continental Europe not only for the rest of this year but for 2014 and how we take actions whether it be talent whether it be acquisitions whether it be cost reductions and repositioning so that 2014 we go into with a clean basis from a cost versus revenue basis so that the impact of the wins not only from our new business wins.
One of the interesting facts is that if you look at our top 20 clients we've had good growth for them both through the quarter and through -- year to date.
So our existing client base continues to be a source of revenue growth for us and we hope that to continue in 2014 as well.
So one way of looking at it is absent the back door which has always been a concern of mine opening up we're very well positioned for 2014.
In the fourth quarter we will -- hopefully we'll continue to manage our business to achieve our targets but we will also keep whatever actions that are necessary in 2013 in mind to make sure 2014 is a solid year for us.
Our next question comes from Matt Chesler of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So Europe's gotten a lot of air time this morning but I wanted to just shift a little bit maybe relieve you a little bit to talk about 2 other important markets for you.
One would be India which if I heard correctly you've said actually had decent growth in the quarter maybe even double-digit growth.
I wanted to hear a little bit about that outlook as well as Brazil.
Your LatAm number was up nicely.
Maybe not up as high as I sort of thought it would have been given kind of the noise around some of the funky comp issues you've had in the third quarter in recent years.
So with 2 large global events coming up kind of what -- you had some instability in that marketplace.
What's your expectations for Latin America as well? Well we actually saw double-digit growth in Brazil India and China which all bode well.
And remember we had very strong comps in all of those regions.
So we're very pleased with results and we're very pleased with our offerings.
In particular in India we have very strong offerings in all 3 of our global networks and our media business and our PR business.
We just did 2 transactions in India one on the media side of the business interactive on the digital side and on the PR side of the business with respect to Weber Shandwick.
So India it will continue to be a very strong market for us.
We're showing very positive results.
We know there are some issues in terms of the government and the economic environment but the results for the quarter showed a very positive impact.
Of course Brazil given what's happening in terms of the Olympics and the World Cup we already have some assignments on the World Cup in tow that will be addressed and we have already started to work on.
So we're excited about what's happening in Brazil.
And there too our offerings at all of our global networks are strong as well as our media businesses.
So I think those 2 markets will continue to be a strong driver of growth and profitability for us.
What I'm really pleased about was our results in China.
We have double-digit growth in China and that's one area that if you look at our relative size we have work to go.
We're committed to growing organically our business in China and we're encouraged to see positive results in the media side of the business as well as our global network.
So I think all of those markets bode well for our performance into the future and we're quite proud of our people in all of those regions.
Research Division</strong> Just from the standpoint then of trying to model a realistic forecast into next year.
I just want to make sure I understand the message you're trying to send about kind of overall growth for next year.
One is U.S.
starts to ramp new business coming through.
Not quite sure what happens with Europe.
It remains pretty tough but you think you're positioned for better growth.
Are there any of these other markets or any other deceleration in the business that you think you would want to highlight or just kind of waiting for the new business to come through in Europe to recover while the others chug along? Sure.
Well if you just look at Lowe just won the SEAT business that one will ramp up.
It was a very nice piece of business for Lowe and it showed its global and integrated offering.
So that's encouraging.
I think the expansion that we're seeing at McCann as I've called out in terms of both our existing client base there as well as new wins that's going to happen or happened in McCann.
And we're kicking off Draftfcb with a new management team that has some strong clients in Europe.
So we're going to really position Draftfcb as well in those markets.
So I think our offerings will be up to speed to be competitive in Continental Europe.
And as far as the emerging markets I've already said I think that's encouraging.
One market that's been very strong for us is Australia and we've seen a great growth in that market.
We have very solid media offerings as well as global offerings and we're pleased with what we're seeing there.
Turkey will be a growth market for us.
We have strong offerings there.
And Africa will be -- we have very strong offerings there.
So those markets we're positioned.
We're going to continue to invest in those other markets other than the BRIC markets.
But overall -- and of course the U.S.
Let's not forget the fact that 57% of our business is here in the United States.
And our independent agencies are performing well as well as our global network.
So I think from a cross-section of the world we're very well positioned.
Russia is a market that we're looking closely at.
We have a partner in Russia.
We've always talked about taking some sort of equity position in Russia and we continue to pursue that.
I'm cautiously optimistic that we'll be able to do something in that front.
So I'm very pleased with where we are in terms of positioning all our offerings.
And frankly I think absent changes in the macro environment we're very -- we're well positioned to move into 2014 and get on the margin expansion track that we've committed ourselves to.
Our next question is from Ben Swinburne of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Frank maybe on the cost side which we haven't talked a lot about this morning incentives and temp labor for 4Q I'm wondering if you could help us if Q3 is a good run rate for those 2 and whether you have any expectations for above-average severance? It sounds like you might.
Yes.
On the temp labor Ben we've always said 3.5% of revenue was a good number.
We've been tracking above that.
I think most of that is attributable to a very active new business in 2013 but it's an area that -- especially in the project concentration businesses for the fourth quarter we have to try and manage.
And on severance yes I think you're going to expect -- you're going to see an increase in severance especially around actions we're taking in Europe.
Research Division</strong> And incentive in that low 2s that you saw in Q3 makes sense or...
Well we've been between 3% and 4% of revenue for the past years.
That's where we target people but it's all predicated on our results for the year.
As we perform versus our targets to the extent we fall short of our targets that's going to impact incentives.
One of the impacts of our incentives was we have a long-term incentive plan.
And one of the important things is that we are as Frank said a pay-for-performance model in terms of our incentive.
So since 2012 we had a slight miss in 2012 that impacted our long-term incentive which accounted for some of the decrease in our incentives that you've seen year to date.
Research Division</strong> I see.
And Michael I know we've all been kind of dancing around this 2014 story.
I think everyone feels so bullish about you guys.
I mean at the risk of wildly oversimplifying your business which is certainly what we do for a living unfortunately I mean when you look at the client win rosters and the fact that generally people think GDP is going to accelerate next year I just -- I think I struggle or we all struggle with how next year is an acceleration of the top line margin expansion and the buybacks continue.
Anything that throws you off that sort of very basic logic that we're not seeing? No.
I mean the only thing that throws us off on that one will be the back door which is why we're spending so much time with our existing clients.
And I'm very pleased with how we've been performing.
I don't want to give myself a jinx here.
But no I think you're spot on.
I mean the logic is there and that frankly is our game plan.
And that is to convert the new revenue focus on our cost continue to grow from our existing clients which are top rate on a world-class basis and keep our heads down and service our clients.
And unless of course something happens in Washington there's no reason why we shouldn't be able to do that.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then lastly just anything on talent opportunities as it relates to the Publicis Omnicom merger which actually hasn't come up on this call yet amazingly? I'm just curious.
I couldn't believe I wasn't going to get through a call without commenting on that.
Let me just say you know what we've had -- added a number of talent additions in our company and they coincidentally happen to come from those particular companies.
I don't -- I wouldn't say it's exactly related to the transaction.
Frankly some of them we were talking to before the transaction.
But whenever you have a transaction like that there's going to be some disruption and uncertainty and people are looking to see where they're going to end up in that repositioning of the assets there.
So it's logical to assume that there'll be talented people in the marketplace that are looking for an environment where opportunities are there.
And certainly we have a reputation that's positive and in line of talented people joining us on a long-term basis.
So I think we are going to see opportunities.
We have seen a number of candidates that are already looking.
And I think you just continue to look at the senior team that we're putting together whether it be at Draftfcb or additions on our media side of business and we view this as an opportunity.
Our next question comes from James Dix of Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple things.
You've called out the pitch expense which have led to a lot of new business obviously this year.
Any way you can give us a little more quantification? I mean Frank you mentioned the impact on the temp line.
But just any more color on how much incremental expense that's added this year versus last year just so we can understand that? James for the 9 months it's about 20 basis points.
Research Division</strong> 20 basis points on revenue for the 9 months okay great.
And then secondly now that Publicis and Omnicom has been opened up for discussion any implications you think that has on your appetite for acquisitions? And I'm thinking in particular just beyond your kind of repeated strategy to look selectively in emerging markets and new media.
But acquisitions outside of that any potential for those acquisitions to make a material contribution to your margin expansion? Well whatever transaction we do we have it as a precursor to us doing the transaction as margin expansion okay.
So we don't make a habit of doing transactions that are dilutive although once in a while we do that only because it's a talent transaction more than an acquisition.
But yes we will continue as we did in 2012 and '13 look at digital transactions.
Obviously -- and I don't think this is as a result of the merger.
This is as a result of where the marketplace is demanding our expertise to be in.
And although we have -- we're very comfortable with our standalone digital agencies as well as our embedded digital capabilities of all our agencies if there's a digital agency out there that can add talent as well as capabilities to us we're very much interested in talking.
And we in fact have a couple in our pipeline that hopefully will come to fruition as well as the emerging markets.
We've been very successful in adding to our capabilities.
I already discussed India and we did the same in Latin America on all our disciplines whether it be PR media as well as for example the McCann in terms of the Washington transaction.
So we will continue to be in the marketplace looking for acquisitions.
Do I think there's a silver bullet out there where we -- that would all of a sudden put us in the same position as the merged companies are going to be? Highly unlikely but you never know if it's out there.
But our game plan continues to be use the same amount of money whether it be $150 million $200 million in acquisitions.
And that's what we budget for.
That's what we keep in mind as a target.
If something unusual comes up we will consider it.
We always look at enhancing shareholder value.
But in the meantime organic growth coupled with strategic and tactical transactions the way we've done it in the past couple of years continues to be our focus.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Just one last thing.
Then I'll let you move on.
Just regionally I mean do you think your performance in Europe is making it maybe more important strategically to add some scale there through an acquisition or acquisitions than perhaps you thought going into the year? Well what we want to take a look at is our competitive positioning.
And I think Lowe has done a good job in terms of looking at opportunities as I said on Delaney Lund for example is one.
And McCann obviously is doing well.
We've tactically added to McCann in terms of acquisitions and we continue to look at ways to bolt on some talent in some of the markets.
And Draftfcb I have to say there's is a wildcard out there and that is how are we going to bolster Carter and his team to compete on a worldwide basis.
And therefore we're going to look at opportunities along those fronts.
So I think those are the areas that we'll be focusing on.
Our next question comes from Brian Wieser of Pivotal Research.
Just going back to Europe I wanted to ask -- I don't know if you can dimensionalize this but is there a way to characterize what margin improvement would have been year-over-year if you excluded Europe? Any color obviously would be helpful on that.
And maybe it's related maybe not.
I thought it was interesting that BPN the third network inside of Mediabrands is expanding brought -- that they have established an affiliate in the U.K.
with the7stars which is very well-regarded independent media agency.
I was curious what the economics of that kind of relationship are and how that contributes to and improves margins when you establish those kinds of affiliate relationships.
Well first of all I think I already addressed the issue of margin.
If you just looked at Continental Europe if we looked at last year's 2% to 3% decline versus this year's we'll figure about a 50-basis-point improvement in margin okay? We're not going to give our total margin for Europe.
I'm just giving you the delta.
So that will give you a range and magnitude of the impact of Europe for us.
In terms of strategic alliances versus acquisitions we still look for it to be accretive.
And frankly it's either accretive or it's providing an asset that we don't have on our own and it's a cost-effective way for us to do it.
We always like to grow things organically but if it's quicker for us to either buy it or rent it that's how we go about doing it.
And that's what you're seeing with BPN.
We're very pleased with the -- it just celebrated its 1-year anniversary and it's performed well in the marketplace.
It's expanded globally and we're excited about the opportunities.
And the transaction you referenced is just one more example of how they're looking to grow their own market share.
And it gives us a very competitive third global network on the media side which I think is important for us as we compete in the marketplace.
Would you characterize those -- if the BPN wins a global account do you think that that contributes to -- is it really high-margin revenue then that if they cede [ph] an account to the7stars in this case let's say -- or maybe even just speak generally how -- what's the margin profile of the win? Whenever you share a client you're not about getting the same amount of margin as you would if you didn't.
But it still has to be economic for us to do it.
We're not in the business of providing margin to other people other than ourselves.
So you can assume if we do those kind of transactions it's beneficial for us.
It may not be quite as positive on the margin side but our goal would be for it to get to the margin levels that we will require.
Our next question is from Dan Salmon of BMO Capital Markets.
It's not a new theme that you guys have been more active in the M&amp;A market the past few years but Michael it sounds like maybe there was a little bit more vigor in perhaps repeating the performance of Delaney to address some scale issues in Europe.
You mentioned the challenges in retail.
That seems like an area that there are some interesting opportunities out there.
And then just balanced against share buyback I guess my question is on what sort of areas might you look at and then what that balance is looking into 2014? Well when we talk about share buybacks we always build into the needs of our business internally as well as excess cash and returning capital to our shareholders.
And I think we've done a pretty good job of balancing that.
So when we do our plans if we talk about $150 million $200 million of acquisitions that builds into it obviously keeping in mind our dividend and our share buyback program.
I think shopper marketing as you pointed out is an important market for us.
We've done a lot of work in that particularly on the Mediabrands side of the business and our global networks.
So those are markets that we see expansion and enhancing our capabilities.
And in some markets it may just a creative agency like I said that adds to our talent.
And it wouldn't be a big transaction but it's basically recognizing a leadership requirement in a market and maybe it brings clients with them or maybe it doesn't.
But we've done well with that in the past.
So when we look at transactions like that we look at retention of talent as well as servicing our existing clients in the marketplace.
And sometimes it's easier for us to do that transaction rather than go out and hire a whole bunch of people to do it.
So I think what you're going to see from us is the same kind of acquisition environment that we've had in the past.
And nothing is causing us to go out and do some unnatural act in terms of a transaction where we bet the ranch on in terms of getting a much bigger scale.
As I indicated we're very comfortable with our scale across all of our markets.
And frankly we're not lacking any particular discipline.
So tactical and strategic transactions within our capital structure will be the norm for us.
Would you consider another -- you mentioned -- just to follow up on the Europe question specifically you mentioned that's an area where you'd like to have a little bit more scale.
Is that an area where like you said not going out of your wheelhouse so to speak but an area that you might focus on to address that as that market starts to recover? Yes I mean absolutely.
That's what's I was referring to.
Again I think there are opportunities there but they have to fit within our parameters.
And they have to be able to provide the economic returns that we're looking for.
There's no sense of us doing another transaction in Europe that's going to be a drag on our margin.
So those transactions are harder to come by than small little creative shops that are looking for a buyout.
So it's a fine line we have to manage but that's the lens we look at these things through.
At this time there are no other questions.
Well thank you very much for participating in the call.
Obviously it's interesting times for us.
But rest assured we know what we have to do in terms of enhancing shareholder value and we will continue to do our best in achieving that.
Thank you very much.
This does conclude today's conference.
You may disconnect your phones at this time.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Interpublic Group Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer portion.
(Operator Instructions).
This conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Mr.
Jerry Leshne Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
We have posted our earnings release and our slide presentation on our website interpublic.com and will refer to both in the course of this call.
This morning we are joined by Michael Roth and Frank Mergenthaler.
We will begin with prepared remarks to be followed by a Q&amp;A.
We plan to conclude before market open at 9:30 a.m.
Eastern.
During this call we will refer to forward-looking statements about our company.
These are subject to uncertainties in the cautionary statement included in our earnings release and the slide presentation and further detailed in our 10-K and other filings with the SEC.
We will also refer to non-GAAP measures.
We believe that these measures provide useful supplemental data that while not a substitute for GAAP measures allow for greater transparency in the review of our financial and operational performance.
At this point it is my pleasure to turn things over to Michael Roth.
Thank you Jerry and thank you for joining us this morning as we review our results for the fourth quarter and full year.
I'll start out by covering highlights of our performance as well as our outlook for 2014 and Frank will then provide additional details.
I'll then conclude with an update on our agencies to be followed by a Q&amp;A.
Beginning with revenue we're pleased to report a quarter of solid growth in most key world markets led by our outstanding U.S.
performance.
Fourth quarter organic growth was 3.7% which is our strongest quarter in two years.
For the full year organic growth was 2.8%.
This was at the high end of the 2% to 3% range we had targeted entering 2013.
In the quarter standout client categories were auto retail healthcare and food and beverage.
Regionally U.S.
organic growth in the fourth quarter was 6.9% which reflects the revenue momentum of new business wins and notable strength in digital media and marketing services.
U.S.
organic growth for the full year was 3.7%.
In Asia-Pac our largest international region Q4 organic growth was 5.3% which is on top of a double-digit increase a year ago.
We saw a very strong increase in China in both the quarter and full year.
For the year our revenue in Asia-Pac was up 6.4% organically and grew 8.9% including revenue from acquisitions mainly in India.
Organic growth in LatAm was 4.5% during Q4.
Brazil continues to be strong and we had a double-digit growth in Argentina and Colombia.
For the full year LatAm grew 10.2% organically reflecting our very competitive position across the region.
In the UK fourth quarter organic growth was 4.3% led by increase in digital marketing services and media.
For the full year organic growth was 0.8% but that includes a very challenging Olympics comparison in the third quarter.
For the full year our underlying growth in the UK was approximately 4%.
Continental Europe continued to be the exception in terms of top line performance.
Our organic decrease was a negative 4.3% in the quarter which brought the full year to negative 5.9% with decreases in most national markets.
Business conditions remained challenging and we have taken important steps to strengthen our offerings in the margin including new senior hires and recent agency acquisitions such as Profero a leading UK based global digital agency and Inferno a respected integrated agency in London.
Turning to expenses and margin as you have seen in our announcement earlier today our fourth quarter included restructuring expense of $61 million the majority of which is our investment to align costs with revenue in Europe following the year of significantly lower than anticipated revenue.
You will recall then on a previous conference call in October we indicated that we were considering Q4 actions to address this region.
We anticipate savings from these actions of approximately $40 million in calendar year 2014.
In combination with strong revenue growth and ongoing expense discipline these actions strengthen of positioning to deliver growth in operating margin expansion this year and beyond.
Excluding the restructuring charge operating margin in the fourth quarter was 18.1% bringing margin for the full year to 9.3%.
Except for currency total operating profit in 2013 was relatively flat year-on-year.
However we did not attain our margin targets for the year mainly due to the extent of our revenue decrease in Continental Europe and a significant impact it had on our salary leverage.
Two other discrete factors weighed on our margin results.
First a few of our businesses that saw revenue decrease did not cut cost fast enough or the investment in talent for future growth.
Second the investment expense of new business; margin expansion remains a primary area of focus for us which I will detail in discussing our full year 2014 outlook.
Our capital structure and financial strength continued to be a source of significant value creation in Q4.
We repurchased 12 million common shares in the quarter using $201 million.
That brought full year repurchases to 32 million shares using $482 million.
At year-end our total share count including restricted shares and options was 428 million shares which is a decrease over 20% in the past three years.
That's the result of a shareholder capital return program that has put $1.6 billion to work over that timeframe.
Another financial highlight was significantly stronger cash flow generation for the full year 2013.
In addition our run rate interest expense exiting the year means 2014 interest expense should be $30 million to $35 million lower than fiscal year 2013.
Turning to our outlook for 2014 we begin with solid revenue momentum.
The strength of our agency brands and our competitiveness on the new business front means we look forward to top line growth that is in line with our industry peers.
Compared to this time a year ago our businesses are also seeing improved climate for marketing investment in many key consumer market.
Our agency leaders are generally positive in their outlooks and client projects spending is an important barometer of market sentiment has been healthy.
The U.S.
our big engine from a regional standpoint is seeing momentum as we begin the new year.
Our assets in important developing markets such as India and Brazil are very strong across the portfolio and the tone in the emerging markets is solid though tempered by some macro uncertainty.
The upcoming World Cup should be a positive.
We remain cautious in Europe considering all these factors we believe growth in 2014 should exceed last year's and our organic growth target is a range of 3% to 4% which is consistent with the forecast from MAGNA for improved growth in the broader media sector.
With respect to profitability we expect the return on our fourth quarter cost actions will contribute 40 to 50 basis points of margin expansion in calendar year '14.
Combined with the appropriate level of conversion on 3% to 4% organic growth our target is therefore to expand operating margin in total by at least 100 basis points in 2014 on top of this year's underlying base of 9.3%.
The actions we announced earlier today on the dividend and share buybacks are indicative of our Board's confidence in our outlook.
We've increased our dividend 27% to $0.095 per share quarterly or $0.38 per year.
In addition our Board authorized a new 300 million share repurchase plan.
This new authorization brings our total outstanding program to 419 million pro forma for the beginning of this year.
At this stage I'll turn things over to Frank for some additional detail on our results and I'll join you after his remarks for an update on tone of business and our agencies to be followed by our Q&amp;A.
Thank you Michael.
Good morning.
As a reminder I will be referring to the slide presentation that accompanies our webcast.
On Slide 2 you'll see an overview of results many of which Michael touched on.
Organic growth was 3.7% in the fourth quarter.
The U.S.
growth was a terrific 6.9% our fifth consecutive quarter of stronger year-on-year domestic growth.
Our international performance was mixed with growth in Asia-Pac LatAm and the UK but decreases in Continental Europe and other markets.
Q4 operating profit was 324 million including 61 million expensed for strategic cost actions mainly in Continental Europe.
Operating margin was 15.3% in the fourth quarter as reported.
Before restructuring Q4 margin was 18.1% and full year operating margin was 9.3%.
The payback on our Q4 actions should result in 40 or 50 basis points of margin expansion in '14.
For the quarter diluted earnings per share was $0.44 per share and $0.56 per share excluding the restructuring charge.
For the full year diluted EPS was $0.61 per share and would have been $0.78 per share excluding both the $0.11 per share impact of the Q4 restructuring charge and the $0.06 per share impact on our charge in the third quarter with the early redemption of our 10% notes.
We provide a reconciliation of reported to an adjusted EPS in the Appendix to our presentation on Page 23.
Michael mentioned our Board's actions today to increase our dividend and authorize a new share repurchase plan.
These actions underscore the strength of our financial condition and competitiveness of our offerings.
Turning to Slide 3 you'll see our P&amp;L for the quarter.
I'll cover revenue and operating expenses in detail in the slides that follow.
Here it's worth noting that our tax rate in the quarter was 32.9% and an adjusted 30.1% excluding restructuring charge.
For the full year our tax rate 38.7% as reported and 36.2% adjusting for both the Q4 charge and the Q3 charge for debt redemption.
This compares to an adjusted tax rate of 2012 of 30.4% excluding the gain on the sale of our Facebook shares in 2012 which was included in other income.
Turning to revenue on Slide 4 revenue was 2.12 billion in the quarter an increase of 2.9%.
Compared to Q4 2012 the impact of the change in exchange rate was a negative 130 basis points while net acquisition added 50 basis points.
Resulting organic revenue increase was 3.7%.
For the full year revenue growth was 2.4% consistent with 2.8% organic growth and 70 basis points from net acquisitions while currency was a negative 1.1%.
As you can see on the bottom half of this slide fourth quarter organic growth at our integrated agency network segment was 2.2% with U.S.
growth outpacing international growth.
At our CMG segment our organic growth was 11.7%.
Growth in the U.S.
was very strong across PR events and sports marketing.
Moving to Slide 5 revenue by region.
In the U.S.
Q4 organic growth was 6.9%.
We had outstanding performance by our media business our digital agencies and our marketing service specialists in CMG notably events in PR.
We also had strong growth in certain of our U.S.
integrated independents.
Leading client sectors were auto and healthcare.
It is worth noting that our revenue with federal government clients increased modestly in Q4 after having decreased during the third quarter.
Turning to international markets.
The UK increased 4.3% organically in Q4 led by growth in digital marketing services and media.
For the full year UK organic growth was 0.8% which reflects a challenging London Olympics comparison from 2012.
Underlying growth was approximately 4% led by McCann media and digital.
Continental Europe decreased 4.3% organically in the quarter.
We had decreases in Germany Italy and Spain while France was flat.
For the year revenue decreased 5.9% on an organic basis.
And our cost actions in Q4 addressed a similar percentage of our headcount in Europe as well as some office consolidation.
In Asia-Pac organic revenue growth was 5.3% in Q4.
We had double-digit increase in China which was driven by McCann media and the marketing services companies within CMG.
For the full year Asia-Pac was 6.4% organically against double-digit growth the year before led by double-digit growth in Australia and China and mid single digit growth in India.
Growth was 8.9% for the year including acquisition revenue notably in India.
In LatAm we increased 4.5% organically in the quarter due to growth across many of our agencies including media McCann CMG and digital.
Full year growth was terrific at 10.2% which was fueled by a very broad cross-section of our assets in the region.
Our other markets group which was made up of Canada the Middle East and Africa decreased 6.3% in the quarter on an organic basis primarily the result of lower pass-through revenues and expenses.
On Slide 6 we chart the longer view of our organic revenue change on a trailing 12-month basis.
The most recent data point is 2.8% corresponding to calendar year 2013 increasing as the year progressed.
Moving on to Slide 7 our operating expenses.
In the fourth quarter total operating expenses increased 5.1% from a year ago before the restructuring charge.
Full year operating expenses increased 2.9% compared to 2.4% revenue growth.
Our performance in Continental Europe has significant impact on our salaries leverage.
As Michael mentioned our revenue decreased deeper than we had anticipated.
We need to align our cost base in this region to the revenue reality.
Second in some of our businesses where revenue decreased we did not see a corresponding and timely reduction to our payroll or a decision was made to further invest in talent or capabilities to drive growth.
Third the volume of new business one in 2013 was positive but investment was required to win the business and servicing the business also meant hiring ahead of revenue.
That timing was detrimental to margins in 2013.
Needless to say margin will be a critical area of focus for us in 2014.
There is no structural reason why we should not continue our progress to a competitive level of margin profitability and nothing has changed in our outlook that we can drive high levels of incremental margin on our growth.
Total headcount at year end was 45 400 which was an increase of 0.4% in Q4 of Q3.
That includes some reductions from our restructuring with the majority of restructuring headcount we'll schedule to exit in Q1.
From a year-over-year standpoint total headcount increased 4.9% of which 3.4% was organic and 1.5% was due to acquisitions.
Our additions where we are growing in LatAm Asia Pac and in the U.S.
for new business as well as our high growth digital marketing services and media disciplines.
In Q4 our ratio of base payroll benefits the tax expense to revenue was 44.9% compared with 44.3% a year ago.
For the full year that ratio was 52.9% compared with 52.2% in the prior year.
Q4 expense for temporary labor was 3.4% of revenue which is 20 basis points higher than last year and somewhat higher than we'd like to see.
For the full year our temp ratio of 3.6% was equal to the level over a year ago.
Incentive expense was 3% of Q4 revenue and also 3% of revenue for the full year which was the same level as full year 2012.
Our other salaries and related category was 4.6% of fourth quarter revenue and was 3.2% of revenue for the full year which is an increase of 20 basis points for the year.
Our increase for the full year is due to higher performance-based bonuses at the local and regional operating levels.
Turning to office and general expenses on the lower half of the slide.
O&amp;G expense was 25.3% of Q4 revenue and 26.9% for the full year which is an improvement of 20 basis points for the full year.
As you can see in the Appendix we held steady on both professional fees and our travel supplies and telecom as a percentage of revenue.
Our expense for occupancy grew a little faster than revenue resulting in 10 basis points of deleveraging.
We leveraged the O&amp;G category by 30 basis points for the year.
On Slide 8 we share our operating margin history on a trailing 12-month basis.
The most recent data point is 8.4% which includes our Q4 restructuring expense of about 61 million and 9.3% before that expense.
Turning to the current portion of our balance sheet on Slide 9 we ended the year with 1.64 billion of cash and short-term marketable securities.
You'll remember that our cash balance a year ago included 800 million that had been raised in November 2012 debt issuance to prefund debt redemption in 2013.
Under the short-term liabilities section the current portion of long-term debt reflects in November 2014 maturity of our six and a quarter notes.
On Slide 10 we turn to cash flow.
Cash from operations in Q4 was 1.02 billion compared with 802 million a year ago.
The comparison includes 657 million of working capital in this year's fourth quarter which is a very strong result compared with 408 million a year ago.
This continues to be an area of focus.
For the full year cash from operations was 593 million compared with 357 million in 2012.
As a reminder our operating cash flow is seasonal.
Our business tends to generate significant cash working capital in the fourth quarter and a use of cash working capital in the first quarter.
Investing activities in Q4 used 97 million mainly for capital expenditures.
For the full year CapEx was 173 million while net cash used in acquisitions was 62 million.
Our M&amp;A pipeline continues to be very strong.
While timing can shift between periods we continue to target 150 million to 200 million annually.
We remain focused primarily on high growth disciplines and markets expanding our digital capabilities and opportunistically strengthening our presence in world markets.
Moving on our financial activities used 256 million in Q4 mainly 201 million for the repurchase of our common stock and 32 million in common stock dividends.
Order included the payment of our final quarterly preferred stock dividend which was 3 million.
For the full year our financing activities used 1.2 billion which chiefly reflects 602 million in retirement of our 10% notes 482 million repurchase common stock and 126 million for dividends of our common shares.
As I mentioned we had pre-financed some of this activity with our November 2012 debt issuance which was 800 million.
In 2013 our net decrease in cash and marketable securities for the full year was 949 million.
Cash taxes for the year were 112 million which is 19.5% of our adjusted pretax income.
We continue to benefit from our operating loss carryforwards and a cash tax rate lower than our effective book rate.
In 2014 we estimate our cash tax rate will be in the range of approximately 20% to 22%.
On Slide 11 we show our debt deleveraging are nearly 700 million from 2007 to 2013 which includes the temporary increase at year end 2012.
Our debt level at year-end 2013 was 1.66 billion.
Slide 12 shows the total of our average basic plus diluted shares over the last few years.
On the far right shows the total as of year-end 2013.
This has been a dynamic and positive area of focus for us.
Average total shares have decreased approximately 21% between 2010 and 2013.
Our starting position for 2014 is 428 million on the right which is 3.4% lower than 2013 average.
As we have pointed out with our Board's actions announced this morning our repurchase authorization currently totals 419 million.
Turning to Slide 13 in summary stronger U.S.
growth was an encouraging note to conclude the year and look ahead to 2014.
We began the new year in a stronger competitive position compared to a year ago and having taken necessary actions in Europe our focus for 2014 will be to drive margin expansion.
Our financial strength continues to be a source of value creation.
As a result we enter the year having significantly reduced our share count and lowered our cost of debt and with a higher dividend.
With that let me turn it back over to Michael.
Thank you Frank.
While we make significant progress on a number of important fronts in 2013 we enhanced the senior talent across the organization with particular focus on strategic creative and digital leadership.
We've retained major clients which was a key area of focus going into the year.
We also built on those existing relationships and we showed well in the new business arena.
This was particularly the case on holding company level consolidations where we won four of the five major reviews in which we participated.
Our year-end organic revenue growth returned to competitive levels and we finished the year strongly in the United States.
During 2013 we took additional steps to bolster the company's already strong financial position which has allowed us to invest behind the high growth sectors within our portfolio while we're also returning considerable capital to our shareholders.
Overall our offering is strong.
We're meeting the needs of our clients our effectively engaging with consumers in a fragmented dynamic and fast-moving marketing landscape.
This means putting strategic insights digital capabilities and integrated ideas at the center of all our agencies.
It's about being highly creative fast and flexible and using data and analytics to promote accountability.
Media brands and CMG both continue to lead the way performing at very high levels and building outstanding digital capabilities notably in the areas of social media and content creation.
We've taken a leadership position and (indiscernible) media buying and established the MAGNA Consortium partnering with a number of major media owners.
MAGNA also just released high definition buying the industry's most comprehensive scalable data stack to optimize audience targeting across all devices and media channels.
Media brands also want significant reviews against top competitors such as the global Hershey's assignment and nationwide.
This led to media brands being made the Holding Company of the Year by MediaPost.
CMG follows suit on the industry-leading PR capabilities at Weber Shandwick Golin Harris and Devries contributed to IPG winning the first designation as Holding Company of the Year from The Holmes Report.
As a result we're seeing our CMG company particularly the PR agencies gain further market share.
McCann showed very strongly major award shows around the world.
The agency's Dumb Ways to Die work has become the most awarded creative campaign in the history of our industry and the agency has become an attractive destination for top talents.
Their competitive offering includes global consumer advertising CRM digital and experiential capabilities.
This is reflected in new client assignments from both existing partners like GM and new ones like the US Postal Service Lockheed Martin and Zurich Insurance who have played a key role on our cross IPG team.
Lowe continued to do great work with its largest client particularly in high growth and BRIC markets.
The agency was also essential to a number of new business wins notably Cadillac which led to a merger with Campbell Ewald that is making good progress and will further be accelerated with the addition of Profero on the digital front.
R/GA HUGE and MRM are among the industry's most innovative agencies with best-in-class capabilities across the digital spectrum including mobile social UX [ph] and tech development.
All three of these agencies continue to grow and expand their geographic footprints.
Our integrated U.S.
independent includes some of the most dynamic agencies in the business such as Hill Holiday Martin and Deutsch.
Mullen in particular had a breakout year in 2013.
Draftfcb has also shown the positive impact of talent upgrades across the network in offices such Shanghai and New York as well as capabilities by strategic planning and a new agency CMO.
Carter and his team are working well together as evidenced by the recent win on Levi's an uptick in new business activity and the soon to be announced win of Trulia.
At the holding company level we outperformed all of our competitors by winning 30% of the Grand Prix awarded at Cannes the industry's most important creative competition and we recently outpaced our peers with three agencies on the preceded AdAge A list; Mullen Weber Shandwick and R/GA as well as another three on the list of agencies to watch.
This reflects the quality of our talent and the range of resources that we can bring to bear on behalf on our clients.
We are equally strong in many of the world's high growth regions which we see as a source of further growth for us.
We have strong offerings in all of our global networks in Brazil and India where we've been active in M&amp;A on behalf of media brands at CMG.
We will continue to build in China largely through organic investment and the results there in 2013 validate that approach.
We have a strong and effective partnership in Russia and we will remain active on the M&amp;A front with targeted deals notably in digital marketing services and media as well as tactically to address geographic areas of need we'll capitalize on specific client opportunities.
Our balance sheet has been and will continue to be a source of significant value creation.
We've been very effective in deleveraging while returning 1.6 billion to shareholders since initiating the current dividend and share repurchase program in 2011.
Our Board's actions announced today build on that success which demonstrate their confidence in the strength of our financial position and our agencies as well as their belief in the opportunities that lie ahead of us.
By achieving our 2014 growth target of 3% to 4% and given the cost actions we have taken in Q4 we are confident that we can convert at a high level and resume our long-term trajectory of margin expansion.
This will result in at least 100 basis points improvement.
Our margin goal is therefore 10.3% or better.
This will position us to further enhance shareholder value in the years to come.
We are looking forward to a strong 2014 and we thank you for your time and your continued support.
At this time I'll open it up for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
The first question today is from Alexia Quadrani with JP Morgan.
Thank you.
I just wanted to follow-up on the relatively weak margins in the quarter.
I know Europe was a huge challenge in the quarter but it looked like you had such good growth elsewhere? And I guess given the relatively small size of Europe I'm surprised – I guess the positive offering that you probably had given the strong growth else I'm surprised to see you didn't see much more of an offset? Yes that's a fair question and obviously Alexia that's a key question that we try to address in our opening remarks.
In particular since its yearend we are a little more detailed in our presentation so forgive us for that.
But I look at it in a simple way.
There are three buckets that we look at when we compare our targets and our actual results.
The first obviously is weakness in Continental Europe which you point out.
If you look at its percentages versus our goal that's an excess of 60% of the mix if you will versus our target.
If you add on top of that so obviously the bulk of it is from Europe notwithstanding its size okay.
The second pieces as we talked about is the ramp up – the failure to reduce our salaries ahead of some revenue weakness as we had in some of our agencies.
Part of that was that we were investing in the future in terms of talent.
Remember 2013 is a year where we had some changes in our structural agencies in terms of leadership and as a result we had some replacements and obviously new leadership and new talent across strategic creative and frankly management leading those agencies.
So that's the second bucket.
And obviously we didn't cut fast enough against some of the revenue shortages which is reflected in those ratios.
The third bucket has to do with new business.
Particularly we saw a lot of new business expenses on the digital side from our agency and it's reflected in our new business wins which were positive in 2013 which is why we're comfortable when we talk about how all of this is going to convert into 2014.
If you just look at the expense that we took in terms of the restructure because we look at 40 million to 50 million return in 2014 which is a pretty good base return.
The question is why aren't we seeing a 100% of it? And obviously when you take out people in Europe it has caused us a little more than in the United States.
The second part of it has to do with structurally in our refinancing we have $30 million to $40 million of savings on our interest expense.
So when you put all that together we're disappointed in not achieving our margin in 2013 but I think what's clear is we took some significant actions to position ourselves for 2014 which is why we're comfortable with a 100 basis point expansion in our margin given the 3% to 4% organic revenue growth in 2014.
So I hope that clarify – those three buckets are critical in terms of why we missed against our target.
And let me just reiterate.
The reason I talked about our target was as I said given – you pull out currency from an operating income point of view we were relatively flat.
So the tone of our business wasn't as difficult as it was reflected in some of the deceases in margin that you saw.
Yes Michael that's very helpful.
But I guess on the two other buckets besides Europe spend and since you reiterated them just two questions on that.
One when does the new business ramp become a positive contributor to margin more of a tailwind than a headwind? And then on the two businesses that sort of dragged outside of Europe that you highlighted did the restructuring also sort of address those will we see better performance out of those two other businesses as well? Clearly we keep that in mind when we look at performance in 2014.
So the answer to that is yes.
I'm sorry what was the first part of the question? The new business ramp which has been very impressive now for a while I guess when does that become a tailwind versus a headwind? Well it's a tailwind going into the first half of the year.
So notwithstanding we had a few client losses in the last part of 2013.
But even that for the first half of the year '14 we should be positive and have tailwinds which is part of the growth that we anticipate in 2014.
Okay thank you very much.
Thank you Alexia.
Thank you.
The next question is from John Janedis with UBS.
Michael sticking to Europe I think you went into last year thinking it would maybe be flattish to down slightly.
So when you look out to this year is the base case that organic grows? I need to clarify.
Is that $40 million of savings all in Europe and can margins grow in a declining revenue environment there? 40 million is not in all Europe all right.
Obviously the majority of it is.
And yes while we were disappointed in terms of how we managed in 2013 and the negative performance in Europe which is what gave rise to the restructuring and how we starting looking at that.
Our plans for 2014 did not call for a major recovery in Continental Europe but it does call for a leveling loss if you will.
So that's build into our forecast for 2014.
Okay.
And then maybe on a similar related note you made some senior changes at your agencies as you know.
At this point is it fair to say the leadership team and the associated cost are in place? I'm just trying to understand if there is risk to margin from future investment and talent? You're right on.
That's what I was alluding to rather than just focusing on revenue declines.
When I said we made investments in growth we saw major additions at McCann at Draftfcb and Lowe and frankly some of our independent agencies which frankly is one of the reasons we saw improvement and our new business wins and how we're pretty excited about the pipeline that we have going into 2014.
So 2013 the way I look at it was we finished very strong on the revenue side and we right-sized as best we can our European operations.
Let's not forget we also did two acquisitions to help us.
Inferno is a good addition for Draftfcb and we expect to see some improvement in Continental Europe as a result of that and Profero which a great addition for the Lowe network.
So yes we made investments in talent.
And of course McCann we saw additions of individuals like Rob Reilly in particular on the creative side and McCann reflecting in its new business win and it's a win in terms of recognition for its creative side.
We're feeling very good about the prospects for McCann on a global basis going into 2014.
So yes we continued to invest in our talent and I'm very comfortable with the leadership we now have across all of our networks.
We made changes in some of our independents.
Karen Kaplan was made Chairman and CEO of Hill Holliday.
We have Alex in Mullen taking over there and we merged Campbell Ewald with Lowe.
So I think we are very well positioned from a competitive point of view going into 2014.
Thanks Michael.
Let me do one last quickly to Frank I'm sorry but Frank on the 100 basis points as a base case for the margin is it fair to say maybe 80 of that is SRS and 20 is O&amp;G? The majority John without putting a specific number is definitely coming out of SRS.
We continue to make progress but we're ahead of the target that we had set with respect to percentage of revenue and we'll still chip away but it's got to come out of SRS.
Thanks Frank.
You're welcome.
Thanks John.
Thank you.
The next question is from David Bank with RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks guys.
Switching back to the revenue side I guess – from the outside my general assumption would have been the bulk of the new business was sort of global as you've been winning it fairly evenly split and I'm trying to understand the massive SKU like I sort of get the domestic for the European-related weakness on international but just enormous growth domestically and then kind of overly anemic growth internationally is there a SKU of new business wins? How much of it is about the market versus share gains? And how do we extrapolate a runway like is that – does the next year look kind of really disproportionately big domestic growth and far more muted international or do you think that we see some convergence over the next couple of quarters? Well let's not forget the fact that 50% of our revenue comes from the United States 56%.
So obviously that's a very strong driver.
And frankly that's been the exciting part of the growth in the United States because so much of our business comes from that place.
If you look at our marketing services businesses as well a fair chunk of that is coming here in the United States.
If you look at the global part of it we saw great growth in Brazil China and India.
There was slight pullback in Q4 for 2013 but on a year-to-date basis we saw double-digit growth in most of those markets which pulled back a little in the fourth quarter.
So we're expecting to see continued strong results in LatAm as well as in Asia Pac but a lot of it SKU between 56% of business comes from the United States which frankly is a good thing from our perspective.
But if you look at where we've made investments in acquisitions we strengthened our disciplines in India with acquisitions we did a few acquisitions in LatAm which helped us and obviously in Europe I already covered some of the acquisitions.
Our pipeline for the future acquisitions is frankly more global than U.S.
So our goal here is obviously to increase our exposure in the growth markets and participate that way.
But I think we saw some pullback in the international markets that I just referred to in the fourth quarter and that led to the SKU-ing if you will of a greater portion in the U.S.
I guess just a follow-up maybe ask one more question which would be could you talk about of that domestic growth how would you split it between sort of new business won versus – over the past trailing couple of quarters like new business won versus existing client spend? Can we look at it that way? One thing I forget is our independent agencies.
Obviously we have very strong independent agencies which are frankly more domestic and there were very successful.
We looked at Mullen with its win at Acura and a couple of our other independent agencies Deutsch the Martin agency we have new business wins there.
Look new business wins are great.
It takes a while for them to really flow though in terms of our margin.
We've always said our strength in our existing clients and if you look at our top clients we saw 6% growth on a worldwide basis in our top 20 clients and that has been and will continue to be the source of strength and growth for our company.
Obviously when we get up to bat in terms of new business wins as I indicated we're doing fairly well and with the addition of all the new talents and just look this morning; Draftfcb the announcement on – I gather.
I said soon to be announced but here it was announced.
They picked up Trulia.
So we added new talent obviously under Carter's leadership and we're seeing results already coming into place.
So new business is great.
We're going to hopefully win more than we lose if there are any.
But the key source of our strength is our existing global clients and existing clients and the growth from those.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
The next question is from Benjamin Swinburne with Morgan Stanley.
We almost moved you there Ben.
Hi.
This is Hersh Khadilkar actually on for Ben.
Two question actually.
First was there any impact from pass-through revenues in 4Q '13? And then second I know you've taken a lot of questions on this already but given the new business momentum that you had in '13 I mean relative to the industry is it fair to assume you can outperform in '14 or are there other kind of headwinds we should thinking about? Thanks.
I'll let Frank answer the pass-through but we think given the talent we should outperform our industry every year okay.
And by investing in our new talent across McCann Draftfcb Lowe and our independent from our perspective we think the answer to that should be yes.
And frankly that's why we invested in the talent that we have.
What I'm really pleased about is the result of these awards and where we stand.
I know that doesn't put money in the bank per se but the reputation overall for all of our networks on the creative side on a competitive basis has really come through in 2013 and that should give rise to – an advantage to our kind of new business wins.
No one wants to bring in the 10th rated creative agency when they're calling on consultants to bring in agencies.
So that's in McCann for example Harris has been focusing on strengthening the creative bench there because you add that on top of the distribution and the strength and the offerings that they have on a global basis it's just very competitive for us and the same with all our other agencies.
So yes we like to think we're going to outperform in the marketplace and frankly I know the question is 3% to 4% guidance for 2014 may seem like – what I said was we should be competitive with our peers.
So if the industry is above 4% I certainly would expect us to be competitive.
But going into the year it's kind of difficult for us.
This industry is hard enough to predict where we're going to come out on a quarterly basis and we proved that.
But on a full year basis we'd like to start the year out more on a macro basis which is why frankly MAGNA puts out a release and so does our competitors and our forecast for the year is consistent with that.
Our goals of course are to do better.
Hersh on the pass-through question on a consolidated basis it was very small.
Okay great.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
The next question is from Brian Wieser with Pivotal Research.
Good morning Brian.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
First of all there have to be some good signs in Europe.
I mean last quarter alone I think with some key account wins.
So the question is what aspect in particular is going badly? And maybe the reason I ask is if you were us and you were to try to look at what to look for for signs of improvement in the country level is it agency specific? Any color you can offer on that would be useful.
And then a second question.
Yesterday you saw the news obviously with Mediabrands and Comscore and Rentrak but it's not – it occurred to me it's not as if you're replacing Nielsen for anything.
I'm curious when you think about spending money on research or when your agencies think about spending money on research do they tend to think about it more as an investment in new client wins or when those incremental costs come up is it more – there's a specific client who is willing to pay for it I'm just wondering how to read through to that and getting in terms of the invest in the future versus an actual revenue generating opportunity? Let me talk about the research.
Research is obviously very important and everything we're trying to do at Mediabrands is to target those dollars and be most effective in where we put it.
The more data we can access of course all the different outlets whether it mobile whether it Internet or TV the better we are in allocating our client dollars to be more effective on a real-time basis.
The stuff that we announced today in terms of high definition we've already put the work on some clients so the answer is obviously you work with your existing clients but when you're in competitive pitches it's nice to show that you have a competitive advantage or an exclusive arrangement with these top providers of research that puts you ahead of the competition.
So it's a combination of existing clients where we've continued to maximize the effectiveness of the dollars that we're managing on behalf of our clients and frankly to put us in a competitive advantage in the marketplace.
And I think on the program side with respect to Mediabrands the team – Matt and the team have been a great proponent of new ways of looking at spending those dollars that we effectively did.
So you can spend less dollars and be more effective and this is how you keep existing clients happy and you win new business.
So we're very excited about what's happening over there.
As far as Europe we did have -- Lowe won (indiscernible) so we did have new business wins in Europe and frankly McCann in the UK is showing good signs of recovery and we had good performance both across our marketing services in McCann and UK.
And now we're looking to expand our footprint in Continental Europe.
We're not running away from it.
But the fact is it is 11% of our – Continental Europe was 11% of our revenue.
And if there's one client that pulls back it has a more material impact on our results.
The other side of that is if we win something big we'll have a better performance in Continental Europe.
So 11% is not insignificant and I don't want anyone to think we're not investing in Continental Europe.
I think we have some good offerings and strong offerings and we will continue to focus on that market.
It's an important market for us.
But given the fact that it's 11% sometimes we see volatility in those results that are client specific or frankly region specific.
And so that's how we look at it.
Okay.
But is there any – based on what you're expecting for the year even in a world that's flat is it a particular discipline that – because it does seem like the CMG seems to be clearly doing well all around but is it more of a – on the media agency side creative agency side anything if you had to guess? No I think it's across the board.
Obviously some of our agencies we had to make some senior management changes and we're looking at some strategic bolt-on transactions that will help us on the talent side.
So it's across the board and yes McCann as I said is doing strong in the UK.
CMG is performing well and we expect those kinds of investments to continue and to perform well in that market.
And the right-sizing of our agencies is something we've been spending time with and that's why we said in October that we're going to take a hard look at matching our expenses and our revenue and frankly if we overshot the runway on the expense side we can always go to our talent base.
And so I think we really repositioned ourselves to take all of that into consideration for 2014.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Brian.
Thank you.
The next question is from James Dix with Wedbush.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Two questions.
First just Michael you talked a little bit about the lift of the net new business heading into 2014.
Any quantification you have on that because I know going into prior years net new business has been more of a drag.
So I just wanted to see whether there was anything we could focus on in contrasting your outlook for 2014? And then secondly just following up on something you said Frank although Michael you've addressed it as well in terms of there's really no structural reason why you can't get the competitive margins.
Just wondering what you consider a structural reason versus a non-structural one? For example a year ago someone might have argued well your position in Europe given its scale could have been argued to be a structural impediment.
It seems as though you've taken some actions with the restructuring and other things you're doing on the M&amp;A side and other areas to address that.
So I just want to see if you could give a little more color on what you mean by that and how you feel like your structural position has improved over the past year if you think it has? Thanks.
Structural by definition we have – most of our models at variable cost model.
So as long as we have leverage we can pull when revenue isn't there therefore we don't think that's a structural.
Whether it be salaries or incentives is another variable cost that we had to pull.
Structural is that if we can't weather the fixed cost whether it be rent whether it be markets where we can't take out the expenses and even our revenue whether we have agencies in markets that don't perform and we can't exit those markets those are all structural impediments that frankly in the past it took us years to overcome.
We exited – in the early days we exited 50 different markets which frankly were impediments to our growth and we made tough decisions on that.
So I think we – by going to certain global centers if you will we've minimized the effects of structural impacts and we're much more on a variable course at the structure right now.
Did you want to add anything to that Frank? No.
James I think Michael hit it.
If there is a line of sight for us to get to a competitive margin and to get there we have to take actions or pull levers; that's where we are today.
And if we don't think we can get there that's structural and we believe we've made the structural changes in our portfolio so it comes down to execution.
I think the challenge though is the decision every management team makes about cost reduction when there's pressure on revenue versus investment because if you just live for short-term margins eventually you're going to erode the value of your enterprise.
So there's the debate that we saw in the fourth quarter where we saw some businesses where revenue pulled back and we made some tough decisions around headcount reductions primary Europe.
We also made some decisions around the need to invest in positions for '14.
On your question of new business you're right.
We used to call out 3% headwind going into the year and we took the liberty of adding that to our results to show that we had competitive offerings.
Going into '14 as I indicated in the first half of the year I'd say we have tailwinds in the 1% range.
Of course at the end of the year we did have some client losses that are taken into effect.
But I'd use that as – but yes that's about the right number.
And obviously we helped to increase that.
We had a number of pitches up in the review and hopefully we'll be successful on those.
Great.
Thanks very much for the color.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
We are nearing the bottom of the hour so I'll turn the call back over to speakers for any closing thoughts.
Well as we've said you can tell obviously 2013 was an interesting year for us.
What we are excited about is going into 2014.
We made some hard decisions in 2014 and we finished the year very strong.
I had indicated we were looking for a strong close into '13 and we did it on the revenue side and we're repositioning our businesses for '14.
So we're looking forward to our next call and thank you all for your support.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you very much for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the Interpublic Group First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All parties are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer portion.
(Operator Instructions).
This conference call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I'd now like to introduce Jerry Leshne Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
We have posted our earnings release and our slide presentation on our website interpublic.com and will refer to both in the course of this call.
This morning we are joined by Michael Roth and Frank Mergenthaler.
We will begin with prepared remarks to be followed by Q&amp;A.
We plan to conclude before market open at 9:30 a.m.
Eastern.
During this call we will refer to forward-looking statements about our company.
These are subject to uncertainties and the cautionary statement included in our earnings release and the slide presentation and further detailed in our 10-K and other filings with the SEC.
We will also refer to non-GAAP measures.
We believe that these measures provide useful supplemental data that while not a substitute for GAAP measures allow for greater transparency in the review of our financial and operational performance.
At this point it is my pleasure to turn things over to Michael Roth.
Thank you Jerry and thank you for joining us this morning as we review our results for the first quarter.
As been our practice I'll start out by recovering highlights of our performance Frank will then provide additional details and I'll conclude with an update on our agencies to be followed by a Q&amp;A.
We're pleased to report our strongest growth quarter in two years despite the year.
Organic revenue growth in the first quarter was 6.6% driven by implement.
Our seasonal Q1 operating loss includes significantly the 12 million from 42 million a year ago reflecting effective operating leverage on our principal expense categories.
As a result diluted EPS was a loss of $0.05 per share compared with the loss of $0.14 share a year ago.
Our growth reflects both increases with existing clients as well as new business wins.
We will led by double-digit increases in the auto healthcare and financial service sectors.
In the U.S.
organic growth was 4.8% comprised the growth across most of our businesses notably McCann Mediabrands our digital specialist agencies many of our U.S.
integrated agencies and public relations.
It's worth noting that U.S.
organic growth would have been 6.5% excluding the decline in past through revenue during the quarter.
This was primarily from our event business.
International organic growth was strong at 9.1% we had double-digit increases in LatAm Asia-Pac and the U.K.
as well as a welcome return to growth in Continental Europe which was up organically by 3.8%.
International performance was strong across the portfolio.
All of our global networks contributed as did our digital agencies and our marketing service specialist at CMG.
Turning to expenses and margins total operating expenses increased 4% compared with our 6.1% reported revenue growth.
Operating leverage on our salaries and related expenses improved by 80 basis points.
While leverage on our office and general expenses improved by 130 basis points.
As a result Q1 operating margin improved by 200 basis points and our operating loss in Q1 which is seasonally our smallest revenue quarter improved by $31 million.
As we indicated on our last call cost discipline and margin enhancement are our top priority for this year and we were able to execute against that objective during the quarter.
Our capital structure and financial strength continue to be a source of value creation in Q1.
As previously announced in February our Board approved the 27% increased to our quarterly dividend and authorized an additional 300 million share repurchase program.
During Q1 we repurchased 3 million shares using $45 million.
Over the trailing 12 months repurchases were 28 million shares using approximately $450 million.
We have approximately 375 million remaining in our authorization.
But there is noting that this is the first quarter and also our smallest revenue quarter so the results we are sharing today need to be kept in the profit perspective.
However we are encouraged by the fact that performance in the quarter speaks to the competitiveness of our agencies and the quality of our global assets in key growth markets.
We therefore remain well positioned to deliver or exceed our financial targets for the full year.
At this stage I'll turn things over the Frank to some additional detail on our results and I'll join you after these remarks for an update on the tone of our business and an update on our agencies to be followed by the Q&amp;A.
Frank? Thank you Michael.
Good morning.
As a reminder I will be referring to the slide presentation that accompanies our webcast.
On slide 2 you'll see an overview of results a number of which Michael's touch upon.
Organic growth was 6.6% in the first quarter.
We typically have a loss in our seasonally small first quarter which was 12 million this year a significant improvement from a year ago.
Operating margin was negative 0.7% compared with negative 2.7% in Q1 2013.
We drilled operating leverage on both of our principal operating expense lines compared to last year.
Turning to slide 3 you'll see our P&amp;L for the quarter.
I'll cover revenue and operating expenses in detail in the slides that follow.
Here it's worth noting that interest expense was dramatically lower from a year ago.
You will recall that in Q1 13 we carried temporary higher debt balance having issued new data ahead of debt redemptions later in the year.
In addition the comparison also reflects the lower underlying run rate of our interest expense this year.
Also worth noting here is a very low tax benefit in Q1 compared to last year.
The Q1 rate this year was only 7% which is result of our mix of profitability in the quarter by tax jurisdiction around the world.
We continue to expect that our reported tax rate will be in the range around 39% this year while our cash tax rate should be 20% to 22% of pre-tax income.
Turning to revenue on slide 4 revenue was 1.64 billion in the quarter an increase of 6.1%.
Compared to Q1 2013 the impact of the change and exchange rates was negative of 140 basis points while net acquisitions added 90 basis points.
Resulting organic revenue increase is 6.6%.
As you can see on the bottom half of this slide we had very solid growth in both segments.
At our integrated agency network segment organic growth was 6.8% with strong increases in both the U.S.
international markets.
At CMG organic growth was 5.7% led by continued and outstanding performance in our PR agencies and growth and sports marketing.
Moving on to slide 5 revenue by region in the U.S.
Q1 organic revenue was 4.8%.
Leading client sectors were auto and healthcare pass-through revenues as well as related direct expenses will lower than a year ago which was a drag on U.S.
growth with most of the decrease occurring in our events business.
Turning to international markets the U.K.
grew 10.7% organically.
We had growth in nearly all client sectors paced by auto and telecom.
Among our agencies we are notable increase in our marketing and service specialist including our event specialist Jack Morton and that McCann.
Unlike the U.S.
we have higher pass-through revenue expense in the U.K.
due to growth of our events business.
This increased our growth rate in the region which would have otherwise been organic of 3.7%.
It’s worth noting that our total growth was 21% including acquisitions in the region notably FCB Inferno and Lowe Profero.
Continental Europe increased 3.8% organically marking our first quarter of growth in the content over two years.
We were led by low Mediabrands and CMG.
We had growth in several of our largest national markets on the content including Germany France and Spain.
In Asia-Pac our largest international region Q1 organic growth was 11.9% led by double-digit growth in China and Australia and solid growth in many other national markets.
Our media business is very strong across the region as were McCann CMG and RGA.
In LatAm organic growth was terrific at 18.3% on top of 16% a year ago.
We had strong growth across all agencies led by McCann Lowe FCB and our marketing service specialist.
We had double-digit growth in Brazil Mexico Colombia and Argentina.
Our other markets group made up of Canada the Middle East and Africa increased 1.4% organically in Q1.
On slide 6 we chart the longer view of our organic revenue change on a trailing 12-month basis.
The most recent data point is 3.8%.
Moving on to slide 7 operating expenses.
In the first quarter total operating expense increased to 4% from a year ago which is relative to our reported revenue increase of 6.1%.
Our Q1 ratio of salaries and related expenses to revenue was 72.6% this year compared with 73.4% a year ago an improvement of 80 basis points.
Our base salaries benefits in tax was 60.3% of revenue in Q1 an improvement of 100 basis points leveraging our growth and benefiting for restructuring actions.
Temporary labor was 3.9% in revenue compared with 3.8% a year ago.
Incentive expense improved 10 basis points and severance expense improved 50 basis points as a percentage of revenue.
All other related salaries and related expenses was 3.3% of revenue compared with 2.6 a year ago.
Total headcount at quarter end was approximately 46 000 headcount increased during the quarter by 1.2% nearly half of which was due to acquisitions.
A little more than 50% of our new hires were in expanding areas of the portfolio such as digital media and higher growth regions in the world.
Turning to office and general expenses on the lower half of the slide O&amp;G was 28.1% of Q1 revenue an improvement of 130 basis points from a year ago.
Underneath that improvement we had 110 basis points of operating leverage and other office and general expenses mainly due to lower pass-through expenses.
On slide 8 we share our operating margin history on a trailing 12-month basis.
The most recent data point is 9.6% which excludes our Q4 restructuring expense.
Turning to the current portion of our balance sheet on slide 9 we ended the first quarter with $777 million in cash and short-term marketable securities.
Our cash level seasonal intends to peak at year-end.
We will recall that on March 31st a year ago we are carrying approximately $800 million of cash that we raised to prefund debt redemptions in 2013.
In the bottom half of this slide on the current liabilities the current portion of our long-term debt reflects our $350 million 6.25% notes.
On slide 10 we turn to cash flow.
Cash use in operations in Q1 was $726 million compared with $775 million a year ago.
The comparison includes $723 million used in working capital this year which is a similar to last year's level.
As a reminder our operating cash flow is seasonal.
Our business tends to generate significant cash and working capital in the fourth quarter and uses cash and working capital in the first quarter.
Investing activities in Q1 used $49 million for acquisitions and capital expenditures.
Financing activities used $91 million mainly for share repurchase in our common stock dividends.
Typically the pace of our share the first is geared to our fourth quarter when our cash flow strongest.
Our net decrease in cash and marketable securities for the quarter was $866 million compared with $940 million a year ago.
On slide 11 we show debt deleveraging from a peak of 2.35 billion in 2007 to 1.66 billion at the end of the most recent quarter end.
Note that subsequent to the end of the quarter in early April we should 500 million of new 10 year debt at 4.2%.
We'll apply a portion of the proceeds towards the early redemption of our 350 million 6.25% notes in May.
In summary on slide 12 the quarter represents a good start in terms of achieving our financial objectives for the full year.
Growth was strong in those areas of the business where we have focused our investment in both people and acquisitions that is to say high growth regions the digital and marketing service disciplines as well as the U.S.
market.
We are also seeing the appropriate return on the investments made at the end of last year to one expenses.
Our operations are focused on margin expansion and our balance sheet is an important area that will continue to deploy going forward.
With that let me turn it back to Michael.
Thank you Frank.
Well as you can see our quarter featured fully competitive organic revenue growth and we converted at the levels that we want to see.
Our strong financial position will allow us to continue to invest in talent and targeted acquisitions as well as capital return program that drive further value creation for our shareholders.
In terms of the tone of the business we're hearing from our operators and marketers are committed to investing behind their brands.
While there are certain areas of macro uncertainty such as China Russia and perhaps India pending results of its election the overall environment is one that should create sufficient opportunities for us to achieve or exceed our stated growth objectives for the full year.
Our new business pipeline is solid with activity across the full range of our portfolio.
As you would expect media digital and marketing services are dynamic areas but we are also seeing a number of RFPs in the area of integrated services both at the agency network and at the holding company level.
We had a very strong performance in these types of competitions last year and are working to replicate that result in 2014.
As you know our positive 2013 net revenue business means that we entered this year with some tailwinds.
These will be more favorable in the first half of the year than the full year.
As previously indicated the second half will also reflect some client losses in the U.S.
during the lateral part of last year.
Turning to an update on our companies McCann had a strong quarter as it make further moves to enhance its position as a global powerhouse that delivers integrated marketing solutions to multinational and local clients.
The group is winning business and has a very active new business pipeline.
McCann has also continued to add senior new talent that will help take the agencies creative product which took dramatic steps forward in 2013 to an even higher level.
We continue to see strong performance of CMG where our PR agencies are expanding geographically and in terms of capabilities.
Weber and GolinHarris recently collaborated to win a significant consolidation with a top 10 multi-national client.
GolinHarris and DeVries are building out the global presence and Weber Shandwick industry leading social media practice within media co is leading the way and taping a broad range of daily streams to effectively engage with consumers and these new channels.
Octagon posted solid performance to start the year and Jack Morton is moving to significantly enhance its digital offerings.
Mediabrands also build on its positive momentum.
UM and initiative a winning new assignment in key international markets and the groups developed market cluster is posting strong performance.
The Mediabrands digital companies including Cadreon Reprise and Ansible continue to be growth drivers.
The recently announced partnership with AOL to beta test the industry first cross screen programmatic advertising platform is another step along this journey.
And our recent investment in ADstruc will allow Orion to incorporate the benefits of digital buying into our outdoor media offerings.
During the quarter Foote Cone &amp; Belding announced that it was rebranding to reclaim the equity in one of our industry’s most storied names as well as clearly signal it's intend to take the high ground in terms of creativity and brand stewardship.
These moves compliment the agency’s proven ability to deliver highly accountable marketing solutions and its single P&amp;L model.
Domestic new business performance with win from Levis Tulia and Jia deli chocolate is an early positive sign that the leadership and cultural shift to the agency is taking hold.
At Lowe the focus is fully on the integration of Profero that new partnership has already won a number of projects in the U.S.
and Asia.
The network’s leadership also continues to refine combine (indiscernible) offerings which has recently been introduced to agency search consultants.
The team lunched the new campaign for the national Milk board out of New York and recently recruited senior and creative and strategic talent into the Detroit office.
And the agency is making progress in operationalizing it’s significant (indiscernible) which will be run at the new office in Barcelona.
R/GA Huge and MRM all had very strong performances in the quarter.
We continue to support these agencies as they build out new capabilities from consulting to analytics and digital retail operations.
MRM's global footprint places it among the industry’s leading digital networks and R/GA is now active in over 15 markets including San Paulo London Sydney and Singapore with China and India currently in the planning stage.
The expansion of Huge started to reach eight U.S.
cities last year.
We're also seeing increased collaboration on major clients and new business initiatives from digital specialist agencies.
An additional element of our portfolio that sets us apart for many of our peers is the group of fully integrated U.S.
independents such as Mullen Hill Holiday Martin Deutsch and Carmichael Lynch.
These agencies have fully modern offerings including strong digital analytics and channel planning capabilities and as a whole they performed well in the quarter.
Significant highlights with the promotion of Karen Kaplan Chairman of Hill Holiday and Kristen Cavallo the President of Mullen's flagship Boston office.
Key wins during the quarter included HTC at Deutsch LA and GNC at Carmichael Lynch.
Mullen's worlds become a break out viral hit (ph) also there special mention.
Overall we are pleased with progress thus far in 2014.
Our portfolio with agency is strong.
Our strategy embedding digital expertise across the group while also investing organically behind our digital specialist is yielding positive results.
In our ability to deliver open architecture best the IPG Solutions is increasingly becoming a differentiator for us in the marketplace.
We will always offer combinations of siloed agencies will create single client entities that disregard the value of their agency brands; our approach is wholly client specific and post together the right talent for each breeds in a highly collaborative team approach.
During the quarter we saw a good performance from our top 20 clients an important source of organic growth for us.
We're also seeing meaningful opportunities in terms of new business.
The U.S.
market which is our largest remains solid.
Latin America Asia and the BRIC market posted double-digit growth.
Our focus on margin expansion with evidence in the Q1 results and this will remain a top priority for us going forward.
Our financial strength has been and will continue to be a source of significant value creation.
We've very effecting in deleveraging while returning about 1.7 billion to shareholders over the past three years.
We believe that we remain well positioned to meet or exceed our organic growth target of 3% to 4% and achieve an operating margin level of 10.3% or better.
Plus or less 2014 is about execution continuing to drive competitive growth while focusing on cost discipline so as to significantly improve margins.
This intern will allow us to deliver our ultimate commitment which is the further enhance shareholder value.
With that I'd like to thank you for your time and continue to support and open the call for questions.
Okay.
Our first question Alexia Quadrani with JP Morgan.
Your line is open.
Thanks for the color you gave on the impressive improvement in organic revenue growth.
Is there any more detail you can give us in terms of how much of that came from the tailwind of new business you won historically versus how much might be overall improvement in the marketplace? Thank you and thanks for joining us this morning Alexia.
Well we said we were going to have tailwinds in the first half and I would say in the first half they were 1.5% to 2%.
And going into the second half we're not likely to see that kind of lift from those tailwinds because of the losses that we experienced at the end of the year that you know but overall our tone is very solid Alexia which is why we're being as supportive as we are to the commitments we've made to achieve our target or exceed.
And just to follow-up but you still see probably net positive in terms of a challenge versus headwinds when you look at the first half versus the second half? Yes.
Right now we're net new business positive.
Yes.
And then just on the improvement in euro market I guess I don't know if you can answer this question but how much sort of you really on a firmer ground now and things are bit better or how much of it is things look better but we should still expect some volatility quarter-to-quarter because it's early days? One quarter we're painfully aware of our performance in the last quarter in terms of Continental Europe.
What we saw in the first quarter is our new business wins particularly Lowe CR and Zurich starting to come on board and that accounts was at the 3.8% organic growth in the first quarter.
We still have a ways to go to raise any flags in Continental Europe.
As we said for the budget for the full year we're budgeting slightly 1% to 2% growth in Continental Europe it's nice to see us ahead of that in the first quarter but we still have three more quarters to go.
Alright.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Alexia.
Our next question is Tim Nollen Macquarie.
Your line is open.
Hi thanks.
Couple of things one is just ask about the growth and emerging markets versus U.S.
and Europe it seem some of your competitors have lower emerging market growth figures and kind of indicated that some multinationals are shifting budgets from emerging markets back to the U.S.
and Europe which are a bit more stable at least in Europe case that it has been in the past few years.
One of you could just comment on general budgets and clients spending in emerging market versus the U.S.
and Europe? Well I think our results indicate that it's both.
We see strong growth in our emerging market obviously China and Latin America double-digit growth Australia we saw a double-digit growth India was slightly off.
We had some shifting of some client business add up India and that accounted for the lack of -- the kind of growth that we were seeing in India.
And as I indicated in India a lot of dependent upon the outcome of the election that are coming up.
We still believe India will be a strong growth opportunity for us and I might add we did bring our Board of Directors to India at our last Board meeting which is a positive statement to our support of our agencies in India.
And the growth in the United States continues to be solid.
I think when you look through the pass-through’s that we add a negative impact on in the U.S.
we'll organically up 6.5% which indicates that obviously the tone of our business in the U.S.
continues to be solid.
But I don't see any dramatic pullbacks if you will.
But you can't continue to have double-digit growth on top of double-digit growth forever.
So I do believe we'll see that settle down but it will still settle down into a higher growth pattern which we're very comfortable with.
But for example in Latin America the huge growth we saw in Latin America was on top of 16% last year.
So that's very encouraging but at some point it has the level off.
But client is still looking at those as markets where they can either gain market share or enhance their brand.
Okay thanks.
Can I ask another question you call out some of your independence during particularly well right now and it strikes me that this is somewhat different between you and some of your peers that you have the separate independence is there anything you can say about profitability or future path you've done something in the past with putting independence in the larger groups Campbell Ewald all being a recent example does that makes sense longer term to maintain in those independence? Yes in fact our independence continue to be among our higher margin contributing agency.
I think the trend that -- in the case of putting Campbell Ewald with Lowe that was on the heels of frankly a pitch than involved Campbell Ewald and Lowe and Hill Holiday I might add in terms of the Cadillac business and we were looking to both Lowe guidance for the U.S.
So we thought this was a great opportunity to do that.
But the way we look at our U.S.
independence they're fully integrated.
They have media they have planning they have PR businesses they have events they have consulting.
So if they (indiscernible) don't fix it and what we do is when our independence have global opportunities don't happen to a Lowe McCann or FCB the partner as well as partnering with Mediabrands offerings on a global basis.
So we're quite pleased with our current structure.
We don't see any immediate need to merge any of our independence because we do have this collaboration D&amp;A at IPG.
And we've been very successful in taping into these types of arrangement.
So there is no need to merge them but in Lowe and Campbell Ewald it was specific and it really met a need of both the organization.
So we're pleased with our Independence they do a great job and particularly you saw Mullen and you saw the wins the Deutsch and Carmichael Lynch and Hill Holiday continues to be an outstanding performer for us.
Okay.
So If I can just threw you a last softball on that topic still.
Okay.
The relative low margins versus your peers over the years is perhaps more due to struggles that you've had with the various large networks but you had good things to say about them McCann and now FCB is it safe to assume that famous words but these are on the right track now and the whole group margin can rise it's not a matter of splitting out between the traditional Agency Network and the independence but everyone is doing better now.
Yes and I think both Frank and my comments we indicated that our performance improvement was of course with the Board of our global network.
So that's encouraging it's always been our position that-- our drive is to be competitive margins or better and that's what we're focused on and we do believe there is still opportunity obviously for us to expand margin.
But the repositioning of Lowe in the past few years the addition of Profero to Lowe is obviously a big help and their recent client wins particularly with CR is an indication of that competitiveness.
FCB back on the right track.
They have a great new management team and they perform well in the first quarter and obviously the McCann is doing well this first quarter and we expect great things from that organization.
So we're very pleased and yes we're on track to achieve our goal of competitive margins and that's what we're focused on.
Alright that makes perfect sense.
Thanks very much.
Thank you Tim.
Our next question is Peter Stabler Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I have a couple of question on the media side.
So once again you guys called out strength and contribution from Mediabrands there seems to be a trend across the peer group.
So couple of questions here one: as you look out over the year do you think that this is kind of secular trend that can continue for multiple years and if so why and then secondly would love your updated thoughts on the idea of scale this is a topic that we debate frequently with investors with regard to the media business how important the scale but love your update thoughts on that.
Thanks very much.
Sure.
Let me start with scale because obviously that question is relevant and continues to be relevant in light of some potential transactions that are out there.
I've said this before peer; we compete against WPP before the announcement of Publicis and Omnicom.
And if you look at the presence of WPP versus Omincom which is they're relatively had the same side depending on markets they are in and we've been able to compete very effectively against those organizations giving our scale.
So the important of scale is yes it's important.
However we have the relative scale we've been able to deliver and we frankly view our size is being the right size because we have the scale to buy efficiently and have presence in the marketplace and people have to pay attention to us.
We place $35 billion - $37 billion of media in total that's not insignificant.
So it gives us to see that the table but we're also more flexible we're able to create personalize specific and customized offerings in the planning and buying area that clients like to see and we've been very successful at it.
So I think media will continue to be a growth vehicle going forward for us.
But what I like about the media and which is what I think is what's happening in our industry is the integrated offering is really coming to life here and that is the whole notion of what this model is going to look like in the future and that's from the cradle to grave.
And we have this going on with a number of our clients where we look at the total pot of what the client is using to spend and take all of their dollars whether it's allocated to media buying whether it's allocated to creative whether it's allocated to digital we have to look at this as a total picture and certainly media and planning is a critical component of it but so as digital so as PR and so as experience and marketing.
And that's what clients are looking for.
And that's why when we get these RFP into the holding company what we do as we approach it and a total integrated way focused on what client needs are and we don't pay attention for the sialos that are associated with it.
And last year we were very successful in that offering and so far we have a number of those going on this year which I hope to be successful in.
So I think there is a trend which is where I think it belongs and that is looking at media and our agencies that are creative digital and PR all together and bring to the table truly the integrated offering focused on the customized need of our clients and I think that's what you're seeing.
One quick follow-up for Frank thank you Michael.
Sure.
With regard to growth however in the U.S.
it was a negative offset.
So could you just try to size those two things us? Was this a wash? For the U.S.
it had an impact of about 170 basis points.
So our actual growth was 6.5% and in the U.K.
it was adversely effected growth they're sort of organically goes from 10 to 3.7.
So on net and net it's a bit of a headwind on our overall because the U.S.
is such a large marker for us and overall adverse impact of our organic growth by about 70 BPs.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Next question is Brian Wieser Pivotal Research.
Your line is open.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
I was wondering you know then given the the lingering delays in the Publicis Omnicom merger do you think that's helping with the account activity at the present time? Brian I get that question a lot.
I can't point to any specific clients that are in play if you will as a result as the potential merger.
But there is always that kind of uncertainty that's out there.
But I can't say specifically and anything we hearing anecdotally it is just that it’s anecdotal.
Our view is we're competing against the same players we completely against before.
And frankly until that transaction is closed both Omnicom and Publicis are going in the market on as separate companies anyhow.
So it's kind of businesses usual in the RFP world.
But I think there is a lingering issue over that certainly the conflict issue is there and but we haven't seen huge transformation if you will because of the conflict frankly one of the issue is -- when is these things going to happen and if it’s going to happen at all and I think the point-- the key questions is client awaiting to see the same things that everybody else is waiting to see.
Obviously no status quo for now.
I think that's the reality of it.
We have always seen recruiting opportunity yes.
Have we been able to add some very talented people to our company as a result of this I'd say somewhat yes.
But really the true impact of this is yet to be see and we're all -- the client as well as all of are in the business are waiting to see what happens.
Okay.
And the second I just wondering we know that Huge and RGA are obviously doing very well but is the profit profile of those agencies and may be its not them specifically but digital and agencies of that nature generally better than comparably well run conventional agencies? Well one of the things about digital they are more pitching in activity than some of the others because some of their businesses is project based.
So therefore the new business pitches expenses.
We saw that frankly at our RGA last year and we call that out in our yearend results and frankly we saw the results of that in the first quarter that RGA had a particularly good first quarter on the new business front.
So I think what you see is more new business pitch activity and expenses but overall there margins have been very solid and they've been among our better performing agency.
So we'll take that type of pitch expense anytime given the conversion rates that we're seeing in our digital agencies.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Brian.
Next question please? James Dix Wedbush.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning guys.
Just a two things in terms of the new business activity Michael you indicated it was fairly active.
Is there any key accounts where you defending at least in part maybe in some of these integrated pitches I'm just curious what the puts and takes might be there on some of those some of that bigger activity.
And then I guess just secondly I know you have historically said you're quite comfortable being a little overweight and your U.S.
business mix and it look like you had another strong quarter if you exclude the pass-through in the first quarter.
But is it possible given your strength in the international growth that international might actually outpace your overall growth this year I am just curious about how you seeing the geography shape up.
Thanks.
Well what's interesting is Asia-Pac became our second largest market.
So there 12% the next big is the Europe I guess it’s 10%.
Now we got there both by the growth in the Asia-Pac and the decline we had in Continental Europe so that's part of it.
But yes there is no question that we're seeing an increase in Latin America as well and eventually we'll like to see that.
Right now we're 57% in the U.S.
60% North America.
We would like to see that a little bit less than 60% and more in the markets but it's going to take it some time to get there and the rest of the world increased.
And the next question was on pitches.
The most notable pitch page that public and I had this page with public is of course the Microsoft page which we are in the final stages and we're retaining the international media part of the business of Microsoft that's we're pitching as well as hopefully increasing our business opportunity both in the media and creative and collaboration and deployment part of the business.
It’s a pitch it's probably the biggest pitch out there right now and we've got a great offering there and we're quite pleased with what we put forth and frankly how some of the other holding companies as well so we're continuing to push that.
But we do have a couple of government mandatory reviews out there but other than those of the only big pitches that are out there.
Just one follow-up on that.
So the international media is already been carved out or set aside that you're going to keep out or is that just part of the overall pitch? Got it got it.
Yeah so this the way pitches structure that I don't like to go to details but everything on the table other than a couple of parts of the visit they're step out.
But for long intends and purposes the media is up for review we do the international part of the media and we're (inaudible) the international part and hopefully adding to that.
Got it.
Thanks very much.
Next question Tracy Young Evercore.
Your line is open.
Yes hi.
Thanks so much for the color on the U.K.
and the pass-throughs.
Can you give us any guidance towards second quarter how we should be thinking about the same issue.
And then also could you give us some sense of the (indiscernible) in business for first quarter how that built throughout the quarter? Thanks.
Monthly basis? Yeah just generally.
We don't give monthly numbers if you will.
The trend if you will is continues to be positive and so that's was just of your question is the answer is yes.
Yeah thanks.
Okay.
And on the past those Tracy.
Yeah our visibility is (indiscernible) is a project based if the material up in any quarter we'll call out so you folks out line of side.
Okay.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Final question is Richard Tullo Albert Fried Company.
Your line is open.
Hey guys thank you for taking my questions just two quick one.
Well first of all congratulations on great execution on the cost side the equation.
Thank you.
Healthcare.
That on the revenue side either.
No.
Would you guys I think the I never loosely over the revenue side the equation is just the cost side of the equation is seems to be the focused.
Healthcare how much of the growth was due to new drugs or the rollout of Obama Care because that seems to be moved a little bit there? Yeah that's healthcare was a double-digit growth that before us.
There is no question we do have some big engagements on healthcare particularly in California on the side of the business and that helped in terms of our growth in healthcare we want break out how much but it was clearly effective for us in that growth.
But healthcare I don't have the breakdown in terms of new drug versus old but if you recall one of the reasons last year that healthcare didn't perform as well as we would like was a lot of drugs will coming (inaudible) and I do think as part of the a activity in healthcare right now we are a number of new drugs that are out there that are contributing to the growth in that segment.
Okay.
And a little bit treat about this AOL deal.
Can you please provide a little color on what the (inaudible) from other thing is that go on and (inaudible) or? It’s all part of it in.
here basically what we're trying to do in terms of the program part of our business is to get as much course platform inventory in one place.
And the partnership with AOL is continues because we have a number of partnerships with AOL they're like wind in terms of seen the growth of a digital platforms all coordinating in one place and therefore since we are committed to having at least 50% of our media placed in the digital program although space over the next couple of years.
The partnership with AOL.
Frankly we have partnerships also with clear channel if you will (inaudible) this is all part of our course platform mobile as well as TV buying if you would and the AOL is kick start to that it's a data test and we'll pretty excited about what we're seeing there.
As we get into mobile what point you think in terms of focus does that over shadow TV.
And is there -- and you going to 1% and you think that will reflect on CPM rates and any of the (inaudible) in the equation? Well I don't think there is any question at the growth and mobile will continue to be additional.
But it's not the only platform out there.
It certainly the one is getting most retention certainly in roller areas where they are any other bandwidth if you will and mobile continues to be strong growth vehicle.
We're still learning how to deal with mobile in terms of the impact of mobile and what type of content was unable and mobile versus traditional media.
But it will continue to be a strong component of our growth and all of our offerings right now contain a portion of mobile planning and execution and that will continue to grow.
I don't think it will replace all other outlets if you will but certain this growth is indicative with being continued to important factor and what we do.
Thank you very much.
And congratulations on a terrific quarter.
Thank you very much.
Yes we're very pleased with our quarter.
When I saw that (inaudible) we have ended a call earlier and if any call would end earlier would be this one so that's not to be (inaudible).
So I thank you all we're very pleased with the quarter we look forward to next call with you and hopefully we'll have similar type results.
Thank you very much.
This does conclude the conference for today.
All participants may disconnect at this time.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to the Interpublic Group second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
All parties are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer portion.
(Operator Instructions).
This conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Mr.
Jerry Leshne Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
We have posted our earnings release and our slide presentation on our website interpublic.com and we’ll refer to both in the course of this call.
This morning we are joined by Michael Roth and Frank Mergenthaler.
We will begin with prepared remarks to be followed by Q&amp;A.
We plan to conclude before market open at 9:30 a.m.
Eastern.
During this call we will refer to forward-looking statements about our company.
These are subject to uncertainties and the cautionary statement that are included in our earnings release and the slide presentation and further details in our 10-K and other filings with the SEC.
We will also refer to non-GAAP measures.
We believe that these measures provide useful supplemental data that while not a substitute for GAAP measures allow for greater transparency in the review of our financial and operational performance.
At this point it is my pleasure to turn things over to Michael Roth.
Thank you Jerry and thank you all for joining us this morning as we review our results for the second quarter and first half of 2014.
I'll start out by covering highlights of our performance.
Frank will then provide the additional details and I'll conclude with an update on our agencies and the tone of the business to be followed by a Q&amp;A.
We're pleased to report a quarter of strong revenue and profit growth.
Revenue increased 5.4% compared to Q2 a year ago.
Net acquisitions had a positive 1.2% impact while FX was a negative 0.5%.
Organic revenue growth in the second quarter was therefore 4.7% driven by increases in most world regions and across client sectors and disciplines.
Operating profit in the quarter grew 12% to $196 million and our operating margin expanded 60 basis points to 10.6%.
Diluted EPS was $0.23 an increase of 28% and includes a non-operating charge of $0.02 per share for the early redemption of our debt.
Looking at the first half of the year organic growth was 5.6% and operating margin increased 130 basis points.
Turning to additional color on the second quarter our growth included increases across a broad range of client sectors; that includes retail healthcare financial services automotive and food and beverage.
In the U.S.
organic growth was 2.9% in Q2 or 3.5% excluding pass through revenues led by our digital specialists Mediabrands McCann and CMG.
International continued to be strong with 7.1% organic growth in Q2.
The increases were solid in all major regions with the exception of Continental Europe.
Organic growth was 16.4% in the U.K.
7.4% in LatAm 4.4% in AsiaPac and 18% in our group of other markets.
Continental Europe decreased 1.4% organically.
International growth was notably strong in digital media and marketing services.
For the first half of the year the 5.6% organic growth reflected positive contributions from advertising digital marketing services and media as well as all regions of the world.
Our margin growth of 130 basis points for the first half of the year was driven by an equal contribution of operating leverage on both our salaries and related and office and general expenses.
As we’ve said previously in addition to revenue growth cost discipline and margin enhancement are a top priority for this year and we’re executing against that objective.
In the second quarter our capital structure and financial strength continue to be a source of value creation.
We had a sharp reduction of interest expense compared to a year ago which was due to our debt refinancing activities.
With respect to share repurchase during Q2 we used $52 million to repurchase 3 million shares while over the trailing 12 months we have utilized approximately $400 million for share repurchases.
We have $321 million remaining on our authorization at the end of the quarter.
In sum we are encouraged that performance in the quarter and the half underscores the competitiveness of our agencies and the quality of our offerings in key growth markets and disciplines.
The overall tone of business remains solid and we are effectively managing expenses.
We therefore believe that we are well positioned to exceed our organic growth target of 3% to 4% and improve operating margin by at least 100 basis points to 10.3% or better.
At this stage I’ll turn things over to Frank for addition detail on our results and I’ll join you after his remarks for an update on our operating units to be followed by our Q&amp;A.
Thank you Michael.
Good morning.
As a reminder I will be referring to the slide presentation that accompanies our webcast.
On slide two you'll see an overview of results a number of which Michael has touch on.
Organic growth was 4.7% in the second quarter with international up 7.1% and U.S.
up 2.9%.
Operating profit was $196 million an increase of 12% in Q2.
Operating profit grew 39% in the first half of the year.
Q2 margin was 10.6% an improvement of 60 basis points compared with last year’s Q2.
The combined impact of a stronger dollar where we are more profitable and a weaker dollar in less profitable markets resulted in a translation headwind of 40 basis points to margins.
Diluted EPS of $0.23 includes a charge of $0.02 per share and the early redemption of our $350 million 6.25 notes the charge is another expense below operations.
Q2 average fully diluted shares decreased 4.5% from last year due to our share repurchase program.
Turning to slide three you’ll see our P&amp;L for the quarter.
I’ll cover revenue and operating expenses in detail in the slides that follow.
Here it’s worth noting that interest expense decreased to $23 million from $38 million a year ago.
You’ll recall that in Q2 2013 we carried a temporarily higher debt balance having issued new debt ahead of debt redemptions later in 2013.
The comparison also reflects a lower run-rate interest expense this year.
Turning to revenue on slide four revenue was $1.85 billion in the quarter an increase of 5.4%.
Compared to Q2 ‘13 the impact of the change in exchange rates was a negative 50 basis points while net acquisitions added 120 basis points.
The resulting organic revenue increase was 4.7%.
Excluding pass through organic growth would be 4.9%.
As you can see on the bottom half of this slide we had solid growth in both our reported segments.
At our integrated agency networks the organic increase was 4% led by our digital specialist and media business with increases in both the U.S.
and international markets.
At CMG organic growth was 7.9% led by continued outstanding performance in our PR agencies and growth and sports marketing.
Moving on to slide five revenue by region in the U.S.
Q2 organic growth was 2.9% and was 3.5% excluding the impact of lower pass-through revenues in our direct marketing and events businesses.
Our top client sectors were healthcare and auto.
We were led in the U.S.
by Mediabrands digital agencies Huge R/GA McCann and CMG.
Turning to international markets we had strong U.K.
performance with 16.4% organic growth.
Growth was approximately 13% excluding the increase of pass-through revenues at our events business.
We were led by sector increases in food and beverage consumer goods and retail.
We have significant growth across all agencies with the most significant increases at our marketing services specialists Mediabrands McCann and Lowe.
It’s worth noting that total growth in the U.K.
was 33% which includes about 10% from the stronger sterling.
It also includes 7% from our acquisitions in the region notably from FCB Inferno and Lowe Profero.
Continental Europe decreased 1.4% organically.
We had solid growth in Germany and Spain but that was more than offset by decreases in other markets notably France and Italy.
In AsiaPac our largest international region Q2 organic growth was 4.4%.
Excluding the impact of lower pass-through revenue due to events last year that did not repeat organic growth was a little over 6%.
We were led by double digit growth in China and strength in Mediabrands R/GA and Lowe.
In LatAm organic growth was 7.4% which is on top of 16% a year ago.
We had growth across all agencies led by Lowe and our marketing services specialist.
We have solid growth in Brazil and double digit increase in several other markets.
As you can see on this slide revenue as reported decreased in the region which is due to sharply weaker local currencies relative to the U.S.
dollar.
In our other markets group which is made up of Canada the Middle East and Africa we had 18% organic growth which was due to strong increases in the Middle East and Canada.
On slide six we chart the longer view of our organic revenue change on a trailing 12-month basis.
The most recent data point is 4.4%.
Moving on to slide seven operating expenses.
In the second quarter total operating expenses increased to 4.7% compared with our reported revenue growth of 5.4%.
Our Q2 ratio salaries and related expense to revenue was 63.2% this year compared to 63.8% a year ago an improvement of 60 basis points.
Underneath that our expense for base salaries benefits and tax was 53.6% of revenue compared to 53.5% a year ago.
However this is where we saw most of the currency headwind to margin compared to a year ago.
While FX decreased our revenue by 50 basis points compared to Q2 2013 it created a small increase in our expense for base payable benefits and tax.
The results in reported terms was 30 basis points of margin pressure.
Moving on expense for temporary labor was 3.7% of revenue compared with 3.6% a year ago.
Incentive expense was 2.7% of revenue.
Severance expense improved 40 basis points.
All other salaries and related expense was 2.3% of revenue compared with 2.6% a year ago.
Total headcount at quarter end was approximately 46 500.
That is a net increase of approximately 500 from March 31 about 40% of which was due to acquisitions during the quarter.
The balance of the increase was in higher growth areas of the portfolio such as digital and PR as well as in growth regions around the world.
Turning to office and general expenses on the lower half of the slide O&amp;G expense was 26.2% of Q2 revenue an improvement of 10 basis points from a year ago.
Within our O&amp;G categories compared to last year we had a 30 basis points of operating leverage and occupancy expense 20 basis points on telecom office supplies and travel and 10 basis points on professional fees.
Going the other way we delevered 50 basis points on other office and general expense.
That reflects increased expense in several categories primarily related to changes in our acquisition earn-outs.
On slide eight we show our operating margin history on a trailing 12-month basis.
The most recent data point was 9.7% which excludes the restructuring expense in Q4 ‘13.
Turning to the current portion of our balance sheet on slide nine we ended the second quarter with $901 million in cash and short-term marketable securities.
The comparison to December 31 reflects that our cash level is seasonal and tends to peak at year-end.
June 30 last year includes $630 million of cash that we had raised and subsequently used for debt redemption in Q3 2013.
On slide 10 we turn to our second quarter cash flow.
Cash provided by operations was $169 million compared with $184 million a year ago.
Working capital was within the normal range for Q2 a use of $24 million this year compared with a positive $17 million in Q2 2013.
Investing activities used $52 million for acquisitions and CapEx.
Financing activities generated $2 million which reflects the issuance of new debt offset by debt redemption share repurchases and dividends as well as lower bank borrowings.
Our net increase in cash and marketable securities for the quarter was $125 million compared with a $32 million decrease a year ago.
On slide 11 we show debt deleveraging from a peak of $2.35 billion in 2007 to $1.76 billion at the most recent quarter end.
Note that in Q2 we issued 500 million of new 10 year notes at 4.2% and redeemed our 6.25% $350 million notes.
In summary on slide 12 the quarter and the first half represents solid results and good progress towards our financial objectives for the full year.
We are seeing solid growth in areas where we have focused our investment in both people and acquisitions that is to say high growth regions as well as the digital marketing service disciplines.
Our operators are focused on the appropriate cost disciplines and margin expansion and our balance sheet is an important area that we’ll continue to deploy for value going forward.
With that said let me turn it back to Michael.
Thank you Frank.
Well we are pleased that the second quarter featured solid performance with competitive organic revenue growth and continued focus on cost discipline to drive margin enhancement.
The tone of the business is good and conversations with clients point to a continued commitment on their part to invest behind their brands with a particular focus on efficiencies and effectiveness.
Overall our new business pipeline is sound.
We are seeing quite a bit of activity in digital marketing services and when it comes to clients looking for integrated solutions that combine the offerings of multiple agencies.
This is increasingly important in order to reach and motivate consumers in a very complex media and marketing landscape.
Obviously our win on Microsoft is a strong proof point that when we tap into the right talent from across the group we can be successful in addressing the needs of even the most sophisticated global clients.
Turning now to an update on our companies we continue to see very strong performance at CMG driven by Weber Shandwick Golin and DeVries in public relations as well as Octagon in sports marketing.
While our digital offerings in the marketing services space have already leading edge we are pleased to have completed two significant acquisitions during the quarter.
Time is a highly created digital agency that will further enhance Weber Shandwick’s social practice throughout Europe.
Genuine Interactive will be a key drive in elevating the digital agenda across Jack Morton’s global network.
McCann once again posted good results.
The agency prevailed in the highly competitive CIGNA pitch and added business from a leading multinational client in (Inaudible) as well as winning major local assignments in Europe and Asia.
The industry and the market place have taken notice that McCann is viewed as the strong competitive force.
We are therefore seeing a great deal of interest from senior talent in joining a power house that is building strong positive momentum in the market place.
Performance at Mediabrands remain strong in the quarter.
As you know we introduced the new media model some years ago that has taken our offering upstream into more strategic engagements and significantly more activity in the digital content creation and programmatic arena.
The tech side of media is evolving rapidly.
We’ve demonstrated the ability to stay ahead of those developments in recent years and continue to believe we will thrive in this new environment.
Our unique cluster approach to regional management has also lead to significantly enhanced collaboration and better work.
UM and Initiative remain strong global network players and we will be looking to them to build on recent wins such as Heinz Global Inc and Warner Bros in Latin American.
SCB continues to makes progress in its transformation.
The agency just posted its best ever performance in Canada which is important in light of its stated goal of building a creative idea culture.
This included a grand prix in the mobile category for the [buyer stores] (ph) the agency’s largest global client.
The recent BMW win in London is significant and demonstrates that the Inferno acquisition has helped SCB raise its game in the U.K.
Performance in Brazil and India were the agency is among the market leaders remained strong.
Top talent has also been successfully recruited in strategic planning roles at the global level in New York and Shanghai.
Management is still accessing capabilities in some European markets but overall we are seeing encouraging sign for the network.
At Lowe emerging markets remain an area of strength as does the high standard of the agency’s creative product.
As you know we are enthusiastic about the potential that Profero brings to Lowe’s high value idea platforms into a new range of media channels.
Lowe and Lowe CE have been very active with the pitch consultants and are being included in a number of regional opportunities.
The agency’s Lenovo win has the potential to grow into another important global client along with Cadillac and of course Unilever.
Our digital specialist agencies all posted very strong performance in the quarter.
RGA keeps getting stronger as a global agency and has developed a broad range of marketing and consulting capabilities.
Huge is on the same growth plan with multiple U.S.
agencies and a London presence as well as an outstanding performance year-to-date and MRM is already among the leading global digital networks in our industry and has been a key contributor to a number of our major IPG open architecture wins in the past year.
The number of our strong U.S.
independent agencies such as Hill Holliday Martin Mullen and Deutsche are also increasingly participating in integrated cross agency efforts.
Given the strength of the strategic creative and digital talent within those agencies this could be another driver in meeting our overall IPG growth objectives.
At the midpoint of the year we are pleased with our results and progress.
Our portfolio of agencies is strong.
We are winning share in digital and marketing services successfully innovating with our media offerings and our global ad networks continue to trend positively.
Our long standing strategy of embedding digital expertise within all of our agencies while also investing organically behind our digital specialist is delivering excellent results.
Our financial strength has been and will continue to be a source of significant value creation.
We've been very successful in deleveraging while returning approximately $1.8 billion to our shareholders over the past three years.
We expect solid growth in the second half though somewhat tempered relative to the first six month.
We believe that we are well positioned to exceed our organic growth target of 3% to 4% for the year and improve operating margin by at least 100 bases point to 10.3% or better.
To do so we must stay closely focused on execution and we’ve been consistently clear that for us 2014 is all about execution.
This means driving further competitive growth and staying focused on cost so as to significantly improve margins.
This will allow us to continue to build on recent performance and further enhance shareholder value.
At this point I’d like to thank you for your continued support and open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
You guys have done a great job in new business wins lately.
Could you give us an update I guess inclusive of some activity you’ve seen in the most recent quarter of how we should expect the rest of the year to play out in terms of when the tailwinds and sort of headwinds may hit us.
Thank you Alexia.
Well what we said in the last call that we were sort of overweighed in terms the tailwind in the first half of the year and we expected that to level out in the second half of the year and frankly that’s the way it’s planning out.
We just did our bottoms-up REs for the full year and frankly and that’s why we are comfortable with our comment which I know you’ve already picked up that we expect to exceed the 3% to 4% organic growth on the revenue side for the full year.
But for the second half of the year I think it levels off because we are starting to cycle through some of the client losses that we did suffer and offset that against the client wins in the second half of the year.
But the important point here is that the tone of the business is very solid.
I think the results that you’re seeing if you put aside the noise between the FX and the pass-through’s we have a solid performance across our region as well as our agencies.
As far as new business there is one big global pitch out there and in that we have our media agencies particularly BPN which is leveraging all the tools and resources within Mediabrands as well in that pitch.
So we are very comfortable with our offerings across the board and I think our results that we’re reporting today are indicative of a solid performance.
And then when you look at Continental Europe which remains volatile I think industry wide I guess do you think the underlying trends are just the right kind of volatility its trending in the right direction.
I mean do think is there any sign of improvement in France.
I guess what will it take to get France kind of back in kind of a flattish or positive territory.
We’re not counting of France to pull us out of a global economy rebound if you will.
But what we said at the beginning of the year we weren’t expecting a great expansion in Continental Europe.
The fact that we were positive in the first quarter frankly the timing issue with respective to some of our existing clients and some client wins the fact that we were negative in the second quarter.
For the first half we are still slightly positive and what we said with respect to going into the year we expect Continental Europe to be flat to slightly up and frankly that’s what we’re seeing.
And I think with that kind of background I think that’s how we can be comfortable or poised to deliver on our promises and margin expansion.
But we are ways off before there’s a recovery in Continental Europe.
Obviously Germany has been strong for us and frankly Italy had some good performance but France continues to weigh on us and we are looking at the things in France to help bolster our offering but again it’s not going to solve everybody’s problems in terms of global economic recovery.
All right thank you very much  Thank you Alexia  Thanks good morning.
Frank it’s good to see the continuation of the operating leverage in the SRS line.
I know you spoke to the FX impact on base and benefits but in the context of this year’s margin target can you talk about maybe the income rental headwinds from currency today relative to your initial target? Right now we think John that there’s probably about 15 bips of margin pressure related to FX and that’s not significantly off of what we anticipated coming into the years.
So assuming rates stay the same FX crosses stay the same it shouldn’t be an issue with respects to meeting our targets.
Yes and let me add there these FX headwind if you will these are translational issues.
They are not actually exposure in terms of currency so it’s all translational which obviously we don’t have much to do in terms of fixing.
Got it.
Okay and thanks Michael and just over the last year we’ve seen a lot of industries attempt to build scale or consolidate and I guess on a practical level can you talk about any potential impact on your business from the proposed deal in the media space.
What deal is that John? Look consolidation and scale has always been an issue in our industry in terms of media owners and obviously in terms of our own industry.
We always say we are positioned from a scale point of view to be competitive.
Obviously with the fact that NBC Universal is such a power house in the media space having one more big power house frankly I think sort of balances out the strength of NBC Universal and I think in the long run from our perspective it gives us additional leverage which is what I think it does.
But I think it’s interesting to see.
Content is important and obviously the players that are involved here have significant content that will drive future dollars with respect to the work that we do to move the needed for our clients so that’s what we do.
So whatever it turns out to be we will be responsive to what our clients’ needs are and we’ll respond to the market place but I think it’s totally consistent with what we’ve been saying about the trends in our industry.
Content is important media owners are consolidating their offerings for their clients which gives them leverage against frankly the buyers of that space and our job is to navigate through it.
So I think in the long run it will be probably positive for us.
I don’t think it’s going to be negative and it’s a question of how we negotiate on behalf of our clients and it may be a little more difficult to negotiate which frankly adds to our value because that’s what we do.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks John.
Hey thanks guys.
Well it looks like MAGNA has done some real kind of industry leadership here with the experiment what ACB on the programmatic side for these dot com properties.
Can you talk about what this augers sort of similar partnerships for other online extensions for the TV side of it.
Do you feel like you’re getting closer to the goal of moving linear TV on to the programmatic side as a product you guys offer or a tool.
What you think is going on there? Well when this all started we always commented that the last to be included in this was going to be premium content because it’s going to be hard for the media owners to throw that into the mix if you will so that’s what gives them all of their leverage.
This experiment with ABC is an experiment.
It’s not large.
I don’t think we should be putting it out of proportion in terms of the amount of contents that’s being put in that space but it will be interesting to see and like all experiments if it proves to be successful then we’ll be seeing more of it.
But I think the last to come into the fold is going to be premium content.
And frankly if I was a media owner I would understand that because once they let go of that and you lose some a significant amount of your leverage and frankly that’s what it’s all about.
But I do think ultimately this whole automation is moving forward and frankly we’ve been leaders in that and the consortiums that we put together is indicative of the fact that collaboration in this space is really the way to do it and I think we’re showing that we have the ability to cross the different media owners and put together an offering for our clients that is competitive and realistic in the market place and in their best interest.
So I think it’s certainly an area that we’re going to continue to investment in and I think it’s going to be an area that’s going to change dramatically as we go forward.
And frankly again that’s what we do.
We’re supposed to be part of a changing landscape and providing advice for our clients.
So I think this will be interesting to unfold.
Eventually it’s going to be part of it but we’re not sure what form it will take.
Okay thank you very much.
Okay.
Hi thanks for taking the questions.
I was wondering you noted that media was a source of growth.
I was wondering if you could talk about the products and services beyond conventional planning and buying inside of media brands that are doing relatively better than others and whether it’s like that Ensemble’s or ID Media’s or some other aspect of the product.
I had a separate question but then I’ll just throw it now.
I saw news from Australia about R/GA getting an assignment creating optimizing ads that are programmatically – I think it was Telstra.
I’m just wondering if you can characterize it if you think of any opportunities or how big the opportunity is for the non-media agencies around programmatic trading.
Well everybody is trying to do their own program and trading as you know.
One of our clients are doing their own media owners are doing their own and obviously an agency like R/GA.
I think we’re having a little bit of – Brian I’m not sure whether it’s your connection but I won’t talk to you about that personally.
Right look what we’re trying to do from a Mediabrands perspective is bring all the different disciplines within Mediabrand.
That’s why Mediabrand exists and that is basically to put together all the resources.
So what you’re seeing is ID Media Ensemble.
I think what we are doing in terms of Mediabrand publishing and content generation these are all things that clients are looking for in order to reach the consumer in a modern way and that’s what we are excited about and that’s where we’re investing our dollars and I do think if you just translate that into the big transactions that I just talked about everyone is chasing content and how it’s going to be able be a part of the story telling that’s what we do.
So Mediabrands with its various disciplines in bringing them all together in that integrated offerings we hope provides a competitive advantage and that’s exactly what the integrated offering is all about Brain.
We are supposed to reach across all of IPG and bring in the best we have to meet the needs of our clients and the stuff you are seeing at MAGNA and Mediabrands publishing and Ensembles and Mobile.
Obviously Mobile is a big part of this going forward and Search all are coming together.
So it’s a pretty exciting time for us in this environment.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Brian.
Hi thanks.
Hearing you positive commentary about the tone of the business and about client commitments is great.
I just wanted to check on the Q2 organic revenues.
Am I thinking too much about it seeing declines in most regions and I clearly understand Europe isn’t fully back on its feet and France we know is weak but were there any one-time items timing issues were there any timing of account wins or losses.
Anything like that that just might have brought those numbers down a bit and is that really nothing to worry about.
No.
Look our business we can’t time our clients on a quarterly basis to fit models and we are cycling through with it.
We have client tailwinds in the first half of the year and as you cycle through them and you become part of the year-to-year comparison then the organic growth is affected by that.
The fact is we have the business.
It’s just a question of sequential growth following upon a strong quarter which is what you’ve seen.
I did say we did have some client losses.
I did indicate there was a flow though in the second half of the year offset by client wins which is why I said the second half of the year will temper off in terms of the overall organic growth.
But there is nothing dramatic happening in those numbers other than the timing of new business wins coming on-stream the effect of some client losses and just comparisons from the year-to-year basis.
And on the international side when you have 16% growth in Latin America it’s hard to kind of keep repeating that type of growth.
So when you come back with a 7% growth on top of that it’s pretty strong performance.
Tim six month growth is 5% plus.
We are pretty please with that.
Yes and I don’t think anyone should complain about 4.7% organic in Q2 either.
So I just want to make sure about the items in Q2.
Its squeezing and comparisons.
Fine thanks very much.
Thank you Tim.
You’re welcome Good Morning.
I just have two questions.
First are there any puts and takes on margins that we should take into account in the second half.
And then Frank what are your thoughts on use of the balance sheet and adding leverage.
Thank you.
I’m not sure Bill of puts or takes.
One thing that does create volatility for us is around the continued liabilities earn outs.
We can’t control that.
It’s kind of an intellectually kind of weird accounting when you’re acquisition is doing better and it hurts your current P&amp;L but that’s a good thing.
So that’s a volatility that we can’t really control.
With respect to the balance sheet we have $300 million plus left on our share buyback program and will continue to execute against that program.
All you had to do is look at the news this morning and global macroeconomic issues that are out there.
I don’t think this is the time for us to borrow money to buy back shares which is implicit in the question you just asked.
We have a strong buy back program that’s been in place.
I think you’ve seen us execute against that in an orderly fashion.
I think it does well for our shareholders to have that kind of flow in the marketplace and it to be consistent as opposed to trying to be opportunistic in levering up our balance sheet.
One of the things we spent a lot of time on the last frankly eight years nine years is making sure our balance sheet is strong so that the fluctuations in macro economics can be well absorbed if it was such an impact again.
We learn by experience and I think between our dividends between our share buyback programs and frankly we still have one more rating agency to get us to investment grade that we’re very comfortable with the leverage right now.
If you look at our maturing schedule we don’t have any maturities coming due in the next couple of years which is a good place to be in a world that is facing the challenges that we’re seeing.
So I think the financial position of IPG is the best it’s been in for years; we’re proud of it and we’re investing in our businesses and we’re returning a fair return to our shareholders and that’s what we’re supposed to be doing.
Thank you and just to follow-up on margins based on where currency rates are right now what do you expect the impact to be of currency on margins in the coming quarter or two.
We said for the year 15 basis points of currencies remain as is negative to margin.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Yes I have two questions if I could.
One is related to the Microsoft one the global creative business win.
Is there anything that we should think of in terms of onboarding employees or any changes that we should think they are both on a revenue or the expense side.
And then in terms of the World Cup did that have any impact in the U.K.
or what would you suggest is the reason for that great performance there? No World Cup was not effective in the U.K.
Actually in the U.K.
it was across the board.
All our agencies everything was doing pretty well in the U.K.
so it wasn’t just one particular one-off so we’re quite pleased.
Remember we did invest in some acquisitions in the U.K.
with Profero and Inferno as well as all of our McCann Lowe CMG performance there.
So U.K.
was pretty much across the board.
As far as onboarding Microsoft all of that is taken into consideration on the revenue side and the margin side that Frank was talking about.
We did have some upfront costs.
We continue to hire against it and we’ll see the revenue coming on stream in the second half of the year which is why we said that the impact of cycling through in the second half of the year should sort of net out against the two and that includes onboarding staff for the Microsoft bit.
Okay thank you.
You’re welcome.
Good morning guys.
Good morning James.
Two things; I guess one first on gross.
You said in the past you’re comfortable over indexing I think versus the industry in terms of your business mix to the U.S.
Could you give a little color on why you think that’s a positive going forward and I guess a specific reason in light of two things; first the organic growth was a little slower in the first half in the U.S.
than internationally which was very strong.
And then second I presume most of your clients are global brands with a global P&amp;L and presumably not particularly tied to the results of the U.S.
on its own.
And then secondly you’ve been pretty vocal as a company about the importance of the shift to programmatic buying for your business and the industry overall.
Do you think the shift of programmatic buying leads to higher ad spending by clients or is it leading to more of a shift in spending among the various sources of inventory.
And then how does the shift to programmatic so far been impacting the growth and margins of your businesses if at all.
Thanks.
All of that you want me to answer? Okay.
All of that and I even wrote them down so I can repeat them if you want.
I got them don’t worry about it.
First of all yes I’m still very comfortable with our mix.
If you look at the world base North America was 59% of our business U.S.
is 56% and given the uncertainty in the global footprint I’m pretty comfortable with the United States as being a place to put money and businesses to invest in and so.
I mean ultimately our goal was to get to 50/50 and get there by growth in the International markets particularly in the emerging markets.
We are very comfortable with our offerings in the emerging markets.
India we saw double digit growth in China Latin America.
All our networks have strong presence in Latin America including our media businesses.
So I think our footprint is very strong.
I’m very comfortable with the weight of the U.S.
because frankly it’s still is the global power house in terms of the economic strength if you will.
Obviously double digit growth in China is important but everyone is looking to the United States to have sustained growth and even without double digit growth in the United States we can convert and expand our margins which is what we should be doing.
On program buying it’s kind of interesting if you think about it this is the first time digital has exceeded network spend and we’ve forecasted to overtake all broadcasting in the next couple of years and obviously program buying has something to do with that.
The up-fronts were kind of weak this year.
That doesn’t mean to say that we won’t see the back half of the year strength on the scatter side and I still think that’s a very important place for us to be.
And the efficiencies of automation and program buying is here to stay and everyone is seeing how it’s going to go in terms of whether it’s private exchanges whether it’s public exchanges whether it’s customized exchanges and it’s all about data and being responsive to reaching the consumers in a more efficient way and we have to be able to invest in that and that’s what we have done.
So yes I think it’s going to be an important part of the future of how we do buying particularly on the digital side and as far as the mix goes we are agnostic.
Our business is agnostic.
We are advisors.
We provide advice to our clients in terms of where they should spend their dollars.
Now do we think that if we take a look at a cradle to grave perspective of their total dollars to spend do we think if we can talk a look at that we can save them expenditures in terms of reach and effectiveness? Yes but it takes that integrated offering for us to do that and program buying is part of our ability to deliver on those promises.
So that’s why I say it took me a whole call to get that confusion is good but confusion is good especially when you have the expertise that we have that we can bring to the table.
Great.
Just one thing so is the shift to program helping your growth in margins do you think for your business or… It’s not a big margin.
It helps our growth in margin because we’re servicing our clients and when we service our clients we’re in there talking to them or working with them in terms of their reach in what their content is what they should be buying where should they be spending their money that help’s our margin okay.
We don’t take inventory and that’s a big issue in our industry in terms of what inventory we are selling and other than our barter business which frankly there is some inventory there but that’s part of the business model we don’t take the positions and therefore we’re agnostic in terms of what inventory we sell.
So we’re not making profits if you will on the inventory that we’re holding to sell to clients.
Okay so the impact is more.
Just it’s taking you up the value chain in place of the advice you are giving clients.
Yes right.
Okay great thanks very much You’re welcome.
Hey good morning everyone.
Michael just thinking on the marketing services side of your business maybe agencies like MRM how much are you seeing any change in how clients are thinking about first party data CRM platforms that sort of classic database build? Some of the other competitors like EPSILON have mentioned some new vertical to start to look at those strategies a little bit more in detail where maybe they wouldn’t have previously their more brand advertisers also may be some more mid market clients looking at it.
Something that might have been too expensive for them previously.
Is that a trend you guys are participating in as well? Yes.
I mean in that space our MRM business is very strong on a global basis and these are big big projects okay and data management is critical to that and that’s where the tools and resources really come in to play and we’ve got big global clients that we are working with and it works.
I mean that’s where a lot of the action is taking place because there’s accountability.
This business ultimately if you’re a CEO of a company and that’s why I made the comment about efficiencies and effectiveness.
Clients will spend money when we can prove that its effective and the businesses like MRM and the CRM businesses historically its accountable and we can prove it and it works.
So I think it’s a good part of growth story and as result MRM is doing quite well and frankly as I indicated that type of disciple is part of that integrated offering that we bring to the clients and it’s becoming more prominent as we go forward.
And so do you see that type of work in the integrated agency networks line primarily because its within there or is there some of that type of work in CMG as well.
Well if you’re referring to the data part of it the answer is yes it’s across the board.
But the mechanics of that business is – the fact that its labor intensive is one thing.
Everyone thinks it’s all mechanical it’s not it’s labor intensive and there are only a few companies that have the resources to be able to do that on a global basis and frankly that’s one of the reasons MRM is so successful at it.
I mean they have the horse power; they have the technology and the resources to make that happen.
But that is why we use MRM as part of the integrated offering even outside McCann and again that’s part of the open architecture that IPG can bring to the table.
And just a last one of that just on that open architecture; are you seeing an agency like MRM start to work more with Mediabrands on applying those sort of CRM systems to programmatic strategies? Why I don’t know specifically on program and strategy but it’s all data and the answer is yes.
I mean that’s what the open architecture is all about and that is you have media you have CRM you have creative you have social media you have TR I mean that’s really what we do best.
And the industry has gone through cycles of where you pick out specific expertise and you try to put them all together or you go to one source where you have an agency of record and they have all the resource.
I mean frankly the World Group has all these resources but everyone on the World Group we reach out to other agencies to help in terms of expertise so that’s where this industry should be and that’s where it’s going right now.
Clients want to make sure they are getting all the resources we have and it’s up to us to deliver it and they all have to work together and that’s not easy to do and we are seeing much more success as we did years ago and that’s why we are winning businesses.
Great.
Thank You.
Good morning.
I wanted to ask you about talent and specifically as the industry moves more towards digital capabilities your competitive set for talent and this is something that we’ve all talked about a bit it’s certainly widening.
Historically you and your peers have not been significant users of non-cash compensation.
Wondering if the hiring climate in particular the digital hiring climate and the competitors are leading you to change your view on that.
Could we expect let’s say a year from now different types of comp packages out there for this type of employees.
And then I guess just a quick follow up on that.
Frank I’m wondering if you could comment a little bit on how we should think about this the sources of leverage for second half.
Any changes to the patterns we’ve been seeing or is it just kind of a flow through there.
Thank you very much.
Okay thanks Peter.
Well look yes I mean digital talent it’s not just digital talent.
Creative talent account management our business is talent so therefore it’s very competitive.
We are very pleased – I mean if you look at the people we’ve been able to recruit recently in terms of high level people McCann for example recruiting Rob Reilly on the creative side.
He’s had a great impact at McCann and he’s been to recruit talent behind him in terms of what they are doing.
And yes I mean our compensation packages are including more equity based compensation to have them part of the performance.
I think its pay-for-performance and we try to move most of our high level executives to a pay-for-performance structure.
On a digital side even if you take a look at some of our digital acquisitions we put into earn outs that are based on performance when we buy them and we also put in – one of the things that’s going on is obviously IP okay and the question is who owns the IP.
So we have pools in some of our digital agencies and in our media business where we encourage our people the entrepreneurs that are within those businesses to think out of the box and we’ll invest some money behind them and they’ll participate so that’s one of the vehicles we use to retain and keep those type of individuals in the market place.
But we constantly look at our overall compensation structure to make sure that we’re (a) competitive and (b) that our people participate on the upside on the senior levels and it’s also based on our performance of their various networks.
So we have a very sophisticated compensation plan based on networks based on IPG performance and depending on what level you’re being brought in on and use of equity compensation.
So yes the answer is we have to do all of it and we have to use it in the right place.
You just don’t throw out the equity ownership across the whole company because it doesn’t have that kind of impact but on senior talent and individuals who are coming and bringing with them unique expertise we certainly do use it.
And Peter on the leverage question it’s all about conversion.
Three six months our growth conversion of profit was about 27% on constant currency basis.
We said 30% is what our objective was so we’re in the ballpark.
So when we look at the back half of the year it’s critical for us to convert and when we look at conversion it’s all about how we manage SRS because I think our other cost components are very well managed.
It’s all about how we manage SRS and that’s going to be the focus for the next two quarters.
Thanks very much.
Great first half.
Okay thank you.
Good morning Ben.
Hey good morning guys.
Thanks for squeezing me in.
I wanted to ask two Michael one you talked a little bit about draft in your opening remarks.
I think it’s been almost a year maybe a little less since Carter came on.
How is that group doing in terms of growth? I think it’s probably not growing as fast as the overall business and you guys have been putting up decent top line despite that so any sort of line of sight on when that business starts to pick up? Any accounts we should be focused on and does he have his whole team in place? And then since it’s the last question I’ll throw my second one in.
In admittedly yesterday’s news but with Publicis Omnicom unwinding itself since the last earnings call I’d love to just get any takeaways that you guys have from that whole process.
Anything you learned either from the employee side or from the client side or just any thoughts on what happened and if it has any implications for the broader industry would be interesting.
Thanks.
Sure.
I thought I was going to get through a call without having to answer that question.
First of all it’s no longer draft its FCB.
It sound like that’s a small task.
It is I think what Carter and his team in terms of transforming that organization the role out of the FCB brand if you will has really taken hold.
Carter and the people he brought in have really gelled in terms of the DNA of FCB.
They came out of the gate they won some high profile clients.
In terms of wins as you know they won Levi’s they won Trulia and they won Ghirardelli and so yes it’s great and they were competing against top notch agencies.
So they really have some great talent and Carter has done an amazing job in bringing in high level people in terms of markets that they needed to build up their expertise particularly Nigel Jones being brought in over in Europe and Lee Garfunkel in New York.
In their healthcare business where Dana is doing very well so I’m very happy where FCB is and the team and we’re really excited about what the future holds with respect to that transformation.
It’s not easy to move a battleship like that.
The results frankly for the year at FCB are consistent with what we were planning for them for the year; that takes time.
You don’t expect it automatically to be a huge contributor in terms of our overall but it’s an important global network for us and they are contributing and we are very exciting about it.
And all you have to do is see Carter and his team in terms of how they pitch new business and the excitement that they have it’s really great to see.
As far as the Publicis Omnicom transaction I was kind of hoping it would continue to delay forever and not take place because I think the distraction of having two very competitive companies like Omnicom and Publicis being focused on their transactions as what we are doing out there was kind of fun and they are back.
I mean we are competing against them but we didn’t expect it to stay forever.
We didn’t go home and worry about the transaction.
Even if it got completed we felt we have the resources and the scale to compete and we used it as an advantage in recruiting some very high talented high profile individuals and some client pick-ups if you will but not we are back to competing as usual.
So it’s going to take them some time to work though some of their issues in terms of talent and so on but we just put our heads down and focus on our clients and our business.
Does the failure to get that done suggest as to sort of highlight how hard it is to do these kind of deals given the complexity and it’s a people business or you think its specific to what was going on there.
I’ll let them answer those questions.
I think a $35 billion transaction by definition is difficult to complete and if you add on top of it it’s a service business and its multinational and its different cultures.
I think it was pretty clear from the beginning it was going to be difficult to complete.
That doesn’t mean to say you can’t do transactions but it’s difficult.
Thank you.
Well thank you very much for your support.
We look forward to the next earnings call and enjoy the rest of the summer.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning.
And welcome to the Interpublic Group Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All parties are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer portion.
(Operator Instructions) This conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Mr.
Jerry Leshne Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
We have posted our earnings release and our slide presentation on our website interpublic.com and we’ll refer to both in the course of this call.
This morning we are joined by Michael Roth; and Frank Mergenthaler.
We will begin with prepared remarks to be followed by Q&amp;A and plan to conclude before market open at 9:30 Eastern.
During this call we will refer to forward-looking statements about our company.
These are subject to uncertainties and the cautionary statement included in our earnings release and the slide presentation and further details in our 10-K and other filings with the SEC.
We will also refer to non-GAAP measures.
We believe that these measures provide useful supplemental data that while not a substitute for GAAP measure allow for greater transparency in the review of our financial and operational performance.
At this point it is my pleasure to turn things over to Michael Roth.
Thank you Jerry.
And thank you for joining us this morning as we review our results for the third quarter and nine months year-to-date.
As usual I’ll start out by covering the highlights of our performance and Frank will then provide additional detail and I’ll conclude with an update on our agencies to be followed by a Q&amp;A.
We are pleased to report a strong quarter and nine months.
Our revenue growth in the third quarter was 8.3% driven by 6.3% organic growth and 1.7% from acquisitions with an additional 30 basis points in currency.
Operating margin expanded 100 basis points to 9.3% and operating profit increased 21%.
Q3 earnings per share were up 24% to $0.21 per share from last year's adjusted EPS.
For the year-to-date organic growth was 5.9% operating margin was expanded by 120 basis points and an operating profit has increased 30%.
Our people can take pride in this performance and we thank them for their efforts and dedication.
Turning to more color on the third quarter revenue our growth in U.S.
was 8.7% driven by 7.9% organic increase.
This strong performance reflects contributions from all of our major disciplines including advertising marketing services and media.
We had especially notable growth from our digital services across the portfolio.
Among our agencies McCann FCB Mediabrands Huge and our marketing service specialists in CMG all grew at high levels in the U.S.
Top client sectors helping to drive domestic growth were healthcare food and beverage and auto and transportation.
International growth continued to be solid with 4.2% organic increase in Q3.
We grew in all major regions with the exception of Continental Europe.
Organic growth was 12.2% in the U.K.
8.2% in LatAm 2.7% in AsiaPac and 1.7% in our group of other markets.
Continental Europe decreased 1.3% organically.
International growth was strong at Lowe and Partners within digital services at R/GA and in marketing services at Weber Shandwick and Octagon sports marketing.
Another highlight of the quarter was that we continue to build on our new business record for the year.
We were pleased to add important assignments from Pizza Hut Cisco Ulta Office Depot and Choice Hotels.
As a result our net new business year-to-date remains positive.
Turning to operating expenses and margin in the quarter underneath revenue growth of 8.3% total operating expenses increased 7.1%.
We had leverage from a year ago on base payroll in on our office and general expenses.
Within our salaries and related expenses a strong performance led to higher accruals for employee incentives and performance bonuses compared to Q3 last year.
In Q3 we repurchased 3 million shares for $51 million.
Over the trailing 12 months we utilized $349 million for repurchases and $152 million for shareholder dividends.
This means that since initiating our return of capital programs in 2011 we've returned a total of $1.8 billion to shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchase.
As of September 30 $271 million remains on our current share repurchase authorization.
In sum we are encouraged that performance in the quarter and the nine months is consistent with the competitors of our agencies and the high quality of our offerings.
While we are mindful of macro-developments around the world the overall tone of business remains solid.
With the strong nine months we are confident of our positioning to exceed 4% organic growth for the year and to increase operating margin by at least 100 basis points for the full year.
I'll discuss this further in my closing remarks.
We continue to focus on the execution of our strategy which is built on creativity native digital expertise emerging markets integration of services combined with our discipline on costs.
I'll have more to say about our competitive positioning as well as provide an update on our agencies in my concluding remarks.
At this stage I'll turn things over to Frank for additional detail on our results.
Thank you Michael.
Good morning.
As a reminder I will be referring to the slide presentation that accompanies our webcast.
On slide two you'll see an overview of results number of which Michael touched on but are worth repeating.
Organic growth was 6.3% in the third quarter with total revenue up 8.3%.
U.S.
organic growth was 7.9% and international growth was 4.2%.
Operating profit was $171 million compared with $142 million a year ago which is increase of 21%.
For the first nine months operating profit grew 30%.
Q3 margin was 9.3% improvement of 100 basis points from a year ago.
Diluted earnings per share were $0.21 compared with $0.17 a year ago.
The comparison excludes the charge for early redemption of debt in Q3 2013.
Turning to slide three you'll see our P&amp;L for the quarter.
I’ll cover revenue and operating expenses in detail in the slides that follow.
Here it’s worth noting that our Q3 effective tax rate was 41.3% compared to 36.9% last year which benefit from a discrete item in the period.
We still expect our normalized rate for the full year will be in the range of 39%.
Turning to revenue on slide four revenue was $1.84 billion in the quarter an increase of 8.3%.
Compared to Q3 2013 the impact of a change in exchange rates was a positive 30 basis points while net acquisitions added 170 basis points.
The organic revenue increase was 6.3%.
As you can see on the bottom half of this slide both of our reported segments had very good growth rates in the quarter.
At our integrated agency networks the organic increase was 5.5% led by our three global integrated networks as well as Mediabrands R/GA and Huge.
At CMG organic growth was 9.9% which reflects continued outstanding performance at our PR agencies Jack Morton events and Octagon sports marketing.
Moving on to slide five revenue by region.
In the U.S.
Q3 organic growth was 7.9%.
Our top client sectors were healthcare food and beverage and auto and we had strong growth across all our major disciplines.
Turning to international markets we had strong U.K.
performance of 12.2% organic growth with contributions from all of our agencies.
It's worth noting that total growth in U.K.
was 27% which includes the 12% organic and another 6% from acquisitions in the region notably FCB Inferno and Profero and about 9% was attributable to stronger pound sterling.
Continental Europe decreased 1.3% organically.
Germany and Italy decreased while France was flat and Spain grew solidly.
In Asia Pac our largest international region Q3 organic growth was 2.7%.
Excluding the quarterly volatility of our events business organic growth was approximately 4% which is on top of 11.3% growth in Q3 2013.
For the nine months regional organic growth was 5.9%.
Of note we were led by growth this year in China Australia and Singapore while we saw decreases in Japan and India.
In LatAm organic growth was 8.2% which on top of 8% year ago.
We had growth across most agencies and were led by increases in Brazil and Argentina.
In our other markets group which is made up of Canada the Middle East and Africa organic growth was 1.7% driven by organic increases in the Middle East and Canada.
On slide six we chart the longer view of our organic revenue change on a trailing 12-month basis.
The most recent data point is 5.2%.
Moving to slide seven operating expenses.
Third quarter operating margin grew 100 basis points to 9.3%.
Our ratio of salaries and related expenses to revenue in Q3 was 64.9% this year compared with 64.3% a year ago with incentive and bonus accruals higher this year due to performance.
Through the nine months our SRS ratio improved 20 basis points.
Our expense for base salaries benefits and tax as percent of revenue in Q3 improved to 53.8% compared to 54.6% a year ago.
The BBT ratios improved by 50 basis points for the year-to-date period.
Expense for temporary labor in Q3 was 3.9% of revenue compared with 3.8% a year ago.
Severance expense was 60 basis points of revenue compared with 120 basis points in Q3 2013.
Incentives were 3.5% of revenue in Q3 and other salaries and related expense were 3.1% of revenue with both items reflecting higher performance-based accruals compared to year ago.
Total headcount at quarter end was approximately 47 200.
Our average headcount in the quarter was up 4% from year ago which consisted of 2.3% organic increase and 1.7% due to acquisitions.
The increases were higher in the growth areas of the portfolio such as digital media and PR as well as in growth regions of the world that support new business wins.
Turning to office and general expenses on the lower half of the slide.
The year-on-year organic increase in O&amp;G expense was only 40 basis points and O&amp;G expenses were 25.8% of Q3 revenue an improvement of 160 basis points from a year ago.
Within our O&amp;G categories compared to last year we had 50 basis points of operating leverage and occupancy expense 20 basis points on telecom office supplies and travel and 10 basis points in professional fees.
In addition our category of all other expenses decreased by 80 basis points of revenue as pass-through expenses related to revenue decreased from year ago.
These expenses are mainly due -- are mainly in our events business and marketing disciplines.
On slide eight we show our operating margin history on a trailing 12-month basis.
The most recent data point is 9.9% which excludes the restructuring expense in Q4 2013.
Turning to the current portion of our balance sheet on slide nine we ended the quarter with approximately $902 million in cash in short-term marketable securities which compares to $1 billion a year ago.
We have returned approximately $500 million to shareholders over the last 12 months in share repurchases and common stock dividends.
On slide 10 we turned to our third quarter cash flow.
Cash provided by operations was $176 million compared with $161 million a year ago.
Within that working capital was a use of $11 million this year compared with a source of $38 million in Q3 ‘13.
Investing activities used $42 million in the three months primarily for CapEx.
Financing activities used $86 million mainly in capital return to shareholders.
$50 million -- $51 million for share repurchases and our common stock dividend was $40 million.
Our net increase in cash and marketable securities for the quarter was $1 million.
That compares with use of $614 million year ago which included $630 million for the redemption of our 10% debt.
On slide seven (sic) [11] we showed debt deleveraging from our peak of $2.35 billion in 2007 to $1.76 billion at the most recent quarter end.
You will recall that in Q2 this year we issued $500 million of new 10 year notes at 4.2% and redeemed our 6.25% 350 million notes.
In summary on slide 12 we are pleased with our revenue growth and profit performance in the quarter.
And with a strong 9 months we are on track relative to our financial objectives of the year.
With that let me turn it back to Michael.
Thank you Frank.
Well you can see from our results that in the dynamic consumer and media landscape the value proposition of our agencies remains highly relevant to our clients.
The strength of our agency brands and the quality of the work we're doing across all marketing disciplines continue to drive very solid growth.
Our performance is a result of the series of long-term strategic decisions which we back with significant investment over time.
As we've shared with you in the past our focus has primarily been in upgrading and developing talent in senior leadership strategic and creative roles and building digital capabilities into all of our agency as well as in investing in our largest and fastest-growing markets.
These priorities are common denominator in the strong performance we’re sharing with you today.
We're seeing the benefit of successful transitions of senior agency leadership stronger and more effective creative ideas and our ability to leverage that creativity in an increasingly digital and data driven world.
For some time the emphasis in our approach to digital has been embed talent and expertise within our agency brands in preference to digital silos.
This results in campaigns and client solutions that are fully integrated and multichannel from the start whether they're coming out of our PR agencies our experiential and shopper marketing agencies the global advertising networks or U.S.
independents or from our media specialists.
Separately as a result of sustained and targeted investment we also have within our portfolio a number of the top digital brands in the industry.
These include R/GA HUGE MRM and McCann cadreon within Mediabrands and Profero at Lowe.
Each of these companies has been an important contributor to our growth this year.
We’ve also continued to invest in high-growth global markets.
We have exceptional agencies and strong competitive position in countries such as Brazil India and the MENA region and we supplemented through M&amp;A.
In other markets such as China we've invested organically into top level talent and successfully exported capabilities such as digital PR and healthcare marketing.
The result is that over the last five years our revenue has grown approximately 75% in India and China and over 80% in the LatAm market.
An additional focus in our strategic development has been our deployment of an open architecture model that calls upon the best talent through IPG agencies to deliver tailor-made solutions that meet the needs of our clients.
This type of approach has been taking on greater importance to global clients.
Our customized brand of integration is differentiating us in the marketplace and we prevailed in a number of the industry's most competitive consolidations in recent years which has made a notable contribution to our growth.
Looking more closely at agency performance during the third quarter it beards noting that McCann Worldgroups saw continued growth with core global clients and additional success on the new business front.
Recent wins include significant assignments from Office Depot which was pitched in collaboration with UM as well as Choice Hotels.
Outside of the U.S.
McCann was awarded Coke in China and the noted telecom brand EE in the U.K.
McCann’s increased creative standing was once again recognized earlier this month at the prestigious Drum Awards where McCann was awarded Agency Network of the Year for the second consecutive year.
FCB continues to make progress in this transformation.
During the quarter the agency finalized upgrades in key markets namely New York London and Shanghai.
We saw important wins out of Chicago and New York with Nestlé and the agency overall is showing growth led by areas of deep expertise such as best-in-class offerings in healthcare and shopper marketing.
At Lowe we are seeing a welcome development as the agency’s roster of multinational clients has added both Cadillac and Fiat during the past year.
Lowe also won a global assignment from Lenovo and heading into 2015 the agency will build out its New York presence to support Cadillac.
The integration of Profero as a native digital capability has been well-received by pitch consultants and in the third quarter has already resulted in new business.
Media Brands we continued to deliver fully competitive traditional media buying to major clients as well as contemporary services in areas such as automated programmatic ad buying data and analytics.
During the quarter UM won Office Depot’s media assignment in the joint pitch with McCann.
More recently UM announced a significant two-year deal with Facebook to provide our clients advantage access to data insights inside and ad targeting opportunities.
Media Brands publishing was named the socially award for Chrysler and we delivered community management across eight Chrysler group brands globally.
Orion also continued to be a strong performer within the group.
In the third quarter we saw good growth across our portfolio of digital specialists.
MRM//McCann was named the Agency-of-Record for Cisco.
R/GA continued to grow internationally.
HUGE also continued its strong growth with advances in several client sectors including financial services auto and technology.
We highlighted earlier that our marketing services specialist and CMG grew 10% in the quarter and 8% for nine months led by public relations events and sports marketing.
Social media and content creation have been major drivers of growth at our public relations agencies.
And Weber Shandwick has originally built what could well be the largest social media agency in the U.S.
Golin is following soon and we recently acquired Genuine a strong digital agency that will power Jack Morton's digital development.
Continuing to enhance this type of leading-edge offerings across CMG remains a priority which we believe will be a key driver of growth that is very dynamic unit within our portfolio.
Our U.S.
independent agencies continued to be an area of strength for Interpublic.
And during the third quarter we saw Deutsch LA win the Pizza Hut account Mullen win Ulta Beauty.
And The Martin Agency which works closely with FCB around the world as part of our open architecture team from Mondelez was named AOR for Ritz Crackers.
Strategically we remain well positioned to succeed in an increasingly fragmented data-rich consumer driven marketing landscape.
We made good investments in talent growing our digital capability and used targeted M&amp;A to build our presence in high-growth regions.
The benefits of our strategic approach to M&amp;A with digital and high-growth markets is key areas of focus were evident in the 170 basis points of growth that recent acquisitions contributed to growth in the quarter.
Our strong U.S.
operations are a further source of stability during volatile times.
And the levels of industry recognition we’ve received in recent years in all marketing disciplines are unprecedented in the history of IPG and speak to the quality of our offerings.
In some the tone of business continues to be solid and our agencies are competing effectively around the world.
We are pleased with strong performance on both the top and bottom line through the first nine months of 2014 which puts us solidly on track to achieve or exceed our targets for the full year.
We remain committed to the capital return programs that seen us put $1.8 billion to work on behalf of our owners.
With our largest quarter ahead and increased macro uncertainty particularly in Europe we will remain focused on ensuring we meet or exceed our targets for the year and put ourselves into position to build on a positive momentum as we head into 2015.
Thereby allowing us to continue to deliver increased shareholder value.
I thank you and now open up the floor to questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Alexia Quadrani from J.P.
Morgan.
You may ask your question.
Hi.
Thank you.
You guys continued to see very impressive revenue trends all year with particularly good numbers this quarter.
I guess so my question is and there is lots of piece of your businesses that are doing well which you gave us a great detail on the call.
But if you were thinking about what was the biggest delta I guess what really change what has changed this topline trend that from previous year? Is it really the new business becoming more of a tailwind versus the headwind or you are also seeing healthier budgets I guess any color on that would be great? Yeah.
Well one of the biggest drivers for us is the U.S.
Let’s not forget 57% of our business accounts from U.S.
and the strength of the U.S.
market is evidenced by our growth in U.S.
We've always said that the strength of our offerings in our existing global clients as well as our existing U.S.
clients and domestic clients abroad is the strength of IPG.
We’ve always mentioned the best thing we can do was sort of closed the backdoor and make sure we focus on our existing client base and we’ve seen that occurring over the last year or so.
And that's a big contributor to our results.
It doesn’t hurt of course to be winning and being new business positive and that's what we are going to see lead to the growth in the out years.
In the current year we are not seeing a significant amount of the new business wins pick up in our results for this year.
But we will see them in the future year Alexia.
I guess to that point if I could have a one follow-up given your very strong recent new business performance is there any further color you can give us in terms of what kind of tailwind or lift we should expect in the next couple quarters? I was waiting for that Alexia.
Look right now it’s too soon for us to talk about next year for sure.
Right now we are focusing on closing the year very strongly.
We do have some client losses that we are going to be rolling through and cycling through in the fourth quarter.
We have new business wins that offset that in the fourth quarter and we hope to hit 2015 with those kind of losses impact behind us.
So the fourth quarter we will continue to see some drain from some of those client losses offset in part by the net new business wins.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Alexia.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from John Janedis with Jefferies.
You may ask your question.
Hi.
Thank you.
Frank your bogie on the SRS line has been in the 60% range.
Is that level you're still comfortable with as you think about your positioning in investments to remain competitive in the market? It is John.
I mean you look at this quarter we saw 70 basis points of leverage when you look at just base benefit tax and temporary help which are folks day-to-day doing the work.
We do have an increase in the incentive accrual this quarter but that's just because of our performance through nine months and how we feel for the year.
But to close the gap from kind of where we are to where we want to go to 60% I think is still reasonable target.
John when you at specific agencies we have a number of agencies that are below that okay.
So it's not a goal that is impossible to achieve.
A lot goes into those numbers in terms of onboarding new business wins and so on.
But it's certainly the line in the sand that we draw because let’s face it we have a variable cost model and our significant costs are reflected in that number.
So we see enhanced operating margin by getting that in line.
Okay.
Thanks.
And just separately obviously programmatic has been a big topic of conversation.
Can you remind us how large it is for you and to what extent grossing up.
Why does it not contribute to your reported growth? Well that’s a great question kind of relevant what’s going on in the world today.
We don’t like to give out numbers in programmatic versus automation.
We think it’s all part of the technology that's being brought to the way we buy media.
If you want to use a number on a global basis let’s use something like 7% in terms of programmatic and it’s higher in the U.S.
So roughly around 10%.
But the more important issue is the one you raised and that is how do we deal with that in terms of meeting the needs of our clients? You’ve heard us say this before we’re agnostic in terms of how we deal with the fragment media that is out there.
What that means is we have to be independent in terms of advising our clients where they place their media dollars.
We believe that is inconsistent with being agnostic to take an equity position in the offerings that we provide.
So what you see in our organic numbers is the pure organic number.
We are not fronting if you will media owned and then take it out on the bottom in terms of expenses.
So our organic number is not grossed up as some of our competitors have in terms of the media position.
Now obviously this is an area of growth that our competitors are showing on the revenue side.
We continually look at the marketplace to see whether our model is the best model and how it's being received by our client.
We continue to believe that one of the issues of programmatic buying is this whole issue of distrust by the clients because they don't really understand what's going into this black box if you will and you’re seeing a number of clients take it in-house.
Our approach to dealing with our clients is making sure that they understand what’s in there and we are consistent with our model of being agnostic.
If the clients on a longer-term basis don't think to think that that makes a difference obviously we will relook at our model.
But right now our programmatic buying is growing.
We are making margins on it.
Our clients are pleased with what we're delivering in terms of our targeted marketing in dollars spending dollars to focus on what the client needs are and we don't believe we have to own equity in the offerings that we’re giving.
Now of course on ORION which is our barter business we do take an equity position but that’s understood in terms of when we use ORION in the marketplace.
So we're very pleased with the growth in programmatic.
And frankly right now we think it's an advantage because clients will look at us as being really agnostic in terms of the way we approach it.
And we will see how the -- this is still a new market where we're learning a lot about it.
Our goal is to be as we said 50% automated.
That's not just programmatic.
It’s the entire way we approach buying media.
And what we've been doing at Cadreon at Mediabrands is setting the stage in terms of how this should be done but this is still relatively new and we will move into marketplace as it develops.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Bank with RBC Capital.
You may ask your question.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
As you came out of last year it looks to me like with almost the ideal operating structure to match the revenue environment particularly the tweaks you made around Europe and knock what you appear on track to have generated some pretty tremendous economies of scale on the margin side.
So if you kind of look to next year and the incremental costs and then I think everybody in the marketing business seems to have around the marketing environment.
How do you start thinking about that operating structure heading into next year? Do you think the environment still kind of matches the structure you have? Or when do you think about how you’re going to have to start tweaking it if you have to or you still confident that you know this environment matches the operating structure you have? Thanks.
Thanks David.
Look the wildcard here for us is Continental Europe all right.
Last year we took a $60 million hit in terms of repositioning to match our cost with our revenue.
What I am pleased to say is that we’ve seen the benefit now flow through to with respect to that repositioning.
But as you see what we’re negative 1.3% in Continental Europe in the quarter.
What we stated before for the year our business plans call for either being plus or minus 1% for Continent Europe.
It represents 10% of our business.
So therefore right now we think the repositioning that we had taken in 2013 and the flow through that we're seeing is correct but we have to continue to monitor that.
If we see Germany going into a recession if we see the entire Continent Europe not recovering or showing any signs of recovery that’s an area that we will constantly watch in terms of getting our cost in line with our revenue.
But as far as the rest of the world I think we are very well-positioned in terms of our offerings and that's why we all have some caution with respect to what’s happening.
That's going on.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brian Wieser with Pivotal Research.
You may ask your question.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
So I agree the gentlemen of marketers and industry level seems to be pretty mistrustful these days.
Is the only issue that you see out there the matter of the opaqueness in digital media trading and rebates and that sort of thing or -- and this is not for you specifically but I mean at an industry level or do you see other factors? And maybe relatively I am curious about conversations you might have had with clients who consider moving elements like programmatic trading in-house.
What do you hear are motivations when they start looking at it? And since most of them ultimately do stay with agencies what do you hear goes into decisioning -- decision making we make to keep accounts within one of the agencies? Well the game here is to be more efficient than what you’re doing.
Yes there is an element of distrust because whenever something is new and people and clients don’t see exactly where their media dollars -- by the way the reference I made to 7% was with respect to our media spend not total revenue of Mediabrands okay.
I thought that was clear but I guess maybe someone had a question on it.
But the issue here is clients being comfortable to maximize their efficiencies and how they do this.
And they’ve kind of view this as a new area and they’re going to experiment to see if this works.
This takes a lot of talent.
This takes a lot of investment over a period of time.
And frankly we have not seen a huge amount of our media clients rushing to take this in-house.
So I think we’re going to have to watch this very carefully.
But if we’re doing our job right in terms of delivering on an efficient basis and delivering the returns and what the clients are looking for to our trading then there shouldn’t be any need for client to take it internally.
But again where -- this is only a small part of what we do.
It’s an important part but it ties into everything that we do and we work with our clients as it develops.
But this issue of distress starts I think with this issue of are we selling something that we have a proprietary interest in.
And I know the argument is made we’ve -- I talked to clients on it and some clients believe that as long as there is a role up there and they are getting what they’re paying for in terms of response then they are comfortable with it.
Other clients seem that there is something inherently wrong with that.
So it’s evolving and we’re going to see.
This is not new to our industry.
We -- there are times when we’ve seen clients take their entire marketing department in-house right because they feel they could be more efficient and more relevant to what they’re doing.
And frankly overtime we’ve seen that not work very well because the talent levels and the expertise and the investment in the technology that we’re making companies themselves its not a good investment for them if they can use our services on an efficient basis.
So I think some clients are going to do it and it’s a fact and we’ll deal with it.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Yeah.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Peter Stabler with Wells Fargo Securities.
You may ask your question.
Good morning.
A couple of for Frank.
Getting back to SRS the incentive lines the severance lines temporary help lines can bounce around a bit and we can see deleverage on incentive when things are going well et cetera? Could you help us think about BBT where that might go? Where that could go? As you guys march toward your longer term target? And then secondly Frank any impact from FX on margins at all in the quarter or for the year? Thanks very much.
First on the FX Peter was roughly 10 basis points smaller on margin.
With respect to -- I’m not going to give a specific number for BBT and temp but we kind of look at them together and that’s our workforce doing the work right.
So for us to get to our objectives we had to continue see leverage there.
In the third quarter we have 70 basis points leverage with those two components combined for the nine months 50 basis points.
So we focus very closely on seeing leverage and to Michael's point earlier we have a portfolio of assets.
So when we meet with our agencies both in the planning process and the review process each quarter the key metric we focus on is BBT and temp labor versus growth.
And some agencies are very efficient at it some aren’t and some of that has do a timing of on-boarding of new clients growth in the existing clients but that's the key metric from our perspective.
We focus on to continue to make margin progression.
One a little color on that is we're seeing a lot of competition in terms of particularly digital talent out there.
When we’re competing with the Facebooks and the Googles and particularly our digital agencies are challenged in terms of recruiting and retaining a top talent.
So we do see some creep if you will in those areas.
And but the other side of it the talent that we’re bringing in has very special talents that are more efficient than what they're doing and we’re still going through a transition of our people throughout organization for people who are expert in the current environment particularly in the digital side.
So we are seeing a bit of that.
It’s not something we don't deal with in terms of our pricing and so on.
But some of that comes into that and it takes us a while to level off in terms of matching those expenses with the revenue.
But that's the way the marketplace is right now and it's a goal that we think we can achieve and we just have to be diligent and before we on-board talent that we have them associated with revenue.
And that’s -- if you want to look at one of the biggest changes in our company is being the discipline that we’ve instilled in our agencies when we add talent to have it revenue facing and ascribe that whenever talent is being added and we have a process to make sure that that happens.
Thanks very much guys.
You’re welcome Peter.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley.
You may ask your question.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I had two for Frank.
In the first half of the year you guys talked about net tailwinds of 100 to 200 basis points helping revenue.
I know the back half that was suppose to moderate and the comps got tougher and obviously put up the big number this quarter? I just wanted to check the Q3.
Frank I don’t know if you would describe it as immaterial but any sort of sizing for the net impact of those things in the third quarter? Look for Q3 I’d say Ben it was relatively de minimis Q4 its actually slight headwinds.
Okay.
That makes sense.
And then on the cost line as we think about the fourth quarter and these ties into some of the questions you had this morning on incentive comp and other salary line? I think last year in the fourth quarter when the year ended up solid maybe more solid than you thought and you ended up accruing a decent amount of comp both in incentive and in other SRS in the fourth quarter.
So is it -- would it be appropriate for us to believe that it's been a smoother amortization this year as the year has been sort of strong since day one and so we don't have that same risk in the fourth quarter versus last year? Yeah.
I think that make sense.
Remember last year in the third quarter our third quarter was relatively soft.
The European issues continue to magnify.
We’re very concerned and I think it was in our comments in the third quarter.
We could do the year but we need a strong fourth quarter and Europe’s got it flatten out a bit that didn't happen.
So it was choppier.
But we had other parts of the business that did well.
And the interesting thing is you remember our incentives are both top-down and bottoms-up.
So we have number of agencies last year that did very well and some agencies and some markets underperformed.
But right now we've been pretty consistent through three quarters.
So I do think it's probably a smoother amortization of incentives through nine months.
Yeah.
And the other part of it the way we structure our incentive comp is performance based.
So that’s the variable in terms of our incentive comp.
And that is if performance is above budget if you will then we see a catch up where it is.
If it’s below whether it’d be by agency or through corporate we see less of a -- so it all ties together.
It’s in fact that we are variable cost model and that’s the way we manage our business.
That’s very helpful.
And lastly just on the revenue strength.
Michael you called out a lot of different agencies and disciplines.
And I just wanted to check Omnicom really called out U.S media in particular yesterday driving their business including obviously the impact of programmatic.
Fair to say that your strength is maybe more diversified across disciplines and agencies or has -- was U.S.
media also a big driver of the top line this quarter? Well U.S.
media is obviously a big component both in our revenue as well as in our profit margins.
I don't know what goes into Omnicom’s number.
You do call out the programmatic and they made a point of it in their conference call.
Our business is solid across the board and that’s comforting.
Media obviously with all the innovations that are going on out there.
This is a confusing world and clients need direction and help and particularly on the media side and that’s where with the value added by UM Initiative and all of Mediabrands that’s what they do.
They are supposed to take our clients money and make it work on an efficient and effective way.
And so it's appropriate that we see growth in margin in those businesses because they’re adding value.
But the rest of our business is particularly with the digital and the marketing services.
I think that's one of the strength.
When you compare us to our competitors I think the diversity of our offerings particularly in the marketing services the PR and various other marketing services businesses that we have.
We are doing a great job and it’s showing in our top line in their margin expansion.
Thanks Roth.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Bill Bird with FBR.
You may ask your question.
Good morning.
Could you talk a little bit about some of your lumpier project base business? And how your pipeline looks for those in Q4 and then separately could you touch on your new business pipeline and also any account review that might be out there? Thank you.
Yeah.
I’m always -- I always like to answer that question because I tell you right now we don’t have any major clients in review right now.
I’ll get out of this call and I’ll go and get a call on it but the right now the pipeline is solid.
Our project based business is being strong throughout the year.
Fourth quarter is always something that we sort of hang on and wait and see.
But I think there is no reason to think that the business tone won’t continue to be solid.
But that’s what we have.
A good part of our business comes in in the fourth quarter which is why many of you’ve going to ask why don’t you up you guidance in terms of your margin and so on so.
And in terms of current pitches out there I think the ones you are seeing in the trades are the ones that are there.
We are participating in most of those.
Thank you.
Welcome.
Thank you.
Next question comes from Barry Lucas with Gabelli &amp; Company.
You may ask your question.
Thanks very much and good morning.
Hi Barry.
Michael could we come back to the U.S.
in this sense.
I mean you and Omnicom have put some very very strong organic growth numbers in Q3? Well ahead of -- well ahead of GDP and inflation if we used that as kind of the bogie.
So -- and it doesn’t feel like client budgets are expanding that much.
So who is losing out there and it should be a share shift I would think?  Well I would hope so.
Look I mean it’s always been both us and Omnicom have always had a stronger presence in the U.S.
And although the U.S.
isn’t growing a double-digit growth that we’re seeing in Brazil or in China.
We’re seeing solid growth in U.S.
and that’s the kind of environment that we can expand margin and grow our business.
So -- and if you look at our forecast the MAGNA forecast although the growth in U.S.
is -- I wouldn’t call it stellar in terms of projection it’s solid and it’s solid enough if we deliver that that we should continue to grow and grain market share because of our offerings and frankly stronger presence in the U.S.
We -- McCann in U.S.
as well as worldwide is very strong for us and we’re seeing it in the business wins at McCann in particular.
Those were domestic wins and we saw Mediabrands participating in that pitch with them.
So that’s what’s contributing to this and frankly the U.S.
is a good place to be overexpose to in this world of uncertainty right now and we are seeing the benefit of it.
Amen to that.
One nit to pick for either of you and that is despite some meaningful share repurchases since the program was instituted the average diluted share count year-over-year is unchanged.
So shuffling options out or I mean when do we see the share count really shrink?  Well.
I think we will continue.
We still have $271 million authorization.
And as I said in my prepared remarks we are committed to returning that to our shareholders in the form of dividends and buybacks.
And we will continue to pursue that.
And I understand your point.
We were out of the market a little bit for various reasons.
But it’s still an important part of our overall shareholder value enhancement program.
Thank you Mike.
Thank you Barry.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Dan Salmon with BMO Capital.
You may ask your question.
Great.
Thanks.
Michael in your prepared remarks you talked a little bit about the PR agencies and Weber possibly being the largest social agency out area.
You also mentioned content creation and I just want to ask a little bit more about that in the broader area of concept marketing.
And where you are seeing demand from clients maybe certain verticals is it more B2B or it is B2C player a role in here? And then maybe some areas outside of the PR agencies where you are seeing business grow there? Well.
It’s always being interesting where’s social media belong and if you go back to my remarks a while ago I’ve always said that we have social media expertise across all of our disciplines.
But if you really go to the heart of it PR is a natural sweet spot for social media to sit.
Okay.
And fortunately our agencies particularly Weber and Golin address that issue very early on.
And particularly at Weber I mean they have a significant part of their practices as managing social media and they’ve done well at it.
In fact they have had awards on with respect to that.
So I think that should continue.
There is an area where clients take a look and see whether they should be bringing that in-house or not.
But even with that exposure we've seen growth in those markets and we think it’s a real strength of PR businesses go.
Clearly the whole shift to digital in the PR side has been significant as well as frankly some of the advertising part of the PR business.
One of the things we’re seeing is bringing together of all the various disciplines.
You see it in our digital agencies doing some creative work.
We’ve see some R/GA in particular for example had some very notable campaigns out there where they were doing both the creative as well as digital.
And then you turn to our normal traditional advertising agencies and their strengths are in the digital and PR as well.
So we're seeing across the board all of our agencies whether which services they are in looking at that integrated offering as the way to deal with our clients because frankly clients want to see that.
So it’s been an important part of what we’ve been doing.
And frankly I think we are seeing the result of that.
Our clients are looking to our agencies to provide that kind of support.
And the other part of it is that we do well is if a particular agency doesn’t have that expertise they can look to other IPG agencies to help.
So it is not uncommon to reach out to our PR agencies as part of an agency of record to bring in an integrated offering so it’s all working.
Maybe just a follow-up on the concept marketing idea.
I’m sorry.
Yes.
Is it just certain verticals anywhere that you are seeing particular strategy?  Well.
Look if you just look at the healthcare healthcare is one that we’ve seen.
It was in a lull for a while as patents were expiring and everything.
So we are seeing new products and we are seeing a good -- in fact healthcare was our fastest-growing in the quarter.
And there in particular I think content is a very important part of what we’re doing with respect to the healthcare clients.
Auto was another.
We’ve seen good growth there in that one.
It’s a combination of content as well as traditional.
So it’s not by accident that the sectors that are growing more rapidly retail is another one.
And that’s where we saw our growth in the quarter.
We saw healthcare was up 13% on a year-to-date basis.
Auto’s up 11% retail is up 10%.
So these are not by accident that they are growing because we are giving content as well as traditional type of offerings to those clients.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from James Dix with Wedbush Securities.
You may ask your question.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning James.
Two questions.
There has been talk by some that there have been consolidation pitches in the media business for a while and that may increasingly be a trend that you see in other disciplines spreading to other disciplines.
I was wondering whether you are seeing that whether you think that would continue if so and do you think that helps you potentially pick up share versus other competitors? And then secondly in terms of industry structure there is obviously been talk about M&amp;A not just in the agency space but in other parts of the media value chain and there has been some discussion about how consolidated clients want the agency business to ultimately be? Maybe there was some tacit pushback to further consolidation that might have been an issue with publicists and Omnicom.
Do you hear any of that from clients that they kind of like the number of global competitors that are out there now and they might have a problem if that number narrowed too much? Thanks a lot.
Yes.
Interesting question.
Look there is no question that with respect to global clients they like the healthy tension of having at least two global holding companies in there and frankly it works with lot of our clients.
We had long lasting relationships with multi-national clients that we’ve been sharing with other holding companies.
And yeah it does keep us extra on our toes and clients like to see that.
And yeah there were some risks on the Publicis Omnicom transaction particularly on the conflict side with respect to that.
I don’t think that was the reason that transaction ran into problems but there is always that issue of conflicts and clients liking to see some healthy tension within their agencies of record.
So yeah I think that’s part of it.
On the media consolidation yeah if you look at the big pictures that have occurred in the last year or so certainly media is an important part of it.
Bifurcation of buying and planning is part of that.
The media guys hate when I talk about buying being a commodity.
Certainly the clients some clients out there view that.
We don’t think of it that way.
We think there is a value add.
And I think just looking at programmatic opportunities that’s one of the reasons why it’s not just pure commodity there is a technology and art to doing that.
But yeah I think we are going to continue to see media consolidation because clients believe that there is money to be had by putting the various holding companies if you will in a competitive pitch on the media side of the business and that one has a tendency to be the first place that multinational clients in particular look to consolidate their agencies frankly.
And we’ve done well in those pitches that’s where this whole issue of scale does come into play and we certainly have a seat at the table at these multinational pitches.
Some of our smaller competitors don’t have that kind of breadths and depths in terms of the offerings and that’s why you’re seeing those consolidations come down to various holding company pitches.
And we think we add value to that in terms of our expertise.
And we do use the integration as part of the reason why it would work more efficiently.
But I do think we will continue to see that because there is pressure on our clients to provide bottomline savings.
And the perception out there is that if we can show that for a less money we can be more effective and place their media dollars in a more efficient way and better reach for less dollars that’s what clients want to see.
And by calling a pitch they get to see that firsthand from all the different competitors.
So that’s the nature of our business.
Great.
Thanks very much.
You are welcome.
Thank you.
Would you like to take another question at this time? Sure.
One last please.
And our final question comes from Tim Nollen with Macquarie.
You may ask your question.
Hi.
Thanks for the information the rundown of your individual agency performance.
It’s nice to hear what sounds like a pretty full list of your agency roster doing well which has been a change over the years.
Obviously my question is do you feel like you really have your businesses where you want them to be now? And if so what would hold you back from getting up to a peer level margin in a few years’ time which you had spoken about not too long ago? Thanks.
Well our main objective continues to be to expand our margins to peer level.
And as you can see we are very pleased with the performance so far this year in achieving that goal.
And that is our primary focus in terms of ways to enhance shareholder value is to get to those competitive margins.
And yeah the way to do that is to earn it.
And we are pleased with the changes we’ve made at all of our agencies the leadership changes that we have made working well.
Again I am kind of superstitious so I don’t like to talk about it.
But yeah the nature of our business is that there are changes here and there but I am very pleased what our people have done particularly in the changes at McCann you can see it in the results that’s happening over there.
FCB with the new leadership there we are seeing positive trends from there.
And what we have done with Lowe in particular in terms of adding Profero and Campbell Ewald to the Lowe portfolio.
Our goal was to have three global networks and obviously that’s part of the improvements that we are seeing in the results.
And couple that with our strong marketing services and our media business we’ve got everyone contributing to our growth and that’s why we are comfortable when we say that we are going to achieve our competitive margins that we have laid out there.
And the issue for us right now is how fast do we get there? And that is going to be a subject of macroeconomic environment is.
If the macroeconomic environment continues to be solid particularly in the U.S.
then we are comfortable to getting to those objectives under shorter timeframe.
And that’s -- if you look historically as to why we had some setbacks in terms of achieving that that’s the result of as you pointed out some hits we took in our networks but more importantly the macro economic environment.
So right now we got a heads down focusing on what has to be done to deliver that.
Good.
Thanks.
Well thank you all and we appreciate the support and we look forward to our next call.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today’s conference.
We thank you for your participation.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.
Good morning.
And welcome to The Interpublic Group Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All parties are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session of today’s conference.
[Operator Instructions] Today’s conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Mr.
Jerry Leshne Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
We have posted our earnings release and our slide presentation on our website interpublic.com and we’ll refer to both in the course of this call.
This morning we are joined by Michael Roth; and Frank Mergenthaler.
We will begin with prepared remarks to be followed by Q&amp;A.
We plan to conclude before market open at 9:30 Eastern.
During this call we will refer to forward-looking statements about our company.
These are subject to the uncertainties and the cautionary statement that are included in our earnings release and the slide presentation and are further details in our 10-K and other filings with the SEC.
We will also refer to certain non-GAAP measures.
We believe that these measures provide useful supplemental data that while not a substitute for GAAP measures allow for greater transparency in the review of our financial and operational performance.
At this point it is my pleasure to turn things over to Michael Roth.
Thank you Jerry.
And thank you all for joining us this morning as we review our results for the fourth quarter 2014.
As usual I’ll start out by covering the highlights of our performance.
Frank will then provide additional detail and I’ll conclude with an update on our agencies to be followed by our Q&amp;A.
We are very pleased to report strong performance for both fourth quarter and full year.
Among the financial highlights organic revenue growth was 4.8% in the quarter which brought our organic growth to 2.5% for the full year.
Operating margin in the quarter was 19.6% and for the full year increased 120 basis points to 10.5%.
As a result operating profit increased 12% in Q4 and grew 20% for the full year.
Fourth quarter earnings per share was $0.73 and was $0.57 adjusted for net tax benefit in the quarter.
Full year earnings per share were $1.12 and were $0.98 as adjusted for discrete items that Frank will cover in detail.
That represents an increase of 26% from comparable 2013 earnings of $0.78 per share.
It's clear from these early positive results that are people outperformed the financial targets we set for 2014.
Our colleagues can take pride in this accomplishment.
We thank them and all the talent dedicated and for the great work that they do every day on behalf of our clients.
Turning to more color on the fourth quarter revenue growth was 4% which consisted of a 4.8% organic increase and another 1.5% due to acquisitions while currency was a negative 2.3%.
We grew in all our major markets with the exception of Continental Europe.
The U.S.
China India and Brazil were important markets in which we saw notable strong performance.
U.S.
organic growth was 3.4% excluding a decrease in pass-through revenues that is offset with lower expenses U.S.
organic growth was very strong at 5% in the quarter.
Organic growth was 5.4% in the U.K.
and double digits in Asia-PAC LatAm and our other markets group.
Continental Europe decreased 4.1% organically in the quarter.
Our growth reflects contributions from all major disciplines including advertising public relations and media.
We had especially strong performance from the digital services we have embedded across the portfolio.
This strategy of nurturing native digital expertise and capabilities within all our units is something we've been working at for some time and which differentiates us from some of our peers.
In terms of the specific agencies contributing to our Q4 performance a wide range of the portfolio was represented.
That list was led by McCann FCB Lowe and Partners Mediabrands HUGE R/GA Weber Shandwick Golin Octagon and FutureBrand.
The top performing client sectors in Q4 were healthcare food and beverage and retail.
Another highlight of the quarter was that we continue to build in our new -- build on our new business record for the year.
We were pleased to add important assignments from Sprint Grupo Bimbo Sherwin-Williams and Reckitt Benckiser among others.
As a result our net new business was positive in the quarter and for the full year.
Turning to operating expenses and margin underneath total revenue growth of 4% in the quarter total operating expenses increased 2.1% excluding last year's fourth quarter charge for restructuring.
The result was Q4 operating margin expansion of 150 basis points.
Full year operating margin was 10.5% an increase of 120 basis points reflecting leverage on both our base payroll and on O&amp;G expenses.
In Q4 we repurchased 7 million shares using $127 million.
For the full year we utilized $275 million for the repurchase of 15 million shares and our average share count eligible for dilution decreased 4% compared to 2013.
This initiating our return of capital programs in 2011.
We returned a total of $2 billion to shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchase.
Over this period of time we have reduced our outstanding shares by 25%.
We are additionally pleased to announce this morning that the actions of the Board raising our quarterly dividend by 26% to $0.12 per share and authorizing an additional $300 million for share repurchase.
With $144 million remaining on our existing authorization as of the year end this brings us to a total of 444 million authorized share repurchase.
In sum the competitiveness of our agencies and a high quality of our offerings continue to drive strong performance.
The accomplishments of our agencies and our talent are also being increasingly recognized and awarded by our industry.
As we enter 2015 you can see in our report today that the overall tone of business remains solid in most markets around the world including the U.S.
the U.K.
and several of the larger high-growth markets.
The dynamic shifts we are witnessing in the media landscape also represent an opportunity for us and our industry.
Given these factors and the strength of our offerings we believe we’ll continue to see solid organic growth.
There are two key factors that temper our outlook compared to last year and therefore need to be called out.
First is a volatile currency environment and its possible negative effect on client spending plans.
Second we have to consider those markets with continued macro headwinds notably Europe.
In light of this environment for 2015 we’re targeting 3% to 4% organic growth.
Our acquisitions to date should add another 50 basis points to our growth and the currency impact to our topline as well as to our operating expenses at current FX rates is expected to be approximately negative 4% for the year.
In line with this growth target and in order to build on the strong progress we made during 2014 in improving profitability our 2015 target is 80 to 100 basis points of operating margin expansion.
As in the past as the year unfolds and we get more clarity around the macro issues that are creating uncertainty we will review our perspective and report back to you during our regular calls.
We will of course continue to focus on the execution of our strategy which is built on world-class creativity and digital expertise strength in emerging markets and our increased focus on and success in delivering customized integrated solutions combined as always with discipline and costs.
At this stage I'll turn the things over to Frank for additional detail on our results.
Good morning.
As a reminder I’ll be referring to the slide presentation that accompanies our webcast.
On slide two you'll see our results.
Fourth quarter organic growth was 4.8% U.S.
organic growth was 3.4% and International growth was 6.4% with growth in all regions except Continental Europe.
Q4 operating profit was $433 million compared with $385 million a year ago before last year’s structuring charge.
Operating profit increased 20% for the full year.
Full year operating margin was 10.5% an improvement of 120 basis points from a year ago.
For the quarter diluted earnings per share was $0.73 and $0.50 per share excluding certain discrete tax items.
For the full year diluted EPS was a $1.12 per share and $0.98 per share excluding both the positive $0.16 per share impact of the Q4 tax items and the negative $0.02 per share impact of our charge in the second quarter for the early redemption of our 6.25% notes.
This is an increase of 26% from 2013 earnings per share of $0.78.
We used 275 million of share repurchase during the year.
Our board this morning once again significantly increased our common share dividend to $0.12 per share quarterly and added $300 million to our share repurchase authorization.
Turning to slide three you'll see our P&amp;L for the quarter.
I'll cover revenue and operating expenses in detail on the slides that follow as well as a couple of slides to clarify non-operating adjustments.
Turning to revenue on slide four.
Fourth quarter revenue was $2.21 billion an increase of 4% compared to Q4 ‘13.
The impact of the change in exchange rates was a negative 230 basis points and that acquisitions added 150 basis points.
Resulting organic revenue increase was 4.8%.
With the U.S.
dollar continue to strengthen against most currencies it's worth pointing out that revenues and expenses of our businesses are variable matched in functional terms.
For the full year revenue growth of 5.8% consisted of 5.5% organic growth and 130 basis points from net acquisitions while currency was a negative 1%.
It's worth noting that our pass-through revenue decreased approximately $30 million compared to 2013 which is offset by $30 million decrease in our O&amp;G expense.
As you can see on the bottom half of the slide growth in the fourth quarter was mainly at our Integrated Agency Networks segment which had 5.7% organic growth.
The decrease in pass-through revenue weighed on reported growth at CMG which grew 3.2% organically excluding net effect led by public relations and high single-digit growth in sports marketing.
On the right hand side of the slide you’ll see that both segments had very good growth rates for the full year with 5.5% organic growth at IAN and 5.8% organic growth at CMG.
Moving on to slide five revenue by region.
In the U.S.
Q4 organic growth was 3.4% on top of 6.9% a year ago.
Organic growth was approximately 5% excluding the impact of lower pass-through revenues which again are offset with lower expenses.
We had strong domestic fourth-quarter performance in our three global integrated networks McCann FCB and Lowe as well as at HUGE and Mediabrands.
Healthcare continue to be a leading client growth sector followed by food and beverage.
For the full year U.S.
organic growth was 4.7% and 5.8% excluding the impact of pass-throughs with increases across all major disciplines in nearly all agencies.
Leading client sectors were once again healthcare and food and beverage as well as auto and transportation and financial services.
Turning to the international markets U.K.
grew 5.4% organically in Q4 and 10.6% for the full year.
We had contributions from all of our agencies.
Total revenue growth in U.K.
was 21% which includes organic plus 5% from our acquisitions such as FCB Inferno and Profero and another 5% attributable to the strength of the pound during the year.
In Continental Europe the environment continue to be challenging.
Our organic decrease in the quarter was 4.1% and included decreases in Germany France and Italy.
For the full year revenue decreased 1.3% on an organic basis slightly lower than the assumptions we factored into our planning as we enter 2014.
Including our acquisitions revenue in the region increased 1.2% of excluding currency.
In Asia-Pac our largest international region organic revenue growth was 12.8% in Q4.
That was driven by double-digit increase in Australia India and Singapore as well as strong results from China.
Mediabrands’ public relations McCann and R/GA led our growth and these same agencies led our 8% organic growth in the region for the full year.
For the year we had double-digit growth in Australia China Singapore and Korea with more modest increase in India.
In LatAm we increased 11% organically in the quarter with double-digit growth in Brazil and Argentina.
We had growth across all of our agencies including our marketing services offerings our digital specialists McCann FCB and our media business.
Full year growth was strong at 10.8% on top of 10% a year ago.
In our other markets group which is made up of Canada the Middle East and Africa organic growth was 11.7% in the quarter driven by organic increase in the Middle East and South Africa.
On slide six we chart the longer view of our organic revenue change on a trailing 12-month basis.
The most recent data point is 5.5% corresponding to calendar year 2014.
Moving onto slide seven our operating expenses in the fourth quarter total operating expenses increased 2.1% compared to 4% revenue growth.
For the full year operating expenses increased 4.4% compared to total revenue growth of 5.8%.
Our ratio of salaries and related expenses to revenue for the full year was 64% compared to 63.8% in the prior year.
It's important to point out that the decrease in pass-through revenue which is offset dollar-for-dollar and loan O&amp;G expense results in some deleveraging in SRS and some leveraging of our O&amp;G while resulted in no impact to the operating profit.
For the full year our ratio of base payroll benefits and tax expense to revenue was 52.6% compared with 52.9% in the year go which has improved 30 basis points and improved 50 basis points excluding the change in pass-through revenue.
Expense for temporary labor was 3.8% of revenue for the full year in 2014 compared to 3.6% a year ago.
Severance expense was 0.9% of revenue in 2014 compared with 1.1% in the prior year.
Incentive expense was 3.5% of revenue for the full year 2014 reflecting higher performance-based accruals compared to a year ago due to this year’s strong performance.
Our other salaries and related category was 3.2% of revenue which is the same level as the prior year.
At year-end our total headcount was approximately 47 400 an increase of 4.4% which is made up of 2% from acquisitions and 2.4% from organic hiring.
The increases were in higher growth areas of the portfolio which last year included McCann public relations and digital as well as growth regions of the world and in support of a number of major new business wins.
Turning to office and general expenses on the lower half of the slide O&amp;G expense was 23% of Q4 revenue compared with 25.3% in Q4 ‘13.
For the full year compared to our revenue growth of 5.8% total O&amp;G expense increased only 50 basis points.
We had leverage across all of our O&amp;G categories.
For the full year we have 40 basis points of leverage on occupancy expense 20 basis points on telecom office supplies and travel and 20 basis points on professional fees.
In addition we had 50 basis points of leverage in our category of all other O&amp;G expense as pass-through expenses decreased from a year ago along with the related revenues.
These expenses are mainly in our events and direct marketing disciplines.
On slide eight we show our operating margin history on a trailing 12-month basis.
As the chart reflects with the most recent data point at 10.5% we have come a long way.
While pleased to achieve double-digit operating margin we know there is still much work to be done.
We therefore remain highly focused on attaining our goal of competitive 13% operating margins.
Slide nine for clarity on our year end comparison we have provided more detail on the level line adjustments in the quarter.
This is the impact of our net tax benefit this year along with the impact of the charge we took in Q4 ‘13.
This year we had a net reversal valuation allowances for deferred tax assets in Europe.
The net amount was $68 million which is a positive to reported earnings in the quarter and the year.
There were two primary drivers both of which were non-cash items.
We reversed a previously established valuation allowance of $125 million due to our business tax planning actions.
That benefit was partially offset by the establishment of the $57 million tax valuation allowance in other European market due to our operating history.
The EPS benefit was $0.16 per share in the fourth quarter.
Excluding these discrete items in the fourth quarter as you can see on the slide our effective Q4 tax rate was 37.1% compared to 30.1% in Q4 ‘13.
Slide 10 addresses the full year comparison.
This picks up the impact of our second quarter charge for debt redemption as well as Q4 items.
As you can see adjust for those items our effective tax rate for the year was 39.4% which is in line with our indications earlier this year.
In 2013 the full year includes the charge for debt redemption.
Our comparable 2013 adjusted tax rate was 36.2%.
In sum the adjusted EPS comparison was $0.98 per share this year and $0.78 per share in 2013.
And while there was clearly volatility around our effective tax rate it's worth noting that our cash tax rate was again significantly lower.
These adjustments also makes clear the impact of our share repurchase with average diluted shares outstanding decreasing 4% from a year ago to $425 million.
Turning to the current portion of our balance sheet on slide 11 we ended the year with $1.67 billion of cash and short-term workable securities which compared with $1.64 billion a year ago.
We’ve returned more than $430 million to shareholders during the year through share repurchases and common stock dividends.
On slide 12 we turn to cash flow.
Cash from operations in Q4 was $1.05 billion compared with $1.02 billion a year go.
The comparison includes the seasonally strong contribution working capital.
Our business tends to generate significant cash working capital in the fourth quarter and uses cash from working capital in the first quarter.
For the full year cash from operations was $670 million compared with $593 million in 2013.
Investing activities in Q4 used $59 million mainly for capital expenditures.
For the full year CapEx was $149 million while net cash used in acquisitions was $68 million.
Our M&amp;A pipeline continues to be strong.
While timing can shift between periods we continue to target $150 million to $200 million annually.
Financing activities used $169 million in Q4 mainly $127 million for the purchase of our common stock and $39 million in common stock dividends.
For the full year our financing activities used $344 million.
That reflects $275 million to repurchase common stock and $159 million for dividends and our common shares as well as lower bank borrowings.
Additionally we issued new debt that was partially offset by debt redemption.
In 2014 our net increase in cash and marketable securities for the full year was $25 million.
On slide 13 we show our debt decreasing from $2.35 billion in 2007 to $1.73 billion at the end of 2014.
In the second quarter of 2014 we issued $500 million of new 10-year notes at 4.2% and redeemed our 6.25% $350 million notes.
Slide 14 shows the total of our average basic plus diluted shares over the last few years.
And in far right shows the total as of year-end 2014.
This has been an area of strong progress for us with our average total shares decreasing approximately 25% between 2010 and 2014.
Our starting position for 2014 is $480 million on the right.
In summary on slide 15 we are pleased with our performance in the quarter and the year.
Our team has executed very well with respect to supporting strong revenue growth while maintaining expense discipline and our balance sheet continues to be a source of value creation as evident in the key actions taken by our Board today.
That leaves us well-positioned entering 2015.
With that I will turn it back to Michael.
Thank you Frank.
Well as you can see from our results 2014 was a very successful year in which we saw significant accomplishments in terms of performance in the marketplace and our financial results.
We further strengthened our capital structure and built on our capital return programs while continuing to enhance the competitiveness of our offerings with particular emphasis on digital and creative talent and capabilities.
Importantly we also expanded operating margin by 120 basis points.
Highlights of our performance included solid progress at both McCann and FCB further market share growth at our best-in-class PR and sports marketing agencies within CMG and strong financial performance from our media operations.
We also continue to see dynamic growth from our digital specialist agencies and within the embedded digital capabilities across the portfolio.
We posted strong performance in emerging international markets particularly in Asia and Latin America on top of outstanding growth in recent years.
The competitiveness of our agencies was reflected in a very strong new business performance for the year.
I believe it's fair to say that the quality of our offerings is at its highest level in at least a decade.
During 2014 this was evident in the recognition we've received across the portfolio in the form of awards from industry press as well as our performance in the most important creative and effectiveness competitions in every marketing discipline.
We once again excelled in Cane where McCann kept up its strong momentum.
FCB posted its best ever performance and Lowe also showed well.
We also performed strongly at FP award shows around the world.
More recently IPG agencies enjoyed the strongest showing of any holding company in the prestigious A-List by Advertising Age.
R/GA was a number one ranked agency in 2014 and it became the first digital agency to ever top the A-List.
Deutsch and Weber Shandwick were also named among the industry's top four agencies in terms of innovation quality of work and success with clients and new business.
Huge and Mullen were sighted on the list of agencies standouts just outside the Top 10 as was Lowe India among international shops and Harris Diamond the CEO of McCann was named Advertising Executive of the Year.
Across the range of our agencies we’re seeing good progress in terms of talent and the quality of work product.
2014 was a strong year for McCann which saw a range of client wins including additional fourth quarter assignments from Reckitt Benckiser State Street Global Advisors and an integrated win on OppenheimerFunds led by MRM.
This came on the heels of integrated McCann wins on Choice Hotels also with MRM and Office Depot working closely with UM.
FCB continues to improve performance attract new talent and grow and standing with clients such as Nestlé which awarded them new assignments from their waters and health and wellness divisions as well as Bacardi in China.
The recent Michelob Ultra win was evidence of increased vitality on their success.
At Lowe we are pleased with the integration of Profero and with fourth quarter wins of Rémy Martin and the CFA Institute to build on the additions of Lenovo and Fiat early in 2014.
We continue to look for ways to bolster the agencies presence in the U.S.
which is fundamental to sourcing large multi-national for the global network.
The agencies capability as a creative powerhouse with expertise in emerging markets remained evident in a very strong relationship that continues to enjoy with new lever.
Progress continued at CMG led by the outstanding team at Weber Shandwick.
The evolution of that agency into a digital and strategic leader across all disciplined has been remarkable.
Golin is filing a suite and the performance of Octagon reflects the shifts they are making to transform the passion points of sports and entertainment into powerful drivers of consumer engagement.
The integration of Genuine a leading digital shop acquired at midyear to Jack Morton is going well and we should see the benefits of that agency’s capabilities going forward.
Mediabrands posted strong financial results in the quarter and continue to deliver on full range leading-edge traditional and digital capabilities such as Cadreon and Reprise and Ansible as well as strong specialist assets such as ORION Holdings ID Media and Out-of-Home Rapport.
Fourth quarter wins included true value at UM and bodes at Initiative.
At a time of such dynamic change in terms of technology and media channels the focus on the growth of programmatic platforms is understandable.
Yet we should not lose side effect that what we ultimately provide to marketers is a consultant service and insights.
So the key will continue to be our impartiality and our ability to apply consumer data to our clients' real-time business challenges so as to maximize the impact of their investments.
I covered off the success we are seeing in R/GA and MRM.
Huge also had a very strong year and has established itself as one of the country's most innovative digital agencies.
A full range of digital capabilities is also what sets apart Mullen and Deutsche particularly in their LA office.
With The Martin Agency and Hill Holliday this gives us a strong portfolio of integrated agencies that are thriving and can win business on their own as well as take part in our customized and multi-agency client solutions.
This focus on delivering open architecture solutions that integrate the best of our talent across the organization by means of customized client teams was once again contributed to our results.
We won the largest consolidation in the industry during 2014 when we prevailed in a hotly contested Microsoft review.
We also want a consolidation with one of Latin America's most important companies when we invested a number of our key competitors in the Grupo Bimbo pitch in Mexico.
We saw many additional multi-agency opportunities coming to the group domestically and internationally and we continue to improve our delivery of custom integrated solutions on a number of existing multinational clients.
Overall our performance in 2014 is a result of a series of long-term strategic decisions which we back with significant investments over time.
Talent acquisition and development particularly in creative and strategic roles as well as building digital expertise in all our agencies have been key drivers in the strong organic revenue performance we’re seeing across the group.
We've also continued to invest behind our strength in the U.S.
and the major emerging markets where we have strong and growing presence.
During 2014 we saw further progress across a range of areas related to financial management of our company.
First and foremost significant improvements in profitability put us on track to achieving our goal of 13% operating margin.
Our return of capital programs continue to positively impact results and we crossed the $2 billion threshold in terms of total return to shareholders since 2011.
We remain fully committed to further improving margins and building on our robust capital return programs.
The latter is evident by our Board's actions today which further increase our dividend by 26% and provided for a current authorization in access of $440 million to share repurchase.
We're well-positioned as we go into 2015.
The value proposition of our portfolio of offerings is highly relevant in today's dynamic and complex consumer media landscape.
Despite a range of geopolitical and macroeconomic conditions around the world the general tone in the business remains solid.
We are therefore targeting the 3% to 4% organic growth for the year and improvement in operating margin between 80 and 100 basis points.
Coupled with strong capital returns we are confident that achieving these targets will allow us to build on a strong track record of enhancing shareholder value.
We thank you for your time and continued support and we look forward to updating you on our progress on the next call.
At this point I’ll open it up to questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we do have our first question in queue from Alexia Quadrani from JPMC.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Just couple of questions I guess first with such impressive performance in 2014 would sounds like great contribution from just about all your major agencies.
I guess beyond more of the same what’s the incremental lever that will help you drive your margin targets for ’15? I guess what assumptions perhaps for Continental Europe is sort of underlie that target you gave? Well our assumption for Continental Europe continues to be -- we’re not expecting a big recovery in Continental Europe.
The fact that we were down in 2014 was a little bit below our plan.
With the uncertainty out there it’s not wise for us to count on the big recovery there.
So what we are refreshing our talent.
We’ve had made some changes in personnel in Continental Europe.
We did some acquisitions certainly with Inferno and Profero and a couple of smaller acquisitions and we continue to look to bolster our competitiveness there.
But we’re basically keeping eye in there without making any big bets in terms of a strong recovery in terms of our forecast for the rest of the year.
Our leverage in terms of approving our margin continues to be focusing on our people our creative products our competitive offerings and obviously converting that revenue into 30% target that we already said.
It was nice to see in 2014 we converted it the 30% ratio.
So when you look at our assumptions in terms of 3% or 4% that’s how we come to the 80 to 100 basis point margin improvement for 2015.
We’re coming into the year 2015 with some tailwinds because we were net new business positive in 2014 and of course Alexia I know you going to ask how we are doing so far.
And for 2015 we continue to be net new business positive.
In terms of those tailwinds I think you'll see the effect of those more in the first half of the year and in the second half of the year we'll see some cycling down absent to any new businesses wins in the meantime.
And so I think it's more focusing on our cost.
We’ve instituted the number of additional programs to make sure that our SRS ratios don't get out of line.
I mean clearly that's where we see the biggest leverage.
We did see an improvement in base benefit as Frank outlined in his discussion.
We did have -- so we had a good performance so therefore incentives were up a bit and that accounted for some of the higher number on SRS ratio.
But we continue to be very careful in terms of how we add headcount and we're gaining efficiencies.
We are -- for example McCann we have craft and we’re using production facilities with greater efficiency on a worldwide basis.
These went to greater margins for us in bringing those dollars.
We keep them in-house as oppose to going out and we see a lot of that happening in our other agencies as well.
And Michael just a follow-up if I can.
You have a lot of insight having gone through the budgeting process or at least large part of it for 2015 recently.
I guess any further color you can provide us in terms of what the client are saying in terms of spending outlook in terms of maybe allocation of spending for ’15 anything incrementally different than ’14 and maybe just an overall budget? Our budgets from a bottoms up perspective.
So we look at existing AOR contracts.
As the year progresses and as our clients begin to feel more comfortable that’s when we start seeing some incremental spend which frankly helps us in terms of higher-margin business.
The tone is solid.
Is their concern? Of course there is.
We’re in a global business right now and there are affects of currency which affects -- potentially affects our business.
That's why we tempered some of our assumptions going into 2015.
It's not the translation affect on our P&amp;L that be tempered because we’re match from a revenue and expense point of view.
It’s the tone of the affect of these currencies on our clients and they’re spending and how that potentially converts to our business.
But the tone of the business is solid.
Our clients are working with us in terms of our plans for the year.
They're spending money.
Some of the money is coming.
I know one of the questions is always that how much of it is in TV versus digital.
We’re seeing a tremendous focus on allocating media dollars and where it should go and our offerings in media brands are toned into doing exactly that in the use of Cadreon and the use of our tools and planning techniques real-time.
We continue to invest in those because clients want to know whether it should be digital whether it should be TV how it should be allocated and can they change it quickly.
So we're working very closely with our clients and of course programmatic and automation are part of that.
So I think the questions whether it's digital versus TV I think we’ve seen certainly an impact on TV if you just look at the result of the media owners in 2014 and the challenges they face in 2015.
And our job continues to be to help our clients navigate through that.
So we have the tools.
We have the talent.
Our clients are talking to us.
They're not pulling back per se.
The issue is how much more they going to spend and the pressure is on us to be efficient and for us to be responsive in terms of moving the needle and that’s what we’re here to do.
So we feel good about our forecast and I think it's a realistic assumption for us to use going into 2015.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from John Janedis from Jefferies.
Your line is now open.
Hi John.
Hi.
Thank you.
And maybe Michael a bit of a follow-up to your comments earlier that you talked over the years about the O&amp;G and the SRS line and I know there are a lot of puts and takes here.
But is this the year where more of the margin leverage comes from the SRS line or should we start thinking about the expense buckets in the aggregate rather than the 60% SRS target that you have out there? Well one of the reasons we called out the effect on O&amp;G is because of CSAPR financial organizations in all our units our focusing on our debt or SRS ratios.
Now the good news is as we develop new business we ramp up and that causes us to throw those ratios a little bit out of track.
And frankly that's not a bad thing to happen okay.
If we’re investing with new business it’s not atypical for us.
When we win a new business to have to ramp up and add 50 to 100 people in terms of staffing and that staffing usually comes ahead of revenue.
So there is timing issues in there.
But the fundamental basic benefits if you will and tax we saw 50 basis points improvement in 2014 and for ‘15 we will have to continue to be very careful with that.
And yes the answer is ultimately we have to get those SRS’ numbers down and that’s where our focus is going to be John.
Okay.
Thanks Michael.
Maybe just a follow-up on Europe to Alexia’s question to what extent is there an opportunity to further reduce cost or consolidate agencies if the business doesn’t pick up? We are always looking at that.
We always look at double doors.
I think what they say is the low-hanging fruit in terms of our expenses we took that big charge and I’m pleased to report as Frank indicated.
We realized the benefits that we said we are going to have as a result of the restructuring charge that we took.
And we monitor that all the time.
In terms of consolidations yeah there are all possibilities for that.
We are looking for efficiencies but we have three global networks that are very competitive and on top of that our marketing disciplines in our media businesses and so on.
And we are well positioned.
So there is a recovery in Europe.
I think we will participate.
Some of our pull back in Europe again was client specific.
11% of our business is in Continental Europe that’s good and bad depending on how you look at it.
And so as a result if one or two clients pull back it has a bigger impact on our results and we saw that in 2014 which frankly one of the reasons we missed a little bit in terms of our planning process.
But we are well positioned we continue to invest in Continental Europe in terms of talent and that’s where we have to and we are looking for a good organic growth as the recovery comes back.
But we’re monitoring it and we will be looking at efficiencies whether it’d be combining agency -- not agencies but combining couple of goal situations we are also looking at that.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you John.
And our next question comes from David Bank of RBC Capital.
Your line is now open.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Michael in your kind of closing comments you made some reference to the importance that you felt kind of independence in the programmatic world that you're pursuing programmatic.
But on an agency basis as opposed to a principal how has that resonated with clients? Have you sort of gotten feedback with respect to the way you guys are handling that business as opposed to your peers.
And how do you think about the way it impacts you on a relative basis now from a markets perspective in terms of ad -- in terms of organic growth and end margin right? How does it fit into where you kind of view yourselves in the landscape there? Thanks very much.
Thanks David.
Obviously we could spend hours on this.
And that’s we have.
Look we continue to believe that our model of agnostic advice in terms of where client should be putting their money it’s the proper model okay.
I think there is no question that some of our competitors as you move to with take inventory position on your digital assets.
And they are using right hand and left hand and I think as these rolls out our clients are going to see the profits that are being made from inventory owned and we feel that that’s inconsistent with our model of being independent in terms of how we allocate media dollars on behalf of our clients.
Now we think the clients tell us that they prefer model obviously yes.
If you look at our performance we had a great performance in the Mediabrands and that whole model isn’t lost on our clients.
I mean the reason there are clients among other things is exactly that.
That they view us as being their partner in terms of advising where they put their money I’ve said this before and I continue to say if as this rolls out if in the marketplace it is not viewed as we view it then obviously we are going to re-look at how we do this.
We do it on the part of Orion and the barter business where it’s disclosed upfront and we’re seeing very nice margins on it.
But right now our model is consistent and yes I think larger multi-national clients one of the reasons they bring some of this programmatic in-house is because they don't trust our business not ours per se.
I’m saying speaking generically in terms of the transparency that goes into this pricing in this black box that they’re dealing with.
And I think the fact that there is inventory owned being sold doesn’t help.
I know they can disclose it and I know they argue that they are buying more efficiently and so on.
But in terms of pricing we don’t see that we’re being -- we don’t do it and we are very competitive on the pricing side of the business.
So we believe our role is to be agnostic and we do think our clients choose us.
And that's why we stick to this model.
And frankly when I was the client I would look at it the same way.
I find it difficult to saying that the role that they calm they put up and the large margins that some of them claim they are getting on that isn’t at the cost of advice that I'm getting on the buying side.
So that’s my personal view on it.
But we continue to look at it.
It’s a reasonable question.
By the way you are seeing the big ramp -- I might as well do this.
You’re seeing a big ramp up in terms of the organic growth and potentially some margin on this.
As you cycle through that that advantage isn’t going to be there on reported numbers right.
And I do think the margin on that business is going to shrink because clients are just going to want greater transparency on it and that’s where the margin impact will come down so.
On sort of average do you think it’s a higher margin business when the core kind of media buying business or is it like on average right is it a higher margin business or not? I don’t think so.
I think some players -- again it’s on a buyer by basis right.
But I think frankly if you look at one of our competitors who just recently announced I think they were alluding to not as big margins on it as everyone thinks whereas one of our other competitors clearly they're making a lot of money on this which sort of builds to the issues with the transparency.
So I would say on average it is certainly margin accretive.
But I think over time it becomes less.
Thanks very much guys.
Thank you David.
Nice end to the year Thank you.
Thanks.
All right.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Brian Wieser from Pivotal Research.
Sir your line is now open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Can you talk about the current state of client pricing pressures and more specifically the degree to which you marketers are trying to get like-for-like services through lower prices and then you make it up by selling additional services? Or alternately do you feel like there are situations where you have pricing power than free services.
It’s always.
Yes the clients want more for less.
Think that as a given.
All right.
That’s done.
In 2014 it was true.
It is going to be to be true in 2015.
Yes as we pick up clients and as we add more services typically the additional services carry with it a greater margin that’s the nature of our business.
Which is why as you know Brian when we pick up new clients margins are new clients in the early years aren't quite where they are as they mature as we go forward and that’s the business model.
We bring in another service and we add value.
But none of the services that we bring to the table are clients willing to pay extraordinary margins adds.
So the burden is on us to show values add.
So when we bring in the extra services it's all with a view towards moving the needle and how we enhance their margin and frankly at the same time it helps us.
I think that pressure is there.
It will continue to be there.
It will be on the media side just evidenced by as you know in your write-ups that the big client reviews typically are occurring on the media side of the business because they continue to believe this pricing advantage is by putting that stuff up for bids and review.
And it’s incumbent upon us to be able to buy appropriately give advice couple it with proper planning and be efficient in how we operate our own businesses and so that’s never going way.
Thanks for that.
And just maybe relatively I was wondering if you could just talk a little bit about -- little more about trends impacting working capital.
It was negative for you guys since you are not over the course of the whole year not pronounced or anything.
But it was interesting that two of your other peers had negative working capital for the first time in five years.
So I was just wondering you may have a broader sense of what’s been going on because it has been the positive contributor for you guys for last several years that it has been for some of the others.
Do you get a sense that payment turns are getting tighter or is there something else in an industry level that’s been happening just any thoughts on that? I’ll let Frank add to it.
It seems part of it has to do with the mix between media and traditional advertising and that affects our working capital.
But I’ll let frank talk about it.
Yeah.
The term question -- probably two years ago there was more pressure than there is now.
I think that kind of settled in because the industry kind of held the line.
We are not a bank.
And the key driver of working capital is around media primarily and where media billings are flowing.
So you can have flat revenue but if you are seeing shifts out of certain markets where there is a working capital advantage that could adversely impact your working capital.
There is nothing structural in our model that’s changing.
And it’s difficult that in the fourth quarter we see positive than we see the first quarter as you know it flows out.
So I think we had a good year I think it was a typical year for us in how it came in and went out.
And as Frank said it has to do with the mix between media and traditional.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Brian.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Craig Huber from Huber Research Partners.
Your line is now open.
Good morning Craig.
Yeah.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
A housekeeping question first maybe I missed this.
The currency -- what are you budgeting the currency impact of total revenues for the first quarter and for the full year that’s my first question? For the full year Brian it’s 4% and we are not going to close the first quarter.
4% across the portfolio.
Okay.
Yeah.
And that’s using existing rates.
Obviously as that changes we’ll have to adjust.
Okay.
And then my second question and I haven’t asked you this question quite a while.
You will be well aware of this.
In the first quarter every year for the last 10-plus years dating back before you guys were even at the company.
You guys always lose money on the operating profit line and obviously on the EPS line which obviously has a major drag in the full year operating profit margins for the company.
And I'm just wondering it seems like it’s a really good opportunity for you guys to get this improved this in the first quarter in particular.
I’m just wondering is there much more you can do here on the cost front to make it more variable in the first quarter to enhance that margin dramatically and/or shift revenues in there -- or shift more revenues in there? It’s not a cost issue [Brian] [ph].
It’s more of a seasonality of our revenue.
Our folks are working on clients in the first quarter.
Client contracts are being negotiated and resolved.
We’ve got just a natural deferral of certain revenues in the first quarter that’s our revenue recognition policy that we are not going to change.
Yeah.
And by the way our staffing needs are not done.
Our agencies when they come in with their budgets and their plans they have a staffing requirement for the year.
We tried to calendarize it obviously but as Frank says we can’t control the revenue side of it in terms of win clients because we are -- and it’s crazy for us to do abnormal things to be in line for audit which is why we gave -- we talked in terms of full year.
The quarter -- the quarterly variances in our business are very hard to predict.
I can tell you this much.
I don’t know what quarter it’ll be but there’ll be surprises quarter from quarter because that’s the nature of that business which is why we talk on a full year basis.
And it’s 5000 clients in a 100 countries Craig so that to normalize that is very very difficult.
Yeah.
I’m just asking the question because you always obviously talk of your goal of getting the 30% operating margin with Omnicom’s level of margins and they generally run a 150 to 200 basis points lower in the first quarter than the full year operating margin.
Obviously your bet is much larger.
So are you saying how you account for the revenue is significant different that’s why you end up having this loss in the first quarter? I am just trying to… There is nothing structurally different in our business than Omnicom’s right.
So we are very comfortable that the 13% target is a reasonable target.
And just let me restate I think looking at our business on a quarter-to-quarter basis is a slippery slope both on the positive side and the negative side.
And I think 2014 was a good example for us.
Frankly historically it’s always been that way.
And the question for us going into 2015 is what is the tone of our business? And as we say it’s solid.
What’s our focus? Our focus is on our competitive product which is talent creativity digital media all the stuff and focusing on the cost side of the business.
And we have our disciplines up and running and we look at it on a full year basis.
So you are obviously trying to get your profits in the first quarter the significant profit territory interest the margin line overtime? Yeah but obviously it’s a good start of the year on a strong quarter.
But again we’re looking at it on full year basis.
Right.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Thank you Craig.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Barry Lucas of Gabelli &amp; Company.
Your line is now open.
Hi Barry Thanks.
Good morning.
Two quickies.
Michael you alluded to some possible client concerns maybe holding back a little spend because of currency fluctuations.
You have another positive dynamics on fuel prices which certainly should help consumers in many places.
So is that a bigger tailwind potential and have you heard anything come out of clients with regard to that more favorable trend? Yeah.
It’s all anecdotal.
I mean intuitively it’s a same as you would look at it.
As gasoline prices fall the consumer has more money in the pocket discretionary spending in terms of consumer goods products and things like that.
Have I seen a big change in their forecast as a result of that? No.
But as everyone kind of used that as a bit of a buffer in terms of expectations on the economy I would say the answer is yes.
And Barry the concern we raised is of uncertainties.
It’s not that I can specifically point to a client and say because of currency we are cutting our spend by10%.
This is the beginning of the year.
This business is just like I was talking before with Craig.
This business is it's a journey over the year.
And all we can do is take our best shot right now in terms of bottoms-up and what we overlay in terms of potential wins and god forbid losses.
But I think the tone is solid and that’s the takeaway I think from this call.
And some clients are little more concerned than others and that has to do with their geographic locations.
So it’s a legitimate question I think.
All of our competitors have raised it.
And it’s more of a sense of making sure we are cautious before we put numbers out there because we always want to make sure we at least meet or exceed the numbers we put out there.
Thanks.
One more quickly on a different topic but you’ve changed the makeup of the Board a little bit of constitution of the Board and added a new finance committee.
What do you expect to happen and how do you interact with the new board members and maybe provide a little color on that? Well yeah we -- as a governance matter we’ve always looked at the Board.
We have the tenure of our boards.
And frankly we had a process going on all along in terms of replacement of some of our Board members and what you see is a reflection of that.
I think we've added -- I know we've added three very capable independent Board members.
The finance committee a lot of what the finance committee is doing is what the audit committee was doing.
We always look at strategic plans capital allocation and costs and how we target and so on.
So the finance committee is a typical committee factoring in on the number of the Boards that I sit on have separate finance committee.
So since our focus is on making sure we achieve our margins.
The emphasis are focusing on that for the finance committee is going to be welcome and knowing our Board because we usually view these things as a full Board.
I will suspect the attendance that our finance committee will probably be made of entire Board.
So I think well does it show our continued emphasis on getting to those margins that we put out there.
Great.
Thanks very much for the commentary Michael.
Okay.
Thank you Barry.
And thank you.
That was our last question.
I would like to turn it back to our host for closing remarks.
Well I thank you all obviously we are very pleased with 2014 but now we are off to 2015.
So I look forward to our next call.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
This now conclude today's conference.
All parties may disconnect at this time.
Speakers may hold for post conference.
Good morning.
And welcome to Interpublic Group First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All parties are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Mr.
Jerry Leshne Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you good morning and thank you for joining us.
We have posted our earnings release and our slide presentation on our website interpublic.com.
This morning we are joined by Michael Roth; and Frank Mergenthaler.
We will begin with prepared remarks to be followed by Q&amp;A.
We plan to conclude before market open at 9:30 eastern.
During this call we will refer to forward-looking statements about our company.
These are subject to the uncertainties and the cautionary statement that are included in our earnings release and the slide presentation and further detailed in our 10-K and other filings with the SEC.
We will also refer to certain non-GAAP measures.
We believe that these measures provide useful supplemental data that while not a substitute for GAAP measures allow for greater transparency in the review of our financial and operational performance.
At this point it is my pleasure to turn things over to Michael Roth.
Thank you Jerry and good morning we'd like to thank you for joining us as we review our results for the quarter.
I'll start out by covering highlights of our performance Frank will then provide details and I'll conclude with an update on our agencies to be followed by the Q&amp;A.
We're pleased to report another quarter of strong performance organic revenue grew 5.7% in Q1 on top of 6.6% a year ago.
Our growth was driven by increases in all major disciplines in most geographic regions.
It's worth noting that in the quarter acquisitions added 1.1% to growth and currency translation was a 4.4% drag on revenue.
Given the further strengthening of the dollar during Q1 currency translation would be a full year headwind of 5.1% at recent exchange rates.
It's also important to note that because our revenue and expenses are evenly matched at current exchange rates we expect currency would be neutral to our percentage operating margin for the year.
Operating profit was $8 million compared to a loss of $12 million a year ago as you all know our first quarter is seasonally small in terms of revenue while costs are distributed fairly evenly throughout the year.
Our first positive Q1 result in terms of profit in over a decade is therefore yet another milestone that points to the continued progress at Interpublic.
During the quarter we achieved leverage on both our principal expense categories driving breakeven earnings per share compared to a loss of $0.05 per share in the same period a year ago.
Turning to more color on revenue our growth reflects both increases with existing clients as well as new business wins.
We were led by increases in the healthcare food and beverage tech and telecom and retail sectors.
In the U.S.
organic growth was 6.1% with outstanding performance across a broad range of agencies and disciplines.
International organic growth was also strong at 5.1% with nearly all major regions contributing.
We had increases in Asia-PAC the UK and the Middle East as well as a welcome return to growth in continental Europe.
LatAm decreased less than 1% on an organic basis.
Turning to expenses and margin total operating expenses increased 1.2% compared with our reported revenue growth of 2.4% as a result Q1 operating margin improved by a 120 basis points.
Cost discipline and margin enhancement remain a top priority and we were able to execute against that objective again during the quarter.
Our capital structure also continued to be a source of value creation.
Earlier this month S&amp;P raised our credit rating to investment grade this is the culmination of an extended process and reflects significant positive developments at IPG in recent years.
We are now rated investment grade by all three major credit rating agencies according to us an important recognition of financial strength and fulfilling a long standing management objective.
As previously announced in February our board approved a 26% increase to our quarterly dividend and authorized an additional 300 million share repurchase program.
During Q1 we repurchased 2.5 million shares using $51 million since the inception of the repurchase programs in February 2011 we've repurchased a 124 million shares at an average cost of $12.63 per share.
We are encouraged that our performance in the quarter continues to reflect the competitiveness of our agencies the quality of our offerings of course the full spectrum of digital services within our advertising marketing services as well as media agencies was once again a key contributor to our strong results.
Our strategic focus remains on delivering outstanding creativity top tier digital capabilities embedded across the portfolio and on crafting integrated solutions for our clients.
This combination will ensure that we continue to be called upon by clients for higher value services thereby allowing us to grow and win in today's world of dynamic technology enabled consumer marketing.
Given the strength of our offerings and our first quarter performance we believe that we remain well positioned to achieve our financial targets for the full year.
At this stage I'll turn things over to Frank with some additional details on our results after his remarks I'll be back to provide an update on our agencies and the tone of the business to be followed by the Q&amp;A.
Thank you Michael good morning.
As a reminder I'll be referring to the slide presentation that accompanies our webcast.
On Slide 2 you see an overview of our results.
Organic growth was 5.7% in the first quarter 6.1% in the US and 5.1% in our international markets.
Q1 operating profit was 8 million in our seasonally small first quarter an improvement of 20 million compared to last year.
Operating margin was 50 basis points compared with negative 70 basis points in Q1 2014.
Turning to Slide 3 you'll see our P&amp;L for the quarter; I'll cover revenue and operating expenses in detail in the slides that follow.
Turning to revenue on Slide 4 revenue was 1.68 billion in the quarter an increase of 2.4%.
Compared to Q1 2014 the impact of the change in exchange rates was a negative 4.4% while net acquisitions added 1.1%.
The resulting organic revenue increase was 5.7%.
With the strengthening of the US dollar against most currencies its worth pointing out that revenues and expense of our businesses are very well matched in functional terms.
FX change had minimal impact on our change in operating profit and margin in the quarter.
It's also worth noting that our pass through revenue decreased slightly compared to Q1 2014 which is offset by a decrease in our O&amp;G expense.
As you can see on the bottom half of this slide organic growth was 6.7% at our integrated agency network segment with contributions from all major disciplines with notable increases at all three of our global network McCann FCB and Lowe.
CMG grew 1.6% organically with continued solid growth in our PR businesses.
On a net basis growth at CMG was in the mid-single digits.
Moving on to Slide 5 revenue by region US organic growth of 6.1% was broad based across a number of our agencies led by McCann FCB Deutsch Mediabrands and CMG.
Leading client sectors were healthcare tech and telecom and food and beverage.
Turning to international markets the UK grew 6.4% organically which is on top of 10.7% a year ago.
We had strong growth at all three global integrated networks McCann FCB and Lowe as well as our digital specialist HUGE and R/GA.
Most client sectors grew as well notably retail consumer goods and food and beverage.
Continental Europe increased 3.5% organically on top of 3.8% a year ago.
We were led by Mediabrands Lowe and R/GA.
Geographically this will result [included] growth in Spain and model decreases in both Germany and France.
In Asia-PAC our largest international region Q1 organic growth was 6% with increases in many national markets led by China India and Singapore.
Lowe and McCann were very strong across the region as were HUGE and R/GA.
In LatAm we decreased 0.7% organically on top of 18% growth year-ago as well as 16% growth in Q1 2013.
The decrease was driven by increase in the challenged economy in Brazil and time and appliance spending partially offset by growth in other markets such as Argentina and Mexico.
Our other markets increased 10.4% organic in Q1 driven mainly by growth in the Middle East.
On slide six we tried the longer view of our organic revenue change on a trailing 12 month basis.
The most recent data point is 5.4%.
Moving to slide seven our operating expenses.
In the first quarter total operating expenses increased 1.2% from the year ago compared to our reported revenue increase of 2.4%.
Our Q1 ratio of salaries and related expenses to revenue was 72.5% this year compared with 72.6 a year-ago an improvement of 10 basis points.
It is important to note that the decrease in pass-through revenue which is offset dollar-for-dollar and lower O&amp;G expense resulted in some deleveraging on SRS and some leveraging on O&amp;G by resulting in no impact on operating profit.
Adjusted for change in pass-through revenue our SRS leverage is 40 basis points.
Our base salaries benefit tax was 60.5% of revenue compared with 60.3 a year ago an increase of 20 basis points.
Expense for temporary labor was 3.9% of revenue the same level as a year-ago.
Incentive expense as a percentage of revenue was also unchanged from year-ago and severance expense improved 20 basis points as a percentage of revenue.
All other salaries and related expense was 3.2% of revenue compared with 3.3% a year-ago.
Total headcount at quarter-end was approximately 48 000.
Headcount increased during the quarter by approximately 1% from Q4 of 2014 on higher growth areas in the portfolio and to support new business wins.
Turning to office and general expenses on the lower half of the slide.
O&amp;G expense was 27% of Q1 revenue an improvement of 110 basis points from year-ago that leverage across most major expense components.
We had 50 basis points of leverage on occupancy expense 30 basis points of leverage on telecom office supplies and travel and 30 basis points on our category of all other O&amp;G expense as pass-through expenses decreased.
On slide eight we show our operating margin history on a trailing 12 month basis.
Most recent data point is 10.7% which reflects solid progress towards our full year target of 80 basis points to 100 basis points.
Turning to the current portion of our balance sheet on slide nine we ended the first quarter with 741 million in cash in short-term marketable securities.
It's worth noting that our cash level is seasonal and it tends to peak at year-end.
On slide 10 we turn to cash flow.
Cash used in operations in Q1 was 797 million compared with 726 year-ago.
Operating cash flow is also seasonal as our business generates significant cash and working capital in the fourth quarter and uses cash and working capital in the first quarter.
During this year's first quarter cash used in working capital was 801 million compared with use of 723 million a year-ago.
Investing activities in Q1 used 20 million 20 million for capital expenditures.
Financing activity used 51 million mainly in capital return to shareholders partially offset by increased short-term borrowings.
We used 51 million for share repurchases and our common stock dividend was 49 million.
Typically the pace of our share repurchases geared to our fourth quarter when our cash flows are strongest.
Our net decrease in cash and marketable securities for the quarter was 926 million compared with 866 million a year-ago.
On slide 11 we showed debt deleveraging from the peak of 2.35 billion in 2007 to 1.76 billion at the most recent quarter-end.
In summary on slide 12 we are pleased with our revenue growth and profit performance in the quarter which represents a good start in terms of achieving our financial objectives for the full year.
With that let me turn it back to Michael.
Thanks Frank.
We are obviously pleased with the results we’re announcing this morning.
Organic revenue performance was not only competitive it looks to have come in at the top-end of our sector.
If there is noting that digital services across the Group were significant contributors to organic revenue growth.
Other highlights in terms of organic growth includes the fact that we saw contributions from across the portfolio including all three global networks McCann FCB and Lowe.
Performance at media brands and at our PR agencies continue to be strong.
Asia and the UK grew well and we saw a positive growth quarter in Continental Europe.
The deceleration we experienced in LatAm largely reflects macroeconomic issues in Brazil as well as the fact that we were facing difficult comps in that region.
We continue to demonstrate disciplined cost management and we remain focused on converting the appropriate levels so as to deliver on our margin improvement target for the year.
Investment and talent supplemented by strategic acquisitions should ensure that we maintain the very high level of our professional offerings.
We also remained committed to robust capital return programs that can drive further value creation for our shareholders.
Moving on to the tone of the business.
What we are hearing from our operators and in our conversations with major multinational clients is that there is a consistent commitment to investing behind brands as company seeks to drive their business forward.
We are seeing areas of macro uncertainty such as Brazil Russia and certain markets in the Middle East.
Of course it’s still early in the year with only three months in the books at this point.
But the overall environment is such that we continue to see sufficient opportunities for us to achieve our stated growth objectives for the year.
The marketing mix that is right for each of our clients in order to meet a range of marketing challenges is becoming increasingly complex.
We therefore need to be able to customize our approach for each specific situation as we continue to have at our disposal all of the tools required to meet the evolving needs of the marketplace.
Our new business pipeline is sound and we are tracking solid activity at most of our agencies.
The first quarter saw some notable wins and we’re involved in the full range of major opportunities that are currently being contested other than those we are conflicted and unable to participate.
Our performance in new business was very strong last year and we want to keep building on that result.
Highlights at our agencies include a very strong quarter from McCann with continued new business momentum increased levels and integration within Worldgroup and in working with a range of IPG agencies as well as a very strong showing in terms of industry honors including the recent news from the Global Effie Awards that McCann has been named the industry’s second ranked network in terms of marketing effectiveness.
We’re rank number four globally on the Effie Index in terms of marketing effectiveness and one of its campaigns for Unilever was recognized as the best in the world in terms of driving marketplace results.
The integration of Profero continues to go well and that’s providing Lowe with a strong digital partner on a range of client engagements.
As previously mentioned our focus with Lowe remains to scale the network more broadly in the U.S.
and unlock potential growth in the U.S.
based multinationals.
Progress as FCB continued to be evident in its results especially domestically and in the UK with a merger with Inferno has been a success.
The agency’s flagship Chicago office won significant assignments during the quarter with IN BEC and more recently the New York agency was named AOR for Vonage.
We see further promise at the FCB health operations especially as we add the ICC Lowe assets to that portfolio.
At leading brands the management succession has been quite seamless Henry Tajer moving from his global COO role to CEO initiatives [and UM] are strong in competitive networks.
We continue to be a leader in addressing the change that technology is bringing to the media landscape as evident by Cadreon’s recent announcement that it will be the first in programmatic radio our investment in Samba TV and Magna’s global creation of our consortium of 15 cable networks to enable targeted automated buying of TV inventory.
It bears noting here that our overall organic growth results do not benefit from taking inventory positions and media particularly the programmatic space where our offering is strong but predicated on a whole consulted model in which our impartiality and expertise are key differnetiators.
CMG agencies continue to perform well in the quarter led by public relationships.
We were consistently winners in market share new assignments from clients such as Unilever Mattel Field Air the United Nations and most recently the American Cancer Society as well as major awards including Weber Shandwick once again being an agency of the year by PR Group.
Our U.S.
integrated independent agencies continue to be a source of strength with Interpublic coming off outstanding overall performance in 2014 Mullen and Deutsche continue to be leaders in the marketplace.
Carmichael Lynch added U.S.
Bank after a highly competitive review that just concluded in early April.
Along with the Martin Agency and Hill Holliday all of our domestic independents provide clients with a breadth of service including full-fledged creative digital experiential analytics and social capabilities.
Huge MRM and RGA of all leaders in the marketplace.
MRM is among the leading industry’s top global digital networks with 30 offices in over 20 world markets.
The growth as huge has been significant and the agency continues to be known for its best in class capabilities in the area of marketing utility.
RGA remains the leader in innovations that have defined digital marketing since its inception.
We are also very proud that this year the Cannes Festival recognized Bob Greenberg with his most prestigious owner for and I quote having helped show the way forward for the industry.
Some among our peers have approached digital primarily by means of headline grabbing M&amp;A transactions and a siloed approach to this key competency.
We continue to see the benefits of our long term approach from investing in talent and embedding digital expertise and capabilities throughout our portfolio of agencies.
We believe this is consistent with the changing dynamics of media usage and consumer behavior.
This strategy places our integrated marketing solution at the center of a client centric connected world and continues to be evident in our strong organic growth performance.
As we look to the balance of the year we see some geographic markets that will require monitoring and we will of course remain vigilant on cost and on the appropriate levels of margin conversion going forward.
While first quarter results were quite positive it bears repeating that is our seasonally smallest quarter and there's work ahead for us to deliver the year.
At this point we believe that we remain well positioned to achieve our organic growth target of 3-4% and to improve operating margins by 80 to a 100 basis points.
Combined with our company’s financial strength and commitment to robust return of capital we have been and will continue to be a source of significant value creation.
This will allow us to further enhance shareholder value.
With that I thank you for your time and open up the floor to questions.
Operator can we have the first question please.
Our first question comes from the line of Ms.
Alexia Quadrani from JPMorgan ma'am your line is now open.
On new business wins which continue to look very-very strong and just trying to get a sense of how much that contributed to organic growth in the quarter and I guess sort of any further color on how you see the recent new business wins sort of in terms of is it a tailwind for the rest of the year and then I have a quick follow up.
Alexia I'm sorry we missed the first part of your question was it basically about our net new business positive.
Yes the net new business being so strong how much of it contributed to your growth and how do you see it is it a tailwind for the rest of the year.
Well we continue to be net new business positive and as what we said at the end of last year we have tailwinds going into this year of approximately 1% and going into the second half we seem to flatten out.
But we don't break out our revenue by net new business.
I will tell you that we see a good organic growth from our existing top 20 clients.
And then on the-- what I would qualify as sort of a long overdue upgrade by the last rating agency the S&amp;P I guess how is -- does that at all change I guess your cost to capital and sort of your outlook in terms of capital returns to shareholders.
Look as we've always said thank you for recognizing that this has certainly been one of our key objectives and we're pleased to see S&amp;P move the way they did.
Look now that we're investment grade from all three rating agencies what it does give us is additional flexibility on liquidity.
It should open up an opportunity for us to utilize commercial paper.
That will add to our existing lines of credit that we have which are almost $1 billion.
So clearly that gives us financial flexibility as we go forward.
We can’t tell you when but we are looking at all opportunities on commercial paper and that frees up cash on our balance sheet that will be factored into our needs for the business in terms of acquisitions and certainly dividends and buybacks will be reflective of our balance sheet strength and excess cash we have.
So I think that it gives us an additional cushion if you will as we move forward.
We still have a significant amount of authorized buyback from our board 390 some odd million dollars and obviously at this point that's sufficient and we will continue to monitor that as we go forward.
We are committed to returning cash to our shareholders in both dividends as well as buyback methodology.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Mr.
John Janedis from Jefferies sir your line is now open.
Frank I was hoping you can touch on the leverage on and the relationship between the SRS and ONG line I know you talked about the pass through revenue but with the strength in organic and the SRS fund flattish year-over-year do you have to spend for the growth.
Yes John it works real with a 120 basis point of margin improvement and we're fairly disclosive on those key metrics and the pass through [indiscernible] clouded a bit.
But we're coming off a very strong fourth quarter growth wise a very good quarter growth wise in the first quarter and we got to bring those people on to do the work and sometimes the revenue and the hiring doesn’t align in the quarterly timeframe but we still need to get leverage out of SRS to meet our overall targets it’s an area of focus for the entire management team.
Yes when we put out 80 to a 100 basis point improvement as Frank says the big opportunity for us is in SRS and with the pass throughs how it reflects our ONG.
So we’ve got three more quarters to go and within that period we expect to see leverage with respect to the SRS.
It's clearly a key priority it's in our management objectives and that’s how we come up with our forecasted margin expansion.
Maybe just separately can you wane on the rebase discussion from the IPG point of view and can you also speak to Brazil and to what extent recent headlines may or may not be impacting business? Let me talk about the rebate first.
Now the total issue of ABBs and rebate is not new to IPG and some 10 years ago you may recall that we made that as an important issue as we became Sarbanes compliant at that point in time you recall we set up the significant amount of liability to pay back to our clients and we embarked on a full transparency program with IPG to make sure that there is transparency and then any rebate will be properly reflected in our contracts and given to our clients.
So consistent with that in those markets first of all in the U.S.
we have no rebate and therefore it's not an issue for us in the U.S.
And in those markets where there are rebates were in fact encouraged by our clients to get as much volume rebates as possible and our contracts are clear that those rebates belong to our clients or how they instruct us to treat those rebates.
So we’re extremely comfortable with the notion that we don't have any issues with respect to that.
And in fact all of our contracts are fully transparent and consistent with that notion that we established 10 years-ago.
So we’re comfortable there.
On issue of Brazil of course we’re disappointed in what happened in Brazil.
I might point out that we in fact investigated that’s review of prior to what news that you saw in the media and in fact we had an extensive review of what was going on in Brazil we took action internally in the fact that we dismissed one or two employees within that organization and based on the review that we seen this is been an isolated case of those one or two individuals.
We have cooperating with all the authorities with respect to that.
We do not see a systemic issue here with respect to that this is the action of one or two individuals from a financial point of view.
The numbers that are involved are not material to both IPG and our revenue numbers and our profitability.
And we are following up on this very carefully and cooperating.
We do not believe that this is a systemic issue for us in Brazil and we’re cooperating as best we can.
By the way part of your question might be that we did see a decline in Brazil in this year that had nothing to do with this particular issue.
This was a -- with a decline in two fold one is we had a very strong company versus last year well in double-digits and two the macroeconomic environment in Brazil is difficult at the current time.
The next question will be coming from the line of Mr.
David Bank of RBC Capital.
Sir your line is now open.
Michael I know you are always concerned about what you call the backdoor they need to continually improve service for clients make sure you keep them and win new ones.
Frank I know the S&amp;P rating is a lifetime appointment; you don't want to take it for granted.
But it seems like for the first time in both your guys administration together the near-term business is operating about a smoothly as it can knock wood.
So I guess my question is as you settle into that we’re in a period of unprecedented change in an unprecedented short period of time in marketing and media.
Can you take your focus or do you take your focus and shift it a little longer-term and whatever can you talk a little bit about like in five years how does IPG need to be different what are you working toward over the longer-term now that I would imagine get a little bit more flexibility now that the business is sort of taking care of itself.
We can spend an hour talking about that David and we probably will.
It's interesting I just addressed [Harris] had a global meeting of McCann grow well group of 500 people down in Florida.
It was a great meeting.
And I was addressing the very issues that you are talking about.
First of all we don't settle in.
This business as you know is very difficult and if you settle in anything you lose.
So we are continually focusing on as you pointed out keeping the backdoor closed.
And if you look at as I answered the question before of our top-20 clients we had very nice organic revenue growth from [indiscernible] and clearly the fact that we were keeping the backdoor closed is one of those reasons and we do not take clients for granted.
We frankly -- the mantra around here is that we treat existing client as if we are pitching them for new business because that’s the way we should treat existing clients.
And settling in is hardly a thing to do when we had this large fragmented media environment very competitive from our clients in terms of prices and so on.
And what our main mantra is going to be we have to be client centric.
And that means we have to continue to focus on the needs of our clients and in order to do that we have to invest in talent we have to invest in all the technology that’s out there we have to provide integrated offerings that clients are looking for one place or places that give them the edge of on the competitive situation and clearly media digital talent creative all come together finally in this business.
For years it’s always been solid and now as we don’t provide an integrated offering clients will look for it elsewhere so we are not taking anything for granted.
Obviously we’re very pleased with both the last year’s results and the first quarter but we are constantly focusing on how to be better.
We don’t have to bigger but we have to be best in class in terms of meeting the needs of our clients and that is what our operators are focused on and the results of that you’re seeing in the organic growth that we’re having and the margin improvement because we are still focused on narrowing that gap.
So I think the key to the future of IPG is not being the biggest we have to be client centric we have to be the place where talent wants to go.
One of the things that I really am pleased about is the fact that we’ve been able to recruit high caliber talent across all of our networks and frankly we like the fact that IPG is viewed as a good place to be within our peers groups because of the fact that we are client centric and we are focused on meeting the needs of the clients directly.
Other than that we don’t pay attention to it David.
Thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Mr.
Peter Stabler from Wells Fargo Securities.
Sir your line is now open.
Good morning and thanks for taking the question I’ve got two.
First of all Michael thanks for your comments on digital and lack of benefit to organic growth.
So just wanted to get a little more color here and ask you is it really your stated policy not to pass media through your income statement today and/or in the future do you -- can you give us that assurance or is that something that could change? And then secondly and trying to find areas of weakness here just on the CMG side you called out TR is performing well.
Is there anything in there that you can or color you could offer on what didn’t go so well this quarter? And it seems like some marketing services kind of across the group appear a little weaker over the last couple of quarters.
I am just wondering if there is anything there to be concerned about at that marketing supports or anything.
Thanks very much.
Let me talk about your comment about media.
We have historically been different than our competitors certainly more recently on the issue of taking inventory the reason that there is gross versus net with respect to some of our competitors is that they take inventory on their own behalf and then in essence sell that inventory to their clients.
We act as in essence agents for our clients we do not take inventory.
And as a result when you see our gross versus net the only item that affects our gross versus net is our experiential and pass through type expenses.
And by the way those expenses do not carry margin along with it.
So we do not have a gross up in our organic revenue that reflects media owned and it is our stated policy and frankly we believe that being agnostic in the marketplace is a competitive advantage to us versus our competitors because it’s hard to be an advisor when on one hand you’re giving them advices to where they should place their media dollars and on the other hand you have an inventory component that you are -- equity interest in getting rid of it at a profit so we believe that is a distinction that we will maintain in the marketplace.
Now if as some of our competitors say it makes no differences as long as the net of buying and effectiveness is there if we see the marketplace develop over a period of time where in fact that is recognized and not giving us advantage in terms of meeting the needs of our clients then we will rethink it but right now as recently as this month we looked at that again and we believe as you will see in some of the pitches that taking that inventory position is not consistent with our overall model on as being agnostic in the marketplace.
And frankly if I were a consumer that’s the way I would look at it so that’s our strategy.
And the accounting follows your business practice and therefore our accounting does not require us to gross anything other than the pass-throughs that we have.
As far as CMG I’ll let Frank talk about.
On the CMG side Peter the PR firms grew high single digits.
The overall segment was relatively flat because we had a fairly large project in the UK from our experiential business that didn’t repeat this year it happens every three years.
And that’s a good example as Mike pointed out a lot of that was pass through revenue so when you look at the overall segment on a net basis growth was in the mid-single digits so it did very well in ’14 and we’re very confident that it did very well in ’15.
There is one other point and I think I have to bring up we have stated we do have a business called ORION which is the [barter] business.
Frankly all of our competitors or most of them have [a barter] business.
In that particular niche we do take inventory position but it's not an inventory position it’s acting on behalf of our client with respect to that inventory which is why we don’t gross that up either.
So yes there is a part of our business that does have some -- it’s not an equity but we do take inventory but it’s on behalf of our client for a specific reason so our [barter] business is a little bit different than the rest of our business and in fact it's a separate and distinct business so I have to clarify that point.
And that's small Michael.
Yes well it’s -- when you say small it’s a profitable part of our business but its small compared to the overall media business.
Thank for the clarification both of you.
Thank you our next question will be coming from the line of Mr.
Tim Nolan from Macquarie Group sir your line is now open.
I'd like to continue on this topic of programmatic.
You guys set out a number a year or two ago which I never really took as a realistic but more like a reach figure of doing somewhere toward half of totally buying on a programmatic basis in a few years' time.
Your acquisition or your partnership with Samba TV seems to be a step in that direction wonder if you could talk a little bit more about how you're moving toward programmatic buying in online video and then in more traditional media like TV and radio.
Thanks.
Thank you Tim.
We never said that 50% was going to be programmatic it may be over a period of time but when we said 50% was going to be automation and that's a little bit different than putting everything under the programmatic.
Frankly our media business we're using cables and faxes so our main objective was moving towards automation.
We do see a significant rise in programmatic but it is not at the levels of 50%.
And we have been rolling that out on a global basis because we think it is a very efficient and effective way to handle video certainly on the digital side of the business.
So we are committed to it Cadreon was one of the leaders in the business we keep investing in Cadreon and talent and tools and as you point out we enter into all these agreements with various cable operators in fact radio now and our investment in Samba TV all of these things are related about having the right data to place the media dollars in the right place to reach the right people at an efficient way.
And we believe that it should be -- automation should play an important part of it and programmatic falls within that automation.
Do you think traditional media owners will be willing to open up more of their inventory to programmatic buys? Well you know what I did say and you're correct in remembering this I did say it's going to be difficult for TV premium content on TV to be put into that fold because of you know the control of it and maybe arguably is not there and therefore it's hard for them to negotiate premiums.
You know what the marketplace will determine whether that happens.
And as it grows and as it becomes more efficient and as clients and media owners become more comfortable with it we may see it but we're not seeing it right now.
Thanks very much.
Thank you our next question will be coming from the line of Mr.
Dan Solomon from BMO Capital Market sir your line is now open.
Frank maybe could we start by just returning to the balance sheet with Publicis having acquired Sapient with Omnicom having used up their balance sheet capacity.
If we look at your leverage you're back down to sort of the low end of where the group is if you could maybe just update us on your thoughts on where you'd like to see target leverage head to you eventually.
And then Michael just quickly on Brazil and Russia could you cite the issue we were talking about earlier with Lowe not an IPG specific issue but those markets appear to be going through a little bit more than just a little economic blip right now.
How are you thinking about them how are clients thinking about them? Is there may be easing off the M&amp;A pipeline in those markets but I’d be interested in your updated thoughts on the sort of the geopolitical macro issues there.
I wish I can solve all of those problems.
Let me take Brazil and Russia and comment a little bit about our balance sheet.
First of all Russia obviously the Russian markets are not the strongest right now but recently -- I've actually had some direct conversations with our clients because frankly for years now we've been talking to our partner in Russia and in fact we've got some approval in Russia for us to do a transaction with respect to our partner on some of their properties there -- enabling us to have better control over the quality of the product with respect to our multinational clients in Russia and we’re planning on going forward with that that transaction.
So you might say gee in this environment why are you doing that in Russia and the answer is our client still believes that Russia is an important market and consistent with that it's important for us to have the top talent and resources servicing those clients in Russia so we're going forward with our transaction with ADV I have to say it it's at a cheaper price obviously in terms of both the movement of the currency as well as the economics in Russia and we took advantage of that but we are still moving forward and believe Russia is an important market and frankly it’s a place that we still believe we have to be there to service our multinational clients.
Brazil everyone knows is going to a difficult time right and there was a pullback and we saw it in our multinational larger global agencies down there.
It was partially offset by other areas in Latin America that were positive Mexico for example.
But Brazil we’re watching very carefully we hope to return to growth in Brazil throughout the year but the benefit of being a multinational and global service provider that we are where one region becomes little difficult fortunately there are other regions that are strong when I am particularly pleased to see the growth in India.
We went through a period in India where the growth wasn't there during the elections and now that Modi is in place and things are happening we had double-digit growth almost double-digit growth in India.
So I think that’s a positive sign.
And obviously China continues to grow for us at a double-digit rate.
And of course we’re very strong in U.S.
So we’re watching Brazil carefully we still have top tier talent and our agencies down there are best-in-class and as Brazil we will get through this.
Look the growth of the middle-class in Brazil is a real and I think eventually and with all the event the Olympics and so on I think will see a snapback in Brazil once this all happens.
On our balance sheet we've always said we wanted to be strong have a strong balance sheet maybe that’s part of the DNA of our company given the difficulties we had many years ago.
And there might be a little room in our leverage right now and frankly [we were that] way to make sure that we get we finally get F&amp;B over the finish line.
And we will take a hard look in terms of our leverage and use as I said at the commercial paper market.
And then maybe some opportunity for us in terms of buybacks but if we make a business decision in terms of what we do with our cash and that cash is decided either it goes to a reinvesting in our business whether it would be strategic acquisitions investments in talent or just overall investment in our businesses versus returning it to our shareholders and if we return it to our shareholders we will take a look at the mix between dividends and buybacks.
And obviously we’re very sensitive to the needs of our investors and in fact every investor meeting we have we ask them what their preference versus dividend versus buybacks and we listen to our investors and we respond accordingly.
The good news is we will have the financial flexibility to do both and what that mix is will be decided by the marketplace and the needs of our businesses.
The next question will be coming from the line of Mr.
James Dix from Wedbush Securities.
Sir your line is now open.
Two questions just first if you’ve been hearing from some competitors that the level of pitch activity seems to be ticking up industry wide there is some [trade press] on some potentially big reviews coming up.
Just any color you could give on the puts and takes where you see relative net opportunities versus where you might be defending maybe a little bit more business might be helpful.
And then just second you’ve given good color in terms of the margins in terms of where the leverage is coming from especially adjusting for things like pass-throughs.
I guess just from a business perspective as you look across your agencies are there certain things which you are seeing that's driving the leverage growth in terms of greater share of wallet from existing clients or just better utilization of personal or individual basis or just hitting more performance incentives across your contract.
Just anything from a business perspective that you are seeing as you look across your agencies which is starting to kick in for you? All of the above.
This is a very competitive environment right now.
Now you did see the announcement of PNG for example they are anticipating cutting an agency fees if you will by a significant amount clients overall and it's not new to the industry our clients are always looking for more for less and what we have to be able to do is twofold one the most important thing is we have to show that we’re adding value to what we are delivering and therefore we have to be responsive to the effectiveness -- the creativity and effectiveness of the work we do.
And then we have to be able to measure it and be accountable for it.
So I think the pressure is much greater now given that these tools are out there for measurement to prove the return on investment with respect to marketing dollars.
And we’re in a position to be able to do that and clients appropriately are asking to see that return on investment.
And at the same time they are looking to have savings and be able to show that the effectiveness of what they are spending is greater and spending less also gives them a similar response rate.
And frankly that’s where we add value.
If we can show that if you spend dollars in one place versus another and the one that’s cheaper is as effective if not better then it's a win-win.
We add value we get paid for the value that we’re adding clients show effectiveness and market share and they spend less and that is going to be a dialog between us and our clients forever.
And as these tools become sharper as media plays more and more an important in terms of the integrated offering we have to have the best talent tools and resources and scale in order to be able to make that happen.
And that’s the dialog that’s going on every day with our clients and frankly when I was a client that’s what I would do and that’s what’s happening.
And we’re being responsive for it and if you look at our organic growth that’s a good indication that we’re able to overcome and be able to have those conversations.
As far as pitches I think the big pitches that are out there are principally media.
In every couple of years every multinational client looks at their media agencies and puts it through a pitch and a lot of these pitches are focusing on efficiencies which is exactly what I just said.
And so you see Coca-Cola having a media pitch.
You have Unilever having a media pitch.
These are global clients L'Oreal is having a media pitch.
These are global clients that not necessarily unhappy with the services that they’re getting but they want to make sure they’re optimizing the use of their media dollars in an efficient way and moving the needle and we’re responsive we have a good track record in those pitches and we expect to see that continue.
On the creative side we do have a couple of big pitches coming up particularly contractual pitches for example the army which is a mandatory review and the navy has a mandatory review both of which we’ve been successful in retaining and obviously we hope to do the same moving forward.
And on the other side there are pitches out there of what we call opportunities because we aren’t in those pitches we aren’t existing client relationships and this is an opportunity.
For example Chrysler has a digital pitch out there and we’re participating in that one.
So yes the marketplace is -- and by the way there are fair amount of pitches out there that aren’t public and those are the ones where we have existing relationships where we’re looking for a larger share of the wallet.
So I think that bodes well for us frankly in the industry in that there are these opportunities where we can get to go head to head with our competitors and show where we add value.
So it’s a pretty exciting time.
On the margin question the key thing around that is growth and converting that growth at an efficient rate.
And that’s the challenge for us because as Michael pointed out the growth has been driven by investment talent.
We all focus on SRS so we need to invest and this is aligned with John’s earlier question we need to invest and that drives the growth and then we’ve got to convert that at efficient rate and that’ll improve the margin.
Great thanks very much.
The key to our existing client relationships being important here because if you do look at our top 20 clients we do have a nice organic growth within those 20 clients and that tells us that the relationships are good the products and services we’re providing to those clients are working and they are viewed as partners to those clients.
Thank you.
The next question will be coming from the line of Mr.
Brian Wieser from Pivotal Research.
Sir your line is now open.
Two quick ones just question at the quarter’s working capital figure I was wondering how much of the expansion of that number is due to business growth versus somewhat pressure on payments terms? And separately just a question on Europe we’re hearing I guess a lot of relatively positive comments on the region in general.
I was wondering what your thoughts around whether or not it’s turned the corner for the [indiscernible]? I’ll let Frank talk about working capital.
No one is raising a flag on Europe.
We have -- obviously it’s nice to have positive growth in Continental Europe.
Certainly the number seems to indicate that from a growth perspective there seems to be some light at the end of the tunnel here and anecdotally seems to be stronger.
I love what’s happening in the UK is very strong market for us now and hopefully that will still over to the rest of Continental Europe.
But for our planning purposes for the rest of the year we haven’t built into it a big recovery in Continental Europe.
So to the extent that we continue to be successful in growth in Continental Europe that will bode well for us for the full year but we’re basically counting on to being flat up or down 1% and we’ll see how that develops.
And Brian on the working capital it’s normal to seasonal flows you look at we have significant working capital cash generation in the fourth quarter and then we have outflows in the first quarter.
And you look at the outflows this first quarter and take a look at Q4 ’14 that correlation is pretty consistent with prior years none of it relates to changing in terms terms have been pretty consistent.
I just mean the Q1 this year versus the prior year’s Q1s but it’s nothing unusual.
No if you look at Q1 versus the previous Q4 and they trade pretty much in a band if you look back over the past five or six years.
At this point I’d like to thank you all for participating.
As we said we’re very pleased with the quarter but we have three more quarters to go.
Look forward to talking to you soon.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And that concludes this conference.
Thank you all for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Interpublic Group Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All parties are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer portion.
This conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Mr.
Jerry Leshne Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
We have posted our earnings release and our slide presentation on our website interpublic.com.
This morning we are joined by Michael Roth and Frank Mergenthaler.
We will begin with prepared remarks to be followed by Q&amp;A.
We plan to conclude before market open at 9:30 [a.m.] Eastern.
During this call we will refer to forward-looking statements about our company.
These are subject to the uncertainties in the cautionary statement that is included in our earnings release and the slide presentation and further detailed in our 10-Q and other filings with the SEC.
We will also refer to certain non-GAAP measures.
We believe that these measures provide useful supplemental data that while not a substitute for GAAP measures allow for greater transparency in the review of our financial and operational performance.
At this point it is my pleasure to turn things over to Michael Roth.
Thank you Jerry and thank you for joining us this morning.
As we review our results for the second quarter and first half of 2015.
I'll start out by covering highlights of our performance.
Frank will then provide additional detail and I'll conclude with an update on our agencies and the tone of business to be followed by a Q&amp;A.
We're pleased to report another quarter of strong organic revenue as well as profit growth.
Organic revenue growth in the quarter was 6.7%.
Net acquisitions had a positive impact of 30 basis points while FX was a negative 5.7%.
Notably FX had essentially no impact on our percentage margin.
Total revenue growth was 1.3%.
We saw positive contributions to our top-line performance by a broad range of our creative marketing services and media offerings.
Our digital capabilities which are embedded across the portfolio and consistently among the best in the industry were significant drivers of growth for us again this past quarter.
Regionally our largest markets were standouts as the U.S.
Asia-Pac and UK showed very good growth with healthcare and tech and telecom the leading client sectors.
Our operating profit in the quarter increased to $216 million up 10% from a year ago.
Operating margin expanded 90 basis points to 11.5% reflecting leverage on base payroll benefits in tax and all O&amp;G expenses.
Diluted EPS was $0.29 a share an increase of 16% compared to last year's adjusted Q2.
Moving to the first half of the year organic revenue growth was 6.2% on top of a strong 5.6% a year ago.
For the six months we posted a 21% increase to operating profit and a 45% increase in diluted earnings per share.
This performance continues to lead our industry and builds on a record of accomplishments in which our people can take great pride.
Turning back to additional color on the quarter.
In the U.S.
organic growth was 7.7% in Q2 an outstanding result.
We had notable growth at most of our agencies including McCann FCB R/GA Huge Mediabrands Deutsche Mullen Weber Shandwick and Golin.
Our international organic growth was also very solid at 5.3% once again driven by a full range of services.
By region we were led by 11.8% growth in Asia-Pac highlighted by continued double-digit increase in India and China.
We again saw a strong performance in the UK which was up 7.9% organically.
In Continental Europe organic growth was 3.6% in the quarter and 3.6% for the six months as well.
LatAm decreased 1.6% organically in the quarter chiefly due to challenging macro conditions in Brazil which we had called out for you during our first quarter call.
For the first half of the year our 6.2% organic growth reflected contributions across all major disciplines as well as all regions of the world with the exception being a small decrease in the LatAm.
First half operating margin growth was 100 basis points with leverage on our base payroll benefits in tax and on office and general expenses.
As we said previously cost discipline and margin enhancement continue to be a top priority and we continue to successfully execute against that objective.
With respect to share repurchase during Q2 we used $51 million to repurchase 2.4 million shares while over the trailing 12 months we had utilized approximately $280 million for share repurchases.
We had $342 million remaining on our authorization at the end of the quarter.
Since instituting our return of capital programs in 2011 we have returned over $2 billion to shareholders in dividends and share repurchases as well as reduced our diluted share count by 25%.
In sum our performance in the quarter and the first half continues to underscore the strong competitive position of our agencies across the full spectrum of advertising and marketing disciplines in terms of our digital expertise and in many of the world's key advertising and media markets.
While economic conditions in some areas of the world present macro headwinds and uncertainties the overall tone of business remains solid and we are effectively managing expenses.
At the midway point of the year we believe we are very well positioned to exceed our targeted organic growth for 2015.
We are therefore upping that target from the previous 3% to 4% organic growth to a new range of 4% to 5% for the full year.
Consistent with that we will look to deliver toward the upper end of our full range operating margin target of 80 basis points to 100 basis points improvement over 2014.
At this stage I'll turn things over to Frank for additional detail on our results and join you after his remarks for an update on our operating units to be followed by Q&amp;A.
Thank you Michael.
Good morning.
As a reminder I'll be referring to the slide presentation that accompanies our webcast.
On slide two you'll see an overview of our results a number of which Michael touched upon.
Organic growth was 6.7% in the second quarter with the U.S.
up 7.7% and international growth of 5.3%.
In our first half organic revenue growth was 6.2% reflecting 7% U.S.
growth and 5.2% international growth.
Q2 operating profit was $216 million an increase of 10%.
Operating profit grew 20% and 21% for the first six months.
Q2 margin was 11.5% an improvement of 90 basis points compared with last year's Q2.
There was essentially no impact from FX on percentage operating margin compared to last year.
Diluted EPS of $0.29 compares to Q2 2014 at $0.23 as reported and $0.25 excluding a charge of $0.02 per share for early redemption of debt in last year's second quarter.
Q2 average fully diluted shares decreased 2% from last year due to our share repurchase program.
Turning to slide three you'll see our P&amp;L for the quarter.
I'll cover revenue and operating expenses in the detail slides that follow.
Slide four has more detail on our revenue growth.
Revenue was $1.88 billion in the quarter an increase of 1.3%.
Compared to Q2 2014 the impact of the change in currency exchange rates was significant at negative 5.7%.
While the dollar was stronger against almost all currencies the most significant changes for our revenue mix were the euro pound sterling the Brazilian real and the Australian dollar.
Acquisitions added 30 basis points to revenue.
The resulting organic revenue increase was 6.7%.
It is worth noting that organic growth was actually higher at 7.5% when excluding the decrease in our pass-through revenues which occurred mainly in our events business.
As we have pointed out previously lower pass-through revenue was offset dollar for dollar by lower pass-through expense and therefore has no impact on profit.
As you can see on the bottom half of this slide at our integrated agency networks the organic increase was 7.7% .This was led by our global integrated offerings at McCann and FCB by Deutsch in the U.S.
our digital specialists R/GA and Huge and by media brands.
IAN's first half organic growth was 7.2%.
At our CMG segment organic growth was 2.3% but was mid-single digits excluding the decrease in pass-throughs that have no profit impact.
We had double-digit organic growth at our PR agencies Weber Shandwick and Golin which continue to gain market share.
Moving on to slide five revenue by region.
In the U.S.
Q2 organic growth was an outstanding 7.7% with contributions coming from a very broad cross-section of our agencies disciplines and client sectors.
We also had strong performance in the UK.
Organic growth was 7.9% with notable growth at McCann FCB Mullen Lowe and R/GA.
Organic growth was 7.1% over the first six months.
Continental Europe increased 3.6% organically in the quarter.
We had positive contributions from Weber Shandwick McCann Mullen Lowe and R/GA.
Among our larger national markets we continue to see very good growth in Spain and had mid-single digits in France.
Germany and Italy also had slight increases.
While Q2 is our second consecutive quarter of good growth on the Continent which is certainly welcome our bottoms-up market view and macro conditions nonetheless indicate caution for the near-term.
In Asia-Pac our largest international region Q2 organic growth was 11.8%.
We had double-digit growth in China India and Singapore as well as notably strong growth in Australia.
Regional performance speaks to the strong positioning across our three global integrated agencies our media business our digital specialists and our public relations offerings.
In LatAm our organic decrease was 1.6% in the quarter.
The decrease was driven by the increasingly challenged economy in Brazil partially offset by growth in other markets such as Argentina and Mexico.
As you can see on this slide our reported revenue decrease includes the effect of sharply weaker local currencies relative to the U.S.
dollar.
Our other markets group which is made up of Canada the Middle East and Africa decreased slightly in the quarter on an organic basis but is up 3.9% for the six months.
On slide six these (12:41) chart the longer view of our organic revenue change on a trailing 12-month basis.
The most recent data point is 5.8%.
Moving on to slide seven our operating expenses.
In the second quarter total operating expenses increased 30 basis points from a year ago compared with our reported revenue growth of 1.3%.
The FX impact to operating expenses was a negative 5.7% as it was on revenue.
Underneath our strong margin improvement the Q2 ratio of salaries and related expense to revenue was 64.2% this year compared with 63.2% a year ago.
The comparison is driven by higher accruals for incentives and other performance-based bonuses partially offset by leverage on our base payroll benefits and tax.
The decrease in pass-throughs revenues weighed on the SRS ratio as well though the effect on our margin is offset in O&amp;G.
Base salaries benefits and tax were 53.2% of revenue compared with 53.6% a year ago.
Incentive expense was 3.7% of revenue compared to 2.7% a year ago.
Our category of all other salaries and related expense was 2.6% of revenue compared with 2.3% a year ago.
Total head count at quarter end was approximately 48 400 an increase of 4% year-on-year.
The increase reflects our acquisitions as well as organic hiring in support of growth in areas such as digital creative and PR as well as our increases in the U.S.
UK and Asia-Pac.
Turning to ops and general expenses on the lower half of the slide.
O&amp;G expense was 24.3% of Q2 revenue compared with 26.2% a year ago an improvement of 190 basis points.
We had leverage across all of our O&amp;G expense groups occupancy professional fees travel and entertainment and all other O&amp;G.
In the quarter we had a lease buyout credit in occupancy which was offset by a net increase in reserves for certain contingencies in other O&amp;G.
On slide eight we show our operating margin history on a trailing 12-month basis.
The most recent data point is 10.9% that's a 120 basis point improvement from a year ago.
Turning to the current portion of our balance sheet on slide nine we ended the second quarter with $856 million in cash and short-term marketable securities.
The comparison to December 31 reflects that our cash level is seasonal and tends to peak at year-end.
On slide 10 we turn to the second quarter cash flow.
Cash provided by operations was $260 million compared with $169 million a year ago.
That includes $41 million generated from working capital compared with the use of $24 million in Q2 2014.
Investing activities used a net $30 million for capital expenditures financing activities used $109 million chiefly for share repurchase our common stock dividend and payments related to previous acquisitions somewhat offset by higher short-term borrowings.
Our net increase in cash and marketable securities for the quarter was $114 million compared with $125 million a year ago.
On slide 11 we showed debt deleveraging from a peak of $2.35 billion in 2007 to $1.78 billion at the most recent quarter-end.
In summary on slide 12 the quarter and the first half represent very solid achievements and good progress to our objectives for the full year.
We are seeing growth in areas where we have focused our investment in both people and acquisitions.
Our operators are focused on the appropriate cost disciplines and margin expansion.
And our balance sheet is an important area that we can continue to deploy for value going forward.
With that let me turn it back to Michael.
Thank you Frank.
We're very pleased with our results for both the second quarter and year-to-date.
In terms of organic revenue growth and margin process Q2 showed very good performance which was once again ahead of that of our peer group.
All of our major units and all regions other than LatAm contributed to this outstanding result.
It bears noting that the digital expertise we have embedded throughout the portfolio has been a significant driver of our growth.
It's also worth pointing out that unlike others in our space we have largely grown these digital capabilities organically and they are key to our strong integrated offerings.
We continue to demonstrate disciplined cost management and we will remain focused on converting at the appropriate levels so as to deliver on our margin improvement targets for the year.
Investments and talent supplemented by strategic acquisitions should ensure that we maintain the very high level of our professional offerings.
We also remain committed to robust capital return programs that can drive further value creation for our shareholders.
Looking forward the tone of the business remains positive.
Clients are committed to investing behind their brands to achieve their business objectives.
And the complexity of the marketing landscape represents an opportunity for smart marketers and their agencies.
We are capitalizing on this opportunity as evident in our organic growth to-date this year.
While we saw some signs of strengthening in Continental Europe we remain cautious in light of political and economic uncertainty in the region.
Brazil has also seen a meaningful slowdown and we will continue to monitor the state of the Chinese economy and adjust our businesses there accordingly.
Our new business pipeline is sound and we are involved in the full range of opportunities being contested in the marketplace.
As you all know there is a great deal of activity in terms of media reviews.
A number of the reviews involve defending existing client business where we are one of multiple incumbents which means there is a both risk and upside for us.
We are also pursuing those net new opportunities where we believe we have the most to gain.
And we are passing on others due to conflict or in order to appropriately manage our resources.
The volume of media business that is in play is a function of clients' continual demand for greater efficiencies as well as cyclical reviews on the part of some clients.
It is also a reflection of the fact that technology is impacting communications planning and media investment decisions.
Before moving to my usual update on the agencies I'll comment on developments at Cannes which as you all know is the industry's premier awards competition when it comes to creativity and innovation.
Once again we're pleased to see outstanding performance from across the portfolio.
In terms of awards and points won at Cannes relative to revenue we continue to be near the top of the industry.
Highlights included R/GA being named Agency of the Year which is a first for a digital agency and a sign of how core digital has become to success in our business.
FCB took home a Grand Prix for work done to promote wellness among women in the UK and the network had its best ever performance at Cannes.
McCann won four gold lions for its groundbreaking makeup genius work for L'Oréal.
This is a Smartphone and tablet app we helped the client develop that incorporates real-time facial recognition and augmented reality and it has been downloaded over 10 million times since its launch last year.
Other highlights included The Martin Agency which won the coveted Film Grand Prix with a very creative approach for pre-roll digital ads for Geico as well as GGH Lowe Germany which won 12 lions with one of the festival's most awarded campaigns.
Other agencies honored included Campbell Ewald Deutsch Hill Holliday Initiative UM and Weber Shandwick.
In other highlights of Q2 results we saw continued strong performance at McCann Worldgroup.
The quality of the agency's creative product is high and integration across disciplines remains a focus.
I mentioned the caliber of the digital work that McCann is doing for major clients such as L'Oréal.
And it's also worth noting that MRM which is an integral part of Worldgroup is one of the industry's top digital networks with offices in over 20 world markets.
Progress at FCB has been steady with improvements evident in the quality of the creative work rate of consistency in terms of new net new business and the development of strong capabilities in shopper and digital marketing.
Not only is the agency raising its game but it's also becoming an increasingly attractive destination for talent.
As was evident in the recent announcement that Susan Credle will be joining as Chief Creative Officer.
At CMG our award-winning public relation agencies keep winning market share and defining the ways in which digital channels can transform this marketing discipline.
Weber Shandwick and Golin have raised the bar in their sister CMG agencies from Octagon to Jack Morton and FutureBrand are also innovating to their respective areas of expertise.
We've been saying for some time that the creative firepower of Lowe is something that's at a premium in today's world of fragmented media and hard to engage consumers but that the agency needed scale in the U.S.
to tap into opportunities with major multinationals.
By combining them with Mullen and naming Mullen's CEO Alex Leikikh to lead the merged entity we believe we made that possible and put the agency on the growth path that we need to see from Lowe.
Mullen's offerings are highly creative as well as digital and accountable as was evident in their winning the Grand Effie for their largely viral campaign on behalf of American Greetings.
I mentioned the level of new business activity in media earlier.
And the team at Mediabrands is fully focused on securing existing relationships and capitalizing on the new client opportunities we are best suited for.
The unit is not only performing well in financial terms but we continue to see the benefits of our investments in Cadreon our programmatic platform and AMP our proprietary data stack and all our longstanding commitment to media transparency also differentiates us from a number of our competitors.
Our U.S.
integrated independent agencies continue to be a source of strength for Interpublic.
Mullen's outstanding offerings are now part of Lowe's go-to-market proposition.
Deutsch continues to be a leader in the marketplace with exceptional creative and digital capabilities.
Along with The Martin Agency Hill Holiday Carmichael Lynch and a number of others our domestic independence provide clients with a breadth of services including full-fledged digital UX analytics and social capabilities.
In terms of digital R/GA remains the leader in just about every area of innovation that's defining the future of our business.
The recent major win with Verizon was a further confirmation of the strength of their offering and the accolades for Bob and his team from Ad Age to Cannes demonstrate the degree to which technology-enabled marketing is at the center of everything we do.
We're fortunate to have another agency that's tracking along a similar growth path in my hometown of Brooklyn which is where Huge is based.
So they now have offices in eight other markets and counting.
I mentioned the global success of MRM earlier and the integration of Profero into Lowe is going well and has played a part of the growth we are seeing from the Lowe network in a number of international markets.
One last observation about the importance of digital expertise.
I've mentioned previously that some of our peers have approached digital through big headline grabbing acquisitions which have often stayed siloed within those holding companies.
Going back quite a few years we made the strategic decision to grow digital competencies organically within every one of our agencies.
This strategy places our integrated marketing solutions at the center of a connected world and continues to be evident in our strong organic growth performance.
The benefits of this approach are evident across the Interpublic Group.
We built out Cadreon at Mediabrands and that is one of the strongest tech platforms in this dynamic space.
We've invested in top talent at all our brand agencies.
Mullen and Deutsch have outstanding digital skill sets across a range of disciplines and McCann and FCB are on the same growth path.
The social media and content creation capabilities at Weber Shandwick are second to none.
If those were standalone groups they would be among the world's largest digital agencies in their respective disciplines.
Golin has a strong real-time digital media offering.
Recent acquisitions such as Genuine Prime and Hudson Global will up the digital game of others in our marketing service specialists.
And the addition of Profero is adding an important dimension to Lowe's creative strength.
Turning to the second half of the year we see some geographic markets that will require monitoring and we will of course remain vigilant on cost and on the appropriate levels of margin conversion going forward.
But our performance for the first six months has been strong on both the top and bottom line.
At this point we believe that the appropriate organic target for the full 2015 is 4% to 5%.
And given our strong growth performance to date we should aim to deliver in the upper range of our operating margin improvement target of 80 basis points to 100 basis points.
Combined with our company's financial strength and commitment to robust return of capital we then and will continue to be a source of significant value creation.
This will allow us to further enhance shareholder value.
With that I'd like to thank you for your time and support and open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
Okay.
Our first question comes from the line of Alexia Quadrani of JPMorgan.
Ma'am your line is open.
Thank you.
Congratulations on a very impressive quarter here.
My question was kind of on the organic revenue growth outlook for the back half of the year.
I don't want to be greedy I know it's been an amazing run for the first half.
But if you could give us some more color in terms of how you're seeing the back half of the year in terms of is your guidance just to – taking into account that you have to be somewhat conservative there is still some uncertainty in both Europe and in practically all the markets or is there some specific headwinds in terms of accounts movement and stuff that we should keep in mind as we think about our estimates for top line for the back half of the year? Thank you Alexia.
It only took us two minutes to get to the question of what our forecast was (29:02) Look obviously all of the above there's a degree of conservancy in there.
But as we had said on our previous calls we expected tailwinds in the first half of the year.
And frankly we see that leveling off in the second half of the year partially because our comps are a little different in the second half of the year and the on-boarding of new clients that we had starts to level off in terms of those comps plus we had a little bit of headwinds in terms of some of the client losses.
So obviously the second half of the year we're targeting a little bit pullback on the growth as a result of that impact.
Nonetheless we're still confident in our forecast in the 4% to 5% that we moved – that's why we moved it in that direction.
We always try to do better but I think that's a realistic number for us to take into account both the uncertainty that's out there...
Let me just comment on the media reviews.
Most of these media reviews that are taking place the impact of that won't be in effect until really 2016.
So to answer your other question we don't expect to see an impact on the media side of the business as a result of these reviews until 2016 and hopefully we'll see positive impact as a result of that.
Okay.
Just a quick follow-up if I may.
On the euro market.
I know you don't give margins by region but just if you can maybe talk generally do you think with the better organic performance we've seen in Europe – now two quarters in a row are you seeing improvement in profitability in that region? We're always focusing on improvement as you know we had taken a reserve against repositioning Europe to realign the cost with the organic expectations.
We never stop looking for margin improvement in Europe it's nice to have some organic revenue but I think we're being very cautious.
We don't have built into our plan a recovery in Continental Europe and along with that we're managing our costs very carefully.
And we hope to see some margin improvement but Europe continues to be a difficult market for us to expand margins and we still view it as a very important market for us.
So we're continuing to invest in new people and talent in there and frankly we've done a few acquisitions there and we're seeing positive results.
But margin improvement is a little bit harder to get in Europe than we're seeing elsewhere in the world.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Alexia.
Okay.
Our next question comes from the line of Mr.
David Bank of RBC Capital Markets.
Sir your line is open.
Okay thanks.
Thanks for the shower for Brooklyn there Michael.
I'll always remember that David.
So June historically has been – I have a couple of questions.
The first is June has historically been kind of a pretty big month for you and the industry for that matter.
And over the past couple of years that has sometimes driven real volatility around 2Q and your outlook.
Can you give us a reflection on June in particular and what it's telling us about your business and the general environment? A second question is while you've taken the top line up kind of a step function the range in operating leverage at margin was pretty narrow to begin with at 80 basis points to 100 basis points that's 20 bps and you kind of said so we'll be at the upper end of that range.
My question is without – there really isn't like a step function up that matches top line have we sort of maxed out on operating leverage conversion in that you're not going to – whether or not the top line kind of materially accelerates from here and this is a pretty good level.
Do you – is it possible to sort of start squeezing more operating leverage out incrementally or have we kind of hit a reasonable run rate? Thanks very much.
All of that.
Okay look June as – you're right.
You're correct.
June is a big month for us and the industry and we're encouraged by what we saw in June across the board and obviously that's why we're more comfortable in moving the organic revenue up to 4% to 5% but June doesn't make a year.
And so we still have some cautionary issues out there particularly in terms of Europe and South America.
So therefore we have some level of conservancy in those numbers.
Our margin numbers we look at it on a full-year basis okay.
So when you look at the six months and what our conversion ratio in the six months.
As you know we look to convert at a 30% ratio and frankly for this quarter we didn't quite make 30% but we're comfortable in our range of 80 basis points to 100 basis points because the rest of the year we expect to see the impact of the onboarding of the talent that we had in the first half of the year and the revenue coming in in the second half of the year.
We never give up trying to expand our margin and I think it's a 30% continues to be a reasonable objective for us to – and for you to assume in the conversion as we go forward and frankly using the 80 basis points to 100 basis point margin improvement that's where we get to the targets that we're driving against okay.
And I think that's a conservative way for us to look at it.
We wrestled with the issue of what we do with that margin expectation.
And we felt that by at least saying we think we'll be on the high side of that is an indication to you that we believe we have cost under control in terms of managing it.
We still have more work to do.
And given the levels of revenue that we see we're comfortable with that and we'll deal with future margin expansion as we put this year behind us.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Right.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of John Janedis of Jefferies.
Sir your line is open.
Thanks.
Hey Michael for a long time you've talked about acting as an agent for clients and not taking inventory.
And therefore being transparent and agnostic.
I know it's hard to parse out your growth versus peers but I was wondering if you're seeing any benefits in other parts of your digital business or clients giving you more wallet as a result of being more transparent? I think that's a fair question John and I've talk about it a lot as you noted.
One thing is you can see the difference in terms of the announced gross versus net that our competitors are putting out there or soon to put out there in terms of their future releases.
Our only issue of gross versus net reflects the pass-throughs that we see in some of our marketing service businesses.
So you will not see an inflated organic growth number from us as a result of taking inventory into our ownership in terms of selling it to our clients.
So we believe that continues to be a market distinction for us when we're dealing with our clients.
Now whether that makes a big difference or not I think that it's still something to be seen in terms of the reviews that are going on.
But I can tell you anecdotally and specifically when we have conversations with our clients about that that all of them indicate that they believe the way we're approaching this is an appropriate way to deal with it and they're pleased to see the transparency and the positions we're taking.
That said there's no question that some of our competitors are having success going a different way and that's something we're going to consider and we always will consider as we move into 2016.
And frankly if the marketplace doesn't put a benefit to us in terms of taking that position versus our competitors then it's something we have to look at in terms of our go-to-market strategy.
But right now we believe frankly one it's the right thing to do in terms of dealing with an agnostic position with respect to our clients.
We are an advisor and as an advisor we find it inherently difficult to be in a conflict position when we are advising them on where they should place their media dollars.
And we believe that that is the right go-to-market strategy.
If clients however feel that as long as they're getting a savings and they're getting a benefit in terms of where their media dollars are being spent and that doesn't make a difference then we'll take a look at it but right now we believe it's making a difference in the marketplace.
I cannot tell you that we won this particular pitch which is what your question is because of that – because these pitches that are going on right now I know a lot of ink is being spent in terms of making a point that this issue of transparency and rebates is why these reviews are taking place.
But actually these reviews are taking place because clients want to make sure that their media dollars are being spent appropriately in terms of efficiently in the right place and using all the tools and resources that are out there and they want to make sure that they're getting best-in-class services.
And frankly if I were a client I'd be asking the same questions.
So it's not down to a pure question of taking inventory or not taking inventory or transparency or not transparency.
It's everything being considered at one time and we're very comfortable with our position and we lead with that in terms of our go-to-market strategy.
Thanks.
And maybe one quick one for Frank.
You haven't done much on the acquisition front this year.
Can you talk about the pipeline and are the better (39:11) spreads in the disciplines you're pursuing widening? Pipeline is robust John.
We've got a number of things we hope to close in the next quarter quarter and a half.
Pricing is competitive.
As we've spoken before the model we like to approach is try and get to an acquisition before there's a process.
Some agency we work with on a common client get to know them they get to know us that's a path to success in this workforce.
But our corporate development team is working hard they're very busy and you can expect us to close some further transactions in the back half of the year.
Yeah.
Let me just add in terms of our acquisition strategy and I kind of referred to in my remarks we don't look to do big transactions and we feel that they're a) difficult to integrate b) the price that you pay for that in terms of using your balance sheet as well as the risk associated with integration make it a difficult thing to do.
That said some of them are successful and some aren't.
Our approach has been quite successful I mean I use Huge as an example.
When we acquired Huge they had 80 people to 100 people.
Now they have 800 people to 1 000 people on a worldwide basis.
There aren't many of those transactions but those are the kind of transactions that we look at we look at small to medium acquisitions that are in the sweet spot of the areas that we need the expertise whether it would be digital which obviously is what everybody is looking at right now or a geographic area or it's a discipline.
So we've done a number of transactions in our PR business.
Obviously our PR business is very successful and we're certainly gaining market share against our competitors.
So therefore when we look at opportunities and acquisitions if we can bolster their go to market strategy that's a good thing and we find transactions that it's appropriate in.
So don't expect us to announce a huge transaction on the M&amp;A side.
But we are looking on a very careful basis to be within the range we always say we spend between $100 million and $150 million.
We can go up above that a little bit obviously if the right transaction comes along but we're very careful and disciplined in terms of our acquisitions.
Thanks for that.
Welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Mr.
Peter Stabler of Wells Fargo Securities.
Sir your line is open.
Good morning.
Thanks for the question.
Morning.
An industry question for Michael as you're no doubt aware there's a narrative out there around intermediation it's been out there for 20 years right.
Yes.
If you were a company (41:59) 10 years ago we're going to take all your business five years ago...
Yup.
...it was going to be crowdsourcing and YouTube videos and today's flavor seems to be technology and in-housing of programmatic and other activities enabling marketers to more cheaply and efficiently produce assets and promote those assets without the help of the agencies.
So I guess I'm just wondering if you step back and think broadly about the share of marketing services that is going to agency holding companies.
Do you think it is materially different today than it was five years or 10 years ago and if you look out over the next couple years are there things that concern you in terms of looming threats or new competitors et cetera.
Thanks very much.
Yeah that's a fair question Peter.
Yeah it's out there.
My favorite slide that I show when I make presentations is a headline in the Wall Street Journal that declares the demise of the advertising industry because of all these new technologies and so on.
And then of course my next slide is that quote was 25 years ago.
Look we have to be on our toes we have to continue to invest in what works and what clients are looking for and as long as we can add that value to clients there's no need for them to take it in-house or use other services.
I think what we're seeing actually now because of the distribution of media outlets right now most of our clients are looking for solutions because it's very difficult for them on their own to really go through all of these different outlets on an integrated basis.
So I think the value proposition that we have now is as strong as it's ever been.
And as long as we have the type whether it would be programmatic buying whether it would be content whether it would be PR whether it would be content creation all of it and distribution on a global basis and we are the only place and I say we as an industry we are the only place where we could bring all of this together.
And hopefully on an agnostic basis to advise our clients where to put their money.
So I think our value proposition right now is as strong as it's ever been.
And yeah clients are going to look to make sure that we're doing it efficiently and it's no different than when we look at acquisitions do we choose to grow it organically or buy it so the buy versus rent argument is out there and it always is an analysis and it's incumbent upon us to show that we have the tools and resources to help our clients.
And if we don't they're either going to do it themselves or use some of the other providers.
So do I think it's challenging? Yes.
Do I think we've stepped up to the plate? Yes.
Do I think we have to do more? Of course.
And that's really what's driving a lot of these media pitches right now.
They want to make sure that they're getting the best.
And so that they can make decisions with respect to how they move their business going forward and they're looking to us to provide a solution.
And if we can't do that they'll look for other solutions and that's no different than it's been 25 years ago.
And we just have to stay ahead of the curve.
And I know our competitors whether it be the tech companies or consulting companies are trying to have inroads in there in addition to clients taking it in-house but if you – I talked about this in Cannes the creativity part of this is something that I think we can't lose sight of.
And that is we do have that secret sauce as I put it in terms of bringing that creative aspect for all of these different tools and resources and we're the ones who are going to provide that because this is where the talent wants to be.
To work with these clients whether they be global clients or domestic clients these creative people are looking to do that and we provide that it's very difficult for these tech companies or consulting companies to recruit and retain the talent that we have in the organization.
If you just look at McCann and FCB in terms of – as well as the rest of our businesses but when you look at a Rob Reilly or a Susan Credle or any of the other creative people we have within our organization those talented people are looking to our industry to use their talent and it's tough to get those kind of people and keep them engaged the way we do.
So I think that the demise of our business is not something that's going to happen and it's just we just have to remain on our toes to make sure that we continue to invest in people leverage our creativity expertise and make sure we have the tools and resources to help our clients.
Thanks Mike.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Mr.
Ben Swinburne of Morgan Stanley.
Sir your line is open.
Just a couple for Frank Frank the pass-through revenue that you called out in your prepared remarks is that all in the U.S.
or any geographic color you can give us? Ben it's primarily the U.S.
and the UK.
Got it.
And then just going back to this margin question or I guess our insistence to revisit the margin question.
Frank when you think about the incentive comp are you guys accruing at a level that needs to go up because you've raised your outlook because I know that's an area in the past when you've had a really strong top line year you've had to ratchet that up as you've moved through the quarters.
Yeah I think especially in the second quarter Ben we take – we're right in the middle of our midyear reviews to look at the full year.
A year ago we had some concerns about the back half of the year and you look at our accrual in the second quarter our incentives was down.
This year we felt more positive about it.
So we raised it up so every quarter we effectively mark-to-market how we – what we think we're going to need for the year based upon our current thinking of the year.
So right now we're accruing to where we expect to land.
Yeah in general we use 3.5%.
And in this quarter you're right we had to catch up and the reason we had to catch up is not so much is the forecast but our results indicate an improvement that requires us – of course a lot of – our incentive comp is based on – a significant part is based on performance which is what – is where it should be.
So there's a correlation between our performance and our incentive accrual right.
Yeah.
And that's really what you're seeing right here.
And then congratulations on getting the rating agencies all aligned.
I know that was a work in progress but I guess I wonder if you could just update us on how you think about leverage now going forward? You guys are generating more cash flow than maybe you expected earlier in the year given the top line strength and just as we think about the model over the next couple of years it seems like you've got a lot of capacity.
What's the right leverage level for the company in your view? You know the right leverage is always a function of the macroeconomics.
We want to make sure that we're well positioned for any surprises that may be out there.
Frankly we learned this the hard way 10 years ago and we've worked very hard and thank you for acknowledging to get the investment grade.
I guess on a pure numbers basis you can look at our leverage and see that we're probably under-levered.
And especially with the investment grade I know the next part of your question is are we going to be putting in a commercial paper program and use some of our excess cash? We're managing our cash flow our treasury department financial – Frank and his organization we look at this very carefully.
And frankly if the opportunity is out there for us to put in a commercial paper program and it's beneficial to us we will do that.
And that should free up some opportunity for us to look at return to shareholders whether it be in the form of dividends or buybacks.
We still have plenty left in our buyback authorization we have over $300 million left and we intend to use that.
And so I like the position we're in right now from a financial order (50:27) position.
And as we get stronger on the macroeconomic environment then we'll look at the appropriate leverage and I think that's what we've done for years and that's the way it should be right now.
A knee jerk reaction to put on a large amount of debt to buy back shares for example which a number of people would argue I think is a short-term play versus a long-term play.
But we do look at this and it's incumbent upon us to review those transactions with our board which we do and we'll make a call between buybacks using our leverage and dividend distribution.
I mean that's what we owe to our shareholders and that's how we view it.
Got it.
And I just have one last one.
Michael when we look at the performance first half of the year I think it's 6% plus organic and more if you adjust for pass-through.
I'm trying to reconcile that with the comments from marketers about focus on cost and procurement impact and the tough global macro; how do you reconcile those things? Are you – do you have all the good clients or are you taking a lot of share or do you think that there is something happening in media buying in particular that's allowing the agencies to really benefit from this shift to digital spending? You guys tend to not talk about how much of your business is digital and I understand completely why you do that.
But could you give us any sense for just how much that – the buying business is changing and whether that's helping to drive this continued strong top line we're seeing? I thought you would have noticed that much of my script was focusing on our digital capability.
Frankly I don't think we get credit for the strength of our digital offering.
So that's why we spent so much time in our comments to show our strength in digital.
You're asking me which of my children do I like better? I think what our results show is that we have strong offerings across the board.
And our global networks McCann obviously is on the front foot and doing very well.
FCB Mullen Lowe these are very powerful networks on a global basis.
And we're seeing the results of investments we've made restructurings that we've done particularly for example Mullen Lowe we brought in new talent at McCann and FCB.
And I think- I don't think I know we're seeing the results of that.
I think McCann is a perfect example in terms of Harris and his entire team and the people that he'd been able to bring in to McCann we're seeing results.
And so that is a very competitive offering in the marketplace and that's certainly along with FCB and Lowe – Mullen Lowe excuse me – contributing to the growth that we're seeing and yeah in a way we're taking market share.
That doesn't mean that our digital offerings the R/GAs the Huge the Profero the MRMs all these – we have some silo digital offerings that are frankly double-digit growth.
So they're helping us a lot.
Our marketing services Weber Shandwick or Golin are taking market share.
I don't think there's any question that we're seeing that and media is a strong performer for us and we're very comfortable – we made some personnel changes in media.
I think Henry's putting together a great team.
He has extensive experience in media and it's helping us in these pitches that we're involved in now.
I'm feeling pretty positive about where we stand in these pitches that are out there.
As I said we're defending clients that we have the long-standing relationship I'm comfortable with that.
And in those situations where we're new to the block we hope to pick up some additional revenue.
So I think it's all of the above is why we're performing and frankly that's why investors should be looking at us.
It's not just one trick pony it's not an overweight in one particular area whether it be media or and on a global basis we're well distributed in terms of our sources of revenue.
So if you put it altogether you'll end up with an organic growth that we have and that's what makes a competitive organization and frankly that's why we're feeling good about this particular result that we're showing because it's across the board it's not just one particular network or organization or discipline that's contributing to it.
Thank you guys.
Right.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Mr.
Dan Salmon of BMO Capital.
Sir your line is open.
Hey guys good morning.
Michael you called out Brazil a couple of times in your prepared remarks and highlighted it for deceleration.
Could you just give a little color on that.
It's kind of a funny year there where you're coming off this difficult comp with the World Cup but going into Olympics next year how much is just disruption around being in-between a couple of huge events versus sort of core challenges on the macro side there? Yeah I mean last year I think last quarter we were up 7% and before that we were up double digits so – there is a relative strong comp in Brazil in particular but – look there's no question that there's a pullback in Brazil.
I mean the huge growth that we've seen across the board is just not there so we're concerned about it.
Of course we had a particular issue in Brazil that we had to deal with so I'm not going to bury your head to it and frankly we will be able to put that behind us and we feel we have – we certainly have that fenced it right now but it's a market that is going through a lot of changes down there.
And so we're cautious about it.
Fortunately in LatAm we're seeing strength in Mexico and Argentina so that offsetting some of the weakness we're seeing in Brazil and so for the full year – although we're down in the quarter we're relatively flat.
We hope for the full year.
And I think that really reflects what we're seeing in the macroeconomic environment.
Of course coming into next year we hope to see a pickup in Brazil because we do have events coming there.
And hopefully particularly with our marketing service businesses we can provide some kick to the organic side of the business but it's a concern.
The other side of it is of course it's not a major part of our business and that's one of the benefits of our global footprint.
Great.
Thank you.
Right.
Okay.
We have come to the bottom of the hour.
Back to you Mr.
Roth for any closing thoughts.
Well I thank you all for your support.
All you can tell we're delighted with our results but we're certainly not raising any flags.
We have a lot of work ahead of us and we'll now go back to putting our heads down and delivering.
Thank you very much for your support.
This concludes today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the Interpublic Group Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All parties are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer portion.
This conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Mr.
Jerry Leshne Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
We have posted our earnings release and our slide presentation on our website interpublic.com.
This morning we are joined by Michael Roth and Frank Mergenthaler.
We will begin with prepared remarks to be followed by Q&amp;A.
We plan to conclude before market open at 9:30 Eastern.
During this call we will refer to forward-looking statements about our company.
These are subject to the uncertainties in the cautionary statement that are included in our earnings release and the slide presentation and further detailed in our 10-Q and other filings with the SEC.
We will also refer to certain non-GAAP measures.
We believe that these measures provide useful supplemental data that while not a substitute for GAAP measures allow for greater transparency in the review of our financial and operational performance.
At this point it is my pleasure to turn things over to Michael Roth.
Thank you Jerry and thank you for joining us this morning as we review our results for the third quarter and nine months of 2015.
I'll start out by covering highlights of our performance.
Frank will then provide additional detail and I'll conclude with an update on our agencies and the tone of our business to be followed by Q&amp;A.
We're pleased to report another quarter of strong organic revenue and profit growth.
Organic revenue growth in our third quarter was 7.1% on top of the very strong comps from the year ago.
Net acquisitions had a positive impact of 10 basis points while FX was a negative 5.9%.
However FX had very little impact on our operating margin.
Total revenue growth was 1.3%.
We continue to see positive contributions to our top line performance from a broad range of our creative media and marketing services offerings.
Across the group our digital capabilities were again significant drivers of growth.
We also continue to drive strong growth in our largest regional markets with the U.S.
Asia-Pac and UK all showing very good advances.
Organic growth in LatAm was also very strong in the quarter.
From the standpoint of client sectors we saw growth across all client verticals.
The best performance came in tech and telecom financial services food and beverage and healthcare.
Our operating profit in the quarter was $192 million an increase of 12% from the year ago.
Q3 operating margin expanded 100 basis points to 10.3%.
We had leverage on both our salaries and related and office and general expenses.
Worth noting that below operating profit other expenses in the quarter includes charges totaling $38 million to dispose of certain smaller business units which were underperforming and which we deemed as non-strategic all of which were outside the U.S.
Most of the expense was non-cash.
Frank will have more color in his comments.
The after tax expense was $0.09 per diluted share in the quarter and $0.08 for the nine months.
Excluding the charge of the disposition diluted EPS for the quarter was $0.27 an increase of 29% compared to the prior period.
Looking at the first nine months organic revenue growth was 6.5% on top of 5.9% a year ago.
We posted a 17% increase to operating profit and a 34% increase in adjusted diluted EPS.
This represents industry-leading organic revenue growth and profit growth.
That's an accomplishment which all our people across the company can be proud of.
Turning back to a bit more detail on the quarter.
U.S.
organic growth was 7.1% on top of 7.9% a year ago which is an outstanding result.
We had growth at most of our agencies notably McCann Mediabrands FCB Deutsche R/GA Weber Shandwick and Golin.
International growth was 7.1% once again driven by our full range of services.
By regions we were led by 14.4% growth in LatAm where we saw increases in most national markets.
Asia-Pac increased 7.2% organically and was highlighted by our continuing strong trends in India and China.
In the UK organic growth was 5.2% on top of last year's 12% growth.
We were led by the growth of R/GA and our marketing services specialist at CMG.
In Continental Europe Q3 organic growth was essentially flat and we continue to stay focused on improving our talent and capabilities in this region.
The first nine months 6.5% organic growth reflected growth in every region of the world and contributions across all major disciplines.
Nine months operating margin growth was 100 basis points with leverage on our base payroll benefits and tax and on office and general expenses.
As we said previously supporting our best-in-class offerings as well as cost discipline and margin enhancement continue to be our top priorities and we are successfully executing against those objectives.
With respect to share repurchase during Q3 we used $70 million to repurchase 3.6 million shares.
Through nine months we've utilized approximately $172 million of share repurchases and we have $271 million remaining on our authorization as of September 30.
Since instituting our return of capital programs in 2011 we have returned $2.3 billion to shareholders in dividends and share repurchases as well as reduced our dilutive share count by 26%.
In sum our performance in the quarter and year-to-date continues to demonstrate industry leadership in the strong position of our offerings.
Heading into our important fourth quarter economic conditions in some areas of the world will present macro headwinds and uncertainties.
While those have been incorporated into our outlook the overall tone of business nonetheless remains solid and we continue to effectively manage expenses.
Previously we increased our full year 2015 organic growth target to 4% to 5%.
Our strong performance through nine months has us on track to exceed 5%.
We also remain well positioned to achieve 100 basis points of margin expansion this year the high-end of our targeted range.
With that overview I'll turn it to Frank for additional detail on our results and I'll join you after his remarks for an update on our operating units to be followed by Q&amp;A.
Thank you Michael.
Good morning.
As a reminder I'll be referring to the slide presentation that accompanies our webcast.
On slide 2 you see a summary of our results.
Organic growth was 7.1% in the third quarter evenly balanced between the U.S.
and International.
In our first nine months organic revenue growth was 6.5%.
Q3 operating profit was $192 million an increase of 12%.
For the first nine months operating profit grew 17%.
Q3 margin of 10.3% improved 100 basis points and our margin for the nine months also improved 100 basis points.
We had a below-the-line charge of $38 million for the disposition of selected non-U.S.
business units.
Most of the charge is the balance sheet write-off of currency translation adjustments built up over the years with the balance representing the net assets of the disposed businesses.
This pertains to a handful of business for which revenue was small with non-cash translation adjustments magnified by large FX changes over the years.
The impact of this charge to reported diluted EPS was $0.09 for the quarter.
Excluding the charge diluted EPS was $0.27 which compares to Q3 2014 at $0.21 a 29% increase.
Q3 fully diluted shares decreased 3% from last year due to our share repurchase program.
Turning to slide 3 you'll see our P&amp;L for the quarter.
I'll cover revenue and operating expenses in detail in the slides that follow.
I've already covered the disposition-related charges and other expenses.
Slide 4 has more detail on our revenue growth.
Revenue was $1.87 billion in the quarter an increase of 1.3%.
Compared to Q3 2014 the impact of the changing currency exchange rates was a negative 5.9% with the dollar significantly stronger in all regions of the world.
Acquisitions added 10 basis points to revenue.
The resulting organic revenue increase was 7.1%.
As you can see on the bottom half of this slide at our Integrated Agency Networks the organic increase was 8%.
This was led by our global integrated offerings at McCann and FCB by Mediabrands Deutsch and by R/GA.
IAN's growth was 7.5% over the first nine months.
At our CMG segment Q3 organic growth was 3.7%.
We continue to have very strong growth at our PR agencies notably Weber Shandwick and Golin which grew at double-digit rates.
Organic growth was 2.5% at CMG for the first nine months but was mid-single digit increase excluding the impact of lower pass-through revenues.
Moving on to slide five revenue by region.
In the U.S.
Q3 organic growth was outstanding at 7.1% with contributions coming from a very broad cross-section of agencies disciplines and client sectors.
For the nine months organic growth was 7%.
In the UK Q3 organic growth was 5.2% on top of 12.2% last year.
We had notably strong performance at R/GA McCann Octagon and Weber Shandwick.
For the nine months organic growth was 6.5%.
Continental Europe was essentially flat organically in Q3.
Our largest markets in the continent were mixed with Spain up organically Italy and France flat and Germany down.
In Asia-Pac our largest international region Q3 organic growth was 7.2% propelled by strong growth in China and India.
Growth for the nine months was 8.4% a performance that speaks to the strength of our positioning across our global integrated agencies our media business our digital specialists and our public relations offerings.
In LatAm our organic increase was 14.4% in the quarter.
We continue to see very strong performance in most national markets such as Mexico Argentina and Colombia which is consistent with the first half of the year.
We also had improved quarter in Brazil although business conditions generally remain challenging there.
In the quarter we had leading contributions to growth in the region by McCann Mediabrands R/GA and Huge.
Our Other Markets group which is made up of Canada and the Middle East and Africa grew 13.5% organically in the quarter due chiefly to strong performance in the Middle East as well as growth in Canada.
On slide six we chart the longer view of our organic revenue change on a trailing 12-month basis.
The most recent data point is 6%.
Moving on to slide seven our operating expenses.
In the third quarter total operating expenses increased 20 basis points from a year ago compared with our reported revenue growth of 1.3%.
As a result margin expanded 100 basis points.
Underneath that performance our ratio of salaries and related expenses to revenue in the quarter was 64.4% this year an improvement of 50 basis points from a year ago.
We had 50 basis points of leverage in our base payroll benefits and tax expense as well as 20 basis points on temporary labor.
Our accrual for incentives increased by 40 basis points as a percent of revenue driven by our strong operating performance.
Total head count at quarter end was approximately 48 700 an increase of 3.2% year-on-year.
The increase chiefly reflects organic hiring in support of growth in areas such as digital creative healthcare and PR as well as regionally in the U.S.
UK and Asia-Pac.
Turning to office and general expenses on the lower half of this slide O&amp;G expense was 25.3% of Q3 revenue compared with 25.8% a year ago an improvement of 50 basis points.
Our improvement was driven by leverage on expenses for occupancy travel office supplies and telecom and all other O&amp;G expense.
On slide eight we show our operating margin history on a trailing 12-month basis.
The most recent data point is 11.1%.
Turning to the current portion of our balance sheet on slide nine we ended the third quarter with $881 million cash and short-term marketable securities.
Comparison to December 31 reflects our cash level is seasonal and tends to peak at year-end.
On slide 10 we turn to our third quarter cash flow.
Cash provided by operations was $281 million compared with $176 million a year ago.
Working capital was a source of $154 million this year compared with the use of $11 million in Q3 2014.
Investing activities used $41 million in the quarter primarily for CapEx.
Financing activities used $151 million mainly in capital return to shareholders $70 million for share repurchases and $48 million for common stock dividends.
Our net increase in cash and cash equivalents for the quarter was $26 million.
On slide 11 we showed debt deleveraging from a peak of $2.35 billion in 2007 to $1.75 billion at the most recent quarter end.
In summary on slide 12 the quarter and the year-to-date represents very solid performance and progress for meeting our financial objectives for the full year.
We are seeing growth in areas where we have focused our investment on both people and acquisitions.
Our operators are focused on the appropriate cost discipline and margin expansion and our balance sheet is an important area that we continue to deploy for value going forward.
With that said let me turn it back to Michael.
Thank you Frank.
It's worth repeating that we're pleased to continue reporting strong results.
In terms of organic revenue growth and margin progress Q3 continues to make us a leader in our peer group.
Contributions came from across the portfolio in terms of agencies geography client categories all fueled by the outstanding creativity insights and digital capabilities that we have throughout Interpublic.
Our success is a reflection of the strength of our offerings and our client-centric focus.
Ultimately it is driven by the caliber of our people.
Across the group we continue to see evidence that Interpublic and our agencies are consistently a first choice for the industry's best talent.
For some time talent has been a top strategic priority for us one that has fueled our return to levels of organic growth that are fully competitive or better.
We are proud that our culture has become a differentiator for us and has our longstanding commitment to diversity and inclusion where we have a strong and established track record as the leader in our space.
On our call last quarter we drilled down and provided greater focus on the role digital expertise is playing in all of our work we do for our clients from advertising to media and marketing services.
We pointed out that unlike others in our space IPG digital capabilities have been largely grown organically and are embedded within every one of our disciplines.
This commitment to incubating new skills developing new products and services and investing in new technology has allowed us to stay highly relevant in today's digital world.
It gives us confidence that our offerings are forward facing competitive and increasingly vital to clients as they seek to navigate the complexity of media and marketing landscape.
Operationally it's clear that we continue to be disciplined in terms of cost management.
We remain focused on converting at the appropriate levels to deliver 100 basis points of margin improvement for the year.
We also remain committed to robust capital return programs that have been driving further value creation for our shareholders.
As we look to the fourth quarter the tone of the business is solid.
Clients are being measured in their approach but the year-end period will be key to delivering for all marketers and they are relying on partners that have the tools insights and capabilities to connect with the consumers across channels and drive desired business outcomes.
We remain cautious on Europe although our plans did not factor in growth in that region.
The Brazilian and Chinese economies have been challenged although our operations in those regions continue to deliver results.
The new business pipeline is solid.
Year-to-date we continue to be net new business positive and in fact near the top of the new business league tables.
The significant number of media pitches continue and it bears noting that we've been performing well to-date with a number of headline wins notably UM's win of the Coca-Cola media review J&amp;J's U.S.
media buying and planning accounts as well as CVS and McCormick which was won in collaboration with R/GA.
Those are a reflection of the cutting-edge offerings we have within Mediabrands in terms of strategic media thinkers outstanding digital and data platforms and the scale and expertise to deliver buying efficiency to some of the world's largest and most demanding clients.
An additional point that is worth repeating when it comes to emerging media is that we do not take ownership of digital media for resale to clients.
So our strong organic growth does not reflect the growth of digital media arbitrage revenue that you're seeing among some of our peers.
We take principal positions and resell owned inventory to clients at a margin.
We continue to believe that our role as an agnostic consultant is key and allows us to provide clients with the recommendations and services that are best for their business.
We also remain committed to the highest standard of transparency an area in which we've been a leader for some time.
This continues to gain in importance as the world of digital media is beset by challenges surrounding viewability and other issues that make it imperative that we serve as wholly objective partners to our clients.
McCann continues to post strong performance with outstanding creative work on its major multinationals and notable local market wins in the UK Australia and India.
We're seeing great collaboration within Worldgroup and this cross-selling and integration is helping them win new accounts as well as increase their share of wallet with existing clients.
The digital and healthcare units within McCann had strong performance.
In the healthcare space it was good to see that McCann Health and FCB Health led us to outstanding performance at the Medical Marketing and Media competition where we bested the other holding companies in terms of awards won.
Progress at FCB continues.
The agency is consistently appearing on pitch lists with notable recent wins with Lincoln Financial by the New York office BMO Harris Bank by the Toronto Office new work from Coke at FCB in South Africa and strong momentum at Inferno FCB in London.
FCB Health remains a powerhouse in its field; and the agency's shopper marketing operation FCB/RED is also a very strong resource.
At CMG our award-wining public relations Weber Shandwick and Golin continue to gain market share.
Beyond digital where both firms have been in the forefront of their discipline they are also moving into content marketing and upstream to more strategic and integrated opportunities.
We are well-positioned here and we are also seeing good progress from our sports and entertainment and experiential businesses as well as continuing improvement in the branding sector.
Focus on Mullen Lowe during the quarter was squarely on merger integration and setting the stage for a successful 2016 and beyond.
The agency's senior global leadership recently met to decide on and articulate the network's market position strategy and brand identity.
This will include both agencies' long-standing commitment to creative excellence Mullen's contemporary hyperbundled approach and Lowe's deep knowledge of dynamic international markets.
It's a combination that's working for many leading clients including Unilever and we look forward to seeing it build positive momentum in the marketplace.
Our U.S.
independents continue to be a source of strength for Interpublic.
Deutsch is an example of the benefits of combining big creative ideas with a fully-integrated suite of digital capabilities.
The Markham Agency Hill Holliday and Carmichael Lynch are other agencies that deliver with this model and provide us with a range of options that can meet the needs of domestic clients.
In terms of digital our offerings are consistently outstanding whether it be our social media capabilities at Weber and Golin Cadreon and AMP within Mediabrands or the integrated digital capabilities at all of our brand agencies.
MRM is a top-tier digital network and the close collaboration we have seen between them and McCann is elevating the overall Worldgroup offering just as the integration of Profero and Mediahub are significantly strengthening Mullen Lowe's go-to-market positioning.
We're also fortunate to have R/GA the undisputed leader in digital and technology-enabled marketing.
They continue to win business and awards as well as innovate with programs such as the R/GA Accelerators that give us a line of sight into terrific startups with ideas and technology that will play a role in shaping the future of communications and consumer experience.
Our current Accelerator is taking place in Los Angeles in collaboration with the LA Dodgers and the participating companies span every aspect of connected sport from athlete training to venue management to new social channels on which consumers can share their passion for sports.
Huge is another digital specialist that has performed exceptionally well for us.
Beyond its industry-leading strategic consulting design and UX practices the agency recently made news when it opened a coffee shop in its Atlanta office to serve as a real-time lab in which we will develop and test digital retail innovations for both current and prospective clients.
For us at Interpublic the new business of advertising means that we encourage ambitious change across the entire organization.
By providing access to emerging and transformative technologies we develop programs that help us attract talent and create work that puts the user experience first all in the service of our clients.
Looking to the balance of this year we stay vigilant on cost so as to ensure that we can deliver on our margin commitment.
There are geographic markets that we will need to monitor but performance for the first nine months has been very strong and positions us well for a strong close to the full year.
As mentioned in my initial remarks we believe that given our performance to-date the appropriate organic revenue growth targets in the new year is in excess of 5% and that we are on track to deliver 100 basis points of operating margin improvement at the end of our initial target for the year – at the high end of our initial target.
Moving forward we're therefore closer to achieving our previously stated goal of 13%.
Combined with our company's financial strength and robust return of capital which have been and will continue to be a source of significant value creation this will allow us to further enhance shareholder value.
With that I'd like to thank you for your time and continued support and open the call up to questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
Your first question comes from the line of Alexia Quadrani of JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
My first question I guess for Michael.
You continue to show such impressive organic revenue growth with some of the highest organic growth this quarter I think I can remember maybe in several years now I guess and even on difficult comps.
I guess can you provide a bit more color on what's causing this incremental change? Is it that more of your agencies are doing very well? Is it that you've got tailwind from one of the new businesses you've won? Is it the overall macro environment? Is it client budgets? I guess any color that can sort of point to what's getting you even incrementally stronger in organic growth.
Thank you Alexia.
All of the above.
Look none of this is by accident.
We started on this journey by clearly investing in talent.
And I think what you're seeing right now is the fact that the talent that we've embedded within all our organizations is really shining in terms of what clients are looking for in terms of moving the needle with their business.
But creative talent and overall talent needs tools and resources within the organization to make sure we can deliver on that.
So we've invested in all these tools and resources throughout the company.
And finally we really are a client-centric environment.
And so everyone is focusing on the needs of the clients.
And therefore we're focusing on what we can bring to the resources within IPG to the client to meet those needs.
We're seeing success in our open architecture model where if you look at the business wins all of our agencies are aware of the fact that if their particular disciplines need other resources from IPG they raise their hand and we bring the additional IPG resources to the table.
And frankly we're getting a reputation in the marketplace appropriately that we do this very well and we really focus on the needs of the clients versus our own silos.
And I think the new business wins that we're seeing as well as the embedded growth we're seeing in our existing client base really is indicative of the fact that all the IPG resources are available to move the needle with our client and we're executing against that.
But in the end it takes people and belief by those people that they have a huge resource base behind them.
And the other thing which I particularly like is when I participate in a lot of these pitches what we see in the room are cross disciplines either from within the agencies or outside IPG and it's not uncommon for the client to come up to me and say I didn't even realize which individuals were from which discipline and that's really what clients are looking for in their resources.
So I'm particularly proud of all our agencies whether it be our traditional agencies our digital agencies our marketing services PR I mean across the board we're all doing quite well.
And just a follow-up if I can on profitability.
I know you don't discuss margins necessarily by region but maybe you can talk just generally.
You've seen a long period now where you've seen a lot more stability in your European operations.
Are you seeing maybe better profitability in that area now that you've seen stability for a while or markets such as Germany which are still weak really pulling it down for you? Well clearly we're seeing better profitability.
That doesn't mean better is where we want to be.
I mean it's always been a challenge for profitability in Europe for us.
We've taken a lot of actions.
We've repositioned assets.
We brought in new management.
We've reduced layers of people and it's a very competitive market and it's great to see us on the positive side for the nine months.
As I said in my remarks we are not counting on a big recovery.
But the profitability side of it is moving forward but it's still not at the levels we want it to be.
So we've got more work to do in Continental Europe but we've made great strides towards that.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Next question comes from the line of John Janedis of Jefferies.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Michael there's been a lot of talk in the market recently about the viability of the agency model and offerings.
And with all the recent pitches have you seen a change in the groups you're competing against? And for the business you've won are there pieces of the business that you would typically work on that went to maybe non-traditional players? Well yeah.
The viability of the models you know it's funny.
I gave a talk at IAB and I put up my favorite slide which is a quote that says the agency business is going to be disintermediated and is basically doomed and then I go to the next slide and it's a quote in 1975.
So I mean there are always people out there saying that the competitors and there are other disciplines whether it be ad tech or smaller agencies.
In the end we have the resources and capabilities that can compete with any resource out there.
And frankly when we don't have it yes we use outside parties.
We work well with them.
It's incumbent upon us to know what we do well and what we don't do well.
And that's what this whole concept of open architecture is all about John and that is we're looking at the client first and if we don't have a resource internally and when I say internally I mean within IPG it's not uncommon for us to use outside resources to help us.
And frankly that's what shows clients that we're thinking of them versus ourselves.
And yeah we end up dealing with non-traditional people whether it be on the ad tech side.
Even in some of the production we don't like it but even some of the production facilities that clients request us to use we have to be in a world now where collaboration works and the collaboration starts with us.
And if it's not within our organization we have to be able to collaborate with other parties that clients are happy with.
So we're able to do all of that and sometimes working with the third parties turns out to be a lot smoother than sometimes working with ourselves which is shame on us but that's the reality of the world out there.
So the world is changing and our model has to change with this.
And I think that's one of the things you're seeing why we're being successful in that we're not wedded to the silo mentality of the past.
We have to collaborate.
We have to collaborate within IPG and we have to collaborate outside of IPG with other parties.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then just separately as you mentioned you picked up some good wins since your last call and also year-to-date.
Can you update us on any potential tailwinds on organic as they roll in maybe for either the balance of the year or into next year? Well I said we're net new business positive.
So by definition if we're net new business positive we're going to move into the year with tailwinds.
But we still have the fourth quarter to go.
The fourth quarter is our biggest quarter.
It's project based so we're waiting to see how that comes in.
We have a number of reviews still out there.
It's unlikely that those reviews will impact 2015.
So it will affect 2016 numbers and we're cautiously optimistic on those reviews that we had.
The fact that we've been successful on the media reviews in particular obviously we're feeling comfortable going into the finals of some of the media pitches that are out there but you never know with these pitches but we're very comfortable with how we're positioned in them.
So if we're successful with those or at least some of those we'll certainly go into 2016 with tailwinds.
Thanks so much.
Next question comes from the line of David Bank of the RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Okay.
Thanks.
First off Michael whatever is in the Kool-Aid over there you can feel free to sprinkle it on the rest of S&amp;P 500 and we'll be as much happier than we're currently feeling.
We're beginning to feel a little bit like Dan Murphy but...
Yes you are seeing the ball really well right now.
Exactly David.
Thank you.
But on a more serious note I guess so I think – as a bit of a follow-up to a couple of other questions before but it's early days lots of headlines but early days on some longer-term changes that I think we as outsiders are trying to understand about how the business is changing programmatically for instance right? And we look at these things and we see things that appear to be able to be done mechanically more efficiently and we kind of worry that maybe that takes some value out of the chain that you'll be paid for.
And I think on the flip side we can see – so we see headlines about that.
What we don't often see headlines about are what is the traction that you're getting on your skill set in helping clients leverage off these mechanical solutions right? Like what is the counterbalance to growing fees on integrating these third party and your own-party products and frankly just helping clients navigate how to use these mechanical solutions? Can you talk about how you're seeing that so far? Is there a financial impact yet? How do you help us understand it? I think the key to making a success out of that there's no question that there's a trend there and we can discuss all sorts of reasons why that trend is there.
But our job is to work with our clients okay? It's interesting.
I was just talking to our folks on a pitch that we just had this week.
And there we had a presentation on Cadreon and programmatic.
Obviously that's a very strong asset of IPG.
It's growing tremendously both in the marketplace and competitively and yet the client is considering taking that inside.
So as part of the pitch we present ideas and our people from Cadreon present what we're doing and you see the client sitting there saying oh my goodness.
How come we didn't think of that? How come we didn't think of this? So yeah we work with our clients who are intending to bring some of it inside.
In the end we act as integrators okay? I mean our job – and I've always said this confusion is good for us and the reason it's good for us is we get paid to help make sense out of all of this.
And if clients are looking to us to help them do this we have to be able to respond and if it means helping them bring it inside that's okay but they're still going to need the current thinking and the investments that we make in these tools that clients just aren't in a position to make.
And frankly the talent that we're able to recruit in that environment is so different than to the talent that you can recruit internally on a siloed basis.
So yeah clients are bringing it in.
It's not a threat it's just another tool that clients have that they want us to work with in the overall integrated offering and we have to be able to do that.
The history of our industry is when clients bring things internally a lot of times it comes back.
And the reason for it is the ability to recruit talent as well as to keep investing in the tools and resources that you need to be current.
So yeah it's a phenomenon.
There's no question about it and clients are trying to do it internally but I think they'll find in the long-term that we still have a role to play here in helping them accomplish what they're looking for but at the same time using the tools and resources that we have that they're not capable of developing.
So we don't fight it; we actually help them do it.
Again that's one piece of the puzzle.
I mean again if there's a relationship with the client it has to be broad and it has to be seen as that we're in a partnership with the client.
And we have all these different resources that we bring to the table.
And if the client feels comfortable asking us to help them we don't view it as them taking business away from us; it's part of what our role is and we have to build it into our model.
But it's a reality – but it's been a reality for years in this industry and it just changes different forms.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you David.
Next question comes from the line of Peter Stabler from Wells Fargo Securities.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
Actually I want to follow on yet again on John and David questions here Michael.
So with regard to the reviews we see headlines out there sometimes from large clients suggesting that they are going to use the review process to drive down their aggregate fees right? Just wondering if you could comment on that the idea that coming out of this process as the dust settles that the total fee envelope available to all of you guys is smaller.
And I guess the other piece of this that doesn't get talked about as much is the situations where the scope of work actually expands.
So wondering if you could talk a little bit about the first part and then what kind of expansion might you see as you get into these reviews where who knows fees could actually go up? Thanks very much.
Well yeah no.
I mean look any review that takes place clearly has a view towards what they call efficiency.
Efficiencies obviously means fee reductions.
And clients for generations have been looking for more for less.
So it's something we're very much used to and it puts the burden on us to be more efficient but yet we have to be able to meet the needs of the clients.
And yeah that presents problems in terms of us maintaining margin.
But again remember this is only one piece of the puzzle.
When we talk about margins it's aggregate margins in all the different disciplines and resources.
And sure on some basic contract work that we have in scope margins may be a little bit less than they may have been before.
But in the end it's our opportunity and clients expect it for us to be able to bring in new ideas that help them move the needle and that's what is called – known as out-of-scope work.
And out-of-scope work is something that typically we get higher margins on.
That's the way our business works.
And clients know that.
But first they have to start with a line in the sand.
So these reviews establish a line in the sand in terms of scope of work and fees that'll be available.
And we have to work within that model.
And it's incumbent upon us to make sure that the additional work that we do and clients understand that if it's out-of-scope they have to pay for it and we typically make better margins on the out-of-scope work.
That's not a secret in our industry.
And clients know it.
And the other part of it is this is a value-based environment.
And if we can show that we're moving the needle and clients value the type of the ideas that we're bringing to them and the fact that it's in fact proving the results that we believe it can do clients have incentive fees with us there are performance-based contracts that we have on – particularly on the media side of the business.
So there are vehicles that we have to develop opportunities for us to enhance margins.
And that's the way the business is.
And so we don't view procurement as a bad word.
We don't view these reviews as necessarily being only with a view towards fee reductions.
The other reason these reviews are taking place is because they want to see if they're getting best-in-class offerings.
And frankly if I was a client I'd be asking the same thing.
So we approach these reviews even when we're incumbents as an opportunity to show clients and future clients what we can bring to the table what resources we have and how we can work differently with them to move the needle.
What's interesting is the incumbents usually start out as why haven't you brought this to us before? So therefore if you look at the history of reviews incumbents generally don't do well.
But when you really drill down on it incumbents have been dealing within a certain playbook both with the client and ourselves.
These reviews open up a different playbook.
And that means there's got to be change both on the client's side as well as our side.
And I see that's what's happening in a number of these reviews.
Clients are recognizing that their approach isn't necessarily the right approach and they're willing to think of a different approach that we can bring to the table and that means opportunity.
Every time we get to work with our clients and show what we can do it presents opportunities for us across the board.
So that's how we approach it.
Thanks Michael.
Next question comes from the line of Ben Swinburne from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I guess I have to be the guy Michael to ask about the ANA stuff.
So...
Oh shucks.
I thought I was going through a call without you Ben.
I'll take the bullet.
But...
Okay.
It was announced yesterday and generally what we thought was going to happen from where you sit when you look at who they've hired and everything you know about the process do you expect any impact on Interpublic Group or what from your perspective should we be looking for from this process if anything? It's not a surprise to anybody.
So I don't know why people all of a sudden are shocked and so on.
The ANA has been talking about this.
The 4A's has been talking about it.
Everybody's been talking about it.
So the fact that the ANA hired two firms to do it to help them with it is not a surprise to us at all.
Obviously we've dealt with these firms before not so much to call as much as the other one.
But we've been talking about transparency.
It started with us frankly 10 years ago maybe it's 11 years now time flies when you're having a good time on this whole issue of rebates and so this is nothing that we're afraid of.
We've been very clear on rebate issues for 10 years now.
It's in all our contracts.
We welcome – in fact in all these reviews we have audit capabilities from our clients to come in and review this.
So this isn't new for us.
And as part of the verification and audit that we have within our own systems clients are welcome to come in and in fact we do share with them results from that and one of the firms that's doing this actually we worked with in the past.
So this isn't really nothing new for our industry.
Any type of review like this everyone raises questions of what they're going to find.
It's unfortunate that the headlines particularly in Europe have made it look like this is a criminal investigation.
Last I looked ANA doesn't have the ability to subpoena.
If you read these headlines you would think that that's what was going on.
That's not what's going on.
It's a look into the practices within an industry.
That's nothing new.
This is an industry organization making sure that their constituents are comfortable what's going on in the practice and we've been dealing with this all along.
So from an IPG perspective we're very comfortable on rebate transparency.
We're very comfortable on contractual transparency.
We have it in all our contracts and verification and review was part of our process.
So there's nothing in any of that that concerns us.
That's very helpful.
Thank you.
I just wanted to follow up on the digital buying front which I know is a part of your business not all of your business but one that gets a lot of focus.
What you've done with Cadreon can you talk about how much you've been able to get all your different agencies to leverage that platform when they buy media? Or do you still have certain pockets of your organization that are doing it on their own? It seems like a pretty complex organizational challenge to have sort of this centralized platform.
But I'm imagining as you go through these reviews it's just a huge part of the conversation.
So maybe if you could just talk about from a management perspective how you guys are set up and how it's working? Well look the key to this is obviously our multinational clients that go through Mediabrands they're clearly using Cadreon.
And that's part of their business model.
We have a number of agencies that do their own buying that have their own capabilities and that's fine.
But frankly from a business management point of view we always argue.
Whenever we have the operating reviews of our businesses and they talk about it they all think they have a better model.
And if their better model is working that's terrific.
But it seems that the efficiencies that can be gotten by dealing with a Mediabrands platform in terms of current thinking and resources just is compelling.
And frankly I wish some of our agencies would use it more but certainly the bulk of our media buying is going through that.
Got it.
And then I just – go ahead.
There's always opportunities for more but clearly the bulk of it is going through Cadreon.
Just one last one for Frank totally different topic.
I think you guys had in the last year about $1.3 billion of NOLs.
And I think a lot of that stuff is overseas.
As you guys create more profitability particularly in Europe can you access those more rapidly which of course increases the value of those NOLs? Just any color on kind of how we think about cash taxes as the business continues to do so well.
You're right Ben.
Most of the NOLs are in Europe for the most part.
So the increased profitability in Europe is helpful in accessing those NOLs.
Our cash tax rate this year we're seeing to meet 27% 28%.
It was high teens to low 20s% for the last three years but we've burned through all of our U.S.
NOLs where a lot of our profitability is.
Yeah.
I'll weigh in a little bit on that Frank.
Sure.
I am a tax guy.
Some of these...
Apologize for not directing it to the right guy.
He's on a roll Ben.
Keep going.
All right.
Some of these NOLs in these countries are country-centric.
It's not just Europe okay.
Yeah.
So the additional challenge is generating profitability within those countries.
And obviously we get involved in tax planning in terms of where revenue is being generated.
So that's why we have a great tax department who's responsible for making sure that our contracts are reflecting that.
And we are what we call optimizing using our NOLs and we are very focused on doing that.
Thank you.
Next question comes from the line of Dan Salmon from BMO Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Hey.
Good morning everyone.
Michael could you talk a little bit about the hiring of Simon Bond? I know he was the big new business champion over at BBDO.
I'm just curious about the role being at the holding company level.
Is it largely still focused on new business? Or is there a little bit more responsibility around coordinating amongst the agencies a little bit? Thinking of your comments earlier about the success of sort of an open architecture.
Is it to help facilitate that a little bit as well too? Oh absolutely.
Look we already have some very talented people within IPG who work on these multinational open-architecture client situations where they're working with the units themselves whether it be FCB whether it be McCann whether it be Lowe.
And it's their responsibility to work with the people within these agencies to make sure that the needs of the clients are being met with all the resources of IPG.
We were fortunate to have an opportunity to recruit Simon to our organization.
And clearly his responsibility will be both on the new business side but also on these open-architecture pitches.
More and more these RFPs are coming into the holding company.
They're coming directly to me actually which is why I have to look at my emails every day but it really comes in to the holding company.
And they are saying you tell us which is the best way you want to approach this RFP.
So someone like Simon with his vast experience in new business and client focus and frankly his knowledge of the consulting industry and the relationships he has is a tremendous asset for us.
And frankly Simon has already been involved with a number of our agencies' pitches that are going on right now.
And he's a resource and we're from the home office and we're here to help.
And some of our agencies have already tapped in to Simon to help them in terms of their pitch.
You know he is fantastic in terms of new business pitches and he has actually gone in and helped these agencies.
And frankly we had a couple of wins that he helped in terms of the presentations.
So the fact that we were able to recruit Simon is an indication to me that this whole notion of open architecture is one that is resonating in the industry and our reputation for being a holding company that collaborates with all the agencies within the holding company is real and I think his presence along with the other individuals within IPG whether it be Peter or Terry they all work very closely with our agencies and they know that they are there to be helpful to our agencies.
The pitches themselves are coming in different forms and we have to be able to respond and the needs of the clients.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Did Simon ask you to raise that question? Next question comes from the line of Tim Nollen from Macquarie.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
Just taking a very high level view IPG has come a long long long way since you've both been there.
And it seems to me if I may be so bold you're probably in what I would say the eighth inning of your recovery or maybe in the top of the ninth.
Correct me if you think that's too optimistic.
You do have some margin to recover yet.
Yes.
Inc.</span></strong> You've seen still some relatively high salary and service numbers.
You mentioned Europe requiring some work to get back to more better profitability.
I just wonder with all this put together what do you think are the last steps that need to be taken to really get you to that 13% target or just how do you think about really getting through that final hurdle if that's the right way to think about it? Well we're constantly thinking about how to get through that hurdle because that's obviously a main objective for all of us.
We are well on our way and you're right.
I call it the eighth ninth inning whatever you want we're making great progress and it's clearly within our sights to accomplish that.
So we're feeling pretty positive about that.
Look we are a variable cost model.
Our biggest variable cost is SRS.
It's not a secret.
We said what we have to do is focus on that and you can focus on that by generating revenue which is what we've been doing and keeping an eye on the cost pressures in the SRS.
So we've done a great job on O&amp;G and that's showing the improvement even in the third quarter and we see an improvement there.
We've seen leverage.
We've seen at least 50 basis points.
And if it worked through the pass-throughs it's really 80 basis points this quarter in terms of leverage on SRS.
So we're very focused on it and we just have to continue to do that.
And we see that there's still opportunity to do it and that's how we're going to get there.
Tim it's probably more agency-specific now than it is IPG specific.
So as we look to the last inning or inning and a half it's getting those certain agencies that aren't where they need to be profitability-wise to cross the goal line.
Yeah.
And let's face it we use incentives within – our agency goals are focused on margin improvement and they know that the best way to get margin improvement is to keep an eye on their SRS ratio.
So it's both monitored as Frank said from the agency as well as from our reviews at the holding company.
So this isn't rocket sciences business and we're very comfortable in our ability to manage that.
I think we've proven that we know how to manage that.
We can do this and I've said this before we can get there tomorrow.
But a part of this is making sure we have the talents and resources to generate growth.
So on a longer-term basis had we not had the talents and resources that we had within all our different agencies we wouldn't be delivering the results that you're seeing right now.
So if we starve the pipeline of people and got our SRS ratios in line quicker yeah we may achieve our goal but our long-term viability would be adversely affected.
I kind of like the way we're doing it now.
If you're looking at 80 basis point to 100 basis point margin improvement that clips along the way we're going to get there.
We just don't – we're not going to get there tomorrow.
And it would be silly for us to shoot ourselves in the foot and do something dramatic that would get us there.
Just look at the write-off that we're having.
We're focusing on unprofitable businesses that are in geographic locations that aren't necessary that are a drag on our P&amp;L and so this time the $38 million it's four to five locations in areas that we don't have to be.
They were dilutive.
And we either sold them or closed them.
And that's how we get there.
We're constantly looking at those types of opportunities.
Inc.</span></strong> No I wasn't at all suggesting you should accelerate the process and get to 13% tomorrow.
It's more to say a 100 basis points margin improvement this year is great.
If the market holds and you do well and you have new account wins maybe that's a similar target for next year and then you're getting there already.
I just wonder – and I think you've answered you've done a lot of work with your individual agencies over the years.
Is it really just a matter of like finding some last bits to clear out win some business having the scale and just letting the operating leverage take over is that the way to think of it? Yeah I mean that's it.
It's like everything else's execution.
And we – with the changes we've made across all the networks in both people and structure we put them all in and Lowe together this past year I'm very comfortable with our leadership across the board.
We've brought Henry in to run Mediabrands; Alex to run Lowe Mullen.
And obviously Harris and Carter are doing great jobs.
So I'm very comfortable with our leadership and very confident that we'll get to our objectives.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Great job.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
We do not have further questions on queue.
Speakers you may proceed.
Well I thank you all for participating.
I look forward to our next call which will report our year-end results.
Have a great holidays.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome the Interpublic Group Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All parties are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer portion.
.
This conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Mr.
Jerry Leshne Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
We have posted our earnings release and our slide presentation on our website interpublic.com.
This morning we are joined by Michael Roth and Frank Mergenthaler.
We will begin with prepared remarks to be followed by Q&amp;A.
We plan to conclude before market open at 9:30 AM Eastern.
During this call we will refer to forward-looking statements about our company.
These are subject to the uncertainties in the cautionary statement that are included in our earnings release and the slide presentation and are further detailed in our 10-K and other filings with the SEC.
We will also refer to certain non-GAAP measures.
We believe that these measures provide useful supplemental data that while not a substitute for GAAP measures allow for greater transparency in the review of our financial and operational performance.
At this point it is my pleasure to turn things over to Michael Roth.
Thank you Jerry and thank you all for joining us this morning as we review our results for the fourth quarter and 2015.
As usual I'll start out by covering the highlights of our performance; Frank will then provide additional details; and I'll conclude with an update on our agencies to be followed by our Q&amp;A.
We're pleased to report a very strong performance for both the fourth quarter and full year.
Among the financial highlights organic revenue growth was 5.2% in the quarter which brought our organic growth to 6.1% for the full year.
In 2015 we grew organically in every major region of the world and across nearly all major agencies and client sectors.
Operating margin in the quarter was 20.8% an increase of 120 basis points marking our highest Q4 margins in at least a decade.
Full-year operating margin was 11.5% an increase of a 100 basis points from 2014 which is at the high-end of the range we targeted coming in to the year.
Operating profit increased 11% for the full year.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the year was up 23% to $1.21 from $0.98 in 2014.
That excludes a loss of $0.12 per share this year largely non-cash due to the disposition of non-strategic businesses in the third and fourth quarters.
Fourth quarter adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.66 excluding a loss of $0.03 per share for business dispositions.
Over the last two years in a very fast changing and competitive industry we have achieved total organic revenue growth of 12% which is outstanding compared to our principal peers.
During that two-year span we have also increased operating profit by 32% and comparable diluted EPS by 55%.
All of our people can take pride in these accomplishments.
Their talent the great work they do every day on behalf of our clients what drives such terrific results in the marketplace.
We thank them for their hard work and dedication.
Returning to the fourth quarter organic revenue growth was 5.2%.
Currency had a negative 5.5% impact on revenue while net business dispositions were a negative 20 basis points.
We posted notably strong growth in the U.S.
Asia-Pac UK and LatAm.
Continental Europe remain challenged although the region did show modest organic growth for the full year.
Our Q4 growth reflects contributions from all major disciplines including advertising media public relation.
We continue to have especially strong performance from the digital services embedded across the portfolio as well as growth at digital specialists R/GA Huge and MRM//McCann.
At the agency level a wide range of our portfolio contributed to growth led by McCann Mediabrands FCB Weber Shandwick Golin Octagon and FutureBrand.
The top-performing client sectors in Q4 were tech and telecom healthcare and financial services.
New business was another highlight of the quarter.
In media we were pleased to add Johnson &amp; Johnson's global buying and planning to the roster of 2015 media wins.
That includes U.S.
responsibilities for J&amp;J Coca-Cola and CVS.
Creative wins in the quarter included Verizon Wireless MGM Resorts ALDI Nord and Bank of America's retail business.
As a result our net new business was positive in Q4 as it has been through the year.
Operating expenses were again well managed.
Underneath organic growth of 5.2% in the quarter our organic operating expense increase was 3.1%.
The result was Q4 operating margin expansion of 120 basis points.
For the full year operating margin expansion of 100 basis points reflects leverage on both our salaries and related and our office and general expenses.
During Q4 we repurchased 5 million shares using $113 million.
For the full year we utilized $285 million for the repurchase of 14 million shares.
In our year-end share count eligible for dilution decreased 3% compared to 2014.
This activity built on a sustained capital return program that we initiated in 2011 since that time we've returned a total of $2.5 billion to shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchase and we reduced our outstanding shares eligible for dilution by over 25%.
In addition on the strength of our operating results we have announced this morning our board's decision to raise IPG's quarterly dividend by 25% to $0.15 per share.
This marks our third consecutive year of higher dividends with annual increases of 25% or more.
We also announced that our board has authorized an additional $300 million for share repurchase.
Combined with $159 million remaining on our existing authorization as of the beginning of the year this brings the total amount available for share repurchase to $459 million.
These actions demonstrate our confidence in the financial and operational strength of IPG as well as our future prospects.
Turning to our 2016 outlook it's encouraging to see our agencies competing so successfully in the marketplace.
We continue to convert growth to operating profit at a high level and we remain committed to a disciplined use of capital that can further drive shareholder value.
As you can see in our results today the tones of business remains solid through year-end in most major world regions.
And we all know that marketing is becoming increasingly complex and dynamic every day due to the pace of technological innovation and shifting consumer behavior.
This represents further opportunity for our company as well as our industry.
Given these trends as well as the overall strength of our offerings we are well positioned to continue to deliver solid growth.
There are however factors that require us to temper our outlook.
Of course our industry-leading results for past two years sets a high bar for comparable performance in 2016.
Moreover in certain markets macro conditions present uncertainties and even headwinds.
This is true most clearly in Brazil but also with respect to markets such as Continental Europe and the Middle East.
There is also concern for slowing in China.
The currency environment remains volatile which could have negative effects on client spending.
As we said since the start of the year there is significant volatility in the financial markets.
As a result the uncertainty we're all experiencing leads us to approach the new year with a degree of caution.
Notwithstanding this environment for 2016 we are currently targeting 3% to 4% organic growth.
Net acquisitions to date should add another 50 basis points to our growth in the year.
It's worth noting that at current FX rates the currency impact to our top line as well as to our operating expenses is expected to be approximately negative 2.5% for the full year.
Along with this level of growth we expect to continue to build on our record operating margin expansion.
We are therefore targeting an additional 50 basis points or more of margin improvement in 2016 which would bring us to at least 12% closer to our objective of 13% operating margin or better.
As always as the year unfolds we will regularly review our perspective when we report back to you during our quarterly calls.
At this stage I'll turn things over to Frank for additional details on the results.
Good morning.
As a reminder I will be referring to the slide presentation that accompanies our webcast.
On slide two you'll see a summary of our results.
Fourth quarter organic growth was 5.2%.
U.S.
organic growth was 6.2% and international organic growth was 4.1% with all major regions except Continental Europe which decreased only slightly.
For the full year all regions were up organically and organic growth was 6.1%.
Q4 operating margin was 20.8% compared with 19.6% a year ago.
For the full year operating margin increased 100 basis points to 11.5% and operating profit increased 11%.
For the quarter diluted earnings per share was $0.63 and was $0.66 excluding expense of $0.03 per share for business dispositions which is reflected pre-tax in our other expense line.
Full-year diluted EPS was $1.09 per share and would have been $1.21 per share excluding business dispositions expense in Q3 and Q4 which were largely non-cash.
We purchased 14 million shares for $285 million during the year.
As Michael mentioned we announced this morning that our board has once again significantly increased our common share dividend to $0.15 per share quarterly and added $300 million to our share repurchase authorization.
Turning to slide three you'll see our P&amp;L for the quarter.
I'll cover revenue expenses in detail on the slides that follow.
Here it is worth noting a few below-the-line items.
The $12 million of expense for the dispositions of a few non-strategic agency offices is reflected in our other expense line below operating income.
Our effective tax rate adjusted for the dispositions was 33.1% in the fourth quarter and 35.2% for the full year which compares favorably to last year's adjusted tax rate.
Our tax rate has been volatile from year-to-year given our operations in over 100 countries our utilization of loss carry-forwards and the requirements of adjusting valuation allowances.
In 2015 our effective tax rate benefited from the implementation of planning strategies and from the net reversal of small tax valuation allowances in the fourth quarter.
We expect our normalized effective rate will be in the range of 37% to 39% in 2016.
It is also worth noting that our cash tax rate in 2015 was 29%.
Turning to revenue on slide four.
Fourth quarter revenue was $2.2 billion.
Compared to Q4 2014 the impact of the change in exchange rates was a negative 5.5% while net dispositions were negative 20 basis points.
The resulting organic increase was 5.2%.
For the full year the strength of the U.S.
dollar continued to have a significant translation impact on reported revenues and operating expenses in all international regions.
Revenue growth for 2015 was therefore 1% consisting of 6.1% organic growth and a positive 30 basis points from net acquisitions while currency was a negative 5.4%.
It's worth noting that our pass-through revenue decreased approximately $25 million organically in 2015 compared to 2014 which was an impact of 30 basis points in organic growth.
Lower pass-through revenues are offset dollar for dollar however by lower O&amp;G expense.
We anticipate a similar negative pass-through impact of 30 basis points to 50 basis points in total organic growth in 2016 which is reflected in the growth targets Michael shared earlier.
On the bottom portion of this slide Q4 revenue growth balanced between our IAN and CMG segments which had growth of 4.9% and 6.5% respectively.
For the full year organic growth at IAN was a robust 6.7%.
At CMG organic growth was 3.6% for the year with the important qualifier that this is where we see a disproportionately large impact from decreasing pass-through revenue on the smaller of the two segments.
Underlying growth at CMG was high-single digit percent.
Moving on to slide five revenue by region.
In the U.S.
Q4 organic growth was 6.2% driven by growth from existing clients and net new business.
We were led by our largest fully integrated networks McCann and FCB as well as by Mediabrands R/GA and Huge.
We had strong performance from PR agencies Weber Shandwick and Golin.
Among client sectors tech and telecom and healthcare continue to be growth leaders.
For the full year U.S.
organic growth was 6.8% with increases across all major disciplines with sector leadership from tech and telecom and healthcare.
Turning to international markets the UK grew 7% organically in Q4.
We continue to see solid performance from McCann and FCB and had notable growth at Jack Morton.
UK organic growth was 6.6% for the full year.
In Continental Europe the environment for growth continue to be challenging and our agency's revenue change in the quarter was negative 80 basis points.
In our largest markets we had moderate growth in Germany but that was offset by decreases in France Spain and Italy.
For the full year organic growth for Continental Europe was a positive 1.4%.
Overall the Continent represented 9% of our 2015 revenue mix.
In Asia-Pacific our largest international region organic revenue growth was 7.9% in Q4.
That was on top of 13% growth a year-ago.
Among our largest national markets we had solid increases in India Australia and China.
We had growth across most of our agencies including Mediabrands McCann Mullen Lowe Jack Morton Weber Shandwick and R/GA.
For the year organic growth in the region was 8.3% paced by double-digit growth in China India Singapore and Hong Kong.
In LatAm we grew 5.5% organically in the quarter on top of 11% growth a year-ago.
We continue to see strong performance in Argentina Mexico and Colombia along with a slight decrease in Brazil due to continued macro headwinds.
Our growth in the region is led by McCann Huge and R/GA.
For the year organic growth was 4.7%.
In our other markets group revenue increased 60 basis points organically on top of 12% organic growth in Q4 2014.
This group is made up of Canada the Middle East and Africa.
For the year organic growth was 4.8% with strong performance in the Middle East and Canada.
On slide six we chart the longer view of our organic revenue change on a trailing 12-month basis.
Most recent data point is 6.1% for calendar 2015.
Moving on to slide seven our operating expenses.
In the fourth quarter the organic increase in our operating expenses was 3.1% compared with 5.2% organic revenue growth.
Salaries and related expense decreased to 56.2% for the fourth quarter revenue compared with 57.4% a year ago.
That was mainly due to lower incentive and other performance-based expenses in the quarter.
Incentive expenses were accrued at a higher level over the first nine months of this year compared to 2014 due to strong operating performance throughout the year.
Base payroll benefits and tax increased as a percentage of revenue in Q4 mainly due to the impact of currency changes.
Office and general expenses were 23% of fourth quarter revenue this year the same level as last year.
For the full year operating expenses increased 4.8% on an organic basis compared to organic revenue growth of 6.1%.
Looking at the sources of operating leverage for the full year our ratio of salaries and related expenses to revenue improved 20 basis points to 63.8% from 64% in 2014.
Underneath that base payroll benefits and tax expense was 52.7% of revenue compared to 52.6% a year ago.
But it is worth noting this ratio would have improved by 20 basis points if not for the decrease in our pass-through revenue which is offset in our O&amp;G expenses.
Expense for temporary labor was 3.6% of revenue for the full-year 2015 compared to 3.8% a year-ago.
Incentive expense was 3.7% of revenue for the full year compared to 3.5% in 2014 reflecting strong performance against our financial targets almost entirely in our long-term incentive programs.
Severance expense was 0.9% of revenue in 2015 the same level as the year-ago.
Our other salaries and related category was 2.9% of revenue compared with 3.2% in 2014.
Year-end head count was approximately 49 000 an increase of 3.6%.
The increases were due to hire in growth areas of our portfolio including McCann Mediabrands Public Relations and for digital talent notably in support of new business wins.
Turning to office and general expenses for the full year O&amp;G was 24.7% of revenue compared to 25.6% in 2014.
We had operating leverage on nearly all of our O&amp;G categories as our real estate purchasing shared service and IT teams continue to drive significant efficiencies.
That includes 40 basis points on occupancy 10 basis points on telecom office supplies and travel and 50 basis points on all other O&amp;G which includes the benefits of lower pass-throughs.
On slide eight we show our operating margin history on a trailing 12-month basis.
As the chart reflects with the most recent data point 11.5% we have come a long way.
There is still work to be done and we remain highly focused on attaining our long-term goal.
Slide nine is provided for clarity on the impact of business dispositions on our diluted earnings per share.
As shown here our loss on sales of businesses was $12 million in Q4 and with minimal tax benefit resulting in a loss of $0.03 per diluted share.
For the full year at right the expense of our business sales was $50 million before tax with again only a small tax yield.
Result was a loss of $0.12 per diluted share for the year.
In sum the adjusted EPS comparison is $1.21 per share for this year and $0.98 per share for 2014.
Turning to slide 10 the current portion of our balance sheet.
We ended the year with $1.51 billion of cash and short-term marketable securities which compared to $1.67 billion a year ago.
We returned $481 million to shareholders during the year through our share repurchase and common stock dividends.
On slide 11 we turn to cash flow for the full year.
Cash from operations in 2015 was $674 million compared with $670 million a year ago.
That includes $118 million used in working capital compared with $131 million a year ago.
Our investing activities used $203 million in the year including $161 million for CapEx and $29 million for acquisitions.
Our M&amp;A pipeline continues to be strong.
While timing can shift between periods we've continued to target a $150 million to $200 million annually for acquisitions.
Financing activities used $473 million in 2015 mainly $285 million for the repurchase of our common stock and $196 million in common stock dividends.
In 2015 our net decrease in cash and marketable securities was $158 million.
Slide 12 is the long view of our debt decreasing from $2.3 billion in 2007 to our current debt level of $1.76 billion at the end of 2015.
Slide 13 shows the total of our average basic plus dilutive shares over time.
And at the far right is the total as of year-end 2015.
This has been an area of substantial progress with average total shares decreasing by 125 million shares over the time period.
Our starting position for 2016 is 409 million on the right.
In summary on slide 14 we are pleased with our performance in the quarter and the year.
Our teams executed very well achieving strong revenue growth while maintaining expense discipline.
And our balance sheet continues to be a source of value creation as evidently actions announced by our board today.
That leaves us well positioned entering 2016.
With that I'll turn it back over to Michael.
Thank you Frank.
Let me apologize for the granularity we're showing in this report.
It is a full-year report which is why this is the time of the year where we really provide some more detail.
So please bear with us.
I hope you'll see some of the important ins and outs in our performance for 2015.
But from every perspective 2015 was a very successful year which saw us accomplish significant milestones in terms of our performance in the marketplace as well as our financial results.
We continue to demonstrate the effectiveness of our offerings with particular emphasis on our creative and digital capabilities.
We further strengthened our position as the destination of choice for the industry's top talent.
One key element of our talent strategy is the long-standing successful commitment to diversity and inclusion.
We reinforce these values through a comprehensive set of award-winning programs and we ensure accountability by tying executive compensation directly to diversity objectives.
We began our formal programs a decade ago.
Since then we've seen dramatic improvements in the diversity of our workforce.
An environment that encourage respect and trust is key to a creative business like ours and a competitive advantage comes with having a variety of perspectives and beliefs when solving our clients' business challenges.
The quality of our people and our work helped us deliver industry-leading organic revenue growth and we further enhanced operating margin by 100 basis points.
We also continued to strengthen our capital structure achieve investment grade status from all the major credit agencies and built on our strong shareholder return programs.
Highlights of our performance included continued progress in McCann Worldgroup and shared growth at CMG as well as outstanding performance from Mediabrands in the midst of a historically unprecedented number of media account reviews.
R/GA delivered its strongest financial and reputational year ever.
FCB continued in the successful implementation of its turnaround plan.
We once again saw a dynamic growth from our digital special agencies and within the embedded digital capabilities across our portfolio.
The quality of our offerings is at its highest level and well over a decade.
This was evident in the recognition we received across the portfolio.
We once again led all holding companies in Ad Age A-List honors with R/GA McCann and Deutsche on this prestigious list and UM chosen as Media Agency of the Year a designation it also earned from Adweek.
Across every marketing discipline we posted exceptional performance in the industry's most important competitions that award creativity and marketing effectiveness Weber Shandwick and Golin won numerous PR Agency of the Year honors.
Our healthcare agencies dominated the medical marketing and media awards.
At Cannes R/GA was named Agency of the Year and The Martin Agency brought home the Grand Prix in the film category.
In terms of awards per dollar of revenue IPG agencies' performance in Effie Awards globally led the industry with MullenLowe taking both the Grand Effie and winning Agency of the Year.
Importantly the effectiveness of our agencies was equally apparent and consistently strong new business performance throughout the year.
During 2015 McCann posted strong growth across the range of its agencies and further improved its creative profile.
Management continued to build on the level of collaboration and cross-selling within Worldgroup as well as the strong digital and accountability offerings at MRM.
The agency also strengthened its already powerful position in key markets such as India China and Brazil.
At CMG our award-winning public relation agencies Weber and Golin continue to gain market share driven by growth from their largest clients and best-in-class digital in content market capabilities where both firms have established positions at the forefront of their fields.
Octagon and Jack Morton remain leaders in their respective disciplines.
Mediabrands was also a top-tier performer with very strong performance in the media reviews that dominated the headlines in 2015.
Having already won the U.S.
J&amp;J Coke and CVS assignments UM closed the year by prevailing in the global J&amp;J consolidation and added a solid showing in the Sony review in early 2016.
The organic investments we've made in digital programmatic and data capabilities are playing a key role in Mediabrands success.
R/GA had an outstanding year which featured strong growth as well as creative work that is recognized across all digital media and increasingly at traditional channels as well.
The agency is also a leader in terms of innovation not only in the agency's offerings but also with accelerator programs where it incubates startups and share learnings with many other major clients.
Positive momentum at FCB continues as the agency secured new assignments from leading advertisers such as InBev Coca-Cola Fiat Chrysler.
At Cannes FCB had its best performance ever in the arrival of a tremendously talented new global creative leader and take the quality of the agency's products to an even greater height.
FCB's healthcare offering was once again a top performer in its space.
MullenLowe continue to progress.
Their position as a nimble global network with a strong creative culture and contemporary hyperbundled approach is being well received in the marketplace.
The global leadership team is aligned and energized.
We are also seeing the benefits from the integration of Profero as the group's digital partner especially in key markets such as the U.S.
UK and China.
Our focus on open architecture solutions which combine the best of our talent from across the organization was once again a meaningful contributor to our results.
Many multi-agency opportunities came into the group domestically and internationally.
The largest of these included the year's most significant holding company review in Latin America LATAM Airlines which we are now serving in over 20 countries as well as J&amp;J's Janssen Pharmaceuticals which further underscores the value that our custom-built Wx unit delivers to this important client.
And we continue to improve our delivery of integrated multi-agency solutions for existing multinationals.
Overall our strong performance in 2015 reflects a series of long-term strategic decisions we have backed with significant investment over time.
The key drivers of our industry-leading organic revenue performance have been talent acquisition and development particularly in creative and strategic roles the open architecture model that I just discussed as well as embedding digital experience into all our agencies.
Our commitment to developing new skills products and services and incorporating technology in all of our offerings has allowed us to stay highly relevant in the digital world.
For the year we also saw continued progress related to the operating and financial management of our company.
First and foremost significant improvements in profitability keep us on track to achieving our long-term goal.
Many initiatives are fueling the strong profitability trajectory that Frank shared with you.
Among them are our performance incentives put in place that are driving continued focus on leveraging our investment in base payroll and temporary labor.
On the real estate front our measure of square foot per employee decreased again in 2015 by approximately 3% to 202 square feet down from over 240 square feet a few years ago.
In the back office over 75% of global revenue is now on an SAP platform most of which is supported by our shared services.
This included 2005 (sic) [2015] additions in India China and the U.S.
with plans to add our agencies in Australia and Brazil in 2016.
Our return of capital programs also continue to positively impact results and we've put approximately $2.5 billion towards total shareholder returns since 2011 the point in which we reinstituted these programs.
We remain fully committed to further improving margins and building on these robust capital return programs.
The latter is evident in our board's actions announced today with our dividend increase by 25% and provided for our current authorization of approximately $460 million for share repurchase.
We are well positioned as we move into 2016.
As you've heard me say before complexity is good because the value proposition of our portfolio of offerings is highly relevant to clients as they seek to navigate a dynamic media and marketing landscape.
The general tone of the business remains solid.
Yet as we've seen since the start of the year there is significant volatility in the financial markets and we will closely monitor the impact it has on consumer sentiment.
We are therefore approaching the year with appropriate degree of caution.
Therefore for 2016 we're targeting 3% to 4% organic growth an improvement of margin of 50 basis points or more.
Coupled with our continued commitment to capital returns we are confident that achieving these targets will allow us to build on our strong track record of enhancing shareholder value.
We thank you for your time and support and we look forward to updating you on our progress on our next call.
At this point I'll open it up for questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin our question-and-answer session.
Our first question is from the line of Ms.
Alexia Quadrani of JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Thank you very much.
I guess my first question is Michael you have such great insight in sort of what the advertisers are thinking and sometimes there is a disconnect between Wall Street and Main Street.
I guess what I'd love to hear is what are your advertisers saying in terms of their outlook for the year.
And I guess how rattled are they if at all about any of these macro concerns? And then just sort of a follow-on kind of along that same theme there.
Your new business wins have been so impressive from what we can see on the outside.
You guys see a lot more obviously internally.
Do you think you're in a better position I guess going into 2016 than you were in 2015 in terms of your tailwind of new business? Well.
Good morning to you Alexia.
How come you didn't ask me how our January sales were? I still might.
Look I don't think there is any question that there appears to be a disconnect between what's happening in the market and business.
If you look at how we finished the fourth quarter the tone of our business was solid.
That said as we look into 2016 everyone on a global basis is watching this very carefully and are concerned about the future direction of the global economy.
Our business is subject to changes in macroeconomics.
And that's why we've put a tone of caution in terms of our forecast for 2016.
That said we haven't seen major pullbacks by our clients.
We do our budgeting on a zero-up basis.
We take all of our agencies.
They look at their book of business.
They look at what they anticipate based on conversations with our clients.
They put some levels of caution in those numbers.
They also put some levels of optimism in terms of to-be-generated revenue.
It's not an exact science and – which is why if you look at 2015 we started the year fairly conservative.
And as we went through the year we upped our guidance and we expanded our margin expectations.
But the tone right now is okay particularly if you look at 59% of our business is in the United States and although we don't see high expectations in terms of growth 3% to 4% growth in the United States enables us to expand margin by at least 50 basis points.
And that's to answer your other question gives us a conversion around close to 30% which is what we've always said.
And if you expand the organic growth that's where you see expansion of over the 50 basis points.
So the tone of the business at least right now is consistent.
But again given this volatility it's something that we have to put some element of caution out there.
And I think it would be irresponsible for us not to have done that.
And certainly you're seeing that by our competitors in terms of the numbers they're showing.
Let me just comment.
And Frank mentioned it we do build in about 3% to 4% some element of our pass-through in that guidance.
So if you assume the 30-basis point to 50-basis point reduction in the pass-throughs effectively that organic number is 3.5% to 4.5%.
And let me just add that that pass-through is a direct pass-through.
It's not us taking positions with respect to digital inventory which I'm sure will be another question.
As far as the headwinds and tailwinds yeah we had some great wins on the media side.
We did have some losses.
There is a change in the tone of our business and that is because a significant part of our business growth is coming from digital.
Digital business tends to be much more project-oriented.
And as a result some projects that we were able to deliver in 2015 we're not sure of repeating in 2016.
So with respect to tailwinds the tailwinds are in a specific as we've said going into 2015.
That said we do have tailwinds but I wouldn't equate them to as high a number as we had in 2015.
But the other side of it given our performance on the digital side we believe our offerings are so strong that we'll see a project-based business continue in 2016.
Okay.
Thank you.
And if I just squeeze in one more.
Maybe for Frank if you're looking at the margin permit this coming year.
I guess where do you think most of the leverage comes from the salaries and related or the O&amp;G? No.
we're looking for both Alexia.
The key thing the key metric that we look at is organic growth versus organic growth of our expenses.
And it gets little convoluted when you look at the individual metrics because of the impact of passers on those metrics and also the impact of the foreign exchange.
So again we're looking at leverage out of both of our major cost buckets.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Congratulations on a great year.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from John Janedis with Jefferies.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Michael great to see the consistency this year.
I know you talked about some of the headwinds globally.
But as for the budget are you assuming a similar performance out of Continental Europe and Latin America particularly in light of the comments on Brazil? And then on the related topic given the comments about a potential currency impact on spend was there any visible impact last year given the impact from currency? Thanks.
Yeah.
Look we went into 2015 assuming plus or minus 1% in Continental Europe.
We actually ended up on a full-year basis up 1% a little bit over.
Yeah.
So for our forecast for 2016 is very similar to how we went into 2015.
I might add we did increase some margin in Continental Europe which shows if we have revenue we can expand margin.
The second half of year of Brazil was better than the first half of the year.
We had some hiccups in Brazil in the first half of the year.
We're not assuming a big recovery in Brazil.
But we do see offsets in the rest of Latin America which is why we believe we should have a good year coming out of Latin America.
So that's built in to our forecast.
We're not expecting double-digit growth in LatAm.
Remember we're coming off of double-digit growth for 2015.
So we expect some single-digit growth – mid-single digit growth in Latin America.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then just separately Frank given the uncertainty is this going to be a year where temp labor ticks up rather than full-time hires? And does budget assume an increase in FTEs? You know John we look at total SRS and really don't bifurcate between – base that on the tax and temp.
Yeah.
I think there is a tendency to leverage temp when there is a lot of new business activity which we saw last year.
But I think we managed it quite well.
But we don't get that granular.
We look at our agencies to deliver an SRS target that we said in the budgeting process.
Okay.
Speaking of that was project business up in the fourth quarter? Yes.
Yeah.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Michael two for you.
I'm wondering if maybe you can time travel back to the last two Februaries when you also guided the 3% to 4% and help us think about whether there is anything different that you see today in macro uncertainty versus the last two years where I think Europe was probably a friend of mine.
Obviously we've got some issues in other – in emerging markets now.
I'm just wondering if you think things are worse better or sort of similar to how your clients are talking to you about their business today versus the past years when obviously you delivered strong results.
And then you had made a comment in a recent conference that you thought media review activity could be pretty high in 2016.
I'm just wondering maybe you could revisit that comment and sort of fill us in a little bit.
And then Frank I'm just wondering if maybe you could give us some cash tax guidance or help for 2016 or any comment around your NOL position at this point.
Thank you guys.
You keep forgetting I'm a tax guy.
I'll only answer the tax question for you.
You yelled at me last time for that too.
I keep forgetting.
Sorry.
Okay.
Cash taxes are at 29%.
We've used up our NOL in the U.S.
which is why the cash taxes have gone up.
We still have over $1 billion of NOL but that's principally over in Europe which we can't use until those earnings take effect.
So we did see some benefit there.
But basically our cash taxes are in the 29% range right now.
Thank you.
Yeah.
I think it's different.
Now look first of all let me talk about the UK.
I think what we have seen if you compare it to two years ago a turnaround in the UK so we're forecasting it as our performance this year was 7% to 8% and we see a good solid year for the UK as well going into 2016.
So I think that's a – and that's a big thing.
It's 9% of our business.
And so therefore that's encouraging for us going into 2016.
I think Continental Europe anecdotally seems to be better but I haven't met anyone who isn't concerned about Continental Europe.
I was in Davos the conversations continued to be concerned with the financial institutions in Europe in particular and I think that uncertainty drives our clients to be concerned.
That said it's a global economy and there is no question that our multinational clients are looking for growth markets India China Latin America frankly United States we're seeing a good pickup in the United States and I think that's a little bit different than it was a couple of years ago.
So there is no question that this volatility in the financial markets and in the financial institutions is giving everyone a lot of angst in terms of whether it be access to liquidity whether affecting the capital markets and if I were running one of those companies I would be looking hard at the same which puts an additional burden on what we have to do.
I think they're not stopping spending they're just being very careful in terms of where they spend.
And that puts the burden on us to prove that what we do actually works.
And if we can put together a fully integrated offering that shows how we can move the needle it's innovative we save some money in the process.
We're effective we're held accountable for the performance of that.
Then I think our clients have the money to spend and they will do that.
But they do have an element of caution in that which is why it's still early in the year and a lot of things are happening and let's face it we have issues with oil.
And who knows what's going to happen with the price of oil and those kind of things? So there is caution out there.
But what's amazing is our business – as I said we're not expecting a 6% growth again.
We're forecasting 3% to 4% and if we deliver 3% to 4% we can expand margin by a healthy 50 basis points or better.
And I think that's a reasonable way to go into 2016.
I'm not trying to be a Debbie Doubter here but I'm just trying to be cautious in terms of what may be ahead of us and if we're wrong then we'll adjust accordingly.
But right now I'm comfortable with the numbers that we're putting out there.
Got it.
Anything on the reviews front? No I mean we still have – the U.S.
Army is probably the biggest one that's with mandatory review.
Last time we had it we were prevailed in the review.
BMW media is still out there.
We're comfortable where we are in that.
The rest of reviews were challenges so we hope to pick up some business along those lines.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Peter Stabler with Wells Fargo.
Your line is now open.
Good morning and thanks for taking the questions.
A couple if I could.
Michael wondering on the guidance and the reference to the 30 bps to 50 bps headwind from pass-through is that tied to the dispositions this year? And then just generally speaking wondering if you could back up a little bit and talk about the CMG services the below-the-line stuff in some cases branding event shopper marketing sport sponsorship.
PR has been doing well.
But give us your outlook.
A lot of time spent talking to investors about concerns on secular challenges most of that have to do with traditional advertising.
I just want to – I just wonder if you look at that question through the lens of marketing services what's the outlook there? And then one quick follow-up.
Thanks.
Yeah.
Okay.
Pass-through is a direct pass-through.
It has nothing to do with dispositions.
So the 30 basis points is apples-to-apples and that's principally from our CMG businesses particularly Jack Morton and our event businesses.
And again as you recall those are direct pass-throughs for revenue and expenses.
I'll comment on PR.
And so I'm going to let Frank talk about it since it falls within his purview.
Remember the PR business has changed dramatically okay? What's happening is all our different disciplines they're all covering also some aspects of the marketplace digital capabilities social networking social media content.
All of that is part of what we're seeing across the board in both digital and PR agencies and our traditional agencies.
And as a result Weber Shandwick in particular was a leader in terms of looking at their portfolio and converting to the digital and social environment.
And as a result we've seen them taking market share out there it's because of their content and new thinking in terms of PR.
Now we're encouraged by that.
We think they continue – we have best-in-class offerings there and we continue to see solid growth there.
Frank? I mean to add on to Michael's comments we made specific investments of our new capabilities around PR.
And you look at our performance at Weber at Golin at DeVries it's clear they're gaining market share.
And the critical thing is we're going to need to continue to invest and keeps our place in the marketplace.
And looking at the rest of the portfolio our sports business at Octagon our experiential business at Jack Morton are very very strong.
And the CMG segment does get impacted by the decline in pass-through and that's intentional.
We've been trying to migrate our contracts away from being a principal specifically in our experiential business to an agent.
So when you look at it on a net revenue basis our growth has been high-single digits for the past three years.
So those businesses are very very healthy.
And it's nice in our branding business that future brands had again a very strong year.
So we're very supportive of that segment and we'll continue to invest.
Yeah.
Let me add.
By the way when we say we talk about invest we actually had an acquisition by Golin in China this year.
And we haven't had one – we basically grow our businesses in China organically by hiring some really talented people as we did in 2015.
But for Golin we actually hired – we bought a company that's very attractive and added to their portfolio.
The other important point is when we talk about integrated offerings we mean it.
And so when we put together open architecture whether it's Golin whether it's Octagon whether it's Weber Shandwick we bring them into the open architecture model.
So when we're sitting at the table and presenting the best of IPG to our clients it includes a full array of our businesses.
So our marketing services our traditional agency businesses our digital capabilities and our media they're all sitting at the table.
And frankly that's what clients want to see.
And the collaboration is critical to that which is why we spend so much time on collaboration within IPG.
And this open architecture model actually works.
And even on – when we're just looking at media pitches we bring in the open architecture on media.
We have different disciplines digital experiential.
All of that comes to play in these pitches.
And frankly I'm a firm believer that's one of the reasons we've been successful in the new business arena because I've heard a number of clients say to me when we walk out of the room that what was refreshing is that they didn't know which individuals was from which discipline and the team really spoke as one voice.
And they were focusing on clients.
And that makes a big difference to the clients because they don't have to worry about our silos and our issues.
They're just interested in servicing their clients.
And if we didn't have the marketing service arm that we have at CMG and the media and the digital capabilities and the creative capabilities at our agencies we wouldn't be able to do that.
So I'm very comfortable with that.
Thanks for all the color.
I'll leave it there.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you speakers.
Our next question is from Tom Eagan with Telsey Advisors.
Your line is now open.
Well that was a good question.
Thank you.
Can we go on to the next? Thank you.
Our next question is from Brian Wieser with Pivotal.
Sir your line is now open.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
On that open architecture angle I was curious if you could just comment a little bit about Philippe Krakowsky's role now with Mediabrands and sort of what the thinking is behind that and how that presumably ties into bringing resources across the holding company into Mediabrands or tying it together.
And separately maybe a bigger picture question I'm curious about how you think about either making or refraining from strategic shifts at the holding company level versus encouraging the individual business units to do the same.
We've seen Publicis obviously stake a claim in consulting services and WPP maybe a bit more investing across ecosystem and content and media owners and data.
I'm just curious how you're thinking about the role of the future direction of marketing services and where that should originate from.
Yeah.
First of all as you know Philippe is sort of an integral part of the collaboration we have at IPG.
Henry has done a tremendous job in coming into Mediabrands and the success of Mediabrands is pretty evident by the results of their performance.
And he's done a great job Henry and his team and his UM initiative and all the rest of Mediabrands.
Philippe's oversight and role at Mediabrands is exactly that to bring – to make sure that we're looking at all the possibilities of collaboration and as well Philippe has a technology background and helping in terms of new media and new technology as well.
So it was exceptionally well received at Mediabrands and the people.
But frankly Philippe has an HR responsibility so he knows a lot of those people very well and they've worked very closely together.
So I can't tell you how many favorable e-mails I received from both clients as well as individuals on that move so we're really excited about it.
Marketing services as I said it fits very nicely into the open architecture model.
I don't believe we have to own various data sources and so on when we can rent them.
But that said we did a data analytics acquisition in Israel this year.
Mediabrands has their own data sources and when they need to use that they have over 80 or 100 different data sources.
So as long as there is partnering out there where we can rent it we think we have to do it.
We have a sufficient amount of analytics and data to make our offerings competitive if not better and we don't have to own it.
But when there are unique opportunities out there we make some tactical investments in it.
We did it in a little company – in Samba TV.
We did it in Keep.
So we look at it both ways.
The key to this in the open architecture is having a vehicle without having to restructure our corporation to collaborate.
And since we've been doing it for 10 years we didn't need to restructure our entire company.
We have high-priority objectives for all of our CEOs that require them to collaborate both within their networks as well as outside.
So it's kind of interesting to see everybody jumping on this but we started doing this 10 years ago and it's part of our DNA.
And every time there is a new thing out there in terms of whether it be data whether it be content we want to participate and we'll do it through our partnerships through investments or just contractual arrangements.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Brian.
Operator next caller – next question please.
Well I guess it's been that clear.
Thank you.
Sir our next question thank you is from Mr.
Bill Bird with FBR.
Sir your line is now open.
...
2016.
And then second what are your current thoughts on targeted leverage? Thank you.
Bill I'm sorry.
We didn't hear the first part of your question.
I'm sorry.
I was wondering if you could talk about the new buyback authorization and what a reasonable pace of buybacks do you expect in 2016.
Yeah.
Well we've been averaging close to $300 million buybacks per year.
And we have an extra $149 million on top of the authorization.
We're not committed to doing all of it in one year.
We have – we'll have a normalized annual buyback throughout the year.
That said every once in a while we're opportunistic.
You saw we were a little over-weighted in the fourth quarter when we saw some price pressure on our stocks.
So we have the flexibility.
But for analytics point if you use $300 million I think that's a reasonable number for us to spend and will be opportunistic and see how the marketplace goes.
This is part of a long-term strategy.
We believe that given our leverage obviously bringing our ratings up one more notch would be very helpful to us.
In that it will give us – free our commercial paper program which could help us in terms of cyclicality of our cash flows.
And that could free us some additional cash as well.
So from an overall program point of view we're very comfortable with our balance sheet and where we are.
We hope to have a commercial paper program if we get one more notch up.
We have a robust return of capital on buybacks and a 25% increase in dividend is a very nice mix between dividends and buybacks.
So our overall structure in terms of return has been very well received by the investors.
Before year-end between Frank and myself and Jerry we've met with most of our shareholders and this is based on the input we're getting from all of our shareholders.
And as far as our leverage we're very comfortable and then we want to be where we are heading into a market that is as volatile or potentially volatile as it is right now.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our last question is from Mr.
Tim Nollen with Macquarie.
Sir your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Well thanks.
I wonder if I could try to tie together a few of the threads in the conversation here and ask a question this way.
Given the sense of confusion between what the financial market is telling us and what you and your peers are telling us about ad spending I wonder if there is something beyond traditional advertising or even traditional marketing services in what you are doing with your clients i.e.
are companies like IPG becoming more business services providers providing technology and advertising and marketing services overall and therefore you become more embedded in your client's budget processes and therefore you have a greater chance of sustaining more resilient spending beyond just what we might call advertising and marketing services? Is that something that maybe is providing a sense of optimism amongst your clients on their spending? Tim that's a great question and the answer to that is yes okay particularly on the digital.
If you look for example what R/GA is doing in terms of design and business planning and product development the accelerator program are examples of that.
We have capabilities.
There aren't many companies that have the capabilities we have both in terms of typical advertising role media planning content distribution digital expertise insights all of that put together.
And frankly what we do actually works.
And we have data and we have all sorts of information that shows that if we can bring all of these offerings together we can in fact help our clients move the needle.
And it's refreshing to be able to walk into a room and put together some new ideas from a business context.
And you're right it's not just traditional advertising.
It's looking into the future.
We can anticipate where consumers are going to be spending their money.
And based on those insights we can help our clients real-time look at where they can allocate their dollars.
And if it's not working we can shift with them.
We can create dashboards with our clients.
We can help them do design work.
We can do branding for them.
It really turns out to be a full-service offering that we can tap into and it gives them a degree of comfort that they're getting cutting-edge insights without having to add 12 different disciplines coming in a room working together.
So I do believe.
And of course we do consulting.
I mean several of our agencies have a consulting bases armed to it.
So yes our business is changing.
And frankly that's why I'm bullish on our industry.
For years they've talked about our industry being dis-intermediated going away.
We always find a way to sustain ourselves.
And I think if you look at our results you had a pretty good indication that we're capable of doing that.
So yes I thank you for that question.
With that said I think those were our last questions.
I really thank you for your support throughout the year.
We're excited about 2016 notwithstanding some caution that we've made.
And I look forward to bringing it to light.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.