Good morning.
My name is Bonnie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Iron Mountain First Quarter 2011 Earnings Call Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Stephen Golden Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Welcome everyone to our 2011 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me this morning are Richard Reese our Chairman and CEO; and Brian McKeon our CFO.
After their prepared remarks we'll open up the phones for Q&amp;A.
Per our custom we have a user-controlled slide presentation on the Investor Relations page of our website at www.ironmountain.com.
Referring now to Slide 2.
Today's earnings call and slide presentation will contain a number of forward-looking statements most notably our outlook for our 2011 financial performance.
All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to today's press release the Safe Harbor language on this slide and our most recently filed annual report on Form 10-K for a discussion of the major risk factors that could cause our actual results to be materially different from those contemplated in our forward-looking statements.
As you know we also use several non-GAAP measures when presenting our financial results.
Adjusted OIBDA adjusted EPS and free cash flow before acquisitions and investments among others are metrics we speak to frequently and ones we believe to be important in evaluating our overall financial performance.
We provide additional information and the reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the appropriate GAAP measures as required by Reg G at the Investor Relations page of our website as well as in today's press release.
With that I'd like to introduce Richard Reese.
Thank you Stephen.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our First Quarter 2011 Quarterly Earnings Call.
As you know I haven't done these calls in a few years so this is my first one back and I'm happy to tell you that we've got good performance to report even though I didn't have a heck of a lot to do with it since I've only been back in the job for a couple of weeks.
But the team's done a great job the business is running well.
And we're off to a good start to hit the plan that we put forth in great detail last week the 3-year strategic plan as we've shifted our business into the third phase of our long-held 3-phase strategy that of the phase of capitalizing on the hard work we did in the earlier years and the investment cycle of the business building it up.
We're now turning to reap the rewards of that on behalf of our shareholders and the rest of our stakeholders of the company.
So today I'll talk briefly about the results for the quarter and then turn it over to Brian who will give you great detail and then we'll come back and take your questions.
And I'm going to review the quarter frankly a bit in the context of the plan.
So it was a good first quarter; we're off to a good start and it gives us confidence that we'll be able to achieve our goals for the entire fiscal year.
Revenue was up 3% to $799 million and that was on the back of strong storage revenue growth of 5% reported and really 3% internal for us which is an uptick.
We're seeing a continued trend of steady improvements on units for storage supported by lower destruction activities and strong new sales particularly in North America as the investments we've been making according to our plan are paying off.
We also have seen some continued weakness in some of our recurring service lines and of course when destructions are down the good news is it helps storage over the long run.
The bad news is it's a little light on the services in the short term but it's a trade we would take all the time.
So in general I think as a company we're feeling better about some of the trends and starting to see some of the changes from the economy but I want to be very very careful to caution you this is a business that moves very slowly.
That's its strength  and its weakness.
And I would caution anybody from taking these positive signs and trying to forecast up.
What we're telling you is we think we're going to be in line with our expectations for the year and we have a lot of confidence that we'll be able to do that.
So with that well let me pull it back.
Let me just take you on down a little bit.
The other reported numbers the adjusted OIBDA is up 4% on an operating basis really a little less on a reporting basis because that way it excludes certain one-time expenses that Brian will go through for you in detail.
And adjusted EPS is up 24%.
So as I said a good start for the quarter.
We have a pretty good confidence or even better than pretty good confidence for the fiscal year assuming banks continue in line and we'll get through the details as we go.
If we look over at some of the pieces and as we said last week we put forth a 3-year plan.
The key elements of it was an acceleration into the third phase of the capitalization phase of our business.
And it had a variety of components.
But by and large we've made some -- put a stake in the ground on a couple of issues: One is to increase our after-tax return invested capital by about 330 basis points up to 11% by 2013.
And two is just to return to our shareholders in the form of stock buybacks and/or dividends $2.2 billion of cash with $1.2 billion of that coming in the next 12 months.
These commitments haven't changed.
You'll hear us continue to talk about them over the next couple of years as we deliver on them or to guess them [ph] as we deliver on them.
If we take the business as far as North America it’s following the strategy.
It is the market leader.
I've spoken of it many times.
It is the goose that laid the golden egg.
And so our strategy is to make sure we take care of the goose and invest in her correctly so she can continue to lay the golden eggs.
And that was a combination of maintaining and sustaining margins while at the same time investing some in sales and marketing to increase the growth rate or at least to keep the growth rate on the trajectory and overcome any secular trends that may be out there.
And first quarter reflected these trends very well.
Our storage internal growth was 3%.
That's up from a 2% number of last year.
Our contribution to our new sales in our Records Management business North America from our sales force the so-called new from new is almost double what it was the first quarter of last year.
So the investments we've started making towards the end of last year in the change in focus is paying off and we would expect it will continue to pay off.
Again I'll caution you that it takes a while for all these to flow through our reported numbers on an annuity-based business.
But we like the trends we're seeing and we would continue working those trends.
On the International front the strategy is to continue the growth that we've seen because that portfolio has driven good growth while at the same time look to improve the operational side of the portfolio as well as returns on invested capital.
And the growth did continue on a reported basis.
International revenues up 10% driven by 6% storage internal growth rate.
The other big news is that the plan calls for 700 basis points of margin increase over 3 years.
We're looking at International to get nearly 200 basis points of margin this year.
You didn't see any of it in the first quarter.
We expect strong margin growth in the U.K.
We're making -- and that's coming off the back of investments that we started some last year.
So we expect them to flow through this year.
But we got some lapping effects and some comparables that we need to get out of the way.
But as we get into the year we fully expect to see the margins flow through there.
We're making some investments in Latin America now which will yield some benefit towards the end of this year and into next year.
So we haven't started showing the margin improvement yet in International but we feel very good about what we're seeing and the investments we're making and so forth the payback we're seeing.
But the numbers it will take a couple of quarters from the flow through for you to see them.
But from what we can see things are going fine.
On our Digital business as you know we announced that we are evaluating strategic alternatives and we're deep into that process.
We've got nothing new to report today but except to tell you that additional business had good performance in the first quarter.
And I appreciate the team really focusing on the business not just maintaining it but continuing to grow it.
Revenues were up solidly in all of our products and areas except for eDiscovery.
And eDiscovery had a great quarter of bookings.
But in that business the bookings lead the revenue by a couple or 3 quarters.
So we're showing weaker revenues off of bookings about 3 quarters ago and it will take some time period for the stronger bookings to show through in our numbers now.
But we like the trends we see in the business and we like the performance.
We've been able to right size our cost structures so our profits are up in the business.
And as I say we're maintaining good performance in the business even as we look at strategic alternatives.
And I think the team's done a great job in doing that.
The other big news that we announced in our plan as I said earlier was our commitment to return $2.2 billion to our shareholders in various forms of payout.
This would come primarily from our operating cash flow and the future free cash flow but it does and had included a small change in our leverage taking our leverage ratio total leverage up from around 3.0x to around 3.5x which is a relatively small move.
And I will make sure that everybody understands that we're not going out and over levering the business.
We're doing what we think is prudent and what we think makes some sense and the company still has substantial liquidity and substantial capital available to it to execute its plans.
We have nothing new to report on how we plan to pay that out except that since we've spoken publicly about it last week we've gotten a lot of input from shareholders which we do appreciate and we will try to factor that input in.
And as you might can imagine it's a little bit of some people would love us to turn left and others would love us to turn right all at the same time.
And we will try to figure out how to walk down both sides of that train track and make it work.
But by and large we'll take your input but we will do what we believe makes the most sense and try to explain it to you and if you disagree we'd be happy to listen to that too.
This is -- I want to stress to you the fact that we're putting out $2.2 billion in a fairly short period of time is a shift and is a change but it's not the end.
And I think one of the things we -- and I want to help the market over time come to grips with this is the beginning of a pattern not the end of a pattern.
This business will throw off a significant amount of cash back to shareholders for as far out as I can see.
And in fact failure to do so would delever the business to zero and in not too long a time period.
And just to even maintain a prudent leverage level which is prudent in our capital structure to maintain a good weighted average cost of capital for our business and so forth we will have to distribute a significant amount of capital in addition to making the right investments back into the business to continue the ability to do that for a long period of time.
So we are in a point of the business that I've been waiting on for a long time.
And I guess to some extent although the retirement was looking awfully attractive being back at this stage of the business also has its fun because figuring out exactly how to do this stuff is pretty interesting and pretty challenging.
And I think we're going to have a good time trying to figure out how to give you cash back.
So with that as I said good quarter.
We're off to a good start.
I hope they're all this easy from a call perspective.
And I appreciate the team making my first entry back in fairly easy for me.
Let me turn it over to Brian and then we'll come back for your questions.
Thanks Richard.
Good morning everyone.
I'll start today's review on Slide 3 which highlights key messages.
First key message is that we delivered solid operating performance in Q1 and it's putting us on track for our full-year goals.
We saw solid storage trends including benefits from new sales initiatives that supported 3% revenue growth in the quarter.
Overall storage revenues increased 5% or 3% on an internal growth basis.
The International business again posted strong storage results and both our North American and Digital segments showed improvement.
Revenue growth's benefiting from sales and marketing investments as Richard mentioned.
In fact in Q1 storage volume additions from new sales in North America was the highest it's been in more than 2 years.
Profit and cash flow gains remained solid as well supported by improvements in our International and Digital segments.
Adjusted OIBDA was $222 million that's up 4% on an operating basis excluding $4 million of advisory fees and other costs that were related to the recent proxy contest.
Adjusted EPS was $0.26 which is an increase of 24% compared to last year and free cash flow increased 7% in the quarter to $58 million.
We're off to a good start and we're making some positive adjustments to our full-year operating forecast to incorporate positive FX changes in our Q1 performance.
Given the recent announcement of our comprehensive strategic plan including the potential sale of the majority of our Digital assets we'll be taking the following approach with respect to our full-year 2011 outlook.
We're going to forecast the business as it exists today therefore our current outlook doesn't reflect any impacts from the strategic review of our Digital business including a potential sale as contemplated in the strategic plan.
Our current outlook also doesn't include any impacts from business or revenue risk transition costs or other costs associated with the ongoing strategic alternative review process.
Finally our outlook doesn't include any costs or increased interest expense associated with potential future financing events that may be contemplated in the strategic plan.
We'll update our outlook when we have more clarity around strategic alternatives for our Digital business or potential financing transactions.
Within this framework we're raising our revenue guidance.
We're also adjusting our adjusted -- updating our adjusted OIBDA outlook to reflect these revenue gains as well as the estimated advisory fees and other costs associated with the recent proxy contest.
And I'll speak to these more fully in the outlook section of my remarks.
Let's now turn to Slide 4 and begin with the review of the financial results.
Slide 4 compares our results for this quarter to the first quarter of 2010.
As noted Q1 was a solid start to the year.
Enterprise revenue growth was 3% up from Q4 reflecting improved storage revenue growth and benefits from favorable FX and recent acquisitions.
Enterprise revenue gains were supported by improved storage revenue internal growth of 3% and expansion of hybrid services.
And these gains have offset continued softness in core service activities and lower eDiscovery revenues.
From a segment perspective North American Physical posted 1% internal growth supported by 2% storage internal growth hybrid service gains and benefits from higher recycled paper prices.
These gains were partially offset by continued soft core service revenues in part reflecting lower levels of destructions and reduced special project revenue in the quarter.
Revenues for our International Physical segment grew 10% supported by 4% internal growth benefits from our recently announced Polish acquisition and favorable foreign exchange rate changes.
Storage internal growth rate for International remained strong at 6% reflecting gains across all regions including continued strong growth in expansion markets.
These gains were augmented by strong growth in hybrid service revenues.
Total service revenue growth was constrained by lower core service activity levels.
In our Digital segment reported revenues declined 5% in the first quarter primarily reflecting lower eDiscovery revenues which more than offset storage gains.
Overall we continue to post solid comparable profit gains.
Gross profits grew 4% in Q1 reflecting a 40 basis point improvement in margins.
Higher storage gross margins particularly in the International and Worldwide Digital segments drove the improvement.
These gains more than offset lower service gross margins resulting from eDiscovery profit declines and moderately higher transportation costs in North America.
Adjusted OIBDA grew to $222 million up 2% or up 4% excluding the $4 million and one-time fees associated with the proxy contest.
Solid gross profit gains were partially offset by planned investments in North American sales initiatives and productivity initiatives in the International segment which we expect to yield substantial benefits as we move forward.
Below the adjusted OIBDA line depreciation was $79 million and amortization was $10 million.
Other Income for the quarter was $9 million including $3 million of FX gains and a $5 million gain on our Polish transaction.
Adjusted EPS for the quarter was $0.26 per share an increase of 24% compared to the prior year reflecting solid operating performance lower interest expense lower structural tax rate and fewer shares outstanding.
Reported EPS for the quarter was $0.37 per share including the $0.12 per share impact of the $9 million of Other Income and a lower effective tax rate.
The structural tax rate for the quarter was 38% and we expect the structural tax rate for the full year to be about 39%.
Let's now take a closer look at our revenue growth on Slide 5.
Slide 5 breaks down our overall revenue growth.
It shows internal growth by major service line as well as the impact of acquisitions and divestitures in foreign exchange compared to our 2011 full-year outlook.
As noted overall revenue growth in Q1 was 3% on track with our full-year growth outlook.
Improved storage gains of 3% offset service declines netting to 1% internal growth in the quarter.
The storage revenue growth rate reflects continued strong performance in the International segment and improvement in sales in North America.
Net global records management volume growth increased about 2% year-on-year in Q1.
We'll breakdown key drivers of this change as part of today's review.
Pricing trends remained consistent with net pricing gains of about 2% in North America records management.
Core service revenues were down 1% in the quarter reflecting continued soft core activity levels in part driven by lower destruction activity.
We continue to experience service activity declines in areas like retrievals and refiles and in tape backup activity as customers have moved to a less frequent tape rotation cycle.
Complementary service revenues which represent about 13% of total revenues decreased 5% internally in the quarter.
Results reflected lower eDiscovery reported revenues and lower special project revenues in part impacted by the lapping of a large project in the U.S.
These decreases offset strong gains in hybrid service revenues and benefits from higher recycled paper pricing.
Let's now turn to Slide 6 to review global volume growth trends.
Slide 6 shows key drivers of global records management volume for the last 3-plus years to give you a sense of recent volume growth dynamics.
This chart shows annualized changes in quarterly records management volume as a percentage of the beginning cubic feet related to new sales volume growth from existing customers offset by outgoing volume return.
Revenues associated with physical records management storage drive about 40% of overall enterprise revenues so trends on this front are meaningful.
Overall global records management volumes have stabilized following impacts from the economic contraction and are starting to show some signs of improvement.
There are a few key takeaways from this trend analysis.
First the economy had a meaningful impact on records management volume trends in our business in 2009 and 2010.
We experienced a significant increase in destructions related to cost savings initiatives as well as a lagging impact from longer sales cycles and reduced incoming volume due to high unemployment rates.
Within these results are also ongoing secular impacts as new volume from existing customers continues to moderate slowly.
Our focus has been on improving new sales performance in North America supported by targeted investment and in expanding our business in faster growing regions internationally.
We're seeing positive momentum on these fronts.
North America new sales contributions has been rising steadily in recent quarters with Q1 volume additions from new sales at its highest level since 2008.
It takes time for new sales benefits to flow through our annuity but we're on good track with our go-to-market initiatives.
This progress is consistent with our long-term plan goals for North America specifically to increase sales to offset secular impacts and sustain the North American annuity.
International growth is continuing at a solid pace with volume up 6% year-on-year in the quarter.
We saw year-on-year volume gains across all regions supported by strong growth in expansion markets like Central Europe and Latin America.
Storage progress is also being supported by some moderations in destructions and churn globally.
We expect quarterly fluctuations on this front driven by episodic customer actions.
But overall these impacts have settled into a stable range.
In sum some of the negative trends we've been experiencing have stabilized our investment focus is reaping gains and we're growing the storage annuity consistent with our long-term strategy.
Let's move now to Slide 7 and review our results on a segment basis.
Slide 7 shows key metrics for each of our 4 segments compared to the first quarter of 2010.
North America remains our financial engine and we're building momentum in International as a driver of profit and cash flow gains.
North America continued to drive high profits and strong cash flows in Q1.
Revenues increased 1% on 2% storage revenue gains and increased hybrid service revenues.
Adjusted OIBDA margins in our largest segment were sustained at 41% on gross margin gains and controlled overhead spending which supported planned investments in sales and marketing.
Capital efficiency continue to improve with CapEx as a percentage of sales decreasing to below 4%.
Our International segment continues to post solid revenue adjusted OIBDA and cash flow gains.
Internal growth for the quarter was 4% driven by continuous strong storage internal growth of 6%.
Adjusted OIBDA grew 10% in Q1 in line with reported revenue gains.
We're targeting strong improvement in International margins in 2011 supported by profit gains in the U.K.
and expansion of operational excellence initiatives in Latin America.
Gains in our Physical business helped offset lower Digital revenues.
Lower revenues and gross margins in our eDiscovery business constrained Digital financial gains in the quarter.
These impacts were offset by cost control initiatives which drove a 25% increase in adjusted OIBDA in the segment in Q1.
The increase in corporate expenses primarily reflects one-time costs associated with the proxy contest.
Let's turn to Slide 8 to review our debt portfolio.
Our balance sheet remains strong reflecting the substantial improvements we've driven in cash generation in recent years.
Currently our consolidated leverage ratio is 3x at the low-end of our targeted 3 to 4x leverage range.
We're well positioned in terms of cash and financing capacity.
At quarter end liquidity was approximately $760 million with $190 million in cash and $571 million in additional borrowing capacity under our revolver.
During the first quarter we repurchased 384 000 shares of stock at a total cost of $11 million.
At the end of the quarter as of March 31 2011 we've repurchased 5.1 million shares for a total cost of approximately $122 million.
At quarter end there was approximately $228 million remaining under the existing share repurchase authorization.
Our debt portfolio was long and fixed our weighted average interest rate was 6.6% and we were 80% fixed at quarter end.
Maturity is just under 7 years with no bond repayments due until 2014.
In January we used excess cash in borrowings on our revolver to redeem the remaining $231 million of our 7 3/4% senior subordinated notes due in 2015.
This transaction will reduce our net interest expense by approximately $17 million in 2011.
Looking at our maturity schedule we have approximately $192 million borrowed under our revolver which matures next April.
We expect to refinance our senior credit facility in 2011.
The strength of our balance sheet reinforces our confidence in advancing the shareholder payout commitments outlined in our strategic plan.
Let's now turn to Slide 9 to discuss our 2011 full-year outlook.
Slide 9 highlights our approach to our full-year outlook in 2011.
As I mentioned earlier we're forecasting the business as it exists today.
At this point we don't have enough clarity around the final outcome of the Digital process or financing options to provide a forecast of those events.
Our current outlook also doesn't include any business or revenue risks transition costs or other costs we may incur as we work our way through the strategic review process for Digital.
We expect to have greater clarity in both of these areas during the coming quarters and we'll update you on our progress when appropriate.
What is included in our current outlook is approximately $15 million of advisory fees and other costs related to our recent proxy contest.
These costs include legal and professional advisory fees severance costs estimated costs for the upcoming REIT analysis and other related expenses.
Let's turn to Slide 10 for a look at our outlook for 2011.
Slide 10 summarizes our full-year 2011 financial guidance.
We've increased our enterprise revenue outlook by about $45 million to be in the range of $3 220 000 000 to $3 285 000 000 up 3% to 5%.
This reflects our solid Q1 performance and the impacts of favorable foreign currency rate changes.
We now expect CapEx to add about 2% to this year's revenue growth rate.
We're now targeting adjusted OIBDA of $938 million to $966 million.
This includes the $15 million of estimated costs associated with the recent proxy contest which more than offset the flow-through benefits from our outlook for increased revenues.
This range represents reported growth of minus 1% plus 2% including previously announced incremental sales and marketing investments.
Excluding the $15 million of advisory and one-time fees adjusted OIBDA growth would be in the 1% to 4% range.
Please note that we will face some tougher adjusted OIBDA comparisons over the next 3 quarters related to low incentive compensation accruals in 2010.
In Q2 this will result in a $9 million increase in reported costs.
We also expect to about $6 million in fees and other costs related to the proxy contest to be reported in Q2.
Our current outlook is for adjusted EPS -- our full-year outlook is for adjusted EPS to grow between 1% and 8% to a range of $1.16 to $1.24 per share reflecting the adjustments described above and refinements to our outlook for DNA and interest expense including impacts from recent FX changes.
DNA is now expected to be approximately $352 million.
Interest is expected to be $204 million.
Our full-year forecast assumes 201 million shares outstanding.
This reflects the level of shares outstanding at the end of Q1 including increases to diluted impacts from recent increases in our stock price.
We're keeping our full-year free cash flow outlook at $375 million to $410 million and updating our outlook for capital expenditures which are now expected to be $235 million for the year.
This capital outlook includes about $15 million for real estate.
Finally as noted on the slide our current full-year outlook includes approximately $190 million of revenues $20 million to $25 million of adjusted OIBDA and about $15 million of capital expenditures related to the Digital service lines currently included in our strategic alternative review process.
In summary Q1 was a solid start to the year and we're on track towards our full-year goals for improving revenue growth and continued strong profit and cash flow performance.
Thanks and we'll now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Andrew Steinerman of JPMorgan.
Internal growth guidance for the 2011 is unchanged even though you're up in your revenue guidance? Or why don't you comment on it? Is it zero to two? It's still zero two Andrew.
We're feeling good about the storage outlook and the core services continues to be soft so they're offsetting somewhat.
But I think on balance we're feeling good about the trends but I think some of the softness in core service activity is leading us to a similar range.
And I think I heard Richard say that they're kind of part and partial.
As we're getting better on revenues on storage it's because destructions are stabilizing and that's going to hurt service.
And so it's almost -- the two are almost related.
There's some of that dynamic and that's a good news dynamic over the long run.
There's also weaknesses in other services and to start our general retrieval refile activity and same thing in the data protection activity.
We're still seeing activity lower even though we're seeing storage pick up some.
Makes sense.
And last point just to make sure we get this right it sounds like you're still committed to hybrid services even though you're looking for alternatives in Digital.
Is that correct? Oh yes absolutely.
And I want to stress that we are looking to transition to a different model in Digital not necessarily exit all of the services.
In some we might do with the same technology on a license back basis.
Some we might perform with different technologies on a license basis.
But the Digital business and this is probably a story for a later date because it's a longer story is a good business and we've learned a lot in it.
But the model we had just didn't make sense us to maintain it and we think those assets are more valuable to other people.
Yes and it sounded like too.
As you know Andrew the hybrid services are very close into our core business.
I mean it's helping customers with their transitioning where they're working with physical records and the business is going really well for us and we feel good about it.
And I think you'll see over time that we will speak less of hybrid and not of Digital but we will talk to you about physical logistics services and we'll talk to you about technology product lines not business units and so forth.
Our next question comes from Gary Bisbee of Barclays Capital.
It's Zach Fadem for Gary.
You say that you expected 200 basis point increase in International Physical adjusted EBITDA this year? Can you give us some additional color on the expected drivers of this gain? Yes big driver this year will be in the U.K.
We've been working for some time with the International team of incorporating the North American playbook and we are targeting meaningful increases in our -- we have good margins in the U.K.
They're getting moved -- moving that much closer to North America levels and we'll see those benefits flow as we work through the year.
We're exporting the same playbook to other markets too.
We just have some investment that goes along with that as we kind of gear up the teams and kind of invest in the process redesign that goes along with yielding those benefits and that along with some lapping impacts kind of constrain the gains in Q1.
But you'll see the benefits flowing through as we work through the year and we feel -- our outlook is based on a strong improvement in International margins overall.
And it's not just this year; that's the multiyear plan.
We'll continue to drive that as we move forward.
Okay.
And regarding the expected modest increase in leverage would you expect to stick with your recent history of largely fixed-rate debt or would you consider floating rate borrowing? We will consider whatever makes sense in the market at the time.
I have always had a bias for a large amount of fixed-rate debt.
At this stage of our cycle we may be over fixed and I think it's something we will look at in a variety of ways.
Our next question comes from Vance Edelson of Morgan Stanley.
Are there any metrics you can provide now regarding the number of Digital customers the number of hybrid customers or any metrics regarding the percentage of customers subscribing to multiple services just Physical Digital and Shredding? Well we have the numbers.
We don't have them in front of us.
So it may be something we can dig up for future discussion with you.
I mean the trends are that we have more crossover selling obviously of between records management and our data protection services as well as our records management our Shredding services.
And we've had good success cross selling there.
And we've -- on a name-the-customer basis we've got pretty good success across our Digital business but it's a different buyer for sure between our Physical business and our Digital business.
The other thing I would also tell you is that part of what we learn in the Digital business though even though it was a Digital buyer that our brand would translate and that although not all the IT buyers -- I think they all have a perception of who Iron Mountain is and so forth.
They didn't have a strong perception of how broad a product or service line we had so we had to sell it.
But having said all that we proved we could sell it and in fact more than half of the revenue we have in Digital today was internally grown revenue not purchased revenue.
So we know the market will accept these things from us and we've got other research as well as these data points to say it.
Okay that makes sense.
And you mentioned higher transportation costs in North America.
What about internationally? Are you feeling the same pressure abroad? And if so is that having a meaningful impact at all on the margin expansion story there? It impacts us.
It's a smaller factor in terms of our overall cost structure.
Transportation is less than 2% of our revenues.
We do have some cushion against that with fuel surcharges.
Right now it tends to lag how the fuel surcharges kick in based off an index.
So what we've seen in Q1 is kind of the cost of but not yet the benefit of the -- the full benefit of the surcharges flowing through.
I think that will improve as we work through the year.
So on balance it should be less of an impact over economics but it is impacting us in the short term.
Okay that's helpful.
And maybe one last question regarding the aim to buyback a more significant number of shares.
I guess for now you can at least act under the remaining $228 million from the previously authorized buyback.
Is there any blackout period or other technical or legal reason that you need to wait to buyback more shares? Or is it more that you could start buying immediately if you wanted to? Yes there's a whole bunch of technical or legal reasons open windows and so forth.
We will come in to an open window of our own policy next [Audio Gap] And yes we do have some in the buyback.
We really though are focusing -- I mean if we’ve got shares to authorize we're focusing on trying to set up the right strategies and the right plans.
So it's a little early for me to tell you exactly how we'll do it.
As you've probably noticed it's all kinds of tools and techniques and we've spent a lot of time analyzing those.
And we still kind of coming to decisions on what's the right way to execute it.
Our next question comes from Andrew Wittmann of Baird.
I thought some of the commentary you had on the North American sales initiatives was interesting.
I wanted to dig a little bit more into that.
Perhaps could you just quantify what the SG&amp;A investment was in that maybe for this year? And then I guess more broadly speaking give us your sense of where you think the returns are on that investment? You said it was holding you back a little bit in the first quarter but traction has been good.
Is there a long ramp ahead for those presumably salespeople where they're just starting to maybe breakeven and there's a lot of upside from here? Or how would you characterize that from here? We'll try to take the first part of the question and maybe if Richard can help clarify how we're thinking about it.
But the investment we highlighted this year is roughly $20 million in terms of sales and marketing and year-on-year.
And we were ramping that and getting that in position as we headed into this year.
So that is starting to bear fruit.
I think we are feeling good.
We know the business well.
We understand the returns and we feel very good about the investments we'll be making.
Do you want to talk about the margin? Yes any time you up your sales and marketing in an annuity business like this you'll see the expense early and you see the results.
It's a little bit like watching bookings build up.
For our case we watch boxes or storage revenue build but the real value comes off the compound effect of it.
So it's a multiyear present value kind of analysis because you're building an annuity.
Okay so any time you up your cost it takes a while for you to get the return back.
But the returns are actually quite good in doing that.
In terms of is there upside from here a little early for me to tell.
There's a theme here so I'll just be clear to make sure everybody hears it.
We feel good about our numbers.
We feel really good -- better about the trends we have in a long time.
But we're not jumping up and down and screaming "Yeah this things going to the roof." And by the way it never has.
Welcome to the world of our big flywheel annuity.
They're hard to speed up and they're hard to slow down but the good news is they just keep on rolling.
And there's some speeding up just a little bit.
It's rolling but it takes a while for this to show.
So there's no inflection points here.
No great things are going to take off.
That makes sense.
And I guess I just wanted to follow up a little bit on an earlier question on the service level.
How much of maybe the slower levels of growth that we're seeing are just based on tough comps from higher destruction levels last year? A piece of that but if you take it apart by activity class we're still seeing the weakness in like I say in a lot of the core activity elements.
I see.
And then just thoughts -- do you think this is a quarter lumpiness issue or are people really changing the way they utilize documents once they're stored? I believe it's people -- I believe it's two things.
I think there's a pattern of behavior change and I still believe that until we see employment get back up strong and then a lag behind that.
Remember we tend to deal in records that are at least a year old on average okay? And so you've got to get people back to work.
They've got to generate more records.
They've got to build up.
They've got to get in the way and then they've got send them to us before they can ask for them.
And the most active records are the newest records.
So we've been through a period of people sending us a lot less of -- the average age of our storage portfolio has risen which will in itself drive down the activity.
We're seeing that.
If the average age comes down and the storage picks back up as the economy picks back up we got this great lag effect.
I think some of that will come back.
They will pick up some activity.
Underlying that though there's also some shift in how people use it.
It's hard to parse the difference right now.
Very helpful.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Eric Boyer of Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> I was just wondering if you could comment on how customers may have reacted or are reacting to the new strategic plan and the direction you're possibly going with the Digital business.
Yes.
So far it's a big customer base.
So I haven't had my phone ringing off the hook screaming at me or anything like that.
I posted -- we posted and sent out to customers a kind of an open letter from me to them just recently explaining what we're doing and so forth.
And I think the early reaction is "Thank you for telling us.
We appreciate being in the know." And look what we're telling them and in fact in this case we are focusing making sure we focus heavily on our Physical business that we don't lose sight of the services that you expect of us and we'll continue to build that business.
We're not draining it.
And part of what we have to explain and something we have to explain to the employees is is we've got enough capital to give our shareholders $2.2 billion.
I won't give you a $0.50 an hour raise.
And if you don't think that's a hard discussion you come try it a while okay? And it's the same sort of thing with customers.
You're giving your shareholders $2.2 billion why do you want to raise my price? And you have to get back to economics and market value and cost structure -- there's a lot that you have to do and you have to train the organization to understand.
And that's the kind of stuff we're working on.
LLC</strong> So in that context have you changed your strategy or thinking about changing the strategy with the pricing program? No.
Look our pricing program has been and as far as I'm around will be designed around: a being fair; and b recovering the true increase of cost minus some productivity we've gained.
I've always believed -- we've always -- if you go back and feel this industry [indiscernible] we've driven an enormous amount of productivity in our industry both to the consolidation creating more of just general economic productivity by consolidating competitors.
But we've also brought technology how you store box we changed radically the whole technology of how you store the box what the cost are doing that is and everything.
It took a lot of time money and investment to do it.
Net of that is we drove unit storage prices down for about 15 years straight on average to the customer base.
And we've kind of run the productivity out of this business from their perspective and now it's time to take back gains related to true increase of cost and we'll continue doing that.
LLC</strong> And then Brian just on the adjusted OIBDA margin would that be up slightly year-over-year with your new guidance if you backed out that proxy-related costs? I just want to make sure I'm thinking of that right.
It's down slightly because of the -- it's not all that different than what we had talked about heading into the year.
We have this significant kind of lap $30 million plus of -- last year we had very low incentive compensation payments and we had normal payments this year.
So that is constraining us.
So it's down slightly X the proxy contest cost.
But it's all driven by that factor which is really something that you basically supported last year's margins.
The underlying operating performance we're seeing improved margins.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
And then Richard just on the last call you talked about other capital structure ideas that you may be thinking of other than a REIT.
Could you give us a sense of what some of those could be? A little early.
I'm still collecting a list.
I have my list.
But since I've put it out there phones have been ringing ideas are coming in.
So let me sort through them a little bit because some of them are interesting and some of them are harebrained and I'm speaking to some of mine when I say that and some might be doable some may not be doable.
But after we get a little more homework done we'll talk to you about it.
LLC</strong> Okay fair enough.
Our next question comes from Nate Brochmann of William Blair Company.
Just kind of wanted to ask a little bit of a question.
I know Richard you have a lot on your plate in terms of different directions.
But one of the things over the past couple of years that you guys have done a great job at is various efficiency programs and was wondering if -- as you're coming back to business if you've identified any other things that you kind of wanted to tackle on that efficiency or productivity front in terms of cost reduction.
Look I didn't identify it no.
The team's been working on this for some time.
And I guess you put it in 3 categories.
We talk about the North American playbook as if it's a simple little thing that we hand around to each other.
But North America has developed over the last 3 to 4 years significant numbers of strategies and implemented them very successful and driving efficiency in the business.
And if that we're exporting particularly to our bigger businesses in Europe and starting in the U.K.
which is where we're looking to get 200 basis points this year.
We're also starting a program here we call support excellence.
It uses some of the same techniques that we found successful and others targeting to two things: Benchmark all of our support functions against best practices and then try to figure out how we can get ourselves to a best practice both service level and transactional cost level.
And I've stressed this to everybody it's a combination of making sure we serve ourselves well serve one another well as well as a combination of doing it the lowest possible cost.
And I happen to believe you can achieve both of those.
Better service doesn't always mean higher cost.
In fact doing it right doing it well usually delivers better tuned service and a lower cost.
So we've undertaken those initiatives just to play it [ph] over in the next few years.
And all of that is embedded in the plan we put forth last year.
So I don't think I'm going to come up with any secret sauce on top of that.
In fact I would tell you the plans when I look at them are awfully aggressive.
And some people have asked me do I worry about them? And the answer is yes.
But my worry is that we've really put forth a pretty hard stake in the ground over a fairly short time period.
I don't really worry about hitting the number.
I worry about hitting the number in the timeframe that we put forth.
But you take a shot you do your best to get there.
You've got a better chance of getting there if you take aggressive shots and we've taken aggressive shots.
Fair enough.
And then also there's been a lot of focus obviously on the underperforming businesses and services et cetera.
But certainly the core business showing some sign of life I think is pretty positive kind of going forward and hopefully starting an improving trend.
Just wondering if you could elaborate a little bit in terms of what you're seeing there in terms of the various end market demand and what's kind of driving that and if there's any areas that really stand out to you.
Candidly been here 2 weeks and most of the time I've been talking and dealing with shareholder issues.
I can't tell you I've gotten personally deep enough in to give you a really good answer on the subtleties in the trends.
My time has been focused on the things you've heard about and heard me talk a lot about.
Come late in the day and start on Monday I've got a whole series of meetings with different managers of different groups of the business where I'm going to go get my head back and calibrate my gut again.
And after I've done that I might can answer that question better.
Fair enough.
Our next question comes from Scott Schneeberger of Oppenheimer.
Just one from me.
Richard I heard your response to that last question.
So more conceptually I guess is the way I'll ask this.
Certainly we've thought about the special projects and the services area as kind of a lead something that we've watched to see things start to come back.
Have you had any conversations with your people out on the street as to what they're seeing and hearing; is that picking up? And then the second part of the question is do you believe that's the way you'll see the recovery of the business? No.
I think we'll see the recovery of the business exactly where I think but do not absolutely know.
We are at the brink of and that is that storage leads everything else follows.
Think about what I said earlier: Newest boxes create the most activity okay? So you've got to have -- you've got to build up your newest boxes if you want to have the activity come back.
With the activity comes transportation; the more you pick the more you move.
All those things lead and come in that direction.
In terms of special projects a lot of the special projects are designed around either events as in people get sued or they have big internal audits and so forth or they're driven around other events as in M&amp;A.
A reasonable amount of our special project work moves with M&amp;A as customers takes 2 businesses put them together.
They have to clean out the records of the -- and sometimes even have to split the records of buyers or sellers or selling a division or this that and the other.
So their kind of event or any.
We don't control those events and so forth.
And then they have a third element which is "I've got budget money and I want to improve my program " or "I've been dying to do something to clean up a past mess and I've got to have budget money to do that." And in lean years that budget money just doesn't show up at our customers.
In years things get better in our customers they'll reinvest back in their programs.
And oftentimes you'll see that late in the year by the way for obvious reasons.
So Q1 is not usually a good special project.
So that's sort of the trend.
That's sort of the buying pattern and I think we'll see it but we'll see it a little later in the cycle.
The other things we see is our eDiscovery business is as we said is off.
And that flows through our comp services and sort of projects side of our business.
But the bookings are back up.
And I think that is as much as a factor of us losing focus on it in our Digital business 9 months ago as it is anything and really getting focused back on it and doing a really good job which if we were to own it 9 months from now or 6 months from now we'd see the revenue flow through well there.
So I think that -- and then the last I'd say is our DMS part of our hybrid business is solid and growing really well which flows through some of that too.
You get some puts and takes across the board now in a lot of those categories.
And by the way the DMS business the reason it's growing well it is primarily driven to help customers on the productivity side.
It's customers looking to use the information in different ways to create more productivity and that's really the trend we sell into there.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Kevin McVeigh of Macquarie.
What percentage of the business is hybrid now? And just more conceptually do you think some of those services are sapping some of the revenue from the traditional services side of the business or is it -- they don't cannibalize each other? Yes.
It's about 5%.
And in terms of cannibalization there's two ways to answer that.
In terms of cannibalizing storage no not in any significant manner.
And in fact I can make the argument that you'll actually get more hard copies storage by doing more of this.
And part of the simple argument is every time you go to look at a small vendor in that space they'll all have a net warehouse full of boxes that they just seem to accumulate okay? Because customers digitized things for good reason but for productivity for process reasons.
But for archival reasons digitizing is a bad idea because the cost of transporting that data multiple times over 15 years costs way more than just keeping the box for 15 years and that's what they tend to do.
So it's not a cannibalization issue.
From our perspective early on as we got the business going a couple of years ago it cannibalized our box storage business because we really waved the shiny object of a new service in front of our sales force and made it too easy for them to sell that new service and make their targets and make their compensation and they didn't have to work as hard on selling for box storage.
And to some extent we did that to ourselves and we have clearly recovered from doing that.
And we've clearly gotten better at balancing how we sell so we can sell them both.
And that's the results you're seeing there.
But we went through the learning curve of that; it was painful.
Super.
And then just obviously with the way fuel's gone it seems like you'll benefit from the surcharges.
We start to see that on the service line if I remember on the service line if I remember that.
Is that right? Yes you'll see that.
You'll see some benefit points around the core service revenues Kevin.
I just wanted to highlight it it won't have an impact on profit right? It will be offsetting higher fuel costs.
And Kevin we're seeing the costs on that.
We'll see the revenue later.
But there will also be the costs there later too.
Super.
And just a last question Brian you tweaked the CapEx a little bit or Richard? Well about $5 million of that was just an updated real estate estimate and $5 million was just obviously refining just how we're looking at the year.
So combined that was the adjustment.
So it looks like we've hit the end of hour.
I appreciate you all coming and your questions today.
As I said in the beginning we've got a great business.
It is performing well.
That's a great welcome back for me.
I'm glad I didn't have to come and explain a tough quarter the first time out.
As I told somebody who asked me how I like being back and I said "Well I'm still on a honeymoon period right now but it won't last forever.
But I'll enjoy it while I can." So I appreciate all your support and your cards and letters and your input.
It is useful to us.
It's helpful to us.
We do listen to it and we try to factor it into our thinking as we have to make trade-offs and decisions as we go forward.
I'll also -- I don't know exactly what the schedule is but we will be out on the road some in cities near you over the next 6 to 9 months and I'd love to get a chance to get reacquainted for some I haven't seen in a while and those that I really don't know I'd also like the chance to talk to you.
And the last invitation is you're always welcome to come see us in Boston.
So just give us a call.
We'll try to find a date and time that works.
Again thank you very much and I'll look forward to seeing you down the road.
Goodbye.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Bonnie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Iron Mountain Q2 Earnings Call Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Stephen Golden Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and welcome everyone to our 2011 second quarter earnings conference call.
Joining me this morning are Richard Reese our Chairman and CEO; and Brian McKeon our CFO.
After their prepared remarks we'll open up to questions for your Q&amp;A.
Per our custom we have a user-controlled slide presentation on the Investor Relations page of our website at www.ironmountain.com.
Referring now to Slide 2.
Today's earnings call and slide presentation will contain a number of forward-looking statements most notably our outlook for our 2011 financial performance.
All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to today's press release the Safe Harbor language on this slide and our most recently filed annual report on Form 10-K for discussion of the major risk factors that could cause our actual results to be materially different from those contemplated in our forward-looking statements.
As you know we use several non-GAAP measures when presenting our financial results.
Adjusted OIBDA adjusted EPS and free cash flow before acquisitions and investments among others are metrics we speak to frequently and ones we believe to be important in evaluating our overall financial performance.
We provide additional information and the reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the appropriate GAAP measures as required by Reg G at the Investor Relations page of our website as well as in today's press release.
Also please note that all of the financial results presented in today's materials reflect discontinued operations treatment the digital businesses we sold and the expected sale of our New Zealand operations.
All historical results have been restated to conform to this presentation.
With that I would like to introduce our Chairman and CEO Richard Reese.
Thanks Stephen and good morning and welcome to our call.
This morning I'll be intentionally brief in that it's summer time we've had a good quarter but there's nothing really extraordinary to talk much about.
So I'll kind of run through it fairly quickly then Brian will go through the numbers and some of the details.
And then of course we will take your questions and answers.
Q2 was a good quarter in line with our expectations.
We're on target for the year and frankly on target to -- it's a good start for our 3-year plan in terms of the financial performance that we laid out a few months ago.
The trends are pretty much in line with Q1 so there's not -- as I said not a lot specifically to talk about.
Reported revenues were up 5% in total that were led by International internal growth at 4% and North American internal growth at 1%.
Our storage trends remain stable at internal growth of 3% on storage.
As we've been talking about for quite some time we've seen a moderation in our storage trends.
Some of that is economic and some of that is continued secular pressure.
But we've seen stabilization and that stabilization trends have continued into the quarter.
Churn it's sitting around 7% in organic additions in the same range of the last 7 quarters in fact in around 7%.
New sales at about 2% up of -- which is a moderate improvement and been improving slowly over the last quarter 2.
As you know we've focused our business since the sell of our digital business on our core business and that we are seeing some benefits of focus and some benefits of getting the sales force really focused back into these core services.
As we've said many times there's a lot of open market opportunity for us and we've probably diluted our focus a little too much having too broader product line and too many shiny objects for the sales force.
And I think although we've still got some pretty interesting shiny objects in our core business getting them focused back on the core seems to be working for us.
Core service continued to remain soft for the same trends we've been talking about for some time as we've not seen a pickup in retrieval activities and other core activities.
Overall service dollars were up but that was driven primarily by paper prices for our Shredding business as well as fuel surcharges related to the price of fuel rising over the last few months really kicking in and starting to flow through.
But as I said the core service activity remains soft and remains a drag not an increase or anything in the trend but just remains the same trend line and a drag on our overall growth rates.
Financial bottom line performance adjusted OIBDA was on an operating basis was up 2%.
But that $227 million that excludes about $10 million of onetime costs.
If you will remember I've been saying for the last quarter or 2 that as we are exiting digital and shifting our strategy to focus on the core and focus on driving returns that you would see some noise in our reported numbers for a couple of quarters.
This is sort of some of that noise and Brian will go through it in details.
But it's primarily related to some of the proxy cost items and some other things like that and you will see in future quarters some onetime costs finishing those things out as well as the special committee process we've talked about and as well as reduce of some of the strategic assets as we go along.
So this under the category we've been telling you was coming and Brian will get into details as we get there.
So as I said it was a good quarter.
The organization and the business are performing well.
It's performing in line.
I think the execution of our team is quite outstanding and we're not only making good financial progress we're making good progress of transition our business in terms of our mindset in terms of our strategy in terms of dusting off out products a bit and really focus ourselves back into the core markets.
And we expect that that will pay good rewards over the coming years.
So I'd like to review quickly as I will tend to do in the next few quarters if not years is just to keep you up to date on the 4 stages or components of the 3-year plan that we've put forth so everybody understands where we are.
And I think one of our commitments was to make sure that we were very transparent and very clear about the progress we're making and so forth.
So as you remember our plan is driven by 4 components.
First is our North American business and that is the business that's -- it's the strength and the backbone of our core services.
It's a business over the last few years we've optimized dramatically by taking about 850 basis points of margin improvement in it as we really went through that business with a fine-toothed comb.
So the strategy here is to continue driving revenue and looking for the point at which we can increase more revenue by investing some of our margin back into it and basically keep the business at flat margins.
This quarter revenue was up about 1% and margins on an operating basis with some onetime noise in their numbers but on an operating basis it's basically flat so it's in line with our expectations.
It's a business that's got to work hard to maintain flat margins because they do have some headwinds in terms of service mixes.
Some of our core services are growing quite fast.
We have our hybrid lines growing in the 20% to 30% range internally.
They are good businesses but with much lower -- different margin characteristics and different capital characteristics and so forth.
Whereas the soft revenue we're seeing in our core retrieval refile business which is coming down on us as the higher-margin mix.
So they've got have some headwinds there but they'll work through it.
We're pretty confident that the team can work their way through that and keep the business on line with what we expect to happen.
International business as you know a couple of things I mean our strategy was to look at the business from a different strategic lens and that is as a portfolio businesses and we've been going about doing that.
As part of that or in addition to that I should say our International business has -- have committed to driving margins by 700 basis points and this is by running the same playbooks by and large that we ran in North America in terms of just driving efficiency investing in processes to improve our cost as well as our service delivery.
And they're off to a good start.
You saw in this quarter a flow-through of 150 basis points and margin improvement out of our International portfolio.
That's 150 out of the target of 200 that we will see coming this year and that's 200 for this year out of the 700 total over the 3-year period.
So as I said we're off to a good start there.
Growth remained good in the markets particularly led by some of our developing markets as well as some good growth in our leadership markets and otherwise on the continent.
And they maintain a 4% internal growth rate.
Plus absorbed -- continue to absorb an acquisition which added another 3% to their growth rate or total growth rate in constant dollars of 7%.
FX had a much more positive benefit for them but we really think about the business in constant-dollar basis.
Part of our strategy was in addition to driving the 700 basis points of margin and trying to continue getting access to the higher growth rates that we could see in quite a few of our International markets was to analyze our portfolio of businesses and making sure that we had strategies to drive appropriate returns on invested capital market-by-market.
And some of those strategies would include tactics such as driving more revenue to drive to scale such as reducing cost and overhead such as freezing the business and just stopping the investment if we couldn't find a better thing to do with it or disposing divesting in the business and get out of it.
This morning we announced are in fact stating that we are exploring the sale of one of our businesses that's our business in New Zealand.
This is a result of this process.
The process is an ongoing process not that we haven't pretty much finished the analysis because we have it's just that we're not going to make a big-bang announcements as to our execution.
But this is a first-stage execution of that strategy and so we're exploring the sale of the business in New Zealand.
The way we look at that business it's a great business but it's small about $8 million in revenue.
It came along with an acquisition of Australia which is a much larger business and New Zealand in itself is a smaller market.
And we're not the leader.
In fact we're like #3 or #4 in the market space.
And therefore we think that our New Zealand business folded into somebody else probably has more value to them than it does to us.
And we're going to test the market and see if we can come to understand that.
We obviously won't sell it if we don't get a fair price for it to get return for shareholders because it's not putting a drag on us.
It's a profitable business.
But on a return basis we think we can probably take the capital out there and put it somewhere else and have a better return.
As I said this is the first such announcement.
I don't expect a long list of announcements but -- and the lot of what we're doing in the International portfolio is not the kind of thing you'll announce.
It's just about how we drive the business how we allocate capital.
But again we're off to good start there.
The third element of our strategy was to sell our Digital software assets or what we so-called our Digital business and focus back on our core business.
During the quarter although we announced this some time ago it's easy to make an announcement.
We actually had to do the work but we closed on the sale transaction in the quarter and in fact had to split the business apart.
There was a lot of integrated support and staff issues that we worked through with Autonomy.
And the transition is not 100% done but I'd put it in the category as mostly done.
I think the heavy lifting is pretty much behind us there and we are all looking forward -- I know that Autonomy I think views it as a successful and good transaction from their perspective as well as we do.
And along the way as we had hoped we entered into a partnership with Autonomy that gave us access to a lot of their technology on an attractive partnership basis where we will cross-sell and support which allows us to continue in the market space ramping technology services in our portfolio where it's appropriate and allows us to continue to solving certain customer problems without suffering the development cost and the heavy capital investments that we were having to put back in the Digital business to maintain our software assets and platform.
So all in all we think it was a good move for us and we hope and believe that it was a good move for Autonomy.
And we think as we said in the very first place that they would do a better job with those assets than we could do.
And so we hope and believe they found a good home and that the relationship between us and Autonomy will continue to blossom and bear fruits for both parties.
So that stuff is easy to talk about.
I just want to stress to you shareholders that you can't even imagine the amount of work that a lot of people have put into over the last 2 or 3 months just making that short soliloquy I just went through come true.
Okay? And so it's good work and the good news is that now some of those people we'll give them about 5 minutes rest and they'll go back to work on some other good stuff.
And we'll get our organizational focused on some other future things that are real positive for us.
The fourth element is shareholder payouts.
The reminder is our commitment is $2.2 billion of distributed cash to our shareholders over a 3-year period and $1.2 billion off of that within the first year.
And we are on track to do that.
We are in the middle of executing that strategy.
We increased our quarterly or what I call foundational dividend by 33% during the quarter to $0.25 per quarter.
I would encourage you to view that as a increase to a foundational level and view that more of the dividend that's likely not necessarily but likely to grow as we grow our cash flows in the future or some related metric.
Okay? In other words as business performance continues to do well I would expect the dividend to rise.
But these are all expectations not commitments in terms of dividend futures.
But that's what I would expect to happen.
And then of course as you know what we said over and over our second strategy for distributing capital and preferred strategy is to buy in our stock.
Our strategy for buying in our stock is buy it at or below fair market value based upon our best judgment and our best view of the models at the time and not to be necessarily a trader in the market because we don't expect that we can out-trade the market.
And so we've executed the first leg of that with a $250 million prepaid variable stock purchase plan.
That is almost completed.
It should conclude itself sometime in August.
We don't have final numbers.
I can tell you that our best estimate and it is only an estimate is somewhere between 7 million and 8 million shares will have been purchased.
And our best estimate at the average price is an acceptable number to us okay? In the future just so long as we can buy stock at or below the fair market value from our perspective we will continue doing that as a way of distributing cash.
Obviously if the stock were to get substantially above what we think are a comfortable position we would have to use a third alternative which would be a special dividend but as I've said over and over that's not our preferred route but of course a route we would use if we had to.
Because we have made these commitments we will find one way or other to make those commitments come true.
So all in all I think we're off to a good start in the a shareholder payout plan and we're going to continue moving forward.
The last quick element to update you on before I turn over it over to Brian is we've made a decision not to hold our Annual Investor Day in 2011 which we would typically hold in the October timeframe.
So from a planning perspective people have been asking what's the date? Have we nailed it down?  And the answer we decided not to.
The reason we decided not to is a couple or mostly -- I mean I could whine and argue as we're awfully busy and it does take a lot of time.
But you don't really care about that and that's not the main reason.
The main reason is as you know we've kicked off our special committee process to the Board where we're looking for strategic alternatives.
And we believe that so long as we're in the middle of that special committee process if we would have a large meeting like an Investor Day you would all come away very unhappy with answers to your questions because you would all be asking questions about what's the special committee doing? What are they learning? When are they going to learn something? When are they going to tell us something? And our answer to that question will always be we're not going to tell you.
We try to say it more politely than that but that would be the answer.
We just don't really feel like bringing you in and bring ourselves in and having everybody feel pretty uncomfortable at the end that we didn't tell you anything.
So I'm telling you now we're not going to tell you anything because we're not going to do differential disclosure to anybody.
We're going to work through the process.
It will be as transparent as possible when a decision has arrived that if ever there is a decision we will tell everybody at the same time and we will tell them broadly and very deeply and very thoroughly.
And so we just felt like take the noise out of the market and the speculation out of the market we're not going to do an Investor Day.
We will resume Investor Day on a normal pattern in 2012.
Obviously if the special committee comes to conclusions that have radical changes in our business a pretty good chance we'll do some -- we will find lots of ways to do broad communications and we may even have an in-person meeting if it needed that level of detailed discussion.
But we will find the right way to make sure it's communicated and make sure you all understand it if anything happens.
And I stress the big word if anything happens.
I should also tell you though that one of the other things we typically accomplished at the Investor Day was a discussion of our preliminary forward-year outlook at that day -- at that meeting and we will do that in our Q3 earnings call.
So you might expect our Q3 earnings call to run slightly longer because we will make sure that we go through a full discussion of our 2012 outlook -- preliminary outlook on our Q3 call.
So that's about the only news for the day.
As I said it's a good quarter.
I think we're off to a good start executing all our plans and we'll continue doing that and continue trying to communicate with you.
With that let me turn it to Brian who'll go through the details and then we'll see.
Thanks Richard and good morning everybody.
We'll be going through the slides as usual.
Slide 3 highlights the key messages from today's review.
Our continuing operations delivered solid performance in Q2 keeping us on track towards our full year goals.
Results were supported by solid storage revenue growth and improved profit performance in our International business.
The quarter revenue growth was 5% with business trends largely consistent with those that we discussed last quarter.
Storage revenues increased 6% or 3% on an internal growth basis.
Global record management net volume was 2% supported by solid gains in International markets and positive growth in North America.
Service revenue internal growth was 1% as strong gains in hybrid services as well as benefits from higher paper prices and increased fuel surcharges offset continued weakness in core service activity levels.
Profit and cash flow performance was solid and in line with our expectations supported by strong gains in our International segment.
Adjusted OIBDA was $227 million up 2% on an operating basis excluding $10 million of fees associated with the recent proxy contest.
Adjusted EPS was $0.29 per share including the $0.03 impact of the $10 million in proxy fees and free cash flow was $140 million on a year-to-date basis.
Our full year guidance for our continuing operations is very similar to the outlook that we shared in our Q1 conference call.
We are revising our guidance to reflect the discontinued operations treatment resulted from the sale of our digital businesses and the expected divestiture of our New Zealand operations.
The results of these 2 businesses have been removed from our P&amp;L results and collapsed into a single line labeled income or loss from discontinued operations.
All of our historical information has been restated to reflect this presentation.
Attached to this presentation is an appendix that contains a table which lays out the impact of discontinued operations in our previously reported Q1 results.
In our full year guidance we've also refined our outlook to reflect current commodity price levels as well as impacts from stranded costs related to the digital divestiture.
Let's now turn to Slide 4 and begin the review of our financial results.
Slide 4 compares our results for in this quarter to the second quarter of 2010.
Please note that all the periods presented have been restated to reflect our discontinued operations.
Overall Q2 was a solid quarter with performance keeping us on track towards achieving our full year financial goals.
Enterprise revenue growth was 5% supported by internal growth of 2% and benefits from favorable FX changes and recent acquisitions.
Enterprise revenue gains reflected sustained storage revenue internal growth of 3% and global expansion of hybrid services.
Higher fuel surcharges and recycled paper prices also supported revenue growth.
These gains offset continued softness in core service activities.
From segment perspective North America posted 1% internal growth supported by consistent 2% storage internal growth.
Service revenues were up slightly in Q2 in North America.
Service growth continues to be constrained by softness in retrieval and refile transportation and data protection handling activity.
These impacts offset strong gains in hybrid revenues and benefits from higher commodity prices.
As noted in today's press release our Q2 results specifically North America include a $6 million revenue adjustment for the estimated cumulative impact of complex retroactive pricing adjustments involving a unique 5-year customer agreement.
We've excluded this adjustment from our internal growth calculations as it relates primarily to prior periods and doesn't accurately reflect the current trends in our business.
Our International segment generated 4% internal growth in Q2.
Storage internal growth remains strong at 5% supported by solid gains in Europe and sustained double-digit gains in Latin America and Asia Pacific.
These gains were augmented by expansion in hybrid service revenues.
Total service growth was constrained by lower complementary service revenues due primarily to the winding-down of a large European contract.
Reported revenues for this segment were 19% including benefits from favorable foreign exchange rate changes and recent acquisitions.
Overall we continue to post solid comparable profit gains in line with our expectations.
Gross profits grew 5% in Q2 yielding a gross margin of 59.2% consistent with Q2 of last year.
Both storage and service gross margins were flat compared to the prior year.
With in-service gross margins gains from factors such as higher recycled paper prices were offset by the business mix impacts and declines in core service activity.
Adjusted OIBDA was $227 million up 2% excluding $10 million in costs associated with our recent proxy contest.
Gross profit gains were offset by planned year-on-year increases in North America sales and marketing expense and normal incentive compensation accruals compared to low prior year levels.
Below the adjusted OIBDA line depreciation was $73 million and amortization was $7 million and other expense for the quarter was $3 million.
Adjusted EPS for the quarter was $0.29 per share including a $0.03-per-share impact of the proxy cost recorded in the quarter.
Reported EPS for the quarter was $0.32 a share reflecting the benefit of a lower effective tax rate and fewer shares outstanding.
Structural tax rate for the quarter was 39%.
Expect the structural tax rate for 2011 as a whole to also be about 39%.
Let's now take a closer look at our revenue growth on Slide 5.
Slide 5 breaks down our overall revenue growth.
It shows internal growth by major service line as well as the impact of acquisitions divestitures and foreign exchange.
Also presented are the revised Q1 and full year 2011 growth rates reflecting our discontinued operations.
As noted overall revenue growth was 5% on track with our full year growth outlook.
Storage internal growth was sustained at 3% reflecting consistent underlying trends.
North America reported 2% internal storage growth and International growth remains solid at 5%.
Net global records management volume growth was about 2% year-on-year in Q2.
I'll break down key drivers of this change as part of today's review.
Pricing trends also remain consistent with net pricing gains of about 2% in North America Records Management.
Total service internal growth was 1% compared to 0% growth in the first quarter.
Core service internal growth was flat in the quarter compared to down 1% in Q1 as higher fuel surcharges and strong growth in hybrid services offset continued weakness and core service activity levels.
Complementary service revenues which represent about 12% of total revenues increased 4% internally in the quarter.
Results reflected benefits from higher recycled paper pricing which offset lower fees from customer terminations and lower project revenue.
Let's now turn to Slide 6 to review global volume growth trends.
Slide 6 shows key drivers of global records management volume for the last 3.5 years to give you a sense of volume growth dynamics following the financial crisis.
The chart shows annualized changes in quarterly record management's volume as a percentage of beginning cubic feet related to new sales and volume growth from exiting -- from existing customers offset by outgoing volume or churn.
Overall global records management volumes have stabilized following impacts from the economic contraction.
Global volume growth was about 2% year-on-year in Q2 similar to trends in recent quarters with gains supported by growth in International expansion markets.
By region North America volume was up modestly year-on-year.
We're seeing the benefits from our increased focus on new sales supported by targeted investment.
We're also seeing moderation in factors such as permanent withdrawals and terminations.
On balance volume is solid in North America and we're making progress in building new sales momentum that will offset secular impacts and sustain the high-return North America annuity over the long term.
International growth is continuing at a solid pace with volume up nearly 6% year-on-year.
We saw  year-on-year volume gains across all regions with overall gains supported by strong growth and expansion markets like central Europe and Latin America.
On a global basis total churn remains stable.
We expect quarterly fluctuations on this front driven by episodic customer actions and overall these impacts have settled into a stable range.
In some our storage annuity is solid and growing and our investments and long-term strategy are aligned with expanding this annuity driving attractive incremental returns.
Let's move now to Slide 7 and review our results on a year-to-date basis.
Slide 7 looks at our year-to-date operating performance compared to the first half of 2010.
Again all periods presented here have been restated to reflect our discontinued operations.
As we noted our Q2 results keep us on track to achieve our full year financial goals.
For year-to-date revenue increased 4% to $1.5 billion gross profit increased 4% to $882 million yielding a modest improvement in gross margin.
Adjusted OIBDA were 2% year-on-year excluding the $14 million of costs associated with the proxy contest.
Adjusted OIBDA growth was also impacted by planned investments in North America sales and marketing the higher levels of incentive compensation compared to last year.
Adjusted EPS was $0.56 per share including a 4%-per-share impact from the $14 million of costs related to the proxy contest.
Excluding these impacts adjusted EPS is up 7% year-to-date.
Capital spending was $73 million including $9 million for real estate in line with our full year plans.
Free cash flow for 2011 is $140 million year-to-date down slightly from last year's levels due primarily to timing impacts on working capital items including taxes and prepaid assets.
These impacts more than offset higher income from continuing operations and lower CapEx.
We remain on track for a strong free cash flow performance this year.
Let's now turn to Slide 8 to review our results by segment.
Slide 8 shows key metrics for each of our 3 segments for the first half of 2010.
Consistent with our plans we're sustained high returns in our North America segment as we build momentum in our International segment as a driver of profit and cash flow gains.
North America continues to deliver high profits and strong cash flows.
Reported revenues year-to-date have increased 1% supported by 2% storage revenue growth.
Looked at the North American results we're impacted by the $6 million revenue adjustment described earlier.
Adjusted OIBDA margins in our largest segment were strong at 42% on gross margin gains and controlled support overhead spending which offset planned investments in sales and marketing.
As noted earlier these investments are key to sustaining the high-return storage annuity which drives North America returns.
Capital efficiency continued to improve with CapEx as a percentage of sales decreasing to below 4%.
Our International segment continues to post solid revenue growth and improved adjusted OIBDA and cash flow gains.
External growth for the first half was 4% driven by continued strong storage internal growth of 6%.
Year-to-date adjusted OIBDA exceeded revenue gains growing 17% on a reported basis or 10% excluding FX impacts.
Q2 International adjusted OIBDA margins increased 110 basis points compared to prior year levels.
These gains were driven primarily by realized benefits of operational excellence initiatives in our U.K.
business.
We continue to target strong improvement in International margins in 2011 supported by operational improvements in the U.K.
and profit gains in expansion markets.
Finally the increase in corporate expenses primarily reflects $14 million of onetime costs associated with the proxy contest.
Let's turn to Slide 9 to review our progress with respect to our debt portfolio.
Our balance sheet remains strong reflecting the improvements in our cash-generating capacity and debt portfolio.
Currently our consolidated leverage ratio was 2.8x at the low end of our target 3x to 4x leverage range.
We're well positioned in terms of cash and financing capacity.
At quarter end liquidity was approximately $1 billion with $271 million in cash $718 million in additional borrowing capacity under our revolver.
This includes the benefits of the net proceeds from the digital sale.
During the second quarter we refinanced our senior credit facility securing a $725 million revolving credit facility $500 million in term loans.
These facilities mature in June of 2016.
Our debt portfolio remains long and fixed.
Our weighted average interest rate was just over 7%.
We're 83% fixed at quarter end.
Maturity is nearly 7 years with no bond prepayments due until 2014.
Strength of our balance sheet reinforces our confidence in advancing the shareholder payout commitments outlined in our strategic plan.
Let's now turn to Slide 10 to discuss our progress on this front.
A key component of our midterm strategic plan is our commitment to significant shareholder payouts.
As a reminder we've committed to $2.2 billion of payouts through 2013 including $1.2 billion by May of 2012.
In Q2 we advanced key elements of our plan to meet those commitments.
In June we increased our quarterly dividend 33% to $0.25 per share or $1 on an annual basis.
The quarterly dividend is the foundation of our payout approach.
It's now at an appropriate level and we expect to increase it over time as our earnings and free cash flow grow.
In Q2 we also increased our share repurchase authorization by $815 million to an aggregate total of $1.2 billion.
As of the end of Q2 we've purchased a total of 5.1 million shares for an aggregate of $122 million.
Although we do not repurchase any shares during the second quarter we did implement a $250 million prepaid variable share repurchase program.
This program is expected to be concluded in early August at which time we will receive and retire the shares acquired on our behalf.
We expect to retire between 7 million and 8 million shares through this program which represents about 4% of our total shares outstanding.
At the completion of the prepaid repurchase plan we will have $828 million remaining under our existing share repurchase authorization.
At current prices this represents about 12% of our market cap.
We also have significant incremental borrowing capacity as our leverage ratio stands at 2.8x at the end of the second quarter.
Over time we intend to increase our leverage at the midpoint of our target 3x to 4x range consistent with our strategic plan.
Strong cash flow and financing capacity has us well positioned to deliver substantial payouts to shareholders.
Let's now turn to Slide 11 to discuss our full year outlook.
Slide 11 summarizes our full year 2011 financial guidance.
As noted we're revising our guidance to reflect the discontinued operations treatment of the sale of our Digital business and the expected divestiture of our New Zealand operations.
We're also making a modest revision to our revenue guidance to incorporate current commodity price levels.
Let me take you through the components of the outlook.
We expect our full year revenues to be in the range of $3 040 000 000 to $3 090 000 000 up 4% to 6% or up 2% to 4% on a constant currency basis.
The outlook results in a reduction of $188 million at the midpoint of the range from our last guidance primarily reflecting the elimination of the Digital and New Zealand revenues partially offset by modest positive revisions reflecting the higher commodity prices.
After adjusting for discontinued operations our outlook for adjusted OIBDA is to be in the range of $916 million to $944 million.
This range represents reported growth of minus 2% to plus 1% and includes planned incremental sales and marketing investments and a return to normal incentive compensation levels compared to low levels in 2010.
Our outlook for adjusted OIBDA from continuing operations is consistent with our last forecast shared in the Q1 call.
Modest positive impact of higher commodity prices on revenues is being offset by stranded costs in connection with the sale of the Digital business as well as higher fuel costs.
Included in our adjusted OIBDA outlook is $15 million of advisory and onetime fees associated with our recent proxy contest or reduced overall growth by about 2% this year.
Our current outlook is for adjusted EPS to be in the range of $1.19 to $1.27 per share.
This is an increase of about 3% from our prior guidance reflecting accretive benefits from the digital divestiture.
This outlook also includes the $4 million -- $0.04 negative impact from proxy-related cost.
The forecast assumes 202 million shares outstanding.
This reflects the level of shares outstanding at the end of Q2.
It does not include the impact of the $250 million prepaid variable share repurchase program which was not completed in Q2.
Adjusted EPS would benefit by about $0.01 to $0.02 per share if we receive the 7 million to 8 million shares we're expecting at the completion of this repurchase program.
G&amp;A is expected to be approximately $324 million and interest is expected to be approximately $199 million.
The CapEx outlook of $230 million reflects the impact of discontinued operations and includes about $20 million for real estate spending an increase of $5 million related to a new opportunity.
Our free cash flow outlook remains strong with projections in the range of $370 million to $405 million.
In summary Q2 was a solid quarter and kept us on track towards our full year goals for improving revenue growth continued strong profit and cash flow performance.
Thanks and we'd now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions]  Our first question comes from Kevin McVeigh of Macquarie.
Brian could you give me -- remind us of the split of the Digital impact between the Storage business and service? Is it all in storage or service or is it a combination of both? It's a combination of both Kevin.
So we had -- keep in mind that the -- there certainly was a storage component to it but particularly for the backup businesses the archiving business but the eDiscovery business was -- much of that would be under flow through or competitor -- complementary revenue line.
So it was a mix.
And was it kind of 70:30 60:40 in terms of percentages or...
Why don't we get that for you and we'll comment on it in a moment.
We'll just look that up for you.
Super.
And then I just wanted to spend a minute if we could on kind of the capital structure.
Given the strength of the balance sheet on a go-forward basis it still seems you're pretty well geared towards fixed debt things like that.
And just given the strength of the free cash flow is there any difference in terms of approach as you think about uses of free cash flow on a go-forward basis or the leverage on the balance sheet? I mean I know you've tweaked that the leverage ratios a little bit more recently but just given the strength of the free cash flow on a go-forward basis how are you thinking about that capital structure? Kevin this is Richard.
I think when we put forth our 3-year plan you'll note that we -- that part of that plan is increasing our leverage to the midpoint of our range to approximately 3.5x from about 2.8x a little under 3x now.
And I think that's a comfort level we have to operate the business and that's the level in which between that increase in the level and our free cash flow we're going to distribute the $2.2 billion of cash over the next 3 years.
And so I think we're sort of set for how we're going to use free cash flow and leverage for that timeframe.
Having said that we'll always reevaluate and we do reevaluate our capital structure from time to time.
We are a business that if you look out in the future should generate substantial free cash flow and should continue to be able to distribute substantial cash to our shareholders over a long period of time.
We've also spoken that we would be -- have interest in acquisitions in our core space and there are acquisitions out there.
By and large they're relatively small and by and large we will do them if they make sense to us from a return on investment basis to help accrete returns so it's if there are very good financial attractions.
They're not things that we would consider to be strategic okay so to speak.
And there's a couple of larger relative to the physical business that are rumored hanging around out there and we don't know if they're out there or not and we would have to see what our appetite would be for pieces or parts or all or none of still some kind of things.
But net-net none of those nothing we would think about will get in the way of our commitment to distribute the $2.2 billion nor should it get in the way of our ability to distribute significant cash flow beyond the 3-year time period.
Then Kevin let me -- I just have a couple of comments on.
First answer your question it's a 70:30 split 70% storage.
And I think at the beginning of the question you asked about fixed and variable interest.
We're a bit higher than our ideal range.
I think over time in terms of fix floating we've got a very annuity-based business that aligns well with the fixed commitment structure on debt but I think over time we probably will be looking to have our fixed component more in the 70% to 80% range but I think we're comfortable what we are currently and that's an opportunity for us over time.
Our next question comes from Andrew Steinerman of JPMorgan.
You did start talking about core service and we're back to flat and I definitely heard the fuel's charge is helpful here.
Could you just go over the trajectory for core service and is this something that it's pickup and delivery we can't really influence or is this something that we can influence? Andrew it really was more similar than different.
Fuel gave us about a point in growth on the -- actually 2 points of growth on the core service line in the quarter it was 1.5.
So if you adjust for that it really was very similar to the numbers we had in Q1 so I wouldn't point to this as a change...
And Andrew by nature the we separate our services for communication purposes between core and complementary is the things that we put in the core are services that we cannot influence.
These are specifically demand-driven by customers' activity.
You can't make them retrieve a file or box or tape or call us to shred a bin or so forth.
That's totally related to their activity.
The kinds of revenues we put in the complementary services category are the kinds of things we can go out and stimulate the sale process and so forth.
And that is in fact why we define them that way.
But Richard I've heard you say new boxes are more active and so as you're able to ramp up new boxes they should influence core.
I think that's true.
But remember the denominator is so big and there's always a time lag thing kind of thing we haven't seen it yet.
I fully expect to be clear that the core service softness trend we see will change.
And I expect there are 2 or 3 things going on in it and they'll change and I expected it'll at least flatten and maybe rise a little bit off of a so-called new normal in a certain position.
We just haven't found it yet.
Our next question comes from Gary Bisbee of Barclays Capital.
I guess just first what were the tax consequences of the Digital sales? Is there a big tax hit or is most of that proceeds flowing through? Yes.
No we did have a tax impact.
I think the cash tax payment was over $50 million and that's reflected in the discontinued operations.
Okay and then with the International I think I heard you say volumes were up 6% but the internal growth was up 4%.
Is that that part of the volumes were from the small M&amp;A activity or is it more just that the service areas were weaker than the core storage? I'm trying to follow your question.
The difference between the 6% to 4% or are you trying to get color on the 4%? No.
Difference the 6% and the 4%.
We did have some acquisitions.
We had Poland in there and some [ph] acquisition in Greece as well.
So it was acquisitions and the overall numbers they were solid.
We had a 5% storage internal growth.
The service number was down a bit.
We were lapping the high project revenues in Europe specifically in Italy last year and that was constraining the number a bit.
We had a major project in Italy that wound down.
That's the kind of revenue that will show in our comp services stuff which as you know can be pretty lumpy at times.
And then just the last question I guess any commentary on why you didn't repurchase stock? Was it just sort of when you were -- when you either had...
We entered into this prepaid variable repurchase program and the way that works is we do an upfront payment commitment with banking partners but it doesn't get -- until it gets completed it takes 2 to 3 months to complete the program the shares don't get delivered.
So effectively we did repurchase $250 million and it will be done in the coming days.
We just haven't gotten the final accounting and delivered the shares.
Therefore we don't reflect it through our numbers.
Right.
So it doesn't show up in Q2.
But that was what the 7 million to 8 million share reference was that's effectively what was repurchased in the quarter.
And if we enter into such a transaction which we did we are otherwise not trading in the market around it.
Yes okay.
But some of the volume in the quarter was them buying the stock on your behalf.
You just haven't shown that in your numbers yet? Yes that's correct.
And by the way it's a little bit of a black-box process.
They don't really tell us what's going on.
You don't really know till the end.
So we're making estimates.
Our next question comes from Andrew Wittmann of Baird.
Just to I guess jump on that last question a little bit more still there's I'd say kind of a fair ways to go until getting to the $1.2 billion first hurdle here.
You guys are saying you're generally on track but it looks like things are going to need to accelerate.
Can you just talk about I guess your plan from here?  And would you consider another one of these accelerated share repurchases again?  Or are you able to tack on another one of those again after this first $250 million is done? We're not able to do anything until it's done.
And we have considerations on what we've got to do next and shortly we'll be discussing that with our committee and our Board as to the next step.
And there's other backup plans in place and so forth.
It's a fairly complex process you have to go through.
As you recognize we can't do anything until we get on open window of clear sky blue sky insider knowledge perspective whether we can put a program in place or not.
So I don't think we can comment on exactly which tools we will use except to say that it's our expectation to continue and stay in the market on a fairly regular basis.
And your comment that we might be behind we don't see it that way.
When we map it out I'd say we're right pretty much on plan and trying to do this on a fairly consistent steady basis.
Out of the $1.2 billion you've got about $200 million covered by the dividend and the variable program and the first step was $250 million...
So we got $750 million to go.
And we feel we're on good track.
And recognize I know this is obvious but I have to -- I want to continue to repeat it is the $1.2 billion is an artificial date that we agreed to and we will commit to doing it.
But we've also agreed and committed to another $1 billion to find it.
So we're not trying to push to a first year date and then wrap it up and walk on.
This has got to be a continuing way of life for us.
I just threw this 3-year period because we said earlier we expect to have significant free cash flow in the fourth fifth sixth seventh eighth tenth and twentieth year.
And in all scenarios we can see a substantial amount of cash flow excess of the business needs.
In other words we're not starving the business.
We want to make sure the business is well taken care of but in excess of the business need we will be returning cash to shareholders.
And therefore when you've got that significant amount of capital we're trying to do this in a pretty programmatic basis trying to make sure we don't make any big mistakes.
But you know we're not just trading in and out and so forth.
So you'd expect to see a lot of steady distribution here.
And just then just on the view of International disposition potential you kind of mentioned Richard that the process of evaluating what might go and what might stay is done.
Can you give us maybe a bit more insight not specific markets obviously but maybe in terms of maybe a range of total capital proceeds that you might expect to see with which you've identified so far? Well the process -- I wouldn't want to say we made final decisions.
I guess what I'm saying is I've seen enough analysis.
They have a pretty much gut for what's going to happen how's that? And in fact we're going to review a lot of that with our board coming up so we've got some final work to do.
But the short answer to your basic question was is this going to be a significant series of capital-raising events? The answer is no.
There's more opportunity in our portfolio to focus the strategies and drive improvement and we're going to by and large continue doing that.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Shlomo Rosenbaum of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I just want to ask it's been about 3 months since you laid out the targets as to what I think you'll do over the next 3 years.
I was wondering from an operational perspective internationally do you guys feel better about the opportunity to increase the profitability of that business or do you feel the same or do you feel worse? In other words after 3 months of review where do you stand in terms of the confidence of being able to do that plan? We feel very good about it.
As we noted in the quarter the International profit improvement was a key driver of our results.
We had margins up year-on-year 110 basis points.
We're on track for about a 200-basis-point improvement this year which is consistent with what we talked about.
That doesn't reflect changes in our portfolio.
So there may be opportunities that emerge from that.
We've continued to advance the plans with the team we feel very good about it.
The growth remains solid.
The business is performing well.
So I feel confident that that's going to be a key driver of results and we're on track for our plan.
I'd also highlight just overall in the company if you take out the proxy costs at midpoint our margins outlook for this year adjusted OIBDA I think is just shy of 31%.
So we're moving well towards the 32%.
It was one of the benchmarks we put out there as a goal by 2013 and International's going to help us to achieve our goals in International that'll put us on good track for that objective.
I'd like to stress that your question is we're into it 3 months how do we feel about it? It leads me to believe that you might be thinking about it wrong and so let me -- from our perspective at least.
And that is it's not like we woke up 3 months ago and fired a gun and said you guys take a big right turn.
We'd actually been working with International and developing the plans of that well before we made these announcements.
And in fact they already had a head start on a lot of the work which is why you're seeing 150 basis points coming up this quarter.
These are not the kind of things where you can just do them overnight.
They take a lot of prepping and if you go back and listen and look at our numbers you'll see us talking about investment in International prior to this.
As I said their whole business plan for this year already had the 200 basis points in it because we'd already started them down that strategy and that path.
The other thing here that is the shift in International though is the International had some initiatives in the projects going partially related in the hybrid business and so forth trying to drive and build some growth platforms for the future that were not panning out as fast as we thought.
And we've asked them and refocus that and they have and that's part of and will help contribute to this sort of stuff.
And it's part of just focusing international on again on the core business just like we've done in North America.
Let's look less at shiny objects and look more back at our core business because the sense we have come to understand was that we are walking past the core business just a little too fast and leaving good opportunity good return opportunity on the table and not going after it aggressively.
And I think if you go out and talk to customers if you go out and listen to the marketplace I think you'll hear is Iron Mountain is awake again in the core business.
And that's what I want them to hear and that's what we want to do because there's good business out there and it's a big battleship takes a long time to turn.
But it's turning.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And just in terms of the divestiture potential internationally I wasn't clear as to whether you were saying that there are further potential divestitures or you're saying that New Zealand is pretty much it.
I won't say New Zealand is pretty much it.
I won't be that definitive.
What I am saying is anything would occur won't be significant okay in terms of financial impact.
The question was directed at is this going to be a major source of fund? No it will not.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I'm looking besides source of funds in terms of just margin improvement potential.
No I don't think you'll see -- I don't think the portfolio view is going to have big shifts of margin.
The 700 basis points we're going after is going to be the big shift in margin.
I don't know that that's all by the way but for the next 2.5 years it will be the big shift.
Look and I guess I would tell you though that as much as I've said we've been working a lot on this before we announced it I guess I would stress one thing.
We didn't hold back anything.
We don't have a lot of money in our pocket.
Not a lot of -- we've got some reasonable cushion here don't get me wrong.
We're not totally crazy.
But we came forth and said "Look these are the things you can do." And everybody stretched and feeling stretched pretty good.
Everybody's saying they think they can do it but there's nobody got a lot of sandbag and I don't have a big bucket of capital of earnings in our pocket that we can dump out and protect ourselves with.
We'll continue looking and there may be some other good opportunities we'll go looking for it.
But this is the plan we expect to execute and we will execute and we'll deliver the cash and we'll still have a good business at the end and continue delivering cash after that.
That's what we want to do and I think we're pretty comparable we can do that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And then kind of a housekeeping.
In terms of the share count for next quarter should we assume the 7 million to 8 million goes out over the 2 months of the quarter?  Is that a fair way to do it for weighted average? Yes well we're expecting it to conclude in early August.
So that's midpoint I guess for the quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay and then in terms of the talk about strategically trying to monetize the real estate assets.
I understand there's a special committee out there.
I just want to know if there have been -- I'm obviously not looking for definitive answers on anything but are there a lot more ideas beyond just the reconversion that have been coming up? Yes.
There is a variety of ideas and structures.
They fall into -- they tend to fall in some very unique categories which I won't go through with you okay? But we're in a stage of value generation.
I mean we're actually running a formal process.
We've had lots of meetings interviewing lots of advisers.
We started to choose advisers to help us.
We are going to spend some serious money on this which is why we're going to tell you about it each quarter for a couple few quarters till it's done because it is a onetime kind of event.
But yes there are some ideas and they have -- as I predicted earlier they all come with a range of benefit and range of complexity and a range of risk.
But it tends to work out those with the highest risk -- generally those with the highest risk generally have the highest complexity and generally have the highest benefit okay as you might expect.
But yes there's a range of stuff that we're looking at.
And we will narrow that down.
We're going through a process of narrowing it down and then focus on a best view if I might say.
And I don't know how many will be in the best view category and really try to drive them to the ground and see if they makes any sense.
Unfortunately -- you can make a decision on some of them fairly quickly that don't make sense or that won't work or anything else.
But some of them the devil is absolutely in the details and there's an enormous amount of assumptions and modeling and people to talk to and so forth and we're going through that.
Our next question comes from Scott Schneeberger of Oppenheimer.
A couple -- I'll try and be quick.
The first one just following up on the outsource share repurchase program.
Do you guys intend once that's completed in early August to press release and mention your intention for what comes next?  Or do we wait until the third quarter call there? To a degree it depends on what we decide to do.
I would say that there's a few different tools here and some things may result in a public announcement but look if we're doing things like open market purchases or 10b5-1 programs or things like that our practice is not to comment on that.
So I think what you should take away is that we've got a -- we are executing against the payout plan.
We're making good track and we're committed to delivering against it and you should expect us -- the share repurchases we said all along is our preferred tool and we'll continue to evaluate that.
But we may or may not do a press announcement.
And then 2 more and I'll ask them both up front.
In core storage could you just comment on pricing just the competitive environment you're seeing there and how that's evolving? I think you mentioned North America plus 2% year-over-year.
Just thoughts there.
And then the second question is with regard to core services I think you mentioned you have 2 or 3 things going on there.
I'm particularly interested in destructions I think you said have stabilized.
But if we can just go a level deeper on both of those topics.
Pricing similar plus 2%.
As we mentioned North America Records Management that's where we've been.
That's pretty much what we've got in our planned numbers as well and so feel good about that.
When you mentioned that churn has stabilized that the combination of destructions permanent withdrawals and terminations.
Destructions are in a similar range.
That will bounce up and down.
It's driven by customer events.
But it's been more in a stable range similar range in recent quarters.
We have seen some improvement on permanent withdrawals and terminations reflecting we've got a real focus on customer service and...
And that improvement by the way is a reduction in the rate of terminations and withdrawals which the positive is is your storage balances are higher.
The negative is you don't recognize the service revenue in a fairly good service line.
It's about 7% globally not all that different by region to be honest with you.
And it seemed to be in a similar range.
So it's stable.
I wouldn't be signaling improvement.
And one more quick one if I can sneak it in.
The $6 million revenue impact from the complex repricing is that -- any more color there? And is that something that we may see occur again or is that really a onetime thing? No that absolutely should be a onetime thing.
So thank you very much.
We appreciate your joining us this morning.
As I said in the beginning this was a good quarter.
I do want to clarify a statement I made earlier for those who haven't figured out I don't really have too much of a script here.
I'm pretty free-form so I'd sometimes trip up in my  words.
As I was talking about the foundational dividend and I made the statement that not necessarily grow with free cash flow I don't want to imply that we're not intending to grow the dividend.
We absolutely -- it is our intent.
But you can expect that it's our intent that as our business continues to do well our dividends will continue to rise.
So I just want to make sure that nobody read that as a change in intent and change in the outlook and so forth.
But other than that as I said it's a good quarter and we hope and believe the rest of the year will show similar kinds of result as we go forward.
Our business has stabilized and we're now looking forward as we focus on the core to really making this thing hum and I think we'll be able to do that.
So again thank you very much.
I hope you enjoy the rest of your summer.
Thank you this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Bonnie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Iron Mountain Q3 2011 Earnings Call Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Stephen Golden Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and welcome everyone to our 2011 third quarter earnings conference call.
Joining me this morning are: Richard Reese our Chairman and CEO; and Brian McKeon our CFO.
After their prepared remarks we will open the phone for your Q&amp;A.
Per our custom we have a user controlled slide presentation on the Investor Relations page of our website at www.ironmountain.com.
Referring now to Slide 2.
Today's earnings call and slide presentation will contain a number of forward-looking statements most notably our outlook for our 2011 and 2012 financial performance.
All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to today's press release the Safe Harbor language on this slide and our most recently filed SEC reports for a discussion of the major risk factors that could cause our actual results to be materially different from those contemplated in our forward-looking statements.
As you know we use several non-GAAP measures when presenting our financial results.
Adjusted OIBDA adjusted EPS and free cash flow before acquisitions and investments among others are metrics we speak to frequently and ones we believe to be important in evaluating our overall financial performance.
We provide additional information and the reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to their appropriate GAAP measures as required by Reg G at the Investor Relations page of our website as well as in today's press release.
With that  I'd like to introduce our Chairman and CEO Richard Reese.
Thank you Stephen.
Good morning and I thank everyone for joining this morning.
I'm going to see if I can move fairly quickly because we've got quite a bit of information to try to cover for you today.
In addition to our normal Q3 review we will talk a little bit about the outlook for next year as well as I'm going to review our -- some of our elements to our strategic plan and just give you a sense of our progress on some of the major parts of that.
And then last I'll give you a bit of an overview of our outlook for 2012 and of course Brian will give you much more detail on all of this.
As we talk today we will be mentioning multiple times the impact of foreign exchange and rates so forth on our reported numbers our outlooks and our discussion are based upon recent trading ranges and I should tell you that actual mileage may vary given what seems to be going on with the markets.
But we have just used the last couple of weeks as a basis for our forecasting.
So let's get to Q3.
Performance for the quarter was good and really on target as we've expected.
Our reported revenue is up 6% with about 3% really excluding any impacts of FX.
Storage rates were solid at 4% on a constant currency basis and the trends remain consistent.
Total services were up 5% on a reported basis but we continued to also to see weakness in our core service and those trends remained unchanged and that weakness primarily in North America.
Adjusted OIBDA was $250 million was on target in line of our plans.
Overall it was a solid quarter consistent trends and performance as we expected and as we forecasted.
We're still not seeing any positive signs from the so-called economic rebound and I should warn that that based upon our numbers and that we saw when the economies came down as we lag going down we would likely lag on any rebound.
So the trends in the business remained the same solid storage weaker than average services and the organization is performing well and the numbers are flowing through.
On a full outlook basis it's the same message from an operating outlook with the fundamentals in the business remains the same.
We're reiterating our internal revenue growth guidance in the 1% to 3% range and it will be supported by various contingent solid storage growth.
As I said before the business units are performing to plan and we expect them to continue doing that through the balance of the year.
The international margin expansion plan is on track and I'll speak more about international a little later.
So the business is running.
I won't say it's ho-hum.
People are working pretty hard to make these performers come in.
It's a tough economy out there but the fundamentals of business are sound the storage keeps coming in and we continue to react to our customers' needs.
Full year results will be impacted by some of the macro factors and decisions we've made based upon the completion of our international portfolio review which I'm going to discuss in more detail.
And recent changes in the dollar will give us a little less benefit for the balance of the year in FX.
We're also taking a $10 million restructuring charges in Q4 in Western Europe to support these margin expansion programs which I'll give you more detail on.
So wrapping up 2011 from an operating outlook perspective we've got good internal growth given the economic environment we're operating in.
I'd remind you this is a business that the internal growth rates tend to run historically taking 1x to 2x GDP and where business is running north of 1x to 2x GDP now in an internal growth rate basis particularly related to our Storage which is the driver of our business.
So the business units are performing well.
We wish the economy were better.
We wish we had a little more stability in foreign exchange just to take the noise out of the numbers but those are not either things that we can control.
So we're operating the business based upon the things we can control.
So let me talk now a little bit about our strategic plan initiatives we announced back in April.
The objective of that plan was to have a really strong high margin high return North American business continue to grow as well as continue to stay -- stay in the margins.
They're working hard at that and doing a good job.
Their performance is on target with consistent Storage revenue growth of around 2% on a year-to-date basis.
They still have the headwinds in core service revenues that we've spoken of now for quite a few quarters.
It's caused largely by economic activity although there are some elements going on in a few sectors such as healthcare but the big change is in economic activity.
To give you some context about 31% of our total enterprise revenues or about $950 million are core services and it's a wide range of things all of which are one way or the other related to items that we store for customers and by and large are types of services that we cannot stimulate the demand for.
In other words if we store an item and you want to retrieve it you pay us to retrieve it deliver it destroy it and so forth and so it's tied to our recurring revenue based in a key part of the current revenue base but  tied to stuff that we store for you.
And we saw impact of the economy on these revenues early on back as early as 2009.
We started seeing them come off if you will look at the numbers on a quarter-to-quarter basis it's amazing how they were running very steadily in the high single digits and just started they just started coming down and have been coming down.
The rate of decline has slowed but the trends are basically the same.
What that's led to is that historically these revenues used to lead storage growth by 3 to 4 points and now they're lagging storage growth.
In our forecast we're still not forecasting any rebound and if there were an economic rebound since we will likely lag it we are not forecasting any change in that trend to the balance of this year or into next year.
On the other side our Hybrid business is continuing to grow well in double digits.
And some of our other services things are doing well.
And the growth story around the world varies a lot.
We've got much stronger growth in the international basis than we do in the North American basis partly because of different business mix and partly because of a higher mix of emerging markets and so forth.
So but anyway the North America outlook and in our plan is for consistent margin performance over the long-term.
I would warn you we'll see a little variability around small numbers from quarter-to-quarter and so forth.
It's not like we're trying to manage it for a precise exact number.
We're managing the business to sustain the margins and sometimes we'll invest a little bit towards that end on one quarter and sometimes will see results in others and so forth.
But we feel very comfortable to be able to do that.
The North American numbers also and are right now feeling impact fluctuations on recycled paper pricing.
Recycled paper pricing is off from its all-time high in recent numbers by about $80 a ton.
And that does have a significant impact and to the extent that that continues into 2012 which we are forecasting it will for a while that will have impact on reported internal growth.
There's well as some margin pressures on North America in which they worked pretty hard to work through.
On an international basis remind you this is a good business.
This has got good growth.
The reported growth for the quarter was 13% to 14% reported.
That's a driven by internal growth in the 5% to 6% range and of course the balance being FX and acquisitions.
We are on target for the 700 basis point margin improvement that we committed to as part of our plan.
We've realized 150 basis points through Q3 and expect it to be 200 basis points by the end of the year of this year.
And part of that plan as I said before taking a $10 million restructuring cost primarily related to personnel costs and headcount related costs primarily in Europe.
We have one of the things we committed to in our strategic plan was a complete review of international portfolio.
I want to tell you that we have completed that review and as to remind you the majority of that portfolio which is about 2/3 of the capital investment that we have put in an international basis is performing well.
We have major market positions and we are generating good returns.
And by the way not only do we have good returns we have plans and that's part of driving the 700 basis points improvement plans in place to have even better returns on those businesses and those plans are working.
As we've gone through the extensive review the focus really turned into what we call our mature non-leadership markets and it was basically focused on 8 countries.
That represented about 28% of the capital invested and we've gone through those 8 countries one by one.
You've seen that we've announced that we sold one that are -- we sold our business and exited the market in New Zealand.
We sold it and that transaction has closed for $10 million.
We have one other country market under review for potential action.
It's too early for me to name the country because I don't want to set off any alarms among employees and everything else but we will either sell operate a different way or exit at least one other market.
Other than that the remaining 6 we have aggressive improvement plans in place for these countries who we believe will drive the margins up to good numbers and the team is out trying to execute those plans now.
As part of that portfolio review we made some changes in our management structure and business alignments and that realignment led to an accelerated repair -- accelerated impairment review.
And primarily in Western Europe is where the impact of this is.
And so in Q3 we've booked a preliminary impairment of a little less than 5% of our total international investment or about $59 million in the quarter.
We have solidified certain of the restructuring plans now and now that we've gone through all this and as I said before we are on target for about 200 to 500 basis points of margin improvement through the balance of this year and we feel in very good position to make the balance of that happen as we go forward.
Let me talk to you a little bit about our special committee processes.
As many of you know we constitute a special committee of the board to look at some strategic alternatives in the business and particularly related to whether we -- was more advantageous for operate into a structure as a REIT.
I can tell you that the work is in full swing.
There's enormous amount of work going on and some money reasonable serious amount of money we have spent inside and outside and time and effort.
It will go to next year before final decisions are announced.
As you remember our commitment was to make a decision within one year and announce that decision as to what we plan to do and so forth and we will meet that target.
But I want to set an expectation that it will take some time.
Precisely how long? Right now I don't know and if I did I probably wouldn't tell you anyway.
I will provide updates on the progress if it's appropriate but otherwise I really don't want to speculate on an interim basis.
I realize also that everybody has lots of questions and wants to ask about what is this what is that.
But we're in the middle of full swing of it and it's just too early to even try to speculate.
The last element of our plan was about shareholder payouts.
Our commitment was to $2.2 billion dollars over a 3-year time period with $1.2 billion of that coming within the first year.
We've made substantial progress.
And as of October 21 we've distributed $726 million against the $1.2 billion commitment.
So we're well on target to make that plan work.
Since we started buying stock back we bought in about 25 million shares or approximately 12% of our total shares outstanding.
The balance of the distribution has come to our regular routine quarterly dividends.
You'll also notice that we went to the high-yield market a few weeks ago and raised $400 million had a successful bond offering 7.75% fixed rate.
We completed a deal in September.
That gives us more than enough liquidity to continue through these commitment through the early part of our program.
So we're in very good shape to deliver on that commitment.
From a strategic perspective the business is operating as we outlined.
The free cash flow is coming through our capital efficiency is doing well and we are doing what we said we'd do with the money while we're at the same time are looking at are there other better alternatives for the business.
So we've got our hands full we're working hard but I feel good about how we're progressing there.
Quickly or briefly and quickly let me shift and just give you a quick overview of 2012 and Brian of course will give you the details.
The operating outlook we seek for 2012 and particularly free cash flow performance is solid.
The trends we're forecasting are basic and the same trends we're seeing right now in the business for underlying growth for trends on core services.
We're really not forecasting any shifts in trends except for and who knows whether -- and since we don't try to forecast FX we basically just have to use current numbers and as I've said we used recent trends for the numbers we're talking about today who knows whether -- if numbers will be come out of the way with actual FX given what we think is the volatility we'll likely to see in the markets.
But FX will have an impact on the reported side of these numbers and also the decline and the change in paper pricing that I spoke about earlier if that remains through the year we'll have an impact on our internal growth.
It has about a 1% change in internal growth and as well as our reported numbers.
So we do expect to see a lower impact from paper but the things within our control weren't really pretty good shape and are -- we're forecasting the same kind of trends so that would be sustaining returns and operations in North America and a continuation of international margin expansion with another 150 to 200 basis points.
North America margin sustaining will be difficult because of the impact of the Hybrid business growing -- is still growing in double digits which has a lower margin profile than the average base of the business and of course the lower paper pricing is a direct hit in the margins.
But regardless of that we think on an operating basis the business will perform next year approximately the same as it does this year.
We are also expect to have strong free cash flow for next year all for the good operations of the business and as I said before we'll continue to meet our shareholder payout commitments and we will be working very hard on continuing the process for the special committee.
So overall in 2012 we think we'll have good operating performance.
As I said there will be constraints to the macro factors.
Our key metrics will get continuously better and we are on track to meet our cash flow commitments.
So with all that let me turn it to Brian.
Then we'll come back and take your questions.
Thank you.
Thanks Richard.
Slide 3 highlights the key messages from today's review.
Our business delivered solid operating performance in Q3 keeping us on track for our full-year goals.
Results were supported by solid storage revenue growth and continued profit improvement in our international business.
Revenue growth for the quarter was 6% with trends consistent with those discussed the last few quarters.
Storage revenues increased 6% or 4% on a constant currency basis.
And service revenues grew 5% in the quarter or 2% on a constant currency basis as strong gains in Hybrid services and benefits from higher commodity pricing offset soft core service activity levels.
Profit and cash flow performance was in line with our expectations supported by strong gains in our international segment.
Adjusted OIBDA for the quarter was $252 million as expected.
Adjusted EPS was $0.37 for the quarter and free cash flow was $305 million on a year-to-date basis.
We've made significant progress against our initial $1.2 billion shareholder payout commitment highlighted by $537 million of share repurchases and $51 million of cash dividends paid in the quarter.
Our successful $400 million debt offering in September has us well-positioned from a liquidity perspective to fund our operations and continue payouts to shareholders.
While our operating outlook has not changed we are revising our full year 2011 guidance to reflect the recent strengthening of the U.S.
dollar and about $10 million of projected restructuring cost in Western Europe.
Recent movements in foreign currency exchange rates have narrowed the expected full year FX growth benefit this year by about 1%.
In Q4 we also expect to incur about $10 million in restructuring costs in our Western European businesses in support of future margin expansion goals.
These costs were not factored into our previous full-year guidance as more specific plans related to our international portfolio review were still being developed.
Looking ahead to 2012 we're targeting continued solid storage growth and strong free cash flow performance.
We're planning for consistent revenue growth trends adjusted for recent changes in foreign exchange rates and a sharp decline in recycled paper prices over the last 2 months.
Free cash flow performance is expected to remain strong as increased operating profits and flat capital spending offset increased interest expense due to higher leverage.
Let's now turn to Slide 4 and begin the review of our financial results.
Slide 4 compares our results from this quarter to the third quarter of 2010.
Overall Q3 was a solid quarter with performance as expected keeping us on track towards achieving our full-year financial goals.
Enterprise revenue growth was 6% supported by constant currency growth of 3% and benefits from favorable FX changes.
Enterprise revenue gains reflected sustained storage revenue internal growth of 3% and global expansion of Hybrid services.
Year-end recycled paper prices and higher fuel surcharges also supported overall revenue growth.
These gains offset continued softness in core service activities.
From a segment perspective North American Physical posted 3% constant currency revenue growth supported by consistent 2% storage internal revenue growth.
Service revenues were up 3% in Q3 in North America.
Service growth continues to be constrained by softness in retrieval and refile transportation and data protection handling activity.
These impacts offset strong gains in Hybrid revenues and benefits from higher commodity prices.
Our International Physical segment posted 5% revenue growth on a constant currency basis including 3 points of growth from the Polish acquisition completed earlier this year.
Storage internal growth remains strong at 6% supported by solid gains in Europe and sustained double-digit gains in Latin America and Asia-Pacific.
These gains were augmented by expansion in Hybrid service revenues.
Total service revenue growth was constrained by lower complementary service revenues due primarily to the winding down of a large European contract.
Gross profits grew 7% in Q3 yielding a gross margin of 59.9% up 90 basis points from Q3 of last year.
Storage gross margins were flat compared to last year while service gross margins benefited from higher recycled paper revenues.
Adjusted OIBDA was $252 million in line with our expectations.
Gross profit gains were offset by a 17% increase in overhead expenses.
This increase was due primarily to higher incentive compensation accruals compared to very low prior year levels and planned increases in North American sales and marketing expenses.
Excluding these items SG&amp;A costs were up 4% below the rate of reported revenue growth.
Below the adjusted OIBDA line depreciation was $71 million and amortization was $7 million.
Other expense for the quarter was $17 million due primarily to FX losses.
Due to changes in our internal reporting structure within our international segment we accelerated our annual goodwill impairment review in the third quarter.
As a result of that review we've recorded an estimated impairment charge of $59 million.
This impairment related specifically to our Western European reporting unit and represented less than 5% of the approximately $1.4 billion of capital we have invested in our international business.
We'll finalize the amount in the fourth quarter and record any adjustment if necessary at that time.
Adjusted EPS for the quarter was $0.37 per share.
Reported EPS per share of $0.17 includes impairment charges in the Western European reporting unit and increased Other Expense net which was partially offset by the net benefit of other discrete tax items.
Our structural tax rate for the quarter was 39% as expected.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 33% and included benefits related to the completion of tax audits the resolution of certain tax matters and expiration of statutes of limitation partially offset by the impacts of the international charges in foreign currency losses.
Let's now take a look -- a closer look at our revenue growth on Slide 5.
Slide 5 breaks down our overall revenue growth.
It shows internal growth by major service line as well as the impact of acquisitions divestitures and foreign exchange for Q3 and the year to date.
Also presented is our original full-year guidance we stated earlier this year to exclude discontinued operations.
As you can see all of our year-to-date amounts are within our expected full-year ranges with year-to-date core and overall internal revenue growth at 2%.
The recent strengthening of the U.S.
dollar will likely constraint our full year reported revenue to the low end of our 4% to 6% guidance range.
As I'll discuss in more detail recent FX rate movements will narrow the full-year growth benefit by about 1% from our earlier 2% estimate.
In terms of our Q3 results overall revenue growth was 6%.
Storage internal growth was solid at 3% reflecting consistent underlying trends.
North America reported 3% internal storage growth and international growth remained strong at 6%.
Net global Records Management volume growth was about 2% again on a year-to-year basis in Q3 reflecting continued strong gains in international and modest year-on-year growth in North America.
Pricing trends remain consistent.
Total service internal growth was 2%.
Core service internal growth was down 1% in the quarter.
We continue to see pressure on core service activity particularly in North America related to soft economic conditions.
Strong growth in Hybrid services are partially offsetting these impacts but we expect that overall core service growth will be constrained in coming quarters as we continue to build scale in the Hybrid business.
Complementary service revenues which represent about 12% of total revenues increased 9% internally in the quarter.
Results reflected benefits from higher recycled paper pricing which offset lower revenues from international projects and other miscellaneous complementary services.
Let's now turn to Slide 6 to review our year-to-date results.
Slide 6 looks at our year-to-date operating performance compared to the first 9 months of 2010.
As noted our Q3 results are keeping us on track to reach our full-year financial targets.
For the year-to-date revenue increased 5% to $2.3 billion.
Gross profit increased 5% to $1.3 billion yielding a modest improvement in gross margin.
Adjusted OIBDA grew 2% year-over-year excluding the $15 million of cost associated with the proxy contest.
As expected adjusted OIBDA growth has been constrained by higher levels of incentive compensation compared to last year and planned investments in North America sales and marketing.
Adjusted EPS was $0.93 per share including a $0.05 per share impact from the $15 million of cost related to the proxy contest.
Excluding these impacts adjusted EPS is up about 3% year to date.
Capital spending was $119 million excluding $15 million from real estate.
In terms of project timing we're planning for higher capital spending levels in the fourth quarter consistent with our full-year plans.
Our full-year outlook for capital spending has been refined to $225 million.
Excluding real estate spending this will be about 6.8% of revenues down about 110 basis points from 2010 levels.
Free cash flow for 2011 is $305 million year to date 15% from last year's level primarily due to higher income from continuing operations and lower capital spending.
We remain solidly on track for strong performance in free cash flow this year with our full-year outlook in the range of $380 million to $400 million.
Let's now turn to Slide 7 to review our results by segment.
Slide 7 shows key year to date metrics for each of our 3 key segments compared to the first 9 months of 2010.
Consistent with our plans we're sustaining high returns in our North American segment as we build momentum in our international segment as a driver of profit and cash flow gains.
North America continues to deliver high profits and strong cash flows.
Reported revenues year-to-date increased 2% supported by 2% storage [ph] growth.
Adjusted OIBDA margins in our largest segment was strong at 43% [ph] gross margin gains and controlled support overhead spending which supported planned investments in sales and marketing.
These investments are key to sustaining the high return storage annuity which drives North America returns.
Capital efficiency continue to improve with CapEx as a percentage of sales at 4%.
Our international segment continues to post solid revenue growth and strong adjusted OIBDA and cash flow gains.
Revenues grew 6% on a constant currency basis driven by continued strong storage internal growth of 6%.
Year-to-date adjusted OIBDA exceeded revenue gains growing 23% on reported basis or 14% excluding FX effects.
Through Q3 international adjusted OIBDA margins have increased 150 basis points compared to prior year levels.
These gains were driven primarily by realized benefits of operational excellence initiatives in our U.K.
business.
We continue to target strong improvement in international margins in 2011 supported by operational improvements in the U.K.
and profit gains in the expansion markets.
The increase in corporate expenses primarily reflects $15 million of onetime costs associated with the proxy contest.
Overall we continue to deliver strong operating performance across our business which is driving sustained strong cash flow.
This performance is supporting significant shareholder payouts.
Let's turn to Slide 8 to review our shareholder payout program.
Slide 8 shows the substantial progress we've made in returning funds to shareholders over the past 2 years.
As contacts we initiated our first dividend and share repurchase authorization in early 2010 and tripled our annual dividend level late last year.
As part of our midterm business plan presented in April we committed to $2.2 billion of payouts through 2013 including $1.2 billion by May 2012.
As part of this commitment we increased our quarterly dividend against $0.25 per share in June.
To date we've made significant progress against our business plan goals.
Through last [indiscernible] returns $726 million of our initial $1.2 billion commitment.
In Q3 we acquired 16.8 million shares for $537 million $7.5 million of these shares were acquired in early August at the completion of our $250 million prepaid variable share repurchase agreements which we funded in May.
The balance was acquired in the open market following the completion of the PVSR.
Between October 1 and October 21 we acquired an additional 3 million shares for $91 million.
As of October 21 we had $449 million remaining on our existing $1.2 billion share repurchase authorization.
Since first announcing our plans to return cash to shareholders in February 2010 we've returned nearly $1 billion through over $200 million of dividend payments and the repurchase of 25 million shares for about $750 million.
The 25 million shares represents more than 12% of the shares we had outstanding at the end of 2009.
Our strong cash flow and financing capacity has us well-positioned to deliver our payout commitments.
Let's now turn to Slide 9 to review how we're managing our balance sheet to fund our business and support these payouts.
Our balance sheet remains strong reflecting improvements in our cash generating capacity and debt portfolio.
Our debt portfolio remains long and fixed.
Our weighted average interest rate was just under 7% and we were 85% fixed at quarter end.
Maturities is nearly 7 years with no bond payments due until 2014.
During the third quarter we issued 400 million of 7 3/4% senior subordinated notes.
This transaction is consistent with our plans to increase our leverage ratio to the -- within the 3% to 4% target leverage range.
Currently our consolidated leverage ratio was about 3% -- I am sorry 3.0x.
We expect our leverage ratio to increase moderately within our target range as planned as we continue to execute it against our shareholder payout program.
We're well positioned in terms of cash and financing capacity.
At quarter end liquidity was approximately $1.2 billion with $481 million in cash and $671 million in additional borrowing capacity under our revolver.
The strength of our balance sheet will enable us to continue to fund value creating growth in our business and continued payouts to shareholders.
That concludes our review of the quarterly results.
Overall our business performance was solid as expected and we remain on track towards our full-year goals.
Let's now turn to Slide 10 to review our 2011 outlook.
Slide 10 summarizes our full-year 2011 financial guidance.
For 2011 our business [indiscernible] performing as expected and within our previous guidance ranges.
As noted earlier we're revising our full-year guidance to reflect current foreign currency exchange rates and about $10 million of projected restructuring costs we expect to incur in Q4 related to our Western European operations.
We expect our full-year revenues to be in the range of $3 020 000 000 to $3 045 000 000 up about 4% over 2010.
This reflects expectations for internal growth of about 2% consistent with year-to-date trends and about 2% of benefit from foreign exchange and acquisitions combined.
Since we've last updated the dollar has strengthened against all other [ph] foreign currencies.
At recent trading ranges we estimate this will reduce our full-year growth benefit that we expected from FX by about 1%.
Our adjusted OIBDA outlook is now $905 million to $925 million.
At midpoint this is down $15 million compared to our prior guidance reflecting the projected $10 million of restructuring cost we expect to incur in Q4 as well as some impacts from the FX changes.
The restructuring cost as a result of the finalization of improvement plans in certain Western European markets.
They're onetime in nature are primarily headcount related and support our future international margin expansion goals.
Our current outlook is for adjusted EPS to be in the range of $1.18 to $1.24 per share.
This outlook includes a $0.05 negative impact from proxy related costs and $0.03 impact related to the international restructuring cost.
Our adjusted EPS forecast assumes 197 million shares outstanding.
This assumption includes the benefit of shares that we've repurchased through October 21.
Our CapEx outlook of $225 million includes about $18 million for real estate spending.
As noted our free cash flow outlook remains strong with projections in the range of $380 million to $400 million.
Now let's turn to Slide 11 and discuss the key drivers of our preliminary 2012 outlook.
Slide 11 highlights key factors supporting our preliminary outlook for our 2012 financial performance.
We're currently targeting 0% to 2% internal revenue growth in 2012 supported by a continued solid storage internal growth.
This growth outlook is consistent with our current trends adjusting for an expected 1% negative impact from lower recycled paper prices.
Recycled paper prices are down nearly $80 a ton or more than 25% since August.
At current levels we estimate this change will lower revenue and profits by about $25 million in 2012.
Assuming foreign-exchange levels remain at recent levels FX impacts with lower reported year-end revenue growth by about 1%.
We're targeting solid underlying gains in adjusted OIBDA supported by an  additional 150 to 200 basis points of margin expansion in our international segment.
The favorable lapping of onetime costs associated with our proxy cost and projected international restructuring costs in 2011 will be offset by lower recycled paper pricing impacts in 2012.
We also expect to drive a continued solid free cash flow and adjusted EPS growth.
Our free cash flow outlook is supported by projections for higher operating profits and slightly lower capital spending which will offset the higher interest expense related to our planned increase in leverage.
Adjusted EPS will benefit from lower shares outstanding reflecting benefits for our accelerated share repurchases in 2011.
Let's turn to Slide 12 to summarize our 2012 outlook.
On a constant dollar basis we're targeting 0% to 2% revenue growth and 1% to 5% adjusted OIBDA growth.
Please note that these growth rates don't include any benefit from future core acquisitions as contacts acquisitions added about 1% to our growth rates since 2001.
As noted we're planning for similar revenue growth trends and for moderate margin gains supported by continued improvements in international consistent with our business plan.
On a reported basis this outlook supports our preliminary revenue guidance of between $2 990 000 000 and $3 070 000 000 and adjusted OIBDA of $915 million to $955 million.
These estimates include a negative 1% impact from FX using recent trading ranges for the dollar.
Our outlook is for continued strong free cash flow performance in the range of $360 million to $400 million reflecting solid operating performance and mostly lower capital expenditures of about $220 million for the year.
Our CapEx outlooks include increased expenditures on operational efficiency investments to drive future margin gains and about $16 million for real estate.
Our outlook is for adjusted EPS to grow between 1% and 10% to a range of $1.22 to $1.33 reflecting benefits from profit gains and lower shares outstanding partially offset by higher interest costs.
Our adjusted EPS set calculation assumes 185 million shares outstanding.
This reflects shares repurchased through October 21 2011 and does not incorporate any future potential repurchases.
This outlook for 2012 is preliminary it's based on current FX rates paper prices and shares outstanding.
Any and all of which can change material in short periods of time.
We'll update our outlook again in our Q4 earnings call to reflect changes if any in these variables.
Thank you and we'd now be happy take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Andrew Steinerman of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Richard I've known you for a decade now and you usually don't speak so much about the economy given the nature of Iron Mountain's business but in your opening remarks you mentioned the economy quite a bit.
Does that frame your guidance for 2012? And in particular why is it fair to assume current trends now in terms of internal growth continue into 2012? Well I guess the reason I didn't talk about the economy in the past is we've really never seen such an impact.
And look part of the reason was when we had good economic growth we've never seen the economy come down quite like this in my lifetime and when you're operating down with small numbers on growth rates everything going on plusses and minuses have an amplification and so it's just more painful.
Why should we -- what then 2 questions on that.
We have done a reasonable amount of work just convincing ourselves to make sure that what we're telling you is right that this is the impact of the economy and not an acceleration of secular trends.
I'm not suggesting that there aren't secular trends because there are there always have been and will continue but all the data I look at says that we are being impacted by the economy when you see the rate at which it came off and the fact that services came down first and a year later storage growth rates came down.
And you understand the nature of what we do for customers it all makes sense.
But in terms of why is it fair to project the same trends going forward is 2 things we're not in the business of projecting the economy.
So I don't know what it's going to do.
Second is at least I [ph] understand it there's a rebound.
We'll be a significant lag to that.
So it -- for its impact 2012 we'd all have to be feeling real good about the economy taking off right now and I don't know anybody that feels good about that.
Third is my tea leaves.
When I read the tea leaves about the global situation the overleverage of the world you name it problems I don't see any major changes and a positive impact for a couple of years at least.
So we're running our business on the basis that nothing good is nothing positive from the outside is going to happen for us.
And so we're controlling expenses tightly and we're digging for revenue.
And we're doing some really good things and we are improving with the business.
We're getting productivity in our sales force our bookings are up.
Some of the flow-through rate is slow.
We're having some cases some slowdown in getting boxes to move from competitors where we've had some switchings going on.
Everybody's holding on tighter to what they have.
But net net of that the team's working hard and our forecast for next year is the sum total of a lot of assumptions and a lot of people committing to make these things happen.
Our next question comes from Nate Brochmann of William Blair and Company.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk a little bit about the restructuring efforts in Europe and some of the headcount reductions.
This is kind of -- now that you're done with the strategic review there is this kind of a onetime thing or do you think that there could be more to go as you implement the full part of this plan? We've identified the bulk of the changes that we need to make.
I would say that there's always the  potential that we as we move things forward there may be selective things that we might do for example facility consolidations or other changes in the plan.
We'll try to highlight those for you.
I think we're identifying the big changes right now and expect this will primarily hit in Q4.
Our future outlook doesn't -- 2012 doesn't incorporate any additional charges.
So the sum is -- this should be the bulk of it and there's always a potential we may move from something forward and if we do move something forward it's something that would be tied to having an incremental benefit for us and we'll make sure to highlight that discreetly for you.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then now Richard just if you could expand just quickly on the last point a little bit in terms of some of the offensive things that you are doing in terms of whether it's productivity increased bookings attacking the unvended market I'm just wondering if you elaborate on a few of those things.
Give us a little bit of color in terms of attacking even a sluggish environment.
Sure.
Look people ask me that question and I hate to sound like a broken record we're going to be doing what I'm about to tell you about for 10 years.
So it takes time and it takes - it's a repetitive sort of thing but we're seeing impact.
The strategy basically is in our core businesses there's more market opportunity but you got to dig deeper to find it.
And so it's about how you segment the markets and how you tailor your [indiscernible] segments.
And frankly just getting more sophisticated and [indiscernible] is not been something that we've ever had to do and that marketing is driven towards supporting our sales organization which is driving our efficiency up.
We're selling more dollars of revenue per dollar of cost.
All those things we're doing to -- and that's just good blocking and tackling.
So there's nothing that goes bingo you light it up.
This is not the kind of business we'll put out a promotion program and run an ad on the Super Bowl and your revenue will go up.
This is blocking and tackling that we started I'd say a year plus ago and we'll continue to do it.
We're seeing impact.
As you know a positive there but it's still early we're still in the investment cycle.
We don't intend to increase it next year.
If someone asked me why wouldn't you? And the answer is let see what we did let's see it flow through let's make sure it proves out and if it does maybe come 2013 we'll think about doing something else but it's kind of where we are.
Our next question comes from Gary Bisbee of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> The first question I'd guess I was trying -- in your PowerPoint it's -- when it looks at the international segment it says internal growth was 2% and everything you talked about was 5% or 6% for Storage in constant currency.
What's the difference there between this 6% constant currency and the 2% internal? It's basically we're rolling over a large project in Europe that's rolling off.
And -- The acquisition is the difference between the 5% and the 2%.
The Polish acquisition we completed at the beginning of the year.
That's right.
They're about 3 points of benefit.
Research Division</strong> And so how should we think about that 2% internal.
That's obviously -- that's a slowdown from what it's been doing I think and below I think what was implied by the plan that you provided earlier this year to get to 2013 target.
Is that something that we should expect would accelerate based on what you're doing or is the economy in Europe hurting or is the restructuring efforts that you're doing may be hurting the top line but being done to drive the bottom line any a color on that? Gary that's what I was trying to answer.
If you look at the storage rate we've been very consistently solidly in the 5% to 6% range.
And the current quarter we had an impact of rolling over.
We had a large nonrecurring contract in Western Europe that we're rolling over as we look forward into next year.
And by the way it's a large contract in a country in which we are rolling over as in we are firing the customer because we don't like the margin profile.
But that impacts the services side the core fundamental storage is still growing 5% range and that's what we forecasted going forward.
Once we've cycled through those numbers you'll see the services growth rates pick back up.
It's more of a math exercise relative to that.
It's very much consistent trends.
I think what we're dealing with is excluding some of the changes in the paper pricing which are very recent.
We're targeting solid 5% growth next year in Europe.
And the business performance has been excellent.
It's consistently good growth margin gains right on track return on improvement right on track.
We feel very good about the international business.
So very consistent with our plans.
Research Division</strong> And then a quick follow-up Richard I think you'd mentioned the core services impacted by the economy but then you also said there was a minor issue in the healthcare market.
Can you just expand upon that? Sure.
Healthcare and this is primarily a North American phenomenon where we have a bigger mix of healthcare than we do around the world.
As you know healthcare has gone through all kinds of changes and healthcare is a business with us that's a relatively small amount of our storage but a reasonable amount of our core services.
And the activity rates on that have been coming off frankly have been coming off for over 10 years.
This is not brand new.
But as I said when everything else slows down in your business you start to see some of these underlying things.
As the healthcare and the acceleration of it is the -- is our government spending somewhere between $45 million and $100 million of $100 billion to computerize healthcare records.
What happens is is the activity rates is their records age is coming off as they're going to the electronic medical record to find access on a patient care basis.
Now we've studied it carefully and what you'll find is the we're still going through the early adopters cycle they intend to drop their activity rate it tends to -- it's like an S-curve.
It tends to come down and settle because they still need access to those physical records for a variety of reasons but about half of our -- we used to figure about half of our activity in that space was related to patient care events and the other half is related to billing audits and to research and all kinds of other things.
The storage side of that business is holding up because they're keeping their records but those are becoming deader faster.
And by the way unfortunately that'll -- we've really done some pretty deep customer -- of our customer analysis as to adoption rates and everything else.
We've got a few more years to eat through that piece of the change.
It's a very slow evolving thing.
Our next question comes from Andrew Wittmann of Baird.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to dig a little bit into the margin expansion in international and just make sure first I'm doing the math right in terms of how you're applying the margin growth and then just ask a couple of questions.
So looks like about 150 basis points of margin expansion's realized so far this year implied in -- at the midpoint of guidance looks like another 70 basis points at the corporate level which probably means if you assume North America is flat that's about another 280 implied internationally.
So we're somewhere in the I don't know 400 basis points range of margin expansion implied through next year? Is that about the right math and then you feel like you can -- you get the rest of the way there in '13? I'm not quite following your math.
Let me try to lay out the progression of the margins but we were on track for about a 200 basis point improvement this year in international 150 year-to-date and we'll have additional benefit flowing through in Q4.
That excludes the restructuring costs.
Just want to be clear that we view with the restructuring as onetime in nature and not impacting the underlying operations.
As we look forward in next year we're targeting another 150 to 200 basis point improvement.
So and we would project to -- we're not talking about 2013 today but we're expecting to continue on that trajectory consistent with our business plan.
So we've had a very nice step up this year expect to continue that next year.
It's not quite as high as the math that you are backing into there but definitely a significant improvement.
Research Division</strong> Yes it's hard to explain over the phone.
That matches what I was calculating.
How does the European economic environment impact your ability and your confidence in hitting the ultimate goal? I mean clearly this has changed a lot since you initially laid out the plan.
I just kind of want to hear philosophically how you think you get the -- The bulk of the things that we're implementing on margin improvement -- I mean this has been a long-term strategy.
So this isn't something that we've just started I mean we've been positioning ourselves for this for some time.
But it is within our control.
This is operational improvements cost initiatives many of the things that we implemented in North America.
So we feel very good about that.
I think there's always the risk of impacts on the margin related to the economy.
We can't control things like fluctuations in paper pricing and that can have some impact on the margin.
We actually think we'll be able to manage that effectively next year from a return point of view.
But there's always the risk that you can have some pressure on the margin with services and -- Yes and look our forecast -- we've said we're not in the business of trying to -- do economic forecasts.
We're not -- if we were good at that we wouldn't be working so hard.
We'll make our money other ways.
We are basically assuming the economies will be what they are or in other words our activity patterns all over the same.
The European business is by and large are not as active relative to storage as our North America business.
It's a mixed business mix and market maturity kind of issues of what people choose to outsource and so forth.
And then -- and remember that our internationals is a combination of -- for the U.K.
Western Europe Eastern Europe Asia-Pacific and Latin America and then pull out some of the other parts of that we call break.
But we get still a good strong growth in our emerging market segments so those things.
And although the core material markets are bigger the likely decline or change in fluctuation in activity rates given their level of activity in general.
Hopefully as long as the rest of the world that is the emerging markets hold up.
They'll likely cover those.
I'm not guaranteeing it but that's kind of how we think about it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just there happens to be a fairly large business model out there that is noted for sale may be as a whole or in parts.
How does that impact your ability or desire to return capital along the plan that you've laid out? I mean are the 2 items of potentially doing M&amp;A and doing the return of capital to shareholders usually exclusive or how do you factor in that new variable? A lot of variables in our business.
We've made a commitment to our shareholders and we're going to meet that commitment.
But other than that I don't think I could give comment on what else we might or might not do.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then Brian just with interest rates being low here we're obviously you're active in the bond market this past quarter I know lots of your existing debt have got some level of pre-penalties.
Is there any opportunities in the capital structure and the debt financing to take advantage of today's low rates? Well I don't know -- rates today are low but yes it's yesterday and today but changes frequently.
But we did a lot of optimization on our front and we'll always look at that.
But I think we've termed out our debt pretty well and don't have anything that's obvious in the immediate term.
Which is something we'll always look at.
But I think for right now we're pretty -- we've done the work to position us well for the first phase of this initial payout commitment and we'll continue to evaluate it but nothing significant right now that we'd -- makes sense for us.
Our next question comes from Kevin McVeigh of Macquarie.
Richard could you help us understand why you think you should [ph] spend between -- on that service level activities lagging storage as opposed to leading over the last cycle? And then just you should think about healthcare as a percentage of service overall relative to the storage business can you help us frame out kind of the revenue contribution from healthcare as opposed to other end markets? The reason I think is it's changed is is look -- any prior period where we've seen significant economic weakness quite frankly is we were in a high acquisition mode and anything that was going on on the margin you didn't see that well okay? Second is so it may -- what I'm really saying is it may have happened and we didn't see it.
In my lifetime as I've said I've never lived anything as dramatic as this and any bad recession we've seen is peanuts compared to this and I'd like to say we were going pretty fast in the middle of it anyway.
So I think it probably got masked.
It's logical though for that to happen in this case because if you think about what we do is on the way up for a customer our whole portfolio of customers are growing.
On average they send us data that's say probably on average 18 months old.
So on the way up what they're creating today since their activity of creation is higher as -- the larger they are the more transaction the more activity or what they're creating today what they created 18 months ago was lower okay and we're getting at 18 months later we're getting it today.
But their service activities halfway to retrieving is directly related to the rate of creation.
So on the way up people create data.
We see higher service transactions as they retrieve and deal with it and as the business activities going on but we don't see the storage until later.
And if they're moving up it's 18 months later that they're building that we'll see 18 months at the best a bigger number out.
I don't know if that makes sense but that's the underlying trend.
On the way down it's just the opposite.
We saw the service decline a year before.
We saw the storage decline.
Okay? On the way down it's their service activities and their business is coming down and they're not using information as much.
And therefore not creating residual archival data for us to store as much.
We won't see the storage until later and -- but we'll see the service when they're stop doing it.
So I think those are the general trends that caused that.
And quite frankly Kevin I've missed your second question so you might repeat it.
Healthcare.
Oh you wanted me to mention healthcare a little bit is that what you're asking for? Yes just if you think about healthcare as a percentage of the service revenue relative to what percentage of storage it is? It's about 10%.
Healthcare as a segment overall is about 10% of the business.
It's more service weighted because it tends to be a more active file or ancient records and that has been a headwind for us.
I mean we've seen double-digit declines in the service active service revenue around healthcare as expected with things like x-ray going away.
It'd been going away for quite a period of time as well as some of the shift to EMR.
We have offsets to that in terms of things like Hybrid revenue growing and actually in our Hybrid business healthcare is one of our fastest growing segments.
And look if you roll out over time and look in the next 2 or 3 years we expect to see continued pressure on the core services in North America for this trend.
If the economy picks up it will over wash it.
The trend of our broad portfolio will over wash that.
It might.
The healthcare will keep that rebound suppressed a little bit but it will wash over the negative side of it.
If you look out into the broader future one of the strategic reasons is a variety of reasons why we went with the Hybrid business but one of them was recognizing that some of this will happen.
I mean healthcare you can see coming 10 years ago.
It was easy to see where that business has to go and so forth.
And our DMS business or Hybrid business growth rates will eventually [indiscernible] but I mean in terms of the size and magnitude will actually also get what that will contribute to the positive side of it.
And our DMS business is if you think about it is the counter strategy to decrease inactivity records.
One of the things that happens when they decrease the activity in their physical records is the -- they change of the workflow processes they apply different technologies and they also have to deal with a hybrid document that is they have to deal with legacy paper as well as often times current paper in a mixed environment.
And that's what our DMS or Hybrid business deals with.
Got it super.
And then just what assumption are you assuming per ton for recycled paper in the 2013 guidance or 2012 rather? We basically take the most recent -- it correlates with the most recent reported SOP rates what's -- was in the little north of 200.
Our last question comes from Scott Schneeberger of Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> The -- I'm looking at Slide 14 Global Records Management volume growth drivers and noticing destructions it might be something seasonal looking at the pattern but destructions picking up.
Could you speak to that a little bit? It's actually down year-on-year so it is -- there are some seasonal impacts.
You can see by the nature of the chart on Slide 14 that destructions they're driven by episodic events so let's say the overall trend in destructions has been quite stable coming off the peaks that we saw kind of in 2009.
So I wouldn't read too much into the one quarter change.
I will also though caveat that we always -- this is an area that you can have fluctuations driven by significant events.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then moving right to the top of that chart looks like a trend down in the volume growth for -- from the pattern.
Could you speak to volume and price to just a dynamic in general what you're seeing on both of those elements? The storage volume overall has been -- we certainly saw a decline coming out of our peaks at 2008 and the economic effects through 2009.
I think since then our storage trends have been more stable.
The -- this quarter we've reporting it was about 2% year-on-year.
North America was up.
International continues strong.
Pricing is in a consistent range.
So really more consistency than different I think what you're seeing on the trend here is more the transition from the high single-digit rates that we are at in 2008 and pre- the [ph] crisis to 2% to 3% range that we've been in more recently.
So I think it's one thing to gives us confidence on our outlook is we do feel good about the storage side of the equation and stability there and hopefully with some benefits from economic improvement and some pull through from some of our sales initiatives we can prove that over time.
Research Division</strong> And one more if I may just North America the margin outlook that you have there what just what you've been seeing recently and where do you think that'll go? It implies relatively stable margins consistent with our plans there's a little bit of pressure from the paper change because that -- a big swing like that to move over 25% in 2 months and that's that tends to pull right through to the bottom line in the short term.
So we'll have some moderate pressure there but on balance it's sustaining the high returns that we have.
It's consistent with the business plan we've talked about.
I would just take a step back and say overall in the business we feel quite good about the margin side of the equation.
We're managing North America consistent with what we've discussed.
We've got international on the right track.
I think the growth side we have some macro pressures from things like FX and paper.
The underlying trends are where they've been and we're working through the tough economy.
But I think on the margin side we feel like we're executing very well consistent with our plans.
So in summary thank you for all for joining us in Q3 and year-to-date performance.
As Brian just said and I don't totally want to repeat ourselves we as a management team and a company actually feel good about what we're doing relative to the environment we're operating in.
We're making significant progress towards the -- improving our business towards meeting our goals in our strategic plan and we're staying very focused on how we think about these kinds of issues.
This is a business that we are operating for the long haul and we think we've got a good future ahead of us.
So we want to make sure that we're prepared for it when the world changes either way that we can operate in it and remain with consistent performance which has been our hallmark for over quite a few years and we'll continue doing that.
So thank you all for your support and thanks for your coming today.
We ran a little bit over time.
I'm -- trick to try to keep these to 1 hour.
So we'll try to do better next time.
So thank you very much.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Anita and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Iron Mountain Q4 2011 Earnings Call Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to your host today Stephen Golden Vice President of Investor Relations.
You may begin sir.
Thank you and welcome everyone to our 2011 fourth quarter earnings conference call.
Joining me this morning are Richard Reese our Chairman and CEO; and Brian McKeon our CFO.
After their prepared remarks we'll open up the phones for Q&amp;A.
Per our custom we have a user-controlled slide presentation at the Investor Relations page of our website at www.ironmountain.com.
Referring now to Slide 2.
Today's earnings call and slide presentation will contain a number of forward-looking statements most notably our outlook for our 2012 financial performance.
All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to today's press release the Safe Harbor language on this slide and our most recently filed current report on Form 8-K filed on September 19 2011 for a discussion of the major risk factors that could cause our actual results to be materially different from those contemplated in our forward-looking statements.
As you know we use several non-GAAP measures when presenting our financial results.
Adjusted OIBDA adjusted EPS and free cash flow before acquisitions and investments among others are metrics we speak to frequently and ones we believe to be important in evaluating our overall financial performance.
We provide additional information and a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to their appropriate GAAP measures as required by Reg G at the Investor Relations page of our website as well as in today's press release.
Before turning the call over to Richard I would like to make a quick housekeeping announcement.
As announced in this morning's press release we have made a decision to sell our Italian business.
As a result the financial position results of operations and cash flows of the Italian business have been reclassified as discontinued operations.
For your convenience we have included the restated statements of operations for the 4 quarters and full years of both 2010 and 2011 in the appendix to today's presentation.
Additional restated information will be posted to the Investor Relations page of our website.
With that I'd like to introduce our Chairman and CEO Richard Reese.
Thank you Stephen.
Good morning everybody and thanks for joining us this morning.
As always been my prior custom on these Q4 calls I'm going to focus today on the full year mostly of 2011 and reflect a bit on all the changes and for that matter the progress we've made since I've returned as CEO this last April.
It's been a lot of change in the company and it's important that our shareholders understand these changes and as I said the progress we've made against them as we've set forth the new strategy and focusing  our business.
So I'll let Brian cover the details on the quarter except to say that Q4 was a good operating performance.
We had consistent storage growth and great cost controls.
I'll also speak a little bit about our outlook for next year.
But again I'll let Brian take care of the details and he'll go through everything thoroughly.
So with that said let me get started.
Looking at the whole year on a performance basis it was good performance for Iron Mountain.
The key themes on an operating basis last year were first and foremost solid storage growth of 5% reported or 4% on constant currency.
North America storage grew as we expected on a consistent 3% reported 2% on a current basis -- or current constant currency basis while International was strong at 14% reported or 9% on constant currency.
And sometimes people ask me and particularly people haven't been around the company so long why do we talk about storage so much? Why is it so important? Well first is it is the major component of our revenue.
It is the major driver of margin and it frankly is the major consumer of capital as we grow.
It is where we drive almost everything in the business.
But it's also an indication of our relationship with our customers.
Once they store items with us it opens up the door for us to deliver other services on a routine basis related to those stored items as well as sell them additional services or things we call complementary services and so forth.
So we watch our storage foundation or annuity like a hawk.
It is the flywheel that really drives the business.
And 2011 was the 23rd consecutive year that we've grown our storage revenues and through good times and bad storage keeps chugging along with the business and it's continuing do that.
Now we are continuing to see the same trends we did throughout the year of headwinds that weakening service revenues as customers use less of their information.
They're becoming less active in certain cases change the way they use and in many cases continue defer buying decisions for projects that really are designed to improve their records programs.
The trend towards less activity of information was felt broadly across all industries and all media types not just in paper but our computer tape rotation services.
The activity levels are down.
We see it down as I said across the board.
A key driver of this as we've talked a lot about is our health care which is not a major factor in the storage side of our business but it's also the most active part.
It's really not an archival business.
It's an active part.
And this is the case where the health care industry is reengineering their workflow processes.
This is a trend that's different than the last activity trend.
This is a trend in which health care is changing modalities.
They're changing how they operate so digitizing images going to MRIs and CAT scan modalities is replacing physical x-rays which is one of our most active media.
And of course the adoption and broader adoption of electronic patient record systems will cause them to access their physical patient records less often.
And we're seeing that trend.
They don't destroy those records and they actually do access them for different reasons mostly around audit compliance and also a lot around research where they really want to go back to the history of the record.
But those trends we've been seeing for quite a while now and they continued and they continued.
That was one of the themes of 2011.
Another key theme of 2011 was the move of recycled paper prices.
We experienced very high recycled paper prices in fact hit an all-time high during the year.
Those prices have come down sharply most recently and hit bottom and frankly we believe just beginning to stabilize.
This trend was helpful to us in 2011 but does present a challenge in 2012 and we'll talk more about that later.
All of this really was topped off by good underlying profit performance.
Adjusted OIBDA margins were 31% for the year.
International expanded their margins which I'll speak much more about later.
It's part of our 3-year plan.
They went up 220 basis points primarily coming out of the United Kingdom and strong emerging market performance drove those margins.
North America performed as we asked them to and sustained their margins.
We had as you know had optimized that business in the last 4 or 5 years and increased margins by about 850 basis points.
We are at the stage of that business where the real strategic goal is to maintain margins and maintain growth and they did both last year even after absorbing an investment that we've talked about throughout the year the $20 million increase in our sales and marketing investment.
And of course we had very good cost control at our overhead or our cost at our corporate level so all in all the team did a superb job of operating the business and delivering great financial performance.
These all numbers netted down to 24% growth in free cash flow dollars starting with good operating performance but also it's our fifth consecutive year of improved capital efficiency where CapEx for last year was 6.6% of revenue down 130 basis points from the prior year.
We also did get in that strong cash flow benefits from some cash timing that helped us which you don't always see as well as some tax incentives too.
Again Brian will reflect on these in more details later.
So as I said last year was a good year operationally.
But as I've said in the beginning last year is hallmarked by changes so let me talk a lot about that.
First and foremost is my return as CEO.
For most of you who probably know me it was a job I held for I don't know 25 26 years something like that and I'm in my 31st year I think with the company.
I might be a little bit off on the math but close directionally close.
Net of that says I'm getting old.
But I had gone for the job of the Executive Chairman and replaced myself as the CEO.
But for lots of reasons including the good work done by my predecessor the company was on a path to shift strategies but frankly it made sense for me to come back.
And it was a bit prompted by you our shareholders as the company had lost touch with some of you and frankly I've not done an appropriate job communicating these changes in strategy that we were both contemplating and implementing and for that matter not implementing them fast enough to have us all aligned.
So when I came back I did a couple of things.
We announced a new 3-year strategic plan which I'm going to go through with you in a second and just update you but also committed to much much more frequent and much -- very open communication with our shareholder base.
I believe I've lived up to my promise and this is the case so I have a request of you.
If you disagree with me I really would appreciate you letting me know and I think on that call I gave you my phone number.
I'll give it to you again.
It's (617) 535-4800.
And this is a serious request because I'm attempting to do some things that I think are important for the company important for our shareholders and sometimes you need feedback.
So with that let me also talk to you about our new strategy and our 3-year plan.
As I said when I -- we announced the plan I said I would give you regular updates.
We've been out on the road doing it.
We've been doing it in our quarterly conference call.
But let me look back in the plan now that's  almost a year old and just review with you what I think is outstanding progress by the team.
The plan had 4 main elements.
First was a focus on traditional physical storage and services business the things that got us here [indiscernible] got us to the dance.
So as a net of that we sold our Digital business in June for $390 million.
It was a good transaction for us and I think it clearly turned out to be a great transaction for Autonomy the buyer.
So I think we were all happy with the results of that.
The second element of this strategy was a focus on return on invested capital.
And to do that we really looked at our business there in a couple of ways.
First is we take it apart by segments.
The North American segment as I said we had optimized that business and so the whole strategy was sustain the high returns we had already created.
And that was -- that plan is and remains to sustain their margin levels and continue to grow.
And they grew at 2% and hit their margin targets for the year as well as continue the improvement invest in their own business.
The real work was in International and I have to say that the International management team supported by people here at corporate and other parts of the world and for that matter some people in North America everybody pulled together and we really did some great work last year.
It really has kind of 2 key themes.
The first theme was to look at our business as a portfolio rather than as a broad footprint strategy.
We built it as a footprint strategy which means we acquired operations in broad geographies and we really want a path to fill out the footprint.
And we frankly just had gotten to the point where it was time to stop and say "All right let's look at that footprint and understand what can be optimized understand how we can drive returns and understand in certain cases whether what we bought makes sense or doesn't make sense." And we went through that portfolio analysis.
That analysis is completed with the announcement today that we are going to place our Italian business on the market for sale and we've started that process already but it will as I predict will take some time.
But in the International business as I said we've gone through that review.
We also exited our New Zealand business sold it for $10 million.
And as I said we've announced the plan to sell Italy.
The rest of our businesses and we've divided them as we've talked about in the plan in different categories for where they stand in terms of mature markets emerging markets whether we have leadership or non-leadership.
Though the return profiles of those business all look good the work we've been doing and the work we have done say that they all can perform very well for us and so now it's about hard work of blocking and tackling to get this portfolio to continue to move forward.
And for that matter continue  contributing growth and International did a great job on growth last year.
And we expect -- if you look at this business over the next 15 to 20 years just to give you a broad view is the last 20 25 years in this business was driven primarily by North America going through an outsourcing trend where legacy records and information moved from inside of companies to outside to vendors like Iron Mountain.
And even though there has been a consistent trend of reduction in use and activity of paper and creation okay over that time period they've been a strong steady growth in the business because of that conversion cycle.
Being a very physical business it takes a long time to make that happen.
And by the way that is not over in North America but the denominator in North America the size of the business is so large that -- and you can only sell so many and you can only move so much in a year.
We'll continue growing it but it's not going to move the dial on growth rate.
But International and in particular if you got to break International in a couple of components there are more mature markets that look like -- and to that look like North America U.K.
being a good example.
And there are others who are maybe 10 years from looking like North America but they will get there.
But there are also markets emerging markets as we broadly categorize them and that would be in obviously BRIC but it will also be in Eastern Europe and Latin America and places like that where the markets have got 20 to 25 years of their pent-up demand of outsourcing and those trends are beginning to happen.
And we built the footprint so our strategy looking forward now that we have the portfolio in a position that we think is rationalized to continue to drive to capture that conversion over the next 25 years and that will be more and more contributor to Iron Mountain's growth in the future as we go forward.
Obviously it doesn't make sense to do that unless you're making money at it.
And so the second big element of our strategic review we said "All right let's step back and look at that portfolio and put in the kind of programs and the kind of work we've done in North America to drive up their margins  850 basis points and drive up our International markets." And we set a target of 700 basis points challenged the team and said "By 2013 we want 700 basis points from you." And they rose to the occasion made the commitment and then last year delivered I think 220 basis points of that target and are on plan to do 150 to 200 give or take this year and are working on their plans.
And those plans are in the book are in the bag.
I mean not that I've executed but the plans are in the bag and they're working on their plans for 2013.
So I'm very pleased by the performance.
I'm very pleased by how fast we were able to take that business and frankly reveal the real value we created.
It was a case where I personally never had a doubt about the value but it's also a case as what I said in the beginning up here we had lost touch with you as our shareholders.
We have not done a good job of showing it to you fast enough nor getting you to understand that it was there.
I personally think we're doing a good job with that right now.
I hope you do too.
Net of all that is International based upon their strong growth and margin accretion returns on invested capital grew up to 8% north of our weighted average cost of capital.
So -- and we've got significant more to come.
So I think it's a great story there.
Now let me move on to the third element of the strategy.
That element was a real strong focus on capital allocation.
It's the right time in the company's life do that.
This company was built as a capital consumer.
We raised capital for many years in order to build out this global leadership of a great business.
But you do that waiting for the day in which your capital needs are less than your capital generation and your capital capabilities so to speak and we've hit that inflection point.
And so -- then it becomes as you all know the big argument of what are we going to do with it? Are we going to give it to you or are we going to throw it away? And many of you worry that we as management will do stupid things and throw it away.
Again we probably didn't do a good enough job explaining to you that we weren't stupid.
But -- and some of our performance I can understand from your perspective particularly on the Digital business you were worried that we were going to do stupid things that we were going to go spend billions of dollars buying technology assets.
And regardless of what may have been said from time to time that might have given you that impression the truth of matter is we look hard at all those opportunities and concluded that it did not make financial sense to Iron Mountain and we had more financial discipline to that.
That's also what led us to conclude that getting out of the Digital business which I believe in the long run still would have been a great thing to be in but getting out of the business was the right thing to do because we could not get big enough fast enough given the pace at which the move  -- the business was starting to move around us and nor were we willing to pay the prices that others were willing to pay in those markets.
We couldn't make it make sense in our business.
But having said that look we are being transparent about how we think about capital allocation and there'll be more to come on that.
But in April what we announced was basically a plan to distribute $2.2 billion over 3 years the term of our 3-year plan back to our shareholders.
And one of my first mistakes in that plan is I committed an absolute date for the first $1.2 billion the mistake being not giving you the money.
I just wish I hadn't put exactly a hard date on it because as soon as I said it and it came out of my mouth I realized I was constrained about at what price I had to do certain things and that took away some of my flexibility which I don't like to happen to me.
But nevertheless we did it anyway.
And so through a combination of increased dividends and share buybacks through year end we've distributed $1.2 billion and we will complete that commitment with our next annual -- or our next quarterly dividend payment.
Through beginning -- well through last year we bought in 38 million shares or about 18% of the total shares outstanding.
We did that through a combination of the proceeds of the sale of the Digital business.
We took those proceeds and returned it back to shareholders.
Increasing leverage from an all-time low down under 3x up to about close to 3.5x about 3.4x currently close and in our range of 3x to 4x sort of thing.
And we went to the market and raised some more high-yield in order to fund that leverage and of course as I've said out of our free cash flow.
So we're on plan to do that.
The next $1 billion we're on plan.
We've got 2 more years.
We don't have quite as hard a timetable as I've put on the first $1.2 billion so we might take a little more flexibility of how we give it back to you but we're on plan assuming nothing changes out there in the future.
The fourth element which could create that change okay is to look at structural alternatives.
At this stage of the business as I said when you've reached that point at which you have excess capital and it's always a question of the right way to allocate it are -- we wanted to look at are there structural alternatives of ways of allocating capital and distributing capital back to our shareholders including obviously our conversion to a REIT is one of them.
That would create more efficiently -- more efficient -- that is tax efficiency by and large to distribute this capital back to you as our shareholders.
So we -- at the Board level we created a special committee.
That special committee has been working hard and diligently.
We've again put a target date I think it's June 9 in which we would come back and communicate to the market the results of that special committee work.
We will meet that target and that's all I'm going to have to say on that subject today.
So those are the 4 elements of our strategy.
As I said it's focused on refocusing our business back on our core.
The core is running well.
It's about refocusing making sure -- not that we ever did not have a focus on return on invested capital by the way but sharpening that focus and making sure you understand how we think about that focus on the returns focusing on capital allocation.
Capital allocation is something we've done but this is the time to think about it in a different way because historically our capital allocation was  we needed more capital to grow the business.
That was a pretty easy decision okay? But now we have choices and we have to make sure we make those choices appropriately.
And then last thing as I said make sure looking forward given how we see the business continuing to grow and the cash generation capabilities looking forward to how we distribute that capital to you in the most efficient manner.
So that's the summary of our change in business strategy.
We've been pretty busy as you might imagine and we're going to stay busy for a long time to come.
And I think we've made outstanding progress.
By the way and I think the -- I really do want to commend the management team for a couple of things.
First they welcomed me back which I appreciate a lot and they've put their heads down and they're working really hard.
And second is we not only did all this work we're delivering good financial performance across the board.
So it was a good year.
I don't care how you cut it.
It was a good year.
So a couple last topics.
I do want to talk a little bit about return on invested capital because as we do all this work we make changes we study things we think hard we listen to some of you and we've made some internal changes I think we want to share with you a little bit.
And many of you often ask me when I'm out on the road so how do we think about returns? How do we incorporate returns into compensation? Well first is it's always been in my compensation for those that know me you realize I'm a rather large shareholder and as a rather large shareholder first and foremost I want a return on my capital.
And by the way I invested money to get that capital.
It was not stock option granted it was my money checks written debt taken on and so forth.
So I take the issue very seriously always have always will.
But in addition to that as a management tool we have and we started in 2011 and we've expanded some in 2012 incorporated return on invested capital into our incentive compensation programs for our senior leaders.
We only deal with it at the very senior level because the way we operate the business is we control capital centrally.
We think about Iron Mountain as a very distributed operating company.
You think about a few people at corporate as a banker and you have to make your case to the banker.
You have to make your return case you have to make your business case before the bank will give you any money.
And we want to sweep account on your operations so we take all your cash away from you every day.
So if you want anything back you have to come ask for it.
So with that method of control and so forth we control the return decisions at the central level.
And some people say "Well don't you want all your field managers around the world think about return on invested capital?" No I don't and I'll tell you why.
I don't want them thinking about it because there's a lot more business out there and I want them to go get it.
And they can't spend money the way we're structured without asking and we know how to give them the right answers okay.
Second is I know when you run a broad geographic business spread all over the world like ours if I incentivize somebody on return on invested capital the easiest way to get return on invested capital is to avoid spending capital and maintaining your business put off till next year or 5 years out when you don't care if you're in the job maintain the business protecting the customer assets protecting the brand yadi-yadi-ya.
I know it.
I know how I could do it.
I know how they could do it.
And what I want them to do is I want to see a long list of projects.
I want them asking for everything.
And I'm happy to weed through a long list of projects and say no to a lot rather than having them weed through it and never even showing us the stuff that frankly could be damn important to the business.
So we think we've got it balanced right.
It is we think an appropriate level of the company and it's important.
So how do we calculate it? As we started to broaden that we realized that sort of some traditional methods and some we've used even in our plan didn't work very well because when you try to visualize it and localize it which we do want to do we want to know what we're doing in different parts of the world and everything else it doesn't make any sense.
So we've taken an owner's earnings approach.
I'm sure you can call Stephen later if you don't get this and write it down so I won't go too slow.
But the numerator is the NOPAT plus depreciation amortization less nongrowth CapEx okay.
Nongrowth CapEx we think is the better indication of costs to sustain the current business than depreciation which is the product of our prior investments and long-lived assets.
And you can see nongrowth CapEx broken out in our 10-K reportings.
So all the detail is out.
You can do the same math we're doing in fact.
The denominator is average invested capital and it's adjusted to align with the same methodology and calculation of the numerator.
These we believe were the cash returns we generated on investments that were made in the business.
And to give you a sense of that in 2011 this -- our -- calculated this way the ROIC of the company increased from 10.7 in 2010 to 11.4 in 2011.
The other thing we do is everything every investment that comes up to our so-called bank to be funded has to be viewed against a WACC plus a premium and that premium is in line with the risk inherent with the project.
And some investments are no-brainers.
They're pure math.
And some investments they've got a lot of risk in them and you got to have a different risk premium based on where it is.
And it goes for geographies it goes for a variety of other elements.
So I think we've got actually quite a robust way of doing that and I share that with you because enough  of you ask me questions when I'm on the road.
I'm just making sure I'm giving everybody the same answer so that everybody understands it the way we think about it.
So before I -- let me move on to the last subject I got and before I turn it over to Brian let me comment on the outlook and our guidance.
Hear us clearly.
We think the operating performance for this year 2012 will reflect the same business fundamentals as last year.
Growth is expected in line with last year and you should see some improved margins coming from International.
The changes to recycled paper prices and even fluctuations in FX particularly what's going on in Europe these days will likely cloud this operating performance on a reported basis.
We forecast both paper and FX off of current rates current market rates and are transparent when we report to you both on the up and down and they go both ways.
But given the deterioration of current market rates most recently and particularly since our preliminary guidance late last year we're updating our guidance based upon current rates.
Any positive change in these rates could provide a positive upgrade.
And of course the negative change will go the other way.
In this case we believe on paper which is the biggie here we believe will stabilize but I'm not guaranteeing that.
And we actually do believe it's asymmetrical from a risk perspective.
That is there's a better chance of it going up throughout the year than going down from it.
If that happens there will be upside to the outlook in the forecast.
And again we will not attempt to cover if there are operating performance shortfalls even on a reported basis maybe paper can cover it.
We'll make sure you see it and we'll make sure that it's clear what's coming from where.
So with that said let me turn over to Brian who will brief you on all the rest of the details and then Steve will come back and take your questions.
Thanks Richard.
I'll do a review today of the fourth quarter and full year 2011 performance and provide an update on our outlook for 2012.
Slide 3 highlights the key messages from today's review.
Our business performed well in Q4.
We delivered consistent results that capped up a year of strong financial performance.
We had results that were again supported by solid storage revenue growth and continued profit improvement in our international business.
Reported revenue for Q4 was 2% with consistent trends compared to recent quarters.
Storage revenues increased 4% on a constant currency basis supported by consistent 3% internal growth.
Service revenues were flat to last year on a constant currency basis as strong gains in hybrid services and benefits from higher commodity prices were offset by continued softness in North American core service activity levels.
Profit performance was in line with our expectations after adjusting for Italy.
The results were again supported by strong gains in the International segment.
Adjusted OIBDA margins for the International segment increased more than 200 basis points compared to 2010 fourth quarter and the year and that's keeping us clearly on track to achieve our margin improvement goal of 700 basis points in improvement by the end of 2013.
Adjusted OIBDA for the quarter of $237 million included an $11 million benefit from the reclassification of our Italian business to discontinued operations.
Adjusted EPS was $0.33 in Q4 and $1.31 for the full year.
For the full year we drove 4% revenue growth and continued strong free cash flow.
Free cash flow was $458 million in 2011 supported by higher profits lower interest cost and record capital spending efficiencies.
Free cash flow also benefited from low cash tax payments reflecting prepayments we made in 2010 and benefits from U.S.
tax incentives in 2011.
We also benefited from a high year-end capital spending accruals related to the timing of projects in the fourth quarter.
These factors will normalize in 2012 which I'll speak to in more detail when we review our 2012 outlook.
As Richard noted we achieved key milestones in 2011 as part of our 3-year strategic plan.
We continue to expand our International operations while improving returns resulting in a 25% increase in International adjusted OIBDA.
We also paid out $1.1 billion against our initial $1.2 billion shareholder payout commitment and expect to complete this phase of our program with the next quarterly dividend payment in April.
We're well positioned to advance our strategic plan and we'll be providing an update in our 2012 guidance today.
Our operating outlook for 2012 hasn't changed from when we spoke to you last October.
We continue to plan for 1% to 3% internal revenue growth excluding the impact of lower paper prices supported by sustained storage internal growth of 3%.
We are revising our guidance to reflect current commodity prices.
Since issuing our preliminary 2012 guidance last October paper prices have declined an additional $50 per ton.
Current paper prices are now more than 30% below average levels seen in 2011.
At these levels we project that our revenue and adjusted OIBDA will be about $45 million lower in 2012.
Let's now turn to Slide 4 and begin the review of our financial results.
Slide 4 compares our results for this quarter to the fourth quarter of 2010.
Overall Q4 was a good quarter with results as expected after adjusting for Italy.
Enterprise revenue growth was 2% on a constant currency basis supported by 1% internal growth and benefits from acquisitions.
Enterprise revenue gains reflect sustained storage revenue internal growth of 3% and global expansion of hybrid services.
Records management storage volume increased 2% on a global basis compared to 2010 with consistent pricing trends.
Year-on-year gains in recycled paper revenues and higher fuel surcharges also supported overall revenue growth.
These gains offset continued pressure in North American core service activities and lower revenues from shredding another services such as fulfillment film and sound and consulting.
From a segment perspective North America posted [indiscernible] revenue growth supported by consistent storage internal growth.
Service revenues were down 4% in Q4 in North America.
Service growth continues to be constrained by reduced retrieval and refile transportation and data protection handling activity.
These impacts more than offset strong gains in hybrid revenues and benefits from higher recycled paper revenues and fuel surcharges.
Our International segment posted 9% revenue growth on a constant currency basis supported by 6% internal growth and 3 points of growth from the Polish acquisition completed in early 2011.
Storage internal growth remained strong at 6% supported by solid growth in Europe and sustained double-digit gains in Latin America and Asia-Pacific.
These gains were augmented by expansion in hybrid service revenues.
Gross profit was $427 million in Q4 yielding a gross margin of 57.5% down 190 basis points from Q4 of last year.
Included in gross profit in Q4 of 2011 is a $12 million reclassification from SG&amp;A expenses to cost of sales to align certain costs primarily related to our scanning operations across the enterprise.
Excluding this reclassification our gross profit in the fourth quarter was in line with prior-year levels.
Storage gross margins were consistent year-over-year.
Service gross margins excluding the $12 million reclassification were down slightly primarily due to higher incentive compensation expense and a shift in business mix towards the lower-margin less capital-intensive hybrid business.
Adjusted OIBDA was $237 million or 32% of revenues.
Strong performance in our International business more than offset planned increases in North America sales and marketing expense and higher incentive compensation expense compared to low levels in 2010.
The reclassification of Italy to discontinued operations was also a positive factor.
Below the adjusted OIBDA line depreciation was $76 million and amortization was $8 million.
Adjusted EPS for the quarter was $0.33 per share.
Reported earnings per share of $0.26 includes additional impairment charges in the Western European reporting unit $3 million of other expense and the net impact of discrete tax items.
Our structural tax rate for the quarter was 38% slightly lower than expected due to the reclassification of Italy.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 47% and included the impacts of the International impairment charges foreign currency losses and adjustments to deferred taxes.
Let's now look at -- let's now take a closer look at our revenue growth on Slide 5.
Slide 5 breaks down our overall revenue growth.
It shows internal growth by major service line as well as the impact of acquisitions divestitures and foreign exchange for Q4 and the full year.
Our internal growth finished the year within our expected full year ranges highlighted by solid storage internal growth of 3%.
The strengthening of the U.S.
dollar in the fourth quarter resulted in a decrease in reported revenues of approximately 1% and reduced the positive impact of foreign currency and our full year growth rates.
In terms of our Q4 results overall reported revenue growth was 2%.
Storage internal growth remains solid at 3% reflecting consistent underlying trends.
North America reported 2%.
Internal storage growth and International storage internal growth remained strong at 6%.
Net global records management volume was 2% again on a year-on-year basis in Q4 reflecting continued strong gains in International and modest year-on-year growth in North America.
Service internal growth was minus 1%.
Core service internal growth was flat in the quarter.
We saw benefits from higher fuel surcharges and strong growth in hybrid services.
As noted we did see however continued pressure on core service activity particularly in North America which will offset these gains.
We also saw lower revenues from other core services such as shredding and recurring projects in Q4.
We expect that overall core service growth will remain constrained in the coming quarters.
Complementary service revenues which represent about 12% of total revenues decreased 5% internally in the quarter.
Results reflected reduced benefits from recycled paper revenues due to lower paper prices and lower revenues from other complementary services such as fulfillment film and sound and consulting.
Let's now turn to Slide 6 to review our full year results.
As noted 2011 was a year of strong financial performance in which we achieved our financial objectives.
For the full year revenue increased 4% to $3 billion.
Gross profit also increased 4% to $1.8 billion or 58.7% of revenues.
Excluding the re-class from SG&amp;A I discussed earlier 2011 gross margins were up modestly over 2010.
Adjusted OIBDA grew 2% year-over-year excluding the $15 million of costs associated with the proxy contest.
As expected adjusted OIBDA growth has been constrained by planned investments in North America sales and marketing in 2011 and the higher levels of incentive compensation compared to low 2010 levels.
Adjusted EPS was $1.31 per share including a $0.05 impact from the $15 million of costs related to the proxy contest.
Excluding these impacts adjusted EPS was up about 6% for the year reflecting lower interest expense and the benefit of fewer shares outstanding.
2011 capital spending was $198 million excluding $20 million for real estate.
As a percent of revenues CapEx excluding real estate was 6.6% down 130 basis points from 2010 levels.
2011 was the fifth consecutive year in which we've reduced CapEx as a percentage of revenues.
Free cash flow from continuing operations for 2011 was $458 million up 24% from last year's levels.
As noted solid profit performance including lower interest expense and improved capital efficiency were fundamental drivers of the increase.
Our cash tax payments were also low at $96 million in 2011.
We benefited from prepayments made in 2010 as well as temporary U.S.
tax incentives.
Finally we benefited from the timing of some of our Q4 capital expenditures resulting in an unusually high year-end accrual.
This accrual will reverse in Q1 and is expected to reduce free cash flow by about $20 million in 2012.
Let's now turn to Slide 7 to review our results by segment.
Slide 7 shows full year key metrics for each of our 3 segments compared to 2010.
Consistent with our 3-year strategic plan we're sustaining high returns in our North American segment as we build momentum in our International segment as a significant driver of profit and cash flow gains.
North America continues to deliver high profits and strong cash flows.
In 2011 our North American business segment posted 2% reported revenue growth and achieved its planned adjusted OIBDA margin goals while absorbing approximately $20 million of the incremental sales and marketing investment to sustain the revenue annuity.
Adjusted OIBDA margins were effectively flat at 43% as the return of incentive compensation to more normal levels in 2011 reduced reported margins by approximately 100 basis points.
Our International segment continues to post solid revenue growth and strong adjusted OIBDA and cash flow gains.
Our International business reported strong 7% constant dollar revenue growth in 2011 driven by 9% constant dollar storage revenue gains.
Adjusted OIBDA increased 25% or 19% excluding FX impacts keeping us on track to achieve our adjusted OIBDA margin expansion goal of 700 basis points by the end of 2013.
These gains were driven primarily  by realized benefits of operational excellence initiatives in our U.K.
business.
We're targeting continued strong improvement of 150 to 200 basis points in International margins in 2012 supported by operational improvements in markets outside of the U.K.
and profit gains in expansion markets.
The increase in corporate expenses primarily reflects $15 million of onetime costs associated with the proxy contest.
Overall we continue to deliver strong operating performance across our business which is driving sustained strong cash flow.
This performance is supporting large shareholder payouts.
Let's now turn to Slide 8 to review our stockholder payout program.
Slide 8 shows the substantial progress we've made in returning funds to stockholders over the past 2 years.
Since first announcing our plans to return cash to shareholders in February of 2010 we returned nearly $1.4 billion to stockholders comprised of $250 million of dividend payments and the repurchase of 38 million shares for more than $1.1 billion.
As Richard noted the 38 million shares represents more than 18% of the shares we had outstanding at the end of 2009.
As part of our 3-year strategic plan presented in April 2011 we committed to $2.2 billion of payouts through 2013 including $1.2 billion by May 2012.
As part of this commitment we increased our quarterly dividend again to $0.25 per share last June.
As of year end we returned more than $1.1 billion of our initial $1.2 billion commitment and we expect to complete this phase of our program with our next quarterly dividend payout in April of this year.
In Q4 we acquired 14.7 million shares for $440 million.
Between January 1 and February 17 we required (sic) [acquired] an additional 1.1 million shares for $35 million.
As of February 17 we had $66 million remaining on our existing $1.2 billion share repurchase  authorization.
Our strong cash flow and financing capacity have us well positioned to deliver our payout commitments.
Let's now turn to Slide 5 to review how we're managing our balance sheet to fund our business and support our payout strategy.
Substantial gains and cash flow generation have enabled us to maintain a strong balance sheet.
As planned we increased our leverage by approximately ½ a turn  in support of our stockholder payout program.
In September of 2011 we issued $400 million of 7 3/4% senior subordinated notes due in 2019.
Currently our consolidated leverage ratio is 3.4x near the midpoint of our target 3x to 4x leverage range for our company.
Our debt portfolio at December 31 2011 remains long and fixed.
Our weighted average interest rate was 6.9% and we were 83% fixed at year end.
Maturity is more than 6 years with no meaningful repayment obligations until 2014.
We're well positioned in terms of cash and financing capacity.
At year end liquidity was more than $800 million with $180 million in cash and $623 million in additional borrowing capacity.
That concludes our review of the Q4 and full year 2011 results.
Overall our business continues to perform well our financial performance was solid as expected and we're well positioned for 2012.
Let's now turn to Slide 10 to begin a review of our 2012 outlook.
Slide 10 highlights the key factors supporting our current outlook for 2012 financial performance.
As context we reviewed our preliminary guidance for 2012 in October.
At the time we noted that paper pricing was quite dynamic and that we'd updated our outlook on the year-end call to reflect any changes.
Today we are updating our preliminary 2012 outlook to reflect current paper pricing levels.
Paper prices continued to fall through the end of 2011 and at the current market levels paper pricing is now 32% below average levels seen last year.
At these levels this will reduce 2012 revenue and OIBDA growth by $45 million or 2% and 5% respectively.
Paper pricing can fluctuate and we've seen some improvement in market pricing early this year.
We've incorporated current lower pricing levels into our full year outlook.
If paper prices continue to improve we would expect positive flow-through to our projected 2012 revenue and profits.
Excluding paper price impacts our guidance is consistent with our preliminary outlook reflecting expectations for consistent revenue growth trends in our business.
We're targeting 1% to 3% internal revenue growth x paper in 2012.
We've included a schedule that breaks down our growth projections by revenue type in the appendix for this presentation.
We expect to sustain storage growth of above 3% supported by strong International gains of 5% to 6% and continued moderate growth in North America.
Overall service internal growth is expected to be relatively flat.
We're planning for continued soft trends in North America core service activity which will offset strong target growth in hybrid services.
We're also targeting solid underlying gains in adjusted OIBDA supported by  continued International margin improvement and sustained high returns in North America.
Let's turn to Slide 11 to summarize our 2012 outlook.
Excluding the impact of paper prices we're expecting revenue growth of 1% to 3% and adjusted OIBDA growth of 1% to 5% on a constant currency basis.
Our outlook for 2012 does not include the impact of any potential future acquisitions.
Acquisitions added about 1% to our growth in 2011.
On a reported basis this outlook supports revenue guidance of between $2 965 000 000 and $3 045 000 000 and adjusted OIBDA of $890 million to $930 million.
Included in our adjusted OIBDA outlook is about $3 million of estimated costs we expect to incur in the first half of this year related to the special committee finishing their work.
Adjusted EPS is expected to be in the range of $1.20 to $1.36.
Our calculation of adjusted EPS assumes a structural tax rate of 39% and 172 million shares outstanding.
We're planning for relatively flat capital spending of $215 million including about $25 million for spending for real estate.
At midpoint revenue estimates this will result in a further reduction of capital spending as a percentage of sales consistent with our strategic planned goals.
Our outlook is for solid free cash flow performance in the range of $320 million to $360 million.
This outlook includes an estimated $20 million negative impact from the flow-over of high year-end capital accruals in 2011 as well as the estimated $45 million impact from current low recycled paper price levels.
Normalizing for these factors annual free cash flow would be in the $400 million range.
Our cash forecast incorporates about $30 million of higher interest cost related to our increase in leverage to support the $1.1 billion of shareholder payouts in 2011 as well as expectations for higher cash tax payments compared to low 2011 levels.
Based on our outlook for 2012 we expect our return on invested capital to be in the range of 11%.
In summary 2011 was a year of solid financial performance.
We achieved several key milestones in our 3-year strategic plan.
Our business is performing well and we're well positioned for 2012.
Thank you.
We'd now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question will come from the line of Andrew Steinerman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the 2012 OIBDA growth.
I understand from your comments that you're expecting 1% to 5% constant currency growth without the effect of paper.
Looking back to October I believe you were looking for 1% to 5% constant currency growth on OIBDA for 2012 with the paper effect.
Could you help bridge that for us? Just normal end-of-year refinements Andrew.
I don't see that as a material change.
We're just firming up the plan.
And basically on a year-over-year basis we're seeing the benefits from the International margin improvement and some of the onetime lapping benefits being offset by the paper declines.
So it's relatively consistent with where we were.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Maybe Brian if you could say it in a different way we're now expecting paper prices to be a 5% drag to OIBDA.
Back in October -- at the paper prices back in October what would have the drag been for 2012? It would've been about half that.
Your next question will come from the line of Kevin McVeigh with Macquarie.
I wondered if you could give us a sense Brian if I have it right it looks like the EBITDA impact from paper is about $45 million but the overall EBIT is only coming down $25 million.
I wonder where the offset is there number one.
And then number two the free cash flow looks like it's declining $40 million versus overall EBITDA of $25 million.
Can you just help us reconcile that? Yes.
On the paper question we had some of the impact baked into the preliminary guidance so it's basically the same question Andrew just asked.
We had about half of it baked in when we talked to you in October and it came down another $50 a ton.
On free cash flow I know there's a lot of movement there.
One way to think about this is if you look at 2011 we had $458 million.
Normalizing that we're really about $400 million.
We had a $20 million of benefit in 2011 from year-end capital accruals basically the timing in Q4 where the cash didn't go out the door until just after year end.
And we also had some benefits from higher cash tax prepayments we made in 2010 which benefited this year.
If you reduce the $450 million you're closer to the $400 million range.
When you move forward in 2012 our midpoint is $340 million.
That's dampened by that $20 million capital carryover which is more onetime and it's also dampened by the paper impact of $45 million.
So when you normalize for that it gets up more into the $400 million range.
The one thing we did try to highlight is in 2012 keep in mind we are going to have some impacts from the higher interest levels.
We borrowed money to fund the shareholder payouts and that's about a $30 million year-on-year pretax impact so that pulled the number down a bit.
That's super helpful.
Can you just give us the actual assumptions that foresaw the office paper pricing used in 2012 and what the average was in 2011? Yes.
The market pricing average in 2011 was in the $230 million range and we're using the current paper price which is $155 a ton.
It was a little below that starting the year.
It was $138.
So we have a month there of -- our actual realized pricing tends to lag a bit.
We contract off of indexes with suppliers that we're not dealing with the spot market and we didn't really see the negative impact of the decline at the very end of the year and we're starting to see that flow through in the early part of the year.
So when you use that kind of drop of $75 a ton plus some of the carryover impact that's how we get to the $45 million estimate.
Super helpful.
And then if I could just a third quick one.
In terms of the REIT I know we'll get a decision by June 9.
I just want to get a sense of what the main factors are going to drive whether we pursue that or not number one.
And then number two how does that impact the leverage of the company overall on a go-forward basis as you think about it if you were to pursue it and you're thinking about the capital structure as a result of that? Kevin I'll try to take that.
Look I think your question is how would we think about -- I think your question is how do we think about the REIT is that correct? Yes.
All right.
Look we could spend all day on that.
I'll just say a few things about it.
We are at a point where we're getting close to the June 9 and I want to make sure people are not reading anything I say either way because the first thing I'm going to tell you it's about the most complicated Rubik's cube I've ever seen and it is one of the most intellectually interesting problems I've ever seen by the way too.
Having said that we're working very hard at it and -- with a positive hypothesis to see if it can be made to work or not but you also have to understand the REIT itself is only valuable if it can be done in a way that doesn't -- as I've used sort of in a colloquial fashion the phrase is "Don't kill the goose that lays a golden egg." This is a goose with a long duration and the value of our company is maintaining the duration.
And to maintain the duration you have to have a certain level of flexibility of how you operate and some ability to reinvest the capital to grow the business and so forth.
So it's a trade of going for tax savings against balancing that and it is overlaid with a lot of technical complexities IRS complexities operational and so forth and so on.
So it's not like you'd go from a to b make a decision walk away.
It's just not that easy.
I wish it were because  we'd be done by now.
And to be frank with you it's consumed a lot of our time and energy and a lot of focus of a lot of senior people in the business.
In terms of what the REIT would do to leverage there's all kinds of scenarios because the next question you have to ask yourself would be if your operator is a REIT what does it do to your strategy? Do you change your strategy? How does that change? And so forth.
So it's again too early to make a comment on that.
We would expect that before June 9 -- or maybe I'd even say before our own June 9 because I don't exactly know when we will actually get it finished.
Or said another way when we do come forth with a decision we will try to predict an answer as many as the questions that you guys have now.
Either if we say we're going to pursue being a REIT we'll try to be very clear and precise and if we say we're not we'll try to do the same thing so...
That's helpful.
And then in terms of -- at the June 9 is it -- how long after if you try to pursue would you ultimately get a decision from the IRS? Is it one year or kind of 2 to 4 quarter? It could take up to a year.
Your next question will come from the line of Gary Bisbee with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I guess Richard how should we think about the lower activity levels? And is this something that is cyclically driven at this point or do you see more secular pressure on that than you've seen in the past? And is there any prospects for that getting better or should we just think about these much lower activity levels being the norm as we go through the next couple of years? All right.
I think by and large -- and this little bit varies by geography.
I mean if you go to certain parts of the world we're having very high activity levels okay? So I think some of you expect it.
Clearly in the health care space which is a key component that's driving it as I've said that is a modality shift and a real shift that's pretty unusual but -- yes and that will take some years for that to roll through.
In the data protection tape rotation side again as customers install more technology to mirror themselves they continue to use tape as a failsafe against their infrastructure and so forth as well as archival but it's less activity less active kind of pattern and so forth.
So I think we're going through some over quite a bit of time headwind for quite a few years as some of this does reside itself.
And I do think our servicing relationship to storage is going to reside itself.
You notice the storage is chugging along really quite well.
Customers continue to generate information and they continue to need to keep it and maintain it regardless of how they access it.
So -- but yes we are planning and assuming we're going to see those service headwinds for quite some time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I was intrigued by the quick commentary on the last 20 years the move of legacy records offsite in North America the next 15 or 20 you said same thing happening in some of these more growthy markets.
Is there any evidence or are you at all fearful that how this trend happens in some of the growth  your emerging markets will be different meaning that they'll maybe use more technology and less physical documents given that that technology is available today as those economies and industry in those economies grows? Or do you think the roadmap is going to look pretty darn similar to what you've seen in the last 20 years...
I think it's going to look pretty darn similar for a couple of reasons.
One is a lot of the records that you generate and you bring up our legacy they've already been  created okay? They've just got to get assembled and moved and organized and so forth and so on.
Places like Latin America is growing like a weed both on storage and activity and payments and they're very technology savvy.
We do more technology services in Latin America more complex things for our customers than we do anywhere else too.
So there's a higher adoption rate of everything.
And I think look what really happens is when you got great growing economies you get it all happening okay? And so it's pretty simplistic stuff to think about.
Go where the world is going to be growing and there's going to be a lot of information created thrown out need to be managed need to be secured.
And just like in North America the real trend that you got to keep in mind is information was junk 25 or 30 years ago that people kept just like you probably have an attic full or basement full at least I do of stuff that you keep because you won't throw it away information.
When I joined the business that's the way it was looked at by everybody except pretty much financial services okay? People didn't know why they kept it.
They just kept it.
And it has shifted to being a scenario where information is an asset.
That means the way you think about its security its chain of custody its processing who sees it yadi-yadi-yada go up.
It has to be managed.
It has to be maintained.
That's going to happen in the rest of the world.
That trend I know is absolutely happening already.
And yes there'll be plenty more technology moving around.
The net of that -- the issue of plenty more technology moving around is some of our hybrid businesses in some of these emerging markets are booming faster than they are in our mature markets.
And as I said we do more complex work with more part of the chain of process of the business than everything else.
So in a lot of respects it makes it stickier too.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one follow-up.
Brian I think you made a comment that average OIBDA had an $11 million benefit for moving Italy to discontinued.
Can you just run through the math of that or maybe correct me if I heard that wrong? No you didn't.
It was -- in 2011 there was a few pieces.
We have small operating losses in Italy.
We had restructuring charges that were related to the overall International improvement plan and we also had some costs related to the fire that we disclosed and talked about.
So the combination of those 3 in terms of the profit results in 2011 moving them to discontinued operations was about $11 million of losses.
That's not the run rate of the business.
I think going forward we're targeting basically flattish kind of profit in 2012 so there wasn't a benefit going forward.
But there was a fair bit of losses that we're incurring this year.
Research Division</strong> That's for the full year.
What was the number for the fourth quarter? I don't have that right in front of me but a fair amount of those costs were in the fourth quarter.
We can follow up on that for you.
Operator we're going to take one more call.
I have historically tried to promise to keep this to one hour and I'm already 5 minutes over.
And it's my fault because I talked 30 minutes of it.
So I apologize now.
Plus we look at the queue of who's calling and we're going to be on the phone with everyone of you throughout the rest of the day so we'll make sure we catch your calls.
But we'll take one more call for the group.
Thank you.
Your final question will come from the line of Andrew Wittmann with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> The -- I wanted to dig a little bit more into the previous question and just look at the service trends.
I guess outside of health care we're already seeing some of the structural changes in that industry.
What are maybe the next couple of industries that make up a bigger portion of the service revenue? And are you seeing secular challenges there as well? Financial services is a big player.
I think financial services to be candid with you it's a different trend.
Financial services early adopter technology.
They adopted technology years and years ago of all types and -- but they're also major creators of information including paper.
The big trend in financial services is they over the last 5 at least 5 to 7 years have really gone about organizing their physical programs making sure they know what they have and getting rid of what they can get rid of.
And as you know they've gone through various cycles of litigation cycles some of which they're still in.
And when they get in these litigation cycles they basically continue to accumulate documents but don't throw much away.
And then if they get a little breathing point between lawsuits and so forth and if the program is organized correctly and they have to be in most cases they'll do sort of catch-up destructions.
And so financial services what you've seen over the last few years is a dampening of growth on the storage side related to that trend.
It'll build up and then they'll do a lot of "Let's get rid of it " big destruction process.
You also by the way see that after we talk about they rightsize their program they get themselves caught up then they grow along very nicely off of a lower base and so forth.
And so when you deal with as much of them as we do every year you get big activities like that.
So that's the big trend in financial services.
They have been relatively inactive for a long time because they as I've said are the  extreme early adopters of technology on this front.
The health care is just -- in a lot of respects it's just very unique.
You know maybe more than I do about health care but you know that a lot of money -- the Obama health care plan the headline was $44 billion.
I've been told it's going to be $80 billion give or take.
They're going to try to get every health organization to be computerized as carrots and sticks.
It's going be interesting to watch it happen but that's a lot of money to spend and that's not even -- that's not being spent to reduce the storage or an activity bill.
I wish we did have a percentage of that in the business.
But we will see the fallout as they totally change their workflow.
Not to 0 but it's going to rightsize.
There's no doubt in my mind.
And by the way we are in a case where the comedown will be faster than the rise up.
There's good opportunity for us in health care and the best thing to give you example is the record type in health care that's dropped the fastest and continues and will drop the fastest as I said is physical x-rays.
Because that is a case of real technology switch-out where they don't make them anymore by and large.
They do it on CAT scans MRIs and other things.
And that's why we a few years ago started a Digital business digital record center for medical images.
And when we sold our Digital business we did not sell that product line.
We announced a partnership not too long ago with NetApp where we are their cloud back-end in that space.
Like all annuity businesses that you do from scratch it will start very slowly but if you roll out over quite a bit of time and that's the patience level that I understand that many of you don't have but I've seen this movie many times that will be a very nice business.
And that's just going -- it'll be bigger than the x-ray business we have today.
It will be more profitable than the x-ray business we have today okay? But we're going to go through the troughs.
When one comes down and the another one rises the comedown rate is a lot faster than the rise rate.
And it's just -- that's a fact of life.
Research Division</strong> Just to put some context around this so I think Richard in the past and please correct me if I'm wrong but I think you said that health care represents I don't know something like 10% of your total revenues but it's disproportionately service-based to your prior comments.
Well the total health care is bigger a bit bigger but the highly active piece is smaller.
Yes it's like in the 5 or less of the storage kind of business.
Research Division</strong> As a percentage of service though what percentage does health care represents in 2011? All services for records management it's probably more in the 20% range a higher percentage because of the more active nature of some of it.
And as part of the overall business it's somewhat smaller because we don't have the same kind of development in areas like data protection or also outside of the U.S.
So that's a U.S.
kind of reference.
Yes.
And the other thing I would stress to you look anything can change but we dug pretty deep and looked at individual customer behavior.
And what we do tend to see is an adoption curve where a customer will adopt and their pattern will rapidly decline and then it'll settle to a new level and then it goes on all right? And then of course what happens is every month or whatever new customers are hitting that adoption cycle.
And yes we probably could do a better job.
We just haven't slowed  down and think about it try to precisely guess how many years out this will run.
But it will run quite a few years.
It's a little bit every year.
I mean there's a low probability this will just -- we'll wake up one day and it'll drop like a rock.
I think it'll just keep doing this for a while unfortunately -- unfortunately whichever way you look at it.
I'm happy to keep it for a long time.
We make money at it.
On the other hand we'll be whining about it for some years.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And if you could I just want to get a little bit better sense of the International growth rates clearly a big driver of the business here.
And Richard you kind of talked about the denominator effect in North America.
I'm trying to understand a little bit better the denominator effect of your International markets.
Clearly there's some very mature and some very growthy markets today.
If you could separate how much of your International business would be kind of in that mature or slower growth rate versus the faster growth markets just so we can get a sense of kind of where you are on this long trend line.
Yes.
We're scrambling for a document which will tell us that.
You actually can find that on our website.
If you looked at our April strategy presentation we broke all that out and somebody's going to point to me.
All right Stephen interpret these numbers for me quickly.
About half.
It's about half in what we call material leadership markets which have a little better growth rate than North America and about half in emerging markets okay? It's a little bit higher if you throw in...
No excuse me.
Yes leadership.
These numbers throw in -- take basically U.K.
and Western Europe it's probably 60% or more which looks a lot like the U.S.
in terms of the growth profile.
So as I said we've run over which we try not to do but it's my long-windedness which I apologize for.
It was a good year of financial performance as I said and a good year of change.
And I think the organization has adapted to the change very well which we appreciate a lot.
We've got a lot of work ahead of us.
We are -- this is REIT no REIT capital allocation work that's ongoing I'll be candid with you now.
We've set a date.
It's such a complex Rubik's cube.
It is a difficult issue.
As you turn over rocks you find more worms.
You turn over more rocks you find more worms.
But we're working it really hard.
We're going to make the deadline one way or the other but we are focused hard on it.
And we appreciate your support and we look forward to seeing you guys as we're out on the road and many of you we'll talk to the rest of the day.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for your participation.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Anita and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Iron Mountain Q1 2012 Earnings Call Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Golden you may now begin your conference.
Thank you and welcome everyone to our 2012 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me this morning are Richard Reese our Chairman and CEO; and Brian McKeon our Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we'll open up the phones for your questions.
Per our custom we have a user-controlled slide presentation at the Investor Relations page of our website at www.ironmountain.com.
Referring now to Slide 2.
Today's earnings call and slide presentation will contain a number of forward-looking statements most notably our outlook for our 2012 financial performance.
All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to today's press release the Safe Harbor language on this slide and our most recently filed annual report on Form 10-K for a discussion of the major risk factors that could cause our actual results to be materially different from those contemplated in our forward-looking statements.
As you know we use several non-GAAP measures when presenting our financial results.
Adjusted OIBDA adjusted EPS and free cash flow before acquisitions and investments among others are metrics we speak to frequently and ones we believe to be important in evaluating our overall financial performance.
We provide additional information and the reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the appropriate GAAP measures as required by Reg G at the Investor Relations page of our website as well as in today's press release.
With that I would like to introduce our Chairman and CEO Richard Reese.
Thank you Stephen and good morning.
And thank you everyone for joining us.
As you've seen from our press release this morning our business performance is really pretty clean and as we forecasted and since we spoke about our business to you only about 2 months ago maybe with a little luck this call may be shorter than usual.
But we'll get started and let's see where it takes us.
But before we get started and deep dive into the business I want to update you on the status of our special committee work.
The progress is ongoing and we will meet our commitment to report the Board's conclusions and rationale for its conclusions no later than June 9.
Since we're close to reaching a conclusion we will not be entertaining any questions on this topic today or in any future meeting until we come forth with the final answers.
So having said that I realize that may disappoint some of you but we are getting down to the short strokes and we're going to have to keep anything close to our vest and I realize many of you will try to ask questions or want to ask questions to try to get some insight to how we're thinking about it but we're just going to have to be pretty disciplined and basically we're not going to answer them.
So just be prepared for this.
One year ago I returned as CEO and we announced the new 3-year plan which was focused on driving returns on capital and returning capital in excess of that required to operate our strategy to you our shareholders.
We have made excellent progress in all fronts.
At the time I committed to giving you a report card on our progress against our plan and since we are one year from announcement and nearly halfway through execution I'll review our progress on this plan and its impact on our business.
But before I do that let me make a few comments on the quarter.
As I said in the beginning performance showed consistent trends.
We operated as planned.
Total revenue on a constant dollar basis grew at 1% and adjusted OIBDA grew at 2%.
Without the impact of the declining in recycled paper prices we've been speaking to you about for a couple of quarters total revenue would have been up 2% and adjusted OIBDA of up 4% as paper is a 1% drag on revenue growth and a 2% drag on adjusted OIBDA.
FX is a 1% drag on both of those by the way.
Our team is executing well and the underlying business trends are consistent with what we've seen over the past several quarters.
We continue to focus on sustaining our annuity revenue stream driven by storage over the long-term and believe that we can maintain a low single-digit growth rate in annuity revenues over the long-term even in the face of the secular trends on the activity and use of physical information.
Storage growth was up 3% in constant dollars for the quarter.
This is 2% coming out of North America.
International had a very strong 7% constant dollar storage growth.
And as you know storage is the annuity flywheel.
It is the foundation of our business.
It is -- out of that is what's all good things are derived because it's the beginning of the relationship and the center of the relationship with our customers and then also drives the majority of our margins.
Storage gains were partially offset by a service revenue decline of 2% in constant dollars.
Activity trends remain the same.
Our core service where these activity trends are shown though was a positive 1% in constant dollars.
Activity-based core service revenues were down moderately in North America and consistent with the past.
But this impact was offset by strong international gains and by strong global growth in hybrid revenues.
Comp services were down 9%.
This is driven primarily by paper which was down 31% on a price basis for the quarter from last year.
And paper is expected to remain a headwind throughout the year.
Paper -- the impact of paper though is partially offset by some improvement in project revenues and some of our other core service lines.
Profit's performance was strong for the quarter.
Adjusted OIBDA margins were up 40 basis points.
International adjusted OIBDA increased 15% on constant currency basis with margins up 200 basis points.
And I'll talk more about this later.
North America did as we asked and sustained their strong margins even in a headwind of some mix of businesses and recycled paper prices being down.
As you know it's a very strong margin business at 41% adjusted OIBDA margins.
So Q1 was a good start for the year and in our business if you start behind in the beginning it's almost impossible to make it up but if you get off to a good start the year looks pretty good.
And we remain optimistic for the year because we've had a good start.
So now let me shift gears and talk to you a little bit about this strategic plan and where it's leading us and so forth.
As I said one year ago we announced the 3-year strategic plan and made certain commitments to you.
2011 was the first year of the operating plan and it runs through 2013.
And the strategy featured 3 key elements: First is a refocus on our traditional physical storage and services business which was primarily impacted in North America.
And as you know we sold our digital services business to Autonomy for $390 million last year.
In North America which is our largest business our plan is and remains to be to build out on our market leadership position and to invest to sustain this business for the long term.
It has a consistent storage growth of about 2% sustained strong margins of 41% and good capital efficiency delivering an after-tax return on invested capital of about 15%.
This is a high return business and our goal is optimize it by investing for sustainability.
Continuous margin expansion is offsetting service headwinds and funding incremental investments in support of the annuity.
In 2011 we increased sales and marketing investment by about approximately $20 million.
It takes time for an increase in investment of this type to share results but we believe we're seeing a return on investment in excess to 15% on our sales and marketing investments.
We're seeing a slight uptick in unit growth the storage on the margin and expansion of other services helping offset the core service trends.
We've shown that if we can increase the input investment we can get a good return.
And we'll likely make several investments from time to time in the future where we see a clear path to returns.
Additionally one change we're seeing in North America since we announced our plan is an increase in acquisition opportunities that we may take advantage of from time to time.
We have a particularly strong network to acquire into and realize significant synergies from and therefore great returns on invested capital.
We will be disciplined as we look at these opportunities and they will all be return on investment capital-focused not "strategic".
Now let me shift and talk about the second leg of our strategy which was our International business where our focus is on driving returns from our previous investments.
We have the leading information and management services company internationally.
The business has good growth currently 7% storage and which is the foundation and 5% total.
And our portfolio as a whole achieved good returns beating our hurdle rates through our work we did last year.
We built this business using footprint strategy to acquire critical mass for customer coverage and to expand our access to future high-growth markets.
In doing so we have a mix of businesses on our portfolio with varying levels of performance and as part of our strategic plan when it took -- undertook a strategic review of all of our business units and developed strategies to drive returns based upon certain criteria.
Our analysis show that being a market leader is the key to driving great returns.
In our International markets where we have a leadership position which is the majority of our markets our margins and return on invested capital are in line with those of North America.
Our analysis also showed that in 8 markets where we are not leaders we need to develop plans to improve performance and drive returns up.
For 6 of those 8 markets France Germany Spain Australia Hong Kong and Singapore we have plans that are already bearing fruit and we'll be bringing them in line with our expected returns by 2013.
And in 2 markets New Zealand and Italy we decided to exit and we're executing on that strategy one we've completed and the other we've almost completed.
The last category in our portfolio is the BRIC markets where we currently have small but fast-growing businesses.
We expect to invest to achieve market leader position where we can do so at attractive prices.
More on this in a minute.
The International business portfolio performed very well with strong margin accretion of 200 basis points in Q1.
This is on top of 220 basis points of margin accretion last year and puts us on target to get the 700 basis points of improvement we planned for by 2013.
Last year the focus and the margin accretion came primarily the 220 basis points out of the optimization of our biggest International business the U.K.
This year the focus is in Western Europe and Latin America where we're taken the same playbooks we used in North America and exported those to the U.K.
and now exporting those into LatAm and Western Europe and it's already showing great results as I said it 200 basis points in Q1 of this year.
So we're off to a good start on the International and we're on track for the full year there also.
As I've said investing in high-growth markets to achieve market leadership is a key component of our International strategy as market leadership drives returns.
Consistent with this strategy we acquired Grupo Store based in São Paulo Brazil in April.
The purchase price is approximately $80 million and this is a business with approximately $30 million in revenue growing at double digits.
It's a good solid clean business with great fold-in synergies with our existing platform in Brazil which we will realize over time.
We're breakeven for -- on this on this business on a contribution basis in 2012 due to integration costs but we expect over the 24- to 36-month timeframe to see this to drive great returns.
It has strong revenue growth and expected post-integration margin expansions will help us drive both strong continued growth and returns beyond this year.
When combined with our existing business in Brazil we will become the market leader in this important emerging market.
It's a large market already estimated to be approximately $1 billion market potential.
There's a very active group of competitors pushing the outsourcing conversion trend.
We estimate that even with this consolidation of these 2 businesses and the market leadership position that we have less than 10% share of market so there remains lots of room for us to continue double-digit growth.
And as the market leader we expect this trend to double-digit growth to continue for quite a long time and we expect to generate the kinds of returns that the market leadership generate for us and the rest of the world and Brazil over time.
You are likely to see us do more international acquisitions of this nature.
As I said the goal is where we can find good clean businesses and strong growing markets and help us solidify -- based upon our past work consolidate and solidify the #1 market leadership position and drive returns.
We will take the opportunity to do so.
So again great progress on the strategy and a really good move on the part of our International team.
And I think you're going to like what happens there over the long period of time.
The third element of our strategy was a focus on capital allocation.
We've committed to return $2.2 billion over 3 years with $1.2 billion coming in the first year.
We met that first $1.2 billion commitment with April's dividend payment.
This first phase was -- consisted of $1 billion of stock buybacks that we executed as well as about $200 million in dividends.
We are committed to strategy to return the excess capital to shareholders as efficiently as possible and through the special committee the Board process we examine most effective ways to do so.
And as I said we will have more to say on these subjects before June 9.
So in summary we're off to a good start on our 3-year plan.
But as with most plans this one will not exactly unfold as expected.
Lower paper prices some divestitures and lower service revenues will reduce our expected revenues and OIBDA in 2013 versus the plan.
Acquisitions and other positive trends will likely add to the plan.
But we expect that the fundamentals of improved operating margins internationally and greater capital efficiency will remain a core part of our plan and our reported performance.
So let me reflect for a second.
As I said we introduced this 3-year plan approximately a year ago now.
It was last April when as you know I came out of semi-retirement and came back to the company.
And we looked to refocus the company back to its core.
And so let me reflect a little bit on that job.
I'm very pleased how the business and the organizations have responded in the last year.
The business is becoming more and more focused on the core and more and more focused on driving returns of invested capital out of those core businesses.
We have significant opportunity ahead of us.
I mean it's not for a lack of opportunity that we're doing this focus.
It's to make sure that we can really be disciplined to execute against this opportunity.
And I personally remain very optimistic about the future which I predict will be dominated by 2 key themes one is investments to sustain this wonderful annuity business which has a great return on capital and to do so over a long period of time.
To me the key is durability or sustainability of the business and we believe that we have the tools the capital and the opportunity set to do that.
And if we do that well we will be returning significant capital with our shareholders on a very consistent basis over a very long period of time.
So as we've shifted our focus on returns it is clear that though that we should fight the urge to be too greedy.
Our market leader businesses are all great return businesses that we want to optimize for the long-term.
By driving to even higher margins -- but driving for even higher margins is really not the answer.
We need to continue to drive costs down and reinvest those savings for long-term sustainability and we have an opportunity set that will allow us to accomplish that if we invest correctly.
And I think we have the talent to be able to do so.
The emerging market businesses and even the non-leader markets that we now remain in will improve out over time and produce a balance of more growth and better returns.
Personally I wish I were younger and had the opportunity to play off the next phase of the life of Iron Mountain.
I see nothing but great opportunity in its future.
But of course I'm not.
We have an active search for CEO.
We're getting great candidates but it's not a process to be rushed.
This is a great opportunity and we want to find the right leader that can balance the needs of all of our constituents you our shareholders our customers and of course our employees over the very long period of time.
As I have often said and many of you shareholders said one of the real great things about Iron Mountain is not only the annuity business model but this ability to drive this annuity and sustain it over an extremely long period of time.
As you know we spent a lot of capital to build the flywheel to build the annuity.
As I said this next phase is about having net capital come back out of the business and back to our shareholders.
And of course the longer we can foresee doing that the much more valuable the company is.
When I returned last year I did state that I expected to be here for 12 to 24 months.
We're about halfway through my estimated timeframe and I expect that I'll meet my original target.
But I want to make sure you all know that I remain committed to the company until we find the right leadership for the long-term.
But stay tuned as we get closer we'll talk to you more about where the next phase may be in that area.
So with that let me turn it over to Brian and then we'll take your questions and answers.
Thanks Richard.
Slide 3 highlights the key messages from today's financial review.
We delivered solid performance in Q1 in line with our plans reflecting consistent business trends.
Our financial results were again supported by solid storage revenue growth and strong performance in our International business.
Reported revenues for Q1 were $746 million up 1% on a constant currency basis as 3% storage gains were offset by moderate service declines including the impact of lower recycled paper prices.
Profit performance was in line with our expectations with results supported by strong gains in our International segment and sustained high margins in North America.
Adjusted OIBDA for the quarter was $221 million up 2% on a constant currency basis.
International adjusted OIBDA margins increased by 200 basis points to -- compared to Q1 of 2011 keeping us on track to achieve our margin improvement goal of 700 basis-point improvement by the end of 2013.
Adjusted EPS was $0.29 in Q1 and reported EPS was $0.35 including the impact of foreign exchange gains and discrete tax items.
We continue to expand our International business while driving higher returns consistent with our 3-year strategic plan.
Adjusted OIBDA in the International segment increased 15% on a constant currency basis in Q1 supported by strong growth in emerging markets and benefits from cost improvement initiatives in Latin America and Western Europe.
As Richard noted we recently acquired Grupo Store in Brazil which will position us well to build on this momentum.
We're off to good start to the year and are on track towards our full year financial goals.
Today we're reiterating our full year 2012 outlook and adding the impact to the recently completed store acquisition for the balance of the year.
We continue to plan for 1% to 3% internal growth excluding the effect of lower paper prices and constant currency adjusted OIBDA gains of 1% to 5% x paper impacts.
The store acquisition will add $25 million to revenues and $5 million in CapEx for the remaining 3 quarters of 2012.
Adjusted OIBDA gains from this acquisition will be offset by integration costs in 2012.
Let's now turn to Slide 4 and review our financial results in more detail.
Slide 4 compares our results for this quarter to the first quarter of 2011.
As noted Q1 results were as expected and consistent with recent operating trends.
Enterprise revenue growth was flat year-on-year as 1% constant dollar gains were offset by unfavorable year-on-year foreign exchange impacts.
Overall revenue performance reflected sustained storage revenue internal growth of 3% global expansion of hybrid services and higher project revenues.
These gains were offset by moderate declines in North America activity-based core service activities and lower recycled paper revenues.
From a segment perspective North America posted flat constant currency revenue growth.
Consistent 2% storage internal growth was offset by a 3% decline in service revenues including the impact of lower paper prices.
Service growth continues to be constrained by reduced retrievable and refile transportation and data protection handling activity.
These impacts along with lower recycled paper revenues more than offset strong gains and hybrid revenues increased project revenues and benefits from higher fuel surcharges.
Our International segment posted 5% revenue growth on a constant currency basis supported by a 7% storage growth reflecting sustained growth in Europe and continued double-digit gains in Latin America and Asia-Pacific.
These gains were again augmented by strong hybrid revenues which offset impacts from lower paper prices and lower revenues from product sales and shredding services.
Gross profit was $431 million in Q1 yielding a gross margin of 57.8% up slightly compared to the same prior year period.
Storage gross margins increased 240 basis points driven by lower occupancy costs.
Service gross margins were down year-on-year due to decreased recycled paper revenues the previously disclosed reclassification of certain overhead expenses to cost of sales and the growth of relatively lower margin businesses including our hybrid services.
Adjusted OIBDA was $221 million or 29.5% of revenues up 40 basis points compared to Q1  2011.
Sustained high margins in North America and continued strong performance in our International business were key components of the year-on-year margin expansion.
Included in adjusting OIBDA is approximately $2 million related to the work of the special committee of the Board.
Adjusted EPS for the quarter was $0.29 per share.
Reported earnings per share of $0.35 include a $3 million of other income and the impact of a lower effective tax rate due to foreign currency gains and discrete tax items.
Our structural tax rate for the quarter was 39% as expected.
Let's now take a closer look at our revenue growth on Slide 5.
Slide 5 breaks down our overall revenue growth.
It shows internal growth by a major service line as well as the impact of acquisitions divestitures and FX compared to our full year expectations.
Our internal growth rates for the first quarter were within our expected full year ranges supported by consistent 2% core revenue internal growth.
As noted storage internal growth remains solid at 3%.
North America reported consistent 2% internal storage growth and International storage internal growth remained strong at 6%.
Net global Records Management volume was up more than 1% on a year-on-year basis in Q1 reflecting continued strong gains in International and flat year-on-year growth in North America.
Pricing trends remain consistent.
Total service internal growth was minus 2% or down about 1% excluding impacts from commodity changes.
These results are also consistent with underlying trends in recent quarters.
Core service internal growth was flat in the quarter as strong growth in hybrid services and benefits from higher fuel surcharges offset moderate declines in activity-based core service revenues.
Complementary service revenues which represent about 11% of total revenues decreased 9% internally.
Results were impacted by as expected by declines in recycled paper revenues reflecting substantially lower recycled paper pricing as well as lower revenues in our fulfillment business.
Let's now turn to Slide 6 to review our segment results.
Slide 6 shows key metrics for each of our 3 segments compared to the first quarter of 2011.
Consistent with our 3-year strategic plan we're sustaining high returns in our North America segment and building momentum in our International segment as a significant driver of profit and cash flow gains.
North America continues to deliver high profits and strong cash flows.
In Q1 our North American business segment reported revenues of $552 million and sustained adjusted OIBDA margins of 41%.
While storage revenue gains remained solid at 2% overall North America growth was constrained by lower service revenues including the impact of lower recycled paper prices.
We continue to drive operational improvements in North America to offset these impacts and maintain our high returns in this business.
Our International segment continues to post solid constant dollar revenue growth and strong adjusted OIBDA and cash flow gains.
As noted adjusted OIBDA increased 15% excluding FX impacts yielding 200 basis points of margin expansion.
We're benefiting from the expansion of operational excellence initiatives in markets like Latin America and from cost improvement initiatives in Western European markets as part of our portfolio improvement plan.
Benefits from these initiatives and from continued solid growth across our International business is keeping us on track towards our business plan goals of 25% margins in 2013.
Corporate expenses were consistent with prior year levels including $2 million of costs related to the work of the special committee.
Overall we're delivering consistent solid operating performance across our business which is driving sustained strong cash flow.
This performance is supporting significant shareholder payouts.
Let's turn to Slide 7 to review our stockholder payout program.
Slide 7 shows the substantial progress we've made in returning funds to stockholders over the past 2 years.
Since first announcing our plans to return cash to shareholders in February of 2010 we returned $1.4 billion to stockholders through $300 million of dividend payments and the repurchase of 38 million shares for more than $1.1 billion.
In Q1 we acquired 1.1 million shares for $35 million.
Share repurchases to date through this program represent more than 18% of the shares we had outstanding at the end of 2009.
As part of our 3-year strategic plan that we presented in April of 2011 we committed to $2.2 billion of payouts through 2013 including $1.2 billion by May 2012.
We've completed our initial $1.2 billion commitment and we're well-positioned to continued advancement of shareholder payouts supported by our strong operating performance.
We remain committed to driving strong cash flows and driving an optimal approach to our capital structure to support shareholder returns.
Let's now turn to Slide 8 to review how we're managing our balance sheet to fund our business and drive our strategy.
Strong consistent cash flow generation has enabled us to maintain a strong balance sheet while supporting substantial shareholder payouts.
As planned we recently increased our leverage by approximately 1/2 a turn in support of our payout program.
Currently our consolidated leverage ratio is 3.5x at the midpoint of our target 3x to 4x leverage range.
We remain well-positioned in terms of cash and financing capacity.
At quarter end liquidity was more than $700 million with $178 million in cash and $529 million in additional borrowing capacity.
Our debt portfolio at March 31 2012 also remains long and fixed.
Our weighted average interest rate was down to 6.7% and we were 80% fixed at quarter end.
Maturity is more than 6 years with no meaningful repayment obligations until 2014.
We're managing our balance sheet consistent with our 3-year plan and we're well-positioned to fund our business strategy.
That concludes our review for Q1 2012 results.
Overall we continue to drive solid financial performance and we're on track to achieve our goals in 2012 as we continue to advance our 3-year plan.
Let's now turn to Slide 9 to review our 2012 outlook.
Slide 9 summarizes our current 2012 outlook.
Today we're reiterating our full year 2012 financial guidance and adding the impact of the store acquisition in Brazil.
As a result of the store acquisition we're increasing our revenue outlook by $25 million.
There will be no impact on adjusted OIBDA as operating profits will be offset by integration expenses in 2012.
As noted we're planning for consistent revenue growth trends excluding impacts from recent declines in recycled paper prices.
Supported by consistent storage internal growth of about 3% we're expecting constant dollar revenue growth of 2% to 4% excluding paper.
As noted our internal growth outlook x paper impacts remains at 1% to 3%.
A 30% decline in paper prices compared to the average for 2011 and negative year-on-year impacts from foreign exchange is projected to reduce our reported growth to a range of minus 1% to plus 2%.
Our outlook for constant currency adjusted OIBDA growth excluding the impact of lower paper prices remains between 1% and 5%.
At current levels lower paper prices are projected to have a negative 5% impact on our adjusted OIBDA growth this year.
Adjusted EPS is expected to be in the range of $1.20 to $1.36 per share.
Our calculation of adjusted EPS assumes the structural tax rate of 39% and 172 million shares outstanding.
We're planning for capital spending of $220 million including $5 million associated with the store acquisition and about $25 million of spending for real estate.
Our outlook is for free cash flow performance -- our outlook for free cash flow performance remains in the range of $320 million to $360 million including about $20 million of negative impacts this year from higher prior year capital spending accruals.
Finally based on our outlook for 2012 we expect our return on invested capital to be in the range of 11%.
In summary Q1 as was another quarter of solid financial performance and we're on track to achieve our financial goals for 2012.
We continue to execute against our 3-year plan completing our $1.2 billion payout commitment sustaining high profits and cash flow in North America and driving strong growth and higher returns in our International business.
And we're well-positioned to build on this progress.
Thanks and we'd now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Andrew Steinerman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask about core services.
We're flat now.
We've been flat for 2 quarters.
The forecast for the year is unchanged at negative 4 to 0.
I surely heard that you had a couple of things moving around there and that activities meaning moving boxes around is still dead at least in North America.
But why after being flat this quarter and flat in the fourth quarter is the forecast for the year kind of unchanged to be -- being 0 to minus 4? The very least you would feel better about the high end of that.
Well as you know it's early in the year Andrew and we are within the range.
I think there is always noise on those type of numbers at the margin.
As Richard said we're off to a good start to the year.
We feel good about the track that we're on and...
We don't like to predict things we don't see for sure either Andrew but basically we didn't focus on making a change there.
It's in the range.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And maybe let me just ask the question one more time.
Is the flat the 0 more a function of how strong hybrid is? Or has there been some improvement meaning less negative in terms of moving stuff around? A couple of things.
We're getting about 1 point benefit from fuel surcharges.
It helps a little bit.
The -- it's more similar trends than different trends.
I think our International business is doing well and I think the activity trends in International are relatively stronger than what we've seen in North America.
I think North America has been a very similar place.
We do record as you know some of the hybrid revenues through the -- we record some of that in our core service the more recurring nature where we have more recurring projects and that's a double-digit growth.
We're doing very well on that front.
So that's [indiscernible].
But on balance more similar than different but I think we do have some positives.
And Andrew the International business is much less of its portfolio has any in healthcare in it.
And healthcare is the major drag factor in North America.
Your next question will come from the line of James Samford with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to I guess if I could just follow-up on that a little bit.
If you could just sort of frame the activity cycle in terms of the macro environment I'm just sort of curious whether activity internationally is a function of -- if there's a lot of changes going on there and that's sort of driving activity levels.
I just want to sort of frame it on from a macro perspective.
Yes.
Look no.
I think International is more driven by the 7% storage growth and that drags along with it more services.
Newer records are far more active and they age fairly quickly in terms of activity patterns.
So the faster you grow on them the greater the amount of newer records you got and therefore the more active they are.
And plus part of that activity is the charges of bringing things in so if you're growing faster you got more service activity to assess or bring things in.
No I don't think it's an economic impact.
Although services have -- do respond to the economy quicker than storage.
Storage growth is a real lag on an economic rebound.
And like in North America we've seen no real clear trends in the economy.
And we expect to be an 18-month or so lagger there.
On services we would pick up a little faster.
What's tough for us parse too is just obviously the first quarter in North America you had better weather.
And I think when weather is bad you hear about the negative side of it.
When it's good no one's saying that's helping to support performance.
But that could be at the margin.
Something is helping us a bit.
I don't -- to Rich's point I don't think we've seen kind of a change in the economic environment.
It's more reflective of kind of what's going on underlying it.
Research Division</strong> And just a quick follow up on -- it looks like volume growth picked up a little bit here.
You got stabilization on the output and distractions.
I think the organic piece is that International organic? Or how should we think about sort of the mix of volume growth on the Records Management side? It's very again very similar.
I think you're looking at our encashment where we show kind of the quarterly numbers annualized.
It's very similar in the U.S.
kind of flat volume trends.
We're seeing benefits from the sales and marketing initiatives that we advanced and that's helping us to stabilize the incoming volume which was down a bit.
And now it's more in the stable zone in which we feel very good about.
And international is in a similar zone of solid growth.
There is some seasonality in the quarterly numbers.
We do tend to see more add lots in the first quarter and so when you seasonal-ize those numbers that's part of the dynamic you see there but it's a similar trend.
We feel good that we've moved from where we had more pressure on our growth to where we're more stable and seeing positive flowthrough from some of the investments and looking forward to building on that.
And that we spoke a little bit about the investment sales and market.
It's a long cycle to see it come through.
But we're seeing better performance.
We're seeing better pipeline growth.
We're seeing better conversion ratios.
We're seeing a variety of things that make us feel like we've kind of pulled out of the bottom and we started back in another direction.
But it's very very slow cycle.
And I really caution people that this is not a business that you can take sort of a data point and sort of draw line up or line down.
It's a flywheel it takes a while that move either way.
But I think we feel like it's moving in a better direction now than it was moving in say a year's plus or so ago.
But I would -- again caution you don't go re-forecasting things.
You'll be absolutely wrong.
Your next question will come from the line of Kevin McVeigh with Macquarie.
Richard did you tend to talk about a kind of a longer-term trend on the storage side in terms of revenue growth? And was it low single-digits or was that within storage itself? Or just -- can you put some context around that? Yes.
What I'm really saying is I think we can keep our business overall growing in those ranges but build on a foundation of storage annuity-based kinds of businesses in effect.
And we're going through some shifts and changes.
We've talked about healthcare restructuring itself.
Look our healthcare business is growing but the big service component is coming out of it it was our most active business.
It will take a while take for them to absorb.
I know people believe that that foreshadows what's going happen in the rest of the market.
They're wrong.
Not that -- we have records aren't going to get less active.
Like we've announced we have been doing that for 30 years and they will for over the next 30 40 years.
But not at the same pace as healthcare.
But we've got those headwinds and those headwinds of healthcare will take a while for us to eat through but we've got a bunch of other positive things and we got some new things in the hopper.
And if we look out over the long haul and we've done quite a bit of work on this and look at a very long period of time what we're saying is we believe net-net we have the opportunity set and we have the tools staying within our core business not going throwing big long passes or anything.
Staying with that core business to keep the core -- keep our business all annuity-based by and large growing in the low single-digits.
And that's why we talk a lot about confidence around the ability to sustain the flywheel and sustain the cash generation capabilities of the business.
Understood.
And then just -- it seems like on a relative basis acquisitions are starting to pick up a little bit.
Is that just purely opportunity? Kind of how you're feeling about the business overall? Or just any thoughts on that? I have been saying around here for a couple of years that we're going to see -- if we're going to see another mini consolidation wave in North America and like everything else I predicted it takes a long time for it to happen.
That's our business.
It's starting to happen.
That is the nature in North America of just the -- the impact of the first consolidation wave was to consolidate the market create a bunch of new competitors.
Now there's new competitors.
We have a reasonable number of them.
I have been out there a while invested capital for a long time and looking to monetize.
It's just the cycle.
I think we'll go through that cycle again.
And we will play that opportunity cycle because unlike the last time when we were a driver of that cycle we were building footprint.
This time we're not building footprint.
We're building returns and we're going to do it by -- if it's a great consolidation economics and it's a good clean business in a fair price to both parties we'll do it.
If it's not we'll pass on it.
And so on okay? But we are in the market.
But we want to make sure the market hears us that way and if anybody's interested in selling you can get my phone number you know how to call we'll talk to you.
Now that's North America.
International although in certain parts of International there's some of that same dynamic but a much smaller scale.
The other part of International it's about us being a bit more targeted around our strategy that says market leadership.
Where we -- where there are great markets particularly those with lots of growth left.
And yes I've spoken before and now a lot of the emerging markets have a 20 20 to 30-year cycle just like the North American and the mature European markets went through of the one-time outsourcing decision that for customers to accumulate their existing records to get it organized and move from inside to outside.
That's the kind of a once-in-a-lifetime decision.
And during that cycle it takes a long time.
It took us over 30 years in North America to physically move all those records and we only about halfway through it okay.
But that long cycle in the emerging markets and a good part of the International places like Eastern Europe Latin America Asia and so forth is a very large business opportunity for us.
And so we want to be market leaders in a good part of that space.
We have leadership but quite a bit of it but there are places where we don't.
Brazil was a good example.
And so internationally we would be more targeted towards finding those place we can go ahead and achieve leadership get to scale and ride that outsourcing conversion curve and then what we've been able to do on North America build great returns and much bigger businesses.
The International play gets a lot better over time.
It just takes time for it to grow because each of those countries -- it's not like a foreign company -- country operation is not analogous to a city in North America.
It's got a different overhead structure.
It's got a different cultural bias.
It's got a different way of selling.
It's got variations.
And the bigger you get the better you get at adapting to those variations the more efficient you get.
There's just a lot of positive things come out of it.
And like [indiscernible] fill out in our business that takes patience.
But now that we've done our portfolio review we're in good shape.
We're just going to keep adding to it.
And so net-net North America is more opportunistic strategy where the returns make sense.
International is a more strategic M&amp;A strategy where it is about driving leadership to drive returns.
Understood.
And then just one final if I could? Within the context of overall capital return kind of M&amp;A versus kind of dividend and buyback in aggregate out of 100% how would that play out over the next couple of years? Well you're really talking the capital allocation strategy going forward and I'm not going to comment on that because that just gets wrapped up into the whole issue of what we do next.
And so we'll talk about that sometime between now and June 9.
Your next question will come from the line of Gary Bisbee with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> As I was going through the 10-K one thing jumped out that maybe I'm making too big a deal out of.
But it was interesting to me that on your cash flow statement the portion of the customer acquisition costs that you capitalize that addition to customer relationship/acquisition cost line it was larger in absolute terms than as a percent of revenue than any point is better in the last 10 years and yet -- revenue growth is pretty slow.
I guess I wondered is this may be another sign that the sales investments you've done are working? Or is there something that's changed that would be driving that maybe like higher customer turnover but you're doing a better job of adding to offset that or something? We have a lot of tools in terms of how we build new business and in some cases we will acquire business what we call a pick-up-and-moves.
So basically we're acquiring businesses from competitors without necessarily taking the real estate...
You'd be buying a portfolio of customers basically and moving them into existing sites.
And that is an area where it's a similar judgment in terms of deploying capital and looking at returns and we've had opportunities on their front and that is an area that we'll continue to deploy to grow as well.
And we understand the economics of those types of investments very very well as you might imagine because it's clearly defined.
And we can swab that into areas where we have excess capacity and help to manage our facility utilization.
So that's what it's reflective of.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then I was thinking back to I guess now 1.5 year ago your last investor day and I remember one of the themes of that that was a focus on where you could be more targeted in trying to get pricing? Has there been any change in that? Or is it sort of the economy where it is and not having gotten better enough kept you from making any major moves towards that strategy you talked about? Well we restructured pricing in not all of our business but a reasonable amount of our business in over the last say 3 years or so where we went to more list price and then discount off a list and try to rationalize pricing and looked across the board at the value proposition and so forth.
That would be the sort of the what you might call a big move in effect of things.
And since then if you think about it we have a significant part of our revenue where it's a sort of on an annual cycle and we're going through those annual increases.
But we also have a significant part of revenue that's on multi-year contracts that are indexed by-and-large one way or the other inflation.
But in the last few years those indexes have been down and so that puts a limit on just the natural limit on price.
The flip side of it is if you believe we will see inflation in the future we'll be well-protected on the way back up.
So...
Strategically we're increasing our focus on being more segmented in our offering by a customer vertical and looking across the scope of the services that we offer and linking that into our pricing strategy.
So I think we're looking for ways to increase the value that we bring to customers and capture that through the pricing strategies.
That's really the next wave.
Building on what Richard said I think we've got a very good foundational structure for how we approach pricing and are advancing the same strategy and trying to look at ways to increase our value add through segmented approaches to growth.
And that will be the next wave and where we might be able to get some incremental value out of our pricing approach.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one last one.
Everybody's noticed that Brambles didn't sell recall at the price or the timing they wondered -- they wanted to.
I wondered if you had any comment if that would be something that might make sense as something for Iron Mountain to look at? Or maybe would be willing to say if you have not really been involved in that or not? We have not been in the process.
I think it was Brambles' choice.
It's not that we wouldn't have been interested in looking because we would have.
If I think for their own reasons and probably good reasons they chose that -- not to bring us into the process.
So we're are sitting on the sidelines and watching like everybody else.
Your next question will come from the line of Andrew Wittmann with Robert W.
Baird &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> I'm just curious on the pick-up-and-moves.
I'm just curious if you can just talk about quantify how much of the volume growth you're seeing is as a result that today and given that it just sounds like this is a little bit of a shift there and kind of what was it maybe a few years ago? You said a relatively similar range.
I think it's less than 1% on the margin.
I do think we're increasing our focus across a number of areas including acquisitions in terms of growth.
But I don't think it's a fundamental change from where we've been.
We'll take a closer look at that.
But it does go up and down depending on the nature of the opportunities that are out there.
And I think we've seen a better pipeline more recently.
This just tie into some of the themes that's Richard's talking about with -- in North America more things being available for sale.
This is a -- in many ways a different form of the sale for smaller businesses.
And we -- as we go forward we will use various tools that keep the drive and the sustainability of the business.
As a company the theme we said is for this year and for our 3-year plan is to refocus back on our core physical business.
The reason we stated it that way is looking prior to that and it's not that we lost focus on the business but there's a few tools we had put down and just weren't using and this is one of them.
We just -- we were not looking at any form or fashion to speak of -- particularly North America the opportunity set that came up.
And so we're just opening up and looking at those sort of things.
Research Division</strong> Makes sense.
And just on the service business Richard are there any knobs that you have on your arsenal to maybe induce some level services there? Is there a pricing strategy that maybe lines up the marginal costs and marginal revenues there better? Or is there anything you're doing today to maybe offset some of the headwinds you're seeing there? There are some new services that we have introduced and they're getting traction.
But like everything they take a long time.
I mean that's the good and bad side of our business.
What I'm -- for example in the healthcare space is an approach to pathology customers.
It's -- we've repackaged and come up with a better value proposition and we're getting good traction on it.
But it takes a few years before you see any major impact under that.
So we're doing things like that and it's more about the theme of vertical-izing our services and being much more specific around specific industry needs.
And we had some other new service programs or new product programs related to our core in what I'd call beta phases.
We're not going to pound a table on them for a while until they turn real but yes some of them look very promising and some could be substantial big businesses over time.
And so rather than coming out and hyping them what we're going to do is go through some betas and get into the markets a little bit.
And when we have some real results that's significant we'll come back to talk to you about them and so forth.
And that's all part of us maturing as a company learning how to look across our own customer base and we've been evolving those skills in project management-type skills and so forth to be able to verticalize to be able to be more creative and look for opportunity sets and custom-design what we do and then repeat it over and over and so forth.
And we're getting better at that.
We'll have to keep getting better at it and that's where a reasonable amount of money has been invested in the last few years and I think we'll continue doing that.
Research Division</strong> And then just kind of another one just touching on -- in your sales process here a little bit.
On the digital business it's been out of your portfolio now for a while.
Can you talk a little bit about kind of how the new relationship with your digital vendors is going maybe what you've learned from that process? And maybe Brian can you give us -- or quantify how much of revenue we're seeing today from you selling digital services that are not assets or technologies that you own? That's a small number.
It's a small number.
We -- because we shifted 100% of the sales force that sold the technology services and chose not to rebuild that sales force.
Having said that though we are selling a lot more connected [indiscernible].
It's a very small number.
Immaterial.
And what we did was is -- frankly at the request of my leadership in North America they asked me to slow down on doing that.
Not slow down on selling it per se but on focus because what they found was that they really wanted to get their sales force refocused and requoted back towards the core business.
We had -- the quarters in focusing on very much towards the new services side.
And that's one of the reasons that storage started to come off and by refocusing and making people focused on going back and digging out the storage they're doing it.
We just didn't want to confuse people.
We continue to own in the intellectual property management business which is a great business for us and it's roughly $30 million of revenues.
So that was part of the digital business that was doing well.
And we've -- look we were coming back.
Some of those the beta services talking to you have a strong partner technology component potential.
But we're going to take our time and we're not going to spend a god-awful amount of money trying to do this stuff.
So I think that's the last question operator in my understanding.
So -- hey I was right we finished 5 minutes earlier so that's a record for me.
So thank you very much.
As I said the business is performing as we expected.
We're off to a good start for the quarter and hopefully the rest of the calls this year will be equally good if not better and so forth.
We are really busy though.
There's a lot going on between I'd like to say looking at an acquisition pipeline and looking at -- and so forth.
But the real focus of the some of the organization is on being prepared to have a conversation with you prior to June 9.
And I know everybody's eager to hear us talk and we will be prepared and we'll let you know probably the day of or some number of when we come forth and talk.
So we look forward to talking to you again in the next couple of months.
Thank you very much for your support and we will talk to you later.
Thank you for your participation.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Lindsay and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to Iron Mountain's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Golden you may begin your conference.
Thank you and welcome everyone to our 2012 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me this morning are Richard Reese our Chairman and CEO; and Brian McKeon our CFO.
After their prepared remarks we'll open up the phones for Q&amp;A.
Per our custom we have a user-controlled slide presentation at the Investor Relations page of our website at www.ironmountain.com.
Referring now to Slide 2.
Today's earning call and slide presentation will contain a number of forward-looking statements most notably our outlook for our 2012 financial performance.
All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to today's press release the Safe Harbor language on this slide and our most recently filed annual report on Form 10-K for a discussion of the major risk factors that could cause our actual results to be materially different from those contemplated in our forward-looking statements.
As you know we use several non-GAAP measures when presenting our financial results.
Adjusted OIBDA adjusted EPS and free cash flow before acquisitions and investments among others are metrics we speak to frequently and ones we believe to be important in evaluating our overall financial performance.
We provide additional information and the reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the appropriate GAAP measures as required by Reg G at the Investor Relations page of our website as well as in today's press release.
With that I'd like to introduce our Chairman and CEO Richard Reese.
Thank you Stephen and good morning everybody.
And welcome to our second quarter investor conference call.
We had good operating results for the quarter.
I'd characterize them frankly as good results in a slow world.
I'll go through and give you some update on the trends and what's going on and then -- and I'll have a few comments about the REIT process which I'm sure you're all eager to wait to hear.
The headline is you're not going to hear everything you want to hear about their REIT because it hasn't changed a lot but we will at least give you some color and some update.
And then Brian will go through the detailed numbers and as usual we'll take your questions.
With a little luck we will attempt to make this call shorter than average because I think things are fairly clear and it's summertime.
So let's get started.
As I've said I think we're having good execution in the organization and the businesses are performing well against our plans.
We're doing not only on a tactical or an annual operating basis but you should be comfortable that we're also advancing our long-term strategy to continue building out a very durable storage annuity business.
So we're making progress on both fronts and finally trying to balance all those to deliver the short-term results while keeping an eye on the future.
And I think the company and the team is doing a good job at that.
As I've said we'll update you on the REIT process where the only significant news which we did announce in our press release is that we have submitted formally our request to the IRS for a private letter ruling.
And as you know that we are going to be relatively silent and absolutely not speak to any details on that while we let them do their work and so forth.
So let me talk a little bit about the operating results.
Storage which is the key driver and everything we focus on in our business had good 6% constant dollar revenue growth which was about 4% of that 4 points out of 6 was internal growth and the balance from acquisitions.
Service trends remain consistent within the past year or 2.
There were some puts and takes but constant dollar service growth was about flat excluding the impacts of the lower paper -- recycled paper prices.
Recycled paper prices in the quarter were the major issue to us with a 37% decline from last year and it reduced reported service revenue growth by a negative 4% but also total revenue growth by 1.5 points.
North America as we had planned and as we communicated sustained good strong margins of 42% and adjusted OIBDA levels while posting 2% internal growth of storage.
But total revenue growth in North America felt the brunt of recycled paper trends hard to say as North America accounts for about 85% of our total recycled paper volume.
International had strong storage growth at 13% in constant dollars which was 8% internal and the balance from acquisitions.
They had some slight softness we experienced in International and service trends which we suspect is part of the slowdown globally particularly in the U.K.
and in Europe and their economies.
But those trends were only slight.
And as I said overall as a company our service revenues were about flat.
Internal growth in International particularly storage trended up slightly due to the higher-than-average customer acquisition activity.
This was just a good strong quarter.
And although the dynamics in International are strong this will move around a bit.
So we're not forecasting these numbers.
You can't draw a line forward from these numbers.
These are great numbers but I don't predict they will reoccur over and over every quarter.
You will see some come back to this level in the future but it's going to move around just a bit.
In line with our operating strategy during the -- and we've spoken before during the quarter and we've announced most of these.
But just to recap we acquired records management businesses in Hungary as  a fold-in to our existing business and Brazil to solidify our market leadership position as we've previously announced.
Both of these markets have strong outsourcing trends and are very consistent with our strategy to build market leadership in faster-growing emerging markets.
We also increased some ownership stakes in some joint ventures we had previously set up in Switzerland and Turkey consistent with our long-standing joint venture strategy where we typically enter in new markets on an International basis sometimes with a less than 100% or even less than majority control.
But as the businesses evolve and turn into real businesses we seek to buy out partners or buy up in effect become over time to eventual ownership and we executed a couple of those during the quarter.
International also continued to make significant progress against their benchmark target that we set 1.5 years ago to increase our margins by 700 basis points and they generated 150 basis points of improvement during the quarter.
They are on track for the full year growth of about 200 basis points that's what their plan says and they're on track for that.
And looking forward to the end of the year assuming they hit their plans which we fully expect since we announced this increase of 700 basis points we will have reported and generated about 500 basis points or nearly 70% of the way towards our improvement target.
And to remind you we still have one more year to go to complete that target.
That margin came -- increasing came from sort of 3 big buckets.
In Western Europe sort of the International business it was really about a lot of overhead initiatives a lot of reengineering of cost structures and process most of which are designed to improve our operating efficiency and effectiveness all at the same time.
In Latin America we've been focusing on our direct labor and utilization what we call operational excellence.
It's the same strategy we started in North America some years ago and then rolled it to Europe.
Now we're rolling it into Latin America and that's showing good margin enhancement improvements.
And of course it's easier to get good margin when you got good growth.
And the International businesses as I said have had good strong growth.
So it's a combination of those 3 that have generated that.
Team's doing a good job.
We expect them to continue doing that and to hit their margins.
We also saw some flow-through of some margin accretion efforts did in our corporate functions because we started investing a little over a year ago and some improvements where we wanted to improve our internal service to ourselves as well as reduce costs.
And those investments had a price tag both in terms of OpEx as well as capital and they're starting to flow through.
And we saw about 40 basis points of margin generated by the projects we started a little over a year ago.
So I think we're in really good shape on the margin front and frankly given the markets we operate in and so forth I think we're doing quite well on the revenue front right now.
A little bit of update on our strategy just to remind those that either forget or haven't been listening or new to the story whichever the case may be it is our goal to continue to build a very durable storage-based annuity business as I've said in the beginning.
In doing that we have already optimized and have a very good return on investment North American business segment which we believe can grow in the low single-digits and maintain their margins.
That is not as easy to do as it sounds.
In low-growth environments maintaining margins is very hard to do.
But the team is focused on doing it and so forth.
And it's a business that we will continue to invest in and there -- around -- on the edge there are ways of raising the growth rates a little bit.
And we will keep focused on that but it'll be a very measured kind of a process over a long period of time because the strategy is not to build a super-high-growth business.
The strategy is to maintain a really strong business there and we're very comfortable we can do that.
Whereas International our strategy has been over the last 18 months as we shifted the focus of the strategy away from a portfolio build-out market presence strategy to really a portfolio return strategy.
And we have been driving returns on invested capital up to the point that the entire portfolio has returns in excess of a weighted average cost of capital.
And when we complete the program and the margin improvement programs these businesses as a total portfolio will be generating very strong returns.
And I'll remind you that in that portfolio some of them already have North American-like returns quite a bit of them do.
But we still have some business International that are in their [ph] early stages of development where the returns are either negative to very low.
But they're faster-growing and they will grow their way into better returns and they will optimize their way into even better returns as we've done all around the world.
And we're on a good path to do that and I think the team is focused on that and executing well.
Part of that strategy is expanding in emerging markets through acquisitions as well as new customer acquisition work to capital leadership.
We know that market leadership drives out-of-line or extraordinary returns of invested capital and that is our goal for the entire business.
So as I said we're executing on all levels of our operating strategy and we feel very strong about our ability to continue to build out a very doable storage-driven business over time.
Another element of that strategy though that relates to it that as you know in June we announced is a new focused capital allocation strategy.
It is a strategy in which we've committed to return excess capital that this operating strategy will generate to our shareholders.
And of course as part of that capital allocation strategy which is one that brings a lot of discipline is using a tactic to pursue a new or alternative structure operating as a REIT.
And you know we've announced our intention to do that.
As I've said we believe that a REIT provides substantial benefits to our shareholders first for efficient capital distribution.
But it also comes with a burden of extreme capital allocation discipline.
And we think that that burden is acceptable both as a management team and as a shareholder to take in return for the efficiency that we would get out of this structure and so forth.
So we're embarked on both a strong operating strategy to build a very sustainable long-term cash generation energy engine by the way one that we've been doing for a long period of time.
We have reached the point though in which instead of consuming capital to build this business we are in the very nice position of having significant excess capital.
And as I've said we've gone through the work to understand and believe that the right thing to do is distribute that capital to our shareholders regardless of whether the tactics ultimately pan out to be a REIT or not.
The strategy is one of disciplined capital allocation.
So let me talk a little bit about the REIT.
As I've said as I started a couple of things.
This is not a subject that we're going to give you a lot on.
To be frank with you we don't have a lot to give you more than we've already told you.
We've been out on the road talking since we have made the announcement early June and so for those -- and I would expect that most of you who got a chance to see us or hear us there's not a lot that's changed.
And frankly what we also told you was as it did change we're not going to give you blow-by-blow or play-by-play color on this that and the other and so forth.
If it turns out that the IRS approves us obviously we'll tell you.
If they reject us we'll obviously tell you.
If we were to find a reason it couldn't work we will obviously tell you.
But we're going about trying to execute on becoming a REIT.
We're taking a positive hypothesis approach which means that we filed for approval from the IRS.
While they do their thinking and their work and so forth we're moving forward with a process to restructure our business to separate entities into the QRS/TRS structure and to have ourselves ready to be a REIT as of January 1 2014.
We've said it before and I'm going to reiterate it's -- and the more we look the more I'll have to say this is it's a lot of work.
And as you know we forecast $100 million to $150 million of work to get there.
Obviously we expect the payback to be worth it.
We've made significant progress.
We've established a task force office headed by Jeff Lawrence.
Jeff as many of you know is our Treasurer but he's also been a long-term mountaineer and he has managed prior to this many of our major -- anytime we've had major change projects such as Y2K and things like that Jeff has been the go-to guy.
He's got extraordinary skills and knowledge of the business so he knows where every -- all the pieces and parts are.
He's organized a team of over 25 full-time people most of which came up -- we pulled out of other jobs and we're staffed behind them.
We've almost completed that REIT staffing behind them because we see that they're going to be this for a couple of years.
We went and tried to pull people that are high-potential strong performers and basically making sure that they understand that this is a career-enhancing process.
This is the project that you want to be part of and I think we've chosen quite a bit of good talent to help us do that.
That number of people would be augmented over time.
I mean quite frankly to give you a picture of it we've had to take another floor in our corporate office building just to house what we expect this workflow to be.
And we'll get to be over time significantly more people some part-time some full-time.
In addition to that we have a group of outside advisors primarily but not solely PWC [ph] on the actual technical conversion side because they have direct experience of doing this and direct experience same team same people of doing it for nontraditional REIT conversions which is what we are and which is where the real complexity comes okay? And IBM and other technology partners but primarily IBM is helping us over a lot of the systems work.
They -- at the core of this transition is a lot of accounting and IT work and -- with a strong dose of legal and contract work.
And it requires us to put in some new systems to get more granular detail on some of our details and systematize them and so forth.
Net-net all of this work we will do will make us a  better business.
And it would be hard work but it -- plenty doable if we were doing it for one country but we're going to do it across the majority of our big businesses around the globe.
So I only stress all of that just to give you an appreciation of we're on it we're not waiting.
That is why we're spending money pretty fast.
So far the money that we put in the quarter was not that big.
But stay tuned those numbers will get bigger as we try to separate out and make sure you see the operating side of the business versus what we're spending to achieve this target.
So as I've said I think we feel real good about where we are both in terms of the process of the REIT I feel real good about how the business is operating at this point in time.
I wish the world were a little faster.
I'm not used to this slow pace it drives me batty.
So with that let's turn it to Brian.
He'll go through the details and we'll come back to take your questions.
Thanks Richard.
Turning to our presentation Slide 3 highlights the key messages from today's review.
We delivered solid performance in Q2 in line with our expectations reflecting consistent business trends.
Storage -- strong storage revenue growth and International performance again drove our overall results.
We achieved 6% constant dollar storage revenue growth in the quarter supported by internal growth that routed 4% and benefits from our recently completed acquisitions.
Storage gains continue to be solid globally despite soft economic conditions demonstrating the durability of our business.
International storage grew 13% constant dollar augmenting the solid 3% constant dollar storage growth posted by the North American business.
We continue to expand our International business while driving higher returns consistent with our 3-year strategic plan.
Adjusted OIBDA margin in the International segment increased 150 basis points on 8% constant dollar revenue growth.
Our International business is performing well and we remain on track to achieve our International margin targets in 2013.
Overall our operating results remain solid and in line with our expectations.
Revenue and adjusted OIBDA grew 2% on a constant dollar basis.
As noted in previous calls sharp declines in recycled paper prices are constraining our operating gains this year.
In Q2 lower year-on-year paper prices reduced revenues by $11 million.
Excluding these impacts adjusted OIBDA was up 7% on a comparable basis in Q2 reflecting continued storage gains and benefits from International margin expansion and overhead cost controls.
On a reported basis FX changes also constrained reported results.
Excluding these macro factors underlying business trends were consistent with prior quarters.
Storage revenues continue to grow steadily and hybrid service gains are offsetting soft core service activity levels.
We remain on track to achieve our full year financial goals and we're reiterating our underlying revenue and adjusted OIBDA outlook for the full year 2012.
We're maintaining a consistent outlook for constant dollar revenue growth while lowering our projections for reported results by $15 million at midpoint to reflect current FX rates.
Our adjusted OIBDA free cash flow and adjusted EPS ranges are unchanged from our previous outlook.
These estimates reflect our underlying operations and exclude costs associated with the Special Committee and REIT conversion.
We'll be tracking these costs separately as we work through the conversion process.
Let's now turn to Slide 4 and review our financial results in more detail.
Slide 4 compares our operating results for this quarter to the second quarter of 2011.
Please note that we'll be referring to our operating results throughout this presentation.
Operating results exclude costs and other expenditures associated with the 2011 proxy contest the Special Committee and REIT conversion costs.
In Q2 2012 we incurred $3 million of costs related to the Special Committee work compared to about $10 million of costs related to the proxy contest in Q2 of 2011.
We're excluding these items which are expected to be significant over the next several quarters in order to better present the underlying performance of the business.
The primary line items that will be impacted are adjusted OIBDA adjusted EPS CapEx and free cash flow.
For your information slides reconciling operating results to our reported results for key metrics are included in the appendix.
As noted Q2 operating results were solid and in line with our expectations reflecting consistent business trends.
Enterprise revenue growth was 2% on a constant dollar basis with reported results pressured by unfavorable foreign exchange rate changes.
Overall revenue performance reflected strong constant dollar storage growth -- revenue growth of 6% which more than offset the impact of lower recycled paper revenues which reduced total revenue growth by 1.5%.
From a segment perspective North America posted constant currency revenue growth of minus 1% as consistent 2% storage internal growth was offset by a 6% decline in service revenues including the impact of lower paper prices.
Excluding paper price changes North American service growth was down modestly.
Gains in project and data protection revenues and benefits from fuel surcharges offset decreased core service activity levels and lower revenues from shredding and fulfillment services.
Our International segment posted 8% constant currency revenue growth supported by 13% storage growth reflecting sustained gains in Europe continued double-digit growth in Latin America and Asia Pacific and benefits from our recently completed acquisition in Brazil.
These gains were again augmented by strong hybrid service revenues which offset impacts from lower paper prices and lower revenues from product sales and shredding services.
Gross profit was $439 million in Q2 yielding a gross margin of 58.4% down 110 basis points compared to the same prior-year period.
Storage gross margins increased 100 basis points reflecting lower occupancy costs.
Service gross margins were down year-on-year due to decreased recycled paper revenues the previously disclosed reclassification of certain overhead expenses to costs of sales and the growth of relatively lower-margin businesses including our hybrid services.
Adjusted OIBDA was $239 million or 31.8% of revenues up 40 basis points compared to Q2 of 2011.
Strong performance in our International business and the benefits from corporate overhead cost initiatives more than offset negative impacts from lower paper prices.
Adjusted EPS for the quarter was $0.36 per share an increase of 9%.
The improvement was primarily due to fewer shares outstanding following substantial share repurchases in 2011.
Reported earnings per share of $0.24 includes $3 million of excluded items $10 million of other expense and the impact of a higher effective tax rate due to foreign currency losses and discrete tax items.
Our structural tax rate for the quarter was 40%.
Let's now take a closer look at our revenue growth on Slide 5.
Slide 5 shows the components building to our overall revenue growth.
Q2 and year-to-date growth is trending consistent with our full year expectations by a major service line.
As noted constant dollar growth was 2% in Q2 driven by strong storage gains.
Storage internal growth remained solid at 4%.
North America reported consistent 2% internal storage growth and International storage internal growth remains strong at 8%.
Net global Records Management volume was up more than 1% on a year-on-year basis in Q2 reflecting continued strong gains in International offsetting a modest year-on-year decline in North America.
Pricing trends remain consistent with a 2% net increase in North American Records Management.
Total service internal growth was minus 5% or down about 2% excluding impacts from commodity changes.
These results were also consistent with underlying trends in recent quarters.
Core service internal growth was minus 3% in the quarter as growth in the hybrid services and benefits from fuel surcharges offset lower shredding service revenues and moderate declines in activity-based core services.
Complimentary service revenues representing about 11% of total revenues decreased 12% internally.
Results were driven entirely by $11 million decline in recycled paper revenues as expected.
The impact in Q2 was greater than the impact in Q1 as 2012 paper prices have remained fairly stable against sharply rising prices in the first half of 2011.
Assuming paper prices remain stable for the balance of the year the gap should widen in third quarter before reversing itself in the last couple of months of the year.
Let's now take a look at our year-to-date results on Slide 6.
Slide 6 looks at our year-to-date 2012 operating performance compared to the first half of 2011.
Our year-to-date performance reflects consistent business trends.
Reported revenue of $1.5 billion is up 1% on a constant dollar basis as continued solid storage gains offset impacts from lower recycled paper prices and soft core service activity.
Lower paper prices and the SG&amp;A reclass discussed earlier contributed to a modest decline in gross margins.
Despite these impacts adjusted OIBDA grew 2% year-over-year on a constant dollar basis slightly ahead of revenue growth.
Strong International profit performance and corporate overhead cost initiatives are key factors in this improvement.
We expect these factors to continue to support profit performance as we move forward.
Adjusted EPS was $0.67 per share up 8% for the year-to-date.
EPS benefited from about 15% fewer shares outstanding more than offsetting higher interest costs incurred to support our $1.2 billion shareholder payout program that we completed earlier this year.
2012 capital spending is $76 million excluding $11 million of acquired real estate.
As a percentage of revenues CapEx excluding real estate is 5.1% in line with prior year levels.
Capital expenditures historically increased in the second half of the year.
We're currently on track to achieve our capital spending efficiency targets in 2012.
Free cash flow for the first half of 2012 was $117 million compared to $149 million for the first half of 2011.
The decrease is primarily due to higher interest expense in support of our shareholder payout program and higher cash incentive compensation payments related to 2011 performance.
These results exclude year-to-date costs of $5 million in 2012 and $14 million in 2011 associated with the REIT conversion Special Committee and prior year proxy costs.
These year-to-date costs reduced 2012 reported EPS by $0.02 and free cash flow by about $3 million.
Through the end of Q2 we've not made any capital expenditures or incremental tax payments related to the REIT conversion.
We expect to make these types of payments in the second half of this year.
I'll have more to say on this in the Outlook section of the presentation.
Let's now turn to Slide 7 to review our results by segment.
Slide 7 shows key year-to-date metrics for each of our 3 key segments compared to the same period in 2011.
Consistent with our 3-year plan we're sustaining high returns in our North American segment while continuing to build momentum in our International segment as a significant driver of profit and cash flow gains.
North America continues to deliver high profits and strong cash flows.
In the first half of 2012 our North America business segment reported revenues of $1.1 billion supported by consistent 2% storage revenue gains.
Overall North America growth was constrained by the impact of lower recycled paper prices.
Despite these impacts we sustained adjusted OIBDA margins of 42%.
We also continued to achieve capital efficiencies with spending at about 4% of revenues excluding real estate.
These metrics support very strong cash generation from this business.
Our International segment continues to post solid constant dollar revenue growth and strong adjusted OIBDA and cash flow gains.
As noted adjusted OIBDA increased 15% excluding FX impacts yielding 180 basis points of margin expansion.
We're benefiting from cost improvement initiatives in Western European markets and strong profit performance in Latin America.
Benefits from these initiatives and from continued solid growth across our International portfolio has us on track towards our business plan goals of 25% margins in 2013.
Corporate expenses improved slightly compared with prior-year levels due to overhead cost control initiatives.
Overall we continue to drive solid operating performance across our portfolio.
Let's now take a look at our debt statistics on Slide 8.
Strong consistent cash flow generation has enabled us to maintain a strong balance sheet.
We're currently operating with a consolidated leverage ratio of 3.5x comfortably within our target 3 to 4x leverage range.
Our leverage ratio will likely increase over the next few quarters as we make expenditures in connection with the REIT conversion process.
We remain well positioned in terms of cash and financing capacity.
At quarter end liquidity was more than $600 million with $170 million in cash and $455 million in additional borrowing capacity.
Our debt portfolio at June 30 2012 also remains long and fixed.
Our weighted average interest rate was down to 6.6% and we were nearly 80% fixed at quarter end.
Maturity is about 6 years with no meaningful repayment obligations until 2014.
During the second quarter we paid $43 million in regular quarterly dividends at a rate of $0.25 per share.
In June the board increased the dividend rate by 8% to $0.27 per share.
We're managing our balance sheet and cash flows consistent with our strategy and we're well positioned to fund our business plan.
That concludes our review of Q2 2012 results.
Overall we continue to drive solid financial performance and we're on track to achieve our goals in 2012.
Let's now turn to Slide 9 to review our full year outlook.
Slide 9 summarizes our current 2012 operating outlook.
The chart also highlights our expected expenditures related to the ongoing REIT conversion process.
Today we're reiterating our constant dollar revenue growth guidance and our projections for adjusted OIBDA adjusted EPS and free cash flow.
We are lowering the midpoint of our revenue projections by $15 million to reflect current FX rates which weakened relative to the U.S.
dollar since our last call.
We're projecting 2012 reported revenues to be in the range of $2 990 000 000 to $3 040 000 000 at current FX rates reflecting consistent 2% to 4% constant dollar growth excluding the impact of lower paper prices.
We're maintaining our outlook for adjusted OIBDA to be in the range of $890 million to $930 million on an operating basis.
Adjusted EPS for 2012 is expected to be in the range of $1.20 to $1.36 unchanged for the prior outlook.
The calculation of adjusted EPS assumes a 40% structural tax rate and 172 million shares outstanding.
We now expect capital expenditures for the year to be approximately $225 million including an estimated $30 million for real estate.
The increase reflects a real estate lease buyout opportunity we recently took advantage of in Ireland.
Our outlook for operating free cash flow continues to be in the range of $320 million to $360 million.
As highlighted in a recent announcement of our intent to pursue conversion to a REIT we anticipate significant one-time operating capital costs associated with the conversion.
Total operating expense and capital costs are estimated to be between $100 million to $150 million with the majority deployed over the next 2 to 3 years.
These costs relate to substantial system investments legal and tax work advisory fees and other miscellaneous costs to implement the proposed structure.
This effort is under way and we'll be breaking out and reporting on estimated impacts as we advance the process.
For 2012 in addition to the operating expense expectations discussed above we expect to incur between $10 million to $20 million of incremental expense $10 million of CapEx and about $80 million in additional taxes related to the depreciation recapture in connection with the REIT conversion.
The impact of these items will be a reduction in adjusted EPS of $0.03 to $0.07 and free cash flow of $95 million to $105 million.
The current full year outlook does not include any projected impact from potential 2012 distribution of earnings and profits in connection with the conversion.
A slide laying out our outlook for line items below adjusted OIBDA is included in the appendix.
That concludes our review.
In summary Q2 was another quarter of solid financial performance and we're on track to achieve our financial goals for 2012.
We continue to execute against our 3-year plan sustaining high profits and cash flow in North America and driving strong growth and higher returns in our International business.
And we're also advancing working connection with the REIT conversion process as long -- as part of our long-term approach to drive value creation for our stockholders.
Thanks and we'd now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Gary Bisbee with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question just on Europe your commentary on the International segment was positive.
But how should we think about the impact of what seems like it's been pretty evident deterioration over the last few months in the economic activity across the continent? Well as you know in our business on the way down we tend to lag.
On the way up we tend to lag.
And I think we probably are seeing that.
Storage remains strong and -- even in Europe and International in general.
And I think storage will hold up okay if not do fine through this.
Service we saw softness.
Just as we saw it come down in North America we saw it in this quarter.
It'll find a new good [ph] point when their economy settles and sort of stay there.
Whether we've hit that yet or not I don't know.
But net-net as I've said in my comments we've had some puts and takes.
We've had some strengths and other pieces and parts of things so overall our services are about flat if you take recycled paper out.
So on a global basis I think we're feeling all right.
I mean we're not projecting it going to rise don't get me wrong.
But I think we're feeling all right.
Research Division</strong> And -- but just on that lag comment so could things likely get worse next year? And I guess is there any risk to the margin target for International?  Or do you think you've got a pretty conservative case built into how you're thinking about it? Well I don't think we have a conservative case.
But I think we can deliver it yes.
The margin improvement is really driven by things in our control...
Yes it's mostly stuff we can control.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just any update on how you're thinking about the succession plan for the CEO role? Yes I'm trying to get out.
No look we're -- it's a very methodical process.
And we -- and look the board is working quite hard and being pretty methodical about it.
But look the truth is I'm not putting the feet to the fire.
I started down this path to help the company get a line around a strategy which I think we've done really well the business has.
And part of that strategy was the capital allocation strategy.
As I've said we've done our year of homework and we've come out the other end with a direction and now we go about executing.
I'm not running from the completion of that.
So it's a matter of finding the right person when we find him at the right time and until we do I'll stay here and try to help the team get this stuff across the goal line.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one cleanup one.
Can you give us a sense how much you spent on all these acquisitions in the quarter? And was the revenue contribution material or were they all pretty small deals? It's roughly $90 million in the quarter -- I'm sorry $98 million.
The bulk of that was Brazil and the Swiss buyout.
This year we won't see a lot of profit flow through just because the integration cost in Brazil will offset some of the benefit.
But it'll be nicely accretive for us as we head into 2013.
And by the way the -- not always but the nature of the kinds of acquisitions we would likely do international will be the kind of things where you buy now and it will take you 12-plus months to really see the synergy because we're not typically buying new footprint.
There will be some rare exceptions to that statement.
But we already did the heavy lifting of putting the footprint in place.
Now we're really try to buy major fold-in tuck-in.
And the big fold-in tuck-ins take a little time to do right and continue growing fast and maintain and so forth.
So we're taking our time on those.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Steinerman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's Andrew.
I want to ask a question about the slide that goes through global volume trends.
I would have thought given the storage growth being at 4% kind of a nice accelerated level that we haven't been at for a while that chart that you have in the slide decks would also show acceleration.
Could you go through the differences between what that slide is trying to portray and how it ties back to storage internal growth? And so the slide actually is a -- it takes quarterly performance and annualizes it Andrew.
And so it's because we're trying to break it out across these key metrics that we found that that's the easiest way to show it.
And that compares to when we talk about that growth we're talking about year-over-year volume.
So it's slightly different.
I think the key theme here is more consistency than change in terms of the trends.
If you look at the storage growth in the quarter it rounded to 4%.
It was a little -- it was 3.5% actually.
And we've been in that 3% range for the last -- since I think it's 7 8 quarters now.
Some of the benefit was -- improvement was related to customer acquisition activity in International just in terms of as you know kind of the old [indiscernible] terminology that we use when we acquire customers from other businesses customer relationships we had some of that flow-through from a timing of...
And Andrew I think you sort of said it's just a good strong quarter how do we portraying? Look we're positive about the business in the economy we operate in.
It's a crappy world out there okay? But we're not suggesting -- in fact I am cautioning that you don't take a strong storage quarter and try to project it forward that we're going to stay at these levels.
I don't believe we will.
I think we'll move up and down.
We'll see this level again I'm not saying that okay? But it might not be next quarter or the quarter after.
I think we're going to be hovering around the 3% 3-ish range give or take 3.5% 2.75% hovering around there.
And they round the different numbers as you know.
We'll be hovering around those ranges.
And I think we can do that very well and so forth but we're not talking about major acceleration here.
Your next question comes from the line of George Tong with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> I just want to get some color on your acquisitions in Hungary Switzerland and Turkey.
How did the acquisitions position you from a market share perspective and when can you expect to achieve market leadership in those countries? In Hungary it was a nice bolt-in and we already had market leadership there.
It was just good economics.
Switzerland we've got leadership in everything except Geneva.
And Turkey we are a strong #2.
Research Division</strong> Got it that's very helpful.
And could you give us a sense of how -- just globally how activity-based core services performed and how much hybrid services contributed to growth? [indiscernible] while I look [ph].
Yes I was thinking -- hybrid services were a -- were up solidly on a global basis.
It wasn't -- it was probably a point or so of contribution net to our overall service growth.
And that helped to moderate the -- basically helped to offset the continued moderate decline we've seen in service levels in places like the U.S.
And as Richard noted I think the International...
Some acceleration in the International.
International was not -- International had been growing quite well and we saw that moderate somewhat.
So that could be a leading indicator.
And as you know we fully expect that our hybrid business as it gets bigger and it's still growing well will overcome other declines in the physical business.
I'm not calling that turn yet but this quarter that pretty much happened.
But again I wouldn't say it's for sure it's going to happen next quarter or the one after.
Still a little early to tell that we're drawing the lines yet guys.
Research Division</strong> And then last question.
You touched on this earlier but could you give us a sense of how the volatility in Europe is impacting core and complementary services? I know you're on track to achieving the margin expectations but do you see any negative impact and deceleration in growth due to that? We haven't for the last -- in terms of our business overall I think it's held out very well.
And I think the team [ph] feels good about the ability to sustain that.
We are highlighting at the margin we're seeing some deceleration level of growth in the service activity.
But I would say the theme is more that we're holding up quite well.
And I think we're going to plan the business prudently and make sure we're managing appropriately in an environment that could get softer for us.
But I think it's more -- at this stage more at the margin and something that we're keeping an eye on.
Yes and look I'd tell you sort of the key theme if you look at our total growth and so forth is our Shredding businesses although they're growing on units and everything else we see some price compression.
So a good part of that.
It used to be -- it still is a very aggressive price market.
Although in general at the Street that has modified itself a bit as paper prices have come down which is what you'd expect.
We are still rolling off some rather large multi-year agreements that were priced in a different market environment and as they roll off they get repriced.
We'll -- that will run off but the tail of that's coming and it'll run off and so forth.
But our -- but the Shredding business between that dynamic and the -- and of course the paper prices themselves is as much a drag on total revenue as anything so forth.
Your next question comes from the line of Thomas Allen with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Following up on your comments on paper prices.
We've heard that expectation in the market is that prices should actually gradually improve over the course of the year.
Are you hearing the same and any additional color there? We've heard conflicting data.
Some people say they believe at the demand level it's strengthening at the front-line demand level it's strengthening.
That would naturally lead to some increase and others say not.
So we don't have an opinion on that right now.
But look North America may strengthen while Europe doesn't.
Some of this will be about where China goes because a lot of this recycled paper winds up in China.
And their economy -- you guys know better than I do the changes going on over there.
So I think it's a little early to make a call.
There's a bit of seasonality in the business where the pricing goes down a bit in the back half of the year normally.
We've seen sort of modest improvement on the sorted office paper rate.
So we'll -- it's gotten relatively better but this does get tied into the overall demand situation.
So right now we're -- the numbers that we're using basically reflect the debt that [indiscernible] will sustain.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on your global records management slide it looks like you had the lowest level of destructions in the past 10 quarters.
Anything going on there? We did see -- it's a little different geographically.
But actually in Europe we've seen a decline in some of the destruction levels.
These things tend to move around a fair bit where you have some larger destructions that people may be planning and you work through them.
And so there is some volatility in that but we've seen some contraction there that's helping...
And by the way the Europe destruction pattern is behaving the way the business historically always behaved except for the 2007 '08 financial crisis period which is in slowdowns people delay destructions because they're protecting their current year budget.
So as the storage pickup -- storage charge rental pickup for destroying the item is not as large as the -- in the current period as large as the destruction fee and they try to protect their budget.
And I suspect that's what we're seeing there now.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then if I could fit one more in.
You bought the controlling interests in your Turkish and Swiss JVs this quarter.
Were the acquisitions related to the REIT conversion at all? I mean are you going to maybe accelerate kind of converting JVs into company-owned quicker because of the REIT conversion? No no.
The JVs themselves by and large the ones we have right now are in kind of the emerging markets strong extreme emerging market front.
And -- which means they would be late in our cycle of REIT conversion as in not this year or next or the year after.
Over due course of time we would want to deal with those sort of things.
But we're not going to be pushed into doing that.
We're starting with what makes sense from a strategic point of view a value-creation point of view and then we'll factor in how to think about the REIT more as the tail on that kind of consideration.
So these are good strategic investments that we'd be doing regardless of the path we're pursuing as a company.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin McVeigh with Macquarie.
Brian can you remind us on the core services side just round numbers what percentage is kind of related to the destruction and other type services just to kind of get a sense of the contributions to that revenue line item? It's a smaller part so I'm going to find it.
But 5% we're seeing.
So it's -- we have a long list of services that we provide there in core services the bigger items are things like transportation activity.
But destruction services contribute to that.
Overall the core services are a little north of 30% of total revenues.
Got it.
And then in terms of timing on the distribution of the equity is that something Richard we can talk about now? Or just any sense of -- I know the IRS is in the process of the private letter ruling.
But just any sense of timing around when we can expect any update on that? Well our view hasn't changed from what we've said in early June.
And that view is that we would strongly consider but we haven't 100% committed to but strongly consider doing a major E&amp;P purge sometime during this year.
I think you would expect it towards the back end of the year.
And there's a lot of mechanics to actually making that work since it would be a combination of cash and stock.
But we're moving forward on that front as all others.
That decision in itself does not depend upon the necessarily the private letter ruling in fact.
Understood that's helpful.
And then are we going to have an Investor Day this year? Is that back on or...
Yes we are -- we had hoped to have the precise date.
We don't yet.
We're nailing down the venue and we -- but we will have an Investor Day in October in New York City.
And within a couple of days we expect to have out the invitation with the exact date and time and so forth.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Wittmann with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> First I wanted to start off with a couple of technical questions.
Just Brian on the $10 million to $20 million of cost that you're experiencing this year did you say that that was outside of the $100 million to $150 million that you previously talked about in the June conference call? Sorry if we confused on that.
No it's a subset of that so it's within the $100 million $150 million.
We expect to incur $10 million to $20 million of OpEx this year and about $10 million of capital.
The $100 million to $150 million is both the OpEx and capital.
I think our estimates were -- was like 60% capital which is largely the systems and 40% OpEx.
But we'll be breaking this out for you as we go and actually we'll start adding some tracking relative to the overall estimates for you as well so it's very clear how we're...
And it will -- and that will get spread beyond January 1 2014 because there's -- it's a strategy to get ourselves to the point where we can legally convert and operate.
But it won't be as pretty as it likely -- we'd like it to be by that date and we will continue working beyond that.
So those expenses will flow on beyond that.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
Just in terms of that process now that the team has been kind of assembled and started off on this path Richard just kind of curious.
I mean obviously very complex.
Can you just give us any positive or negative surprises that may have arisen that couldn't -- that could help or hinder your ability to hit that January 2014 date? No I don't -- look I -- we've gone to the detailed planning.
I think we have 20-odd work streams all running in parallel.
We've got program managers project managers.
We've really gotten it organized as just as a massive kind of project.
But look the tall pole on the tent so to speak is in the systems arena.
And it's primarily in the arena of -- we actually have to change our charter of accounts for our entire accounting system and in many ways update some technology and/or convert technology particularly some of the global platforms.
And some of that we made two-step because it's too much risk to do one-step.
And when you're doing that much technology change to be candid with you our goal is to have all those systems operating mid-next year to give us 6 months of working out the kinks and making sure nothing happens.
And our head -- our Chief Information Officer is sweating a lot right now.
He and his team are doing good work and they'll get it done.
And so no we're not -- this is not something that I lay awake at night worrying about.
But then again I don't do this kind of execution.
Brian does it and his team and Jeff and [indiscernible] those guys do it.
And they're sweating a bit and complaining to me not go off and do anything else but that's not my nature either.
To your question no surprises.
We thought it was a lot of work and that's turning out to be true.
And we'll -- we've got a really good team working on it and committed to getting this done.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the -- just thinking about the capital base and some of the capital needs that you have this year Richard can you kind of just update our thinking? It sounds like you mentioned the $600 million of liquidity that you have today.
That would be I guess all of your cash and all of your credit facility.
Can you talk about kind of what you're seeing out in the market to maybe fund any hole that you might have in the capital base to do the E&amp;P in some of these other investments? What I -- we have discussed it's likely we're going to go to the market at some point to help fund that and we'll update you as we move forward on that.
But we will likely want to put some more kind of financing in place...
Yes and our sense is the market environment is quite good right now.
Research Division</strong> When you -- you mentioned in your comments here that your guidance does not impact any -- or does not reflect any impact of the E&amp;P distribution.
Is that really the financing terms of that E&amp;P distribution? Is there any other impact that it would have to your P&amp;L or is it the cost? It would include the -- obviously there is a cash outflow.
But keep in mind too if we did  a majority of our E&amp;P distribution this year which is -- which has been our plan that we signal.
There would be a number of shares that are issued right that go along with it.
So we...
Per-share metrics would change your interest cost would change and so forth.
It effectively works like a stock split.
But we haven't plugged any of that into the outlook and we'll obviously get you more details as we firm up plans there.
Your next question comes from the line of Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifel Nicolas.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just to piggyback a little bit on the last line of questioning.
Just to be clear you're thinking of funding -- you're going to fund the gap with debt not equity right? Yes that would be our current intention recognizing that we're going to do likely 80% of it in issuance of the stock yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The question is in order to get into the REIT structure the whole that you have in terms of the capital that's going to require you to raise capital.
You're planning to do that with a debt offering or more bank debt but it is not going back to the markets for an equity offer.
Correct.
We don't need equity.
We don't need equity.
And I'm never going to say we won't go to the markets for equity.
You tell me the price and I'll tell you if we'll go.
But as we sit here today we don't perceive going to the markets.
It's not in my -- our thinking at the moment for equity.
I would tell you though just to be clear just to close out that subject for you a little bit.
As we do M&amp;A we may use some equity and transactions to the extent that the deals are highly accretive to our shareholders okay? We might do something like that.
But that's not going to be major it's not going to be big numbers.
Yes.
And as we talked in our announcement over time we think it will make sense to operate at lower level -- leverage levels.
And so equity may be part of our future plans but it's not a requirement for us to get into the structure.
We're well positioned to get to -- to fund that conversion.
Your last question comes from the line of Nate Brochmann with William Blair &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> I mean one of the things obviously -- I mean I know the economy hasn't been helpful in this in terms of the service revenues always consistently being a pain in your side every quarter.
Is there any light at the end of the tunnel in terms of what turns that around or in terms of just finally reaching such easy comps that it doesn't get any worse? Well I think we're seeing that's an area of North America.
And the decline rates are slowing okay? And it'll drift in the right space there.
And it's hard to know what -- where Europe is going I mean quite candidly.
But Europe does not -- we don't have quite the risk profile in Europe.
Our business there is much less active in the physical side because we don't have a big medical business.
And still the #1 driver of that decline is a health care trend.
It's not the economy.
The economy is the second driver of that decline.
And which is primarily in North America an issue totally.
So the fact that we don't have the big driver in healthcare will mean it's not going to impact us that much.
It's likely be on the margin kind of stuff.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just one quick question too in -- part of the margin improvement in North America you've mentioned in the press release the lower occupancy cost.
Is that because you're already starting to consolidate some facilities there?  Or is it just lower lease cost and lower property values et cetera? We're always working to optimize the utilization our network.
We have improved that a bit.
And I think that's reflective of the work that we're doing on that front as well as utility cost.
I think we're down a bit as well in the quarter.
But it does reflect the work that we're doing to optimize the real estate.
So thank you very much for giving us this hour.
We appreciate your support and so forth.
As we did mention earlier we will be out.
There's 1 more -- 1 or 2 more conferences we'll be at.
We'll be at the Barclays Conference in a few weeks in New York.
Next week they're telling me.
I got to look at my calendar more carefully I guess.
But we are driving towards an Investor Day in October and we'll be out shortly with a precise date and location so hopefully you can put it in your calendar.
We would expect at that Investor Day to talk quite a bit about what we see forward finishing out our 3-year plan.
I think we've started about 18 months ago making sure you see that we're on track there.
We'll expect to be talking a little bit about how we're going to build a more durable business.
Hopefully give you -- likely give you some access to some of the key managers that are doing it.
And then of course we will be talking not about the REIT process because we'll be in the middle of it.
We won't know anything and if we did we wouldn't tell you anyway.
We will be talking about though what Iron Mountain might look like as a REIT a bit more than we have and so forth.
So I think you'll hopefully find that a useful time to come and spend a morning or so with us.
Again thank you and we hope you will all have a good summer.
And we'll see you later.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Christy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to Iron Mountain's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to turn the call over to Vice President of Investor Relations Stephen Golden.
Please go ahead Sir.
Thank you and welcome everyone to our 2012 third quarter earnings conference call.
We're all hoping that those of you impacted by the recent impact of Sandy came through it safely and we're glad you could join us today.
Joining me this morning are Richard Reese our Chairman and CEO and Brian McKeon our CFO and after their prepared remarks we'll open up the phones for Q&amp;A.
I'd like to take this opportunity to thank everybody for joining us in New York a few weeks back for our Annual Investor Day event.
We had a great turnout and I think the day was a great success.
Again we truly appreciate your interest and your support.
Per our custom we have a user-controlled slide presentation at the Investor Relations page of our website at www.ironmountain.com.
Referring now to Slide 2 of our presentation.
Today's earnings call and slide presentation will contain a number of forward-looking statements most notably our outlook for our 2012 financial performance.
All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to today's press release the Safe Harbor language on this slide and our most recently filed annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of the major risk factors that could cause our actual results to be materially different from those contemplated in our forward-looking statements.
As you know we use several non-GAAP measures when presenting our financial results.
Adjusted OIBDA adjusted EPS and free cash flow before acquisitions and investments among others are metrics we speak to frequently and ones we believe to be important in evaluating our overall financial performance.
We provide additional information and the reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the appropriate GAAP measures as required by Reg G at the Investor Relations page of our website as well as in today's press release.
Please note that we have updated the definitions of adjusted OIBDA adjusted EPS and free cash flow to exclude certain costs and expenditures related to our 2011 proxy contest the work of the strategic review Special Committee of our board and our proposed conversion to a REIT.
With that I'd like to introduce our Chairman and CEO Richard Reese.
Good morning Stephen and thank you everybody and welcome to our call.
I'd like to repeat Stephen's comments to those of you who may have suffered through Hurricane Sandy.
It was a massive storm up on the East Coast.
We have large operations and quite a large facility footprint in that area.
So we know what you all went through.
I am happy to report that Iron Mountain did not suffer any significant facility damage and so forth from the hurricane and we've weathered that storm quite well given its impact around us and so forth.
We are however having some operating challenges primarily related to local access.
There are places where we still can't get into our facilities on a regular basis.
We've been able to inspect and make sure things are fine but it has mostly to do with control of local access and I'm sure that will clear itself up in due course.
We also because of the impact on our customers particularly in Manhattan would expect to see some noise in our Q4 service revenues.
There'll be some impact.
It's a little early to quantify but we don't expect it will impact storage or any of the real fundamentals of our business for the quarter.
So I hope you all are well.
We are busy making sure our customers are taken care of and quite frankly through our foundation making sure any of our employees that are impacted are taken care of and that's a key part of our agenda at the moment.
Let's look back at the quarter.
You'll see that we had good operating results but we've had some noise or we call macro factors in our numbers.
We are telling you and we do expect that for the full year we'll be -- hit our full year targets.
We think the business is running quite well and we'll go through it.
I would expect the call frankly to be relatively brief today as we've just had our recent Investor Day.
We appreciate the many of you that attended.
We had a great turnout and I think a good conversation and we appreciate your feedback and your input and hopefully we did a good job of communicating to you where we are and where we're headed as a company.
As I said operating results for the quarter were on target and in line with our expectation.
Reported revenues at $748 million were down 2.6% on a reported basis compared to last year primarily driven by the impacts of lower paper prices and unfavorable FX.
Lower recycled paper prices in our shredding business as well as destroying records from our storage business reduced our overall revenue growth by 1.5 percentage points versus the same quarter.
And this is the same trend we saw last quarter.
Last quarter and this quarter we're in our toughest comps.
As you remember we started to see recycled paper prices really come off hard coming into this year but last year they were at all-time highs.
So you have sort of the 2 worst comparisons.
This trend will get better with time on a comparison basis and in fact will be some -- we think somewhat better in Q4 as we lap it but going into next year these issues should go away.
FX reduced reported revenue growth rates by about 2%.
The storage rental which you all know hopefully you did hear the message at ID and you've heard for years is the key driver of our business remained on track at 4% in constant dollar terms.
North America's on track with their historical trends and International continued to generate solid strong double-digit growth.
The annuity rental revenue stream that we value so highly remains durable and still operates in the sort of 3% to 5% constant dollar range that we've been doing for some time.
Service revenues continued its pattern this quarter was down 6%.
Lower recycled paper prices drove more than half of that which I just spoke about.
The other weakness in routine services the patterns remained consistent and there were no really changes in those trends.
And in addition we saw a little softness in Europe primarily in the U.K.
and primarily driven around the 2 back-to-back Olympics that they had there and the congestion and traffic.
And frankly customer impact of them going solid for quite an extended period and we have a large business there and we saw some impact from that.
And again all that should rebound fine.
We sustained OIBDA -- adjusted OIBDA margins despite the service headwinds and despite the lower paper prices -- and I should remind you that recycled paper is a 100% margin.
So when it comes off as it did it came off reasonably hard holding margins for the whole company is a bit of a struggle and it takes a lot of good execution.
The team did a great job.
We had programs in place and we've been working quite a while consistently on corporate and divisional overhead and we continue to execute those programs.
And the team did well and that's how we were able to make that happen.
Plus we were realizing and recording benefits from the International margin expansion program that we've been talking to you about.
In fact International is performing well and on track with their 3-year margin expansion goals.
In Q4 we're going to actually allow them to -- since they've got -- their plans are working as they expect and they've got extra execution capacity we're going to accelerate some investments into Q4.
Brian will give you a little more details related to facility consolidations to improve our facility network utilization and frankly will derive future benefits and we'll take an expense that we might have waited a while to take into the future and accelerate it into this quarter take advantage of the execution opportunities and accelerate the realization of those benefits.
The acquisitions which were a key part of our International growth strategy particularly in the emerging markets are on track in terms of integration and so far they're proceeding well and we're finding no surprises.
International remains on track towards their roughly 25% margin target in 2013.
So as I said the business is running as we expected it would.
We're still dealing with some extraneous noise factors in paper and FX but the fundamentals of the business are running fine and we're about executing the business and continue to drive it forward.
At Investor Day we discussed several themes and I don't want to repeat 4 5 hours of our discussion but I'll give you just a brief discussion for those who weren't there and make sure that you understand the things we really were talking about.
And first is is our focus on storage rental revenue which is the driver of the business.
And we store boxes of paper and tapes and a variety of other things and it's out of that that drives the majority of the revenue the majority of the gross margin and profits and free cash flow of the business.
We derive that from a global real estate network that's substantial in size of over 64 million square feet of real estate of which we own nearly 40%.
We lease the balance.
And it's nearly 1 000 -- 994 is we should say properties spread across 32 countries.
And as we've talked about at I-Day one of the things we see as an advantage of and an offshoot of assuming a successful REIT conversion that we have an opportunity to leverage our cost of capital and financing to really reorient slowly our balance sheet over time to tune our weighted average cost of capital by the acquisition of a significant number -- additional number of these leased facilities where we would change from a lease financing type of debt to a third-party type of debt in order to reduce our cost of debt.
And that's one of the things we've talked about there as a benefit of moving forward towards a REIT.
As you know we decided to pursue a REIT structure after divesting our additional services business a couple of years ago and we did that.
But given our heavy real estate ownership and focus on storage we felt after a lot of analysis and a lot of deep work that a REIT approach is something that of course we looked at before but at this point in our strategy we felt that it aligned with our business strategy.
And part of that opportunity was getting out of the digital services business that sort of changed our perspective on the ability to make that work.
And part of it was that as we got out of the digital services business we really refocused our business back on our core storage.
And that focus had been lost for a while as we were chasing the digital business and we're starting to see the advantages.
It's a slow turn of a battleship.
The business didn't go negative.
It just didn't grow as well as it could have and we're starting to see that battleship's turning and we think the business has got a good solid future and we'll continue to grow it and continue to evolve a very strong high cash-generating storage business.
And therefore the REIT approach aligns with this real estate driven business and aligns with the capital allocation strategy that we set forth which is invest and enhance the long durability the long-term durability of the storage business but also to return excess free cash flow or excess capital back to our shareholders.
And we've shifted our strategy in that vein.
You've seen us increase our normal dividend flow and our dividend flow over time.
And of course the REIT structure is a more disciplined approach that requires more discipline.
Nothing comes for free and nothing comes easy.
But requires more discipline in distribution of cash to the shareholders result in a much higher dividend rate result in certain other requirements to pay those dividends in that nothing comes free.
But as we looked at our business plan and we looked at the capital allocation strategy and we looked at our models for the future we think we found a balanced approach and a way to make it work and be good for everybody.
So we continue to pursue that strategy.
As you know and at our Investor Day or the morning of our Investor Day on October 11 we announced an E&amp;P distribution.
That is a pre-requisite requirement for becoming a REIT but I want to stress that -- the fact that we announced that E&amp;P distribution early -- first it's something we told you some time ago we plan to do and second is not any indication that we have any information about the probability of success of being -- getting a private letter ruling from the IRS.
We're not giving any signals whatsoever except that we're following through on our commitment that we have made some time ago and that commitment was founded in the basic capital allocation strategy we put forth.
And we had told you that we were going to  dividend out or buy in stock and distribute a significant amount of our excess capital.
And we feel like that doing the E&amp;P distribution although it is in the path of becoming a REIT and a requirement of becoming a REIT it also fits in with our capital allocation strategy.
So even if we're not successful as we told you before we would go forward with that distribution and we are in the process of doing that.
There have been some questions of people about the mechanics.
So I want to go through it with you a little bit because you have a choice or a decision to make and absent a decision the default position and I just want to make sure everybody understands what your options are.
The distribution we announced was $700 million to be distributed on November 21.
The record date was October 22.
This was designed and intended to be an ordinary and qualified dividend and not intended to be a return of capital from a tax or accounting perspective.
We intend to pay 80% of it in stock and 20% in cash.
And you as our investors have an election and you should be looking out for mailings or notifications or whoever is controlling your securities but you have to make an election to determine the ultimate split.
So shareholders of record should have received that election materials by now.
There's also an 8-K filed with the relevant information and it's available on our website for the details.
But a little bit about the election.
You can choose to receive all cash or all stock.
You can't choose a mix in between.
So it's option a all cash; option b all stock.
And the value of the shares to be distributed will be determined based on the closing prices of the 3 days following November 14.
Investors who don't vote or don't get their votes in by 5 p.m.
on November 14 by default will receive all stock.
Investors who choose stock will receive all stock.
Investors who choose cash will receive a pro rata share of the available pool of cash that is $140 million based on the overall election results.
So it's important if you want all stock you don't have to do anything.
If you want a pro rata amount of cash you have to make an election that says all cash.
We will complete the balance of the E&amp;P -- well before I get to that I hope everybody understands that you have to make a decision unless you want all stock.
I think it boils down to that.
So look out for the technicalities.
Reach out to your brokers for the individuals involved in the call and so forth and make sure that you make a conscious decision.
Look at the 8-K.
Look at our website.
Make yourself an educated consumer here so -- as you make a conscious decision.
After this assuming we get a successful opinion and letter ruling from the IRS and that is an assumption we will complete the E&amp;P -- an E&amp;P distribution but we have to distribute all of our E&amp;P up through the end of 2013 sometime during 2014 assuming we're successful.
There will not be an E&amp;P distribution or there's not expected to be one in 2013.
After 2014 there would likely be some additional small E&amp;P distributions as we integrate more of our International operations into the QRS TRS structure of being a REIT but they will be relatively small and would come in over the next couple of years.
So I hope that this clarifies any questions that would come around about what your choices are and your options are and I hope that you understand the actions that you need to take.
When we get to the Q&amp;A in a little while we'll obviously try to answer other questions if you have some.
Another question we've been receiving is since the E&amp;P distribution the stock portion effectively operates like a stock split except that you do get high basis stock.
And that is a position that I find many shareholders still have trouble wrapping their brain around.
That high basis stock has an extreme value to you and you can convert that anytime you want it to cash.
But assuming that -- you know on a share count basis it operates like a split and that's the way the stock traded.
The question we've come into is will we hold our dividend rate -- our quarterly dividend that we've been distributing will we hold the dividend rate the same or will we adjust it downward by -- because of the increased number of shares.
And although we have not made -- the board has not voted and it is their choice and their decision on what the next quarterly dividend will be and they will not do that until our regularly scheduled meeting in December management expects to recommended that the board maintain the current dividend on a per share basis.
Assuming that the board adopts management's position this would amount to an increase of nearly 10% in the dividend payout the amount of cash being paid out over our current levels and given the issuance of that much more new shares.
This is all in keeping with our capital allocation policy.
We've been very clear and that policy's in place REIT or no REIT.
And we're continuing to move down that path and frankly we're in a dual path here of pursuing a REIT and trying to be successful there.
But if we're not successful there we're on a path of distributing a significant amount of free cash flow to our shareholders.
And either way we will make that work.
So that's where we are.
A good operated quarter not a lot to talk about.
Be happy to take your questions in a minute.
Let me turn it over to Brian and then we'll come back.
Thanks Richard and good morning everyone.
Slide 3 highlights the key messages from today's review.
We delivered solid operating performance in Q3 supported by durable storage rental growth.
Our profit results are on track and continue to be supported by International margin gains and benefits from overhead cost controls.
Storage rental grew 3 -- grew 4% on a constant dollar basis in Q3 reflecting consistent gains in North America and 12% growth in International including benefits from our recently completed acquisitions in Brazil and Europe.
Overall business trends were consistent with continued impacts from pressure on activity-based services.
Reported results were constrained as expected by significantly lower recycled paper prices and weakened foreign currencies.
Recycled paper prices were down 37% year-on-year reducing revenues and profits by $11 million in the quarter.
The year-on-year impact of lower paper prices will lessen in Q4 as we begin to lap the sharp price decline that began in Q4 of 2011.
Unfavorable FX changes reduced growth rates by about 2%.
Excluding these macro factors revenue and adjusted OIBDA grew 1% and 2% respectively on a constant dollar basis.
Good performance in the quarter is keeping us on track to achieve our full year financial goals.
As we head into the fourth quarter we're narrowing our full year guidance ranges.
We're reiterating our adjusted OIBDA midpoint.
We're also pulling in the top end of our revenue range to reflect year-to-date performance and current FX and paper pricing levels.
I'll speak more to these and other refinements to our year end outlook later in my remarks.
Let's now turn to Slide 4 and review our financial results in more detail.
Slide 4 compares our results for this quarter to the third quarter of 2011.
As noted Q3 results were constrained by recycled paper and FX impacts.
Lower year-on-year paper pricing reduced revenue growth by 1.5% and adjusted OIBDA growth by 4.4%.
Weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S.
dollar reduced reported growth rates by an additional 2%.
Excluding these impacts our underlying operating performance was solid reflecting consistent business trends.
Enterprise revenue growth was flat on a constant dollar basis.
C$ storage revenue growth of 4% was offset by a 6% C$ decline in service revenues with about half of the service decline related to lower paper pricing.
From a segment perspective North America posted constant currency revenue growth of minus 3%.
Storage rental grew 1.5% constant dollar but as expected these gains were offset by pressures on service revenues.
Overall North American service revenues declined 9.5% constant dollar in the quarter.
Excluding paper price changes North American service growth was down 6% constant dollar.
Gains in DMS revenues were offset by decreased core service activity levels and lower revenues from fuel surcharges shredding and fulfillment services.
Our International segment posted 8% constant dollar revenue growth supported by 12% storage rental growth.
These results reflect sustained growth in Europe continued double-digit gains in Latin America and Asia Pacific and benefits from our recently completed acquisitions in Brazil and Switzerland.
These gains were augmented by strong DMS service and project revenues which offset impacts from lower paper prices and lower revenues from shredding services and other activity-based services in some of our mature markets.
Gross profit was $438 million in Q3 yielding a gross margin of 58.5% down 160 basis points compared to the same prior-year period.
Storage gross margins increased 110 basis points reflecting lower occupancy costs and personal property taxes.
Service gross margins were down year-over-year due to decreased recycled paper revenues and a mix shift away from higher margin core services towards relatively lower margin businesses including DMS.
The previously disclosed reclassification of certain overhead expenses to cost of sales was also a contributing factor.
We continue to offset pressure from factors such as lower paper pricing to maintain strong adjusted OIBDA margins.
Adjusted OIBDA was $244 million or 32.6% of revenues in Q3.
Higher storage rental gross profits strong performance in our International business and benefits from overhead cost initiatives offset negative impacts from lower paper prices and lower service activity.
Adjusted EPS for the quarter was $0.34 per share compared to $0.40 in Q3 of 2011.
The decrease was primarily due to lower adjusted OIBDA higher DNA due to -- primarily to acquisitions and increased interest expense related to our recent debt financing transactions in support of shareholder payouts and the REIT conversion.
These impacts more than offset the benefits of fewer shares outstanding following our substantial share repurchases in 2011.
Adjusted OIBDA and adjusted EPS exclude the impact of costs associated with the REIT conversion Special Committee and prior-year proxy costs of $11 million in 2012 and $1 million in 2011.
These costs reduced 2012 reported EPS by $0.04 per share.
By definition these items have been excluded from our calculations of adjusted OIBDA adjusted EPS and free cash flow.
Reported earnings per share of $0.31 includes $11 million of REIT costs $8 million of other expense and the impact of a higher effective tax rate due to foreign currency losses and discrete tax items.
Our structural tax rate for the quarter was 41%.
Let's now take a closer look at our revenue growth on Slide 5.
Slide 5 shows the components building to our overall revenue growth.
Q3 and year-to-date growth rates are trending in line with our full year expectations by major revenue type.
In terms of C$ growth storage rental remains on track towards our 4% full year C$ growth outlook.
Overall C$ growth was down slightly in Q3 impacted by lower recycled paper pricing and continued pressures on activity-based services.
As noted we worked through our toughest comparisons on the recycled paper front and we remain on track for full year C$ growth in the range of 0% to 2%.
In terms of components building to overall growth storage rental internal growth at 2.4% was in line with our expectations.
The storage rental business remains durable and on track towards our full-year goals.
Net global records management volume was up nearly 2% on a year-on-year basis in Q3.
International storage rental growth was 5% -- storage internal revenue growth was 5% for the quarter reflecting sustained double-digit growth in Latin America and Asia Pac.
International storage rental growth moderated somewhat from very strong Q2 levels reflecting recent softness in Europe.
North America reported 1.5% internal storage rental growth with consistent pricing trends in the 1.5% to 2% range.
Overall North America volume has remained relatively flat over the last several quarters.
We saw a modest year-on-year decline in North American volume in Q3 as we were up against our toughest quarterly comparison but we remain on track towards 2% storage rental growth and sustained volume this year.
Storage service internal growth was minus 8% or down 5% excluding impacts from commodity changes.
Core service internal growth was minus 4% in the quarter as growth in DMS services was more than offset by lower fuel surcharges and shredding service revenues and expected decline in activity-based core services.
Complementary service revenues representing about 11% of total revenues decreased 17% internally.
Results were driven primarily by an $11 million decline in recycled paper revenues similar to Q2.
Paper prices have recently come off their summer highs and are now at about $150 per ton.
Assuming they remain stable for the balance of the year the gap should narrow as we begin to lap the steep decline that started in Q4 of 2011.
As noted FX rate changes had a 2% negative impact which pressured reported results.
Let's now take a look at our year-to-date results on Slide 6.
Slide 6 looks at our year-to-date 2012 performance compared to 2011.
Our year-to-date performance reflects consistent business trends.
Reported revenue of $2.2 billion is up 1% on a constant dollar basis as continued solid storage gains offset impacts from lower recycled paper prices and soft core service activity.
Lower paper prices and the SG&amp;A re-class discussed previously have lead to a modest decline in gross margins.
Despite these impacts adjusted OIBDA is flat year-over-year on a constant dollar basis.
Strong International profit performance and overhead cost initiatives are key factors in this improvement.
We expect these factors to continue to support profit performance as we move forward.
Adjusted EPS is $0.99 per share down 2% year-to-date.
Lower adjusted OIBDA higher DNA and interest expense offset the benefits from fewer shares outstanding.
2012 capital spending is $114 million excluding $23 million of acquired real estate and $3 million of REIT conversion CapEx.
As a percent of revenues CapEx excluding real estate is 5.1% in line with prior year levels.
Capital expenditures historically increase in the second half of the year.
We remain on track to achieve our capital spending efficiency targets in 2012.
Free cash flow through Q3 was $209 million compared to $315 million for the first 3 quarters of 2011.
The decrease is due primarily to higher cash taxes compared to low 2011 levels higher interest expense in support of our shareholder payout program and the lapping of lower cash incentive compensation payments in 2011.
We remain on track towards our full year free cash flow targets as well.
The adjusted OIBDA and adjusted EPS here exclude year-to-date costs associated with the REIT conversion Special Committee and prior year proxy costs which were $16 million in 2012 and $15 million in 2011.
These year-to-date costs reduced 2012 reported EPS by $0.06.
In addition to the $3 million of REIT-related CapEx I just discussed we paid $36 million in taxes towards our DNA recapture liability.
All told these items would reduce free cash flow by about $49 million year-to-date.
We've included a slide outlining the actual and expected REIT costs and related expenditures in the appendix to this presentation.
Let's now turn to Slide 7 to review our results by segment.
Slide 7 shows key year-to-date metrics for each of our 3 segments compared to the same period in 2011.
Consistent with our business strategy we're sustaining higher returns in our North American segment while continuing to build momentum in our International segment as a significant driver of profit and cash flow gains.
North America continues to deliver high profits and strong cash flows.
Year-to-date our North American business segment reported revenues of $1.7 billion supported by consistent 2% C$ storage rental gains.
Despite the impacts of lower recycled paper prices we sustained adjusted OIBDA margins of 42%.
We're also sustaining capital efficiencies while spending at 4% of revenues excluding real estate.
Our International segment continues to post solid constant dollar revenue growth and strong adjusted OIBDA and cash flow gains.
Adjusted OIBDA increased 14% on a C$ basis.
We're benefiting from cost improvement initiatives in Western European markets and strong profit performance in Asia Pac.
International adjusted OIBDA margins expanded 150 basis points.
Benefits from productivity initiatives and from continued solid growth across our International portfolio has us on track towards our business plan goals of approximately 25% margins in 2013.
As Richard mentioned we're tracking to our International margin improvement plan and we've decided to accelerate certain building moves in London.
This would result in about $6 million of additional expense in Q4 that will drive future benefits and won't interfere with our 3-year margin expansion goals.
Finally corporate expenses declined 7% compared with prior year levels reflecting benefits from overhead cost control initiatives.
Overall we continue to drive strong operating performance across our portfolio.
Let's now take a look at our debt statistics on Slide 8.
Strong consistent cash flow generation has enabled us to maintain a sound balance sheet.
We're currently operating with a consolidated leverage ratio of 3.6x comfortably within our target at 3 to 4x leverage range.
As we discussed at Investor Day our leverage ratio will increase as we make shareholder payouts and expenditures in connection with the REIT conversion process.
In anticipation of these cash outlays we completed a very successful bond offering in August.
We sold $1 billion of 5 3/4% bonds due in 2024.
This was the lowest interest rate for a debt offering of our credit rating in the history of the high-yield market.
We used the net proceeds to retire $320 million of 6 5/8% bonds and $200 million of 8 3/4% bonds and to pay down our line of credit.
As a result we're well-positioned in terms of cash and financing capacity.
At quarter end liquidity was $1.1 billion with $335 million in cash and $722 million in additional borrowing capacity.
Our debt portfolio also remains long and fixed.
Our weighted average interest rate is down at 6.5% and we're nearly 87% fixed at quarter end.
Maturity is about 7.6 years with no meaningful repayment obligations until 2014.
Our strong cash flows support continued advancement of our shareholder payout strategy.
During the third quarter we paid $46 million in regular quarterly dividends at a rate of $0.27 per share.
As part of our planned conversion to a REIT earlier this month we announced that the first portion of our E&amp;P purge will be paid out in November.
We'll be distributing $700 million to our shareholders using up to $140 million in cash and the balance in stock.
This will result in our issuing about 17 million new shares based on current share prices.
As Richard mentioned management expects to recommend that the board at its regularly scheduled meeting in December maintain the $0.27 per share rate rather than reduce it based on the new higher numbers of share outstanding -- shares outstanding.
This will result in an increase to our dividend payout levels of nearly 10% over current levels.
We're managing our balance sheet consistent with our strategy while advancing substantial payouts to shareholders and we remain well-positioned to fund our business plan.
That concludes our review of Q3 2012 results.
Overall we continue to drive solid financial performance and we're on track to achieve our goals in 2012.
Let's now turn to Slide 9 to review our 2012 full year outlook.
Slide 9 summarizes our current 2012 operating outlook.
Today we're reiterating our midpoint projection for adjusted OIBDA while tightening the range by $20 million.
We're also lowering the top end of our revenue projections by $20 million to reflect year-to-date results and current FX and recycled paper levels.
We're projecting 2012 reported revenues to be in the range of $2 990 000 000 to $3 020 000 000 or 1% to 3% C$ growth excluding the impact of lower paper prices.
We're maintaining our outlook for adjusted OIBDA while narrowing the range to be between $900 million to $920 million on an operating basis.
This outlook includes about $10 million of costs related to real estate transactions that will support increased network utilization.
We also expect to incur severance costs related to select organizational changes in Q4.
Adjusted EPS for 2012 is now expected to be in the range of $1.20 to $1.28.
In addition to the narrowing of the adjusted OIBDA range we've updated the adjusted EPS range to reflect increased interest due to our recent financing.
The calculation of adjusted EPS assumes a 40% structural rate and 172 million shares outstanding.
Assuming we issue about 17 million shares to pay for -- to pay a portion of the E&amp;P purge our weighted average shares outstanding for the full year will increase about 2 million shares and adjusted EPS will be reduced by about $0.01 per share.
We now expect capital expenditures for the year to be approximately $245 million including an estimated $50 million for real estate.
As noted on Investor Day the increase reflects a real estate lease buyout opportunity we're taking advantage of in North America.
Our outlook for our operating free cash flow continues to be in the range of $320 million to $360 million.
As highlighted in our announcement to pursue conversion to a REIT we intend to pay significant one-time operating and capital costs associated with the conversion.
Total operating expense and capital costs are estimated to be between $100 million to $150 million with the majority deployed over the next 2 years.
These costs relate to substantial system investments legal and tax work advisory fees and other miscellaneous costs to implement the proposed structure.
The effort's underway and we'll be breaking out and reporting on estimated impacts as we advance the process.
For 2012 in addition to the operating expectations discussed above we expect to incur between $25 million and $30 million of incremental expense $10 million in CapEx and to pay about $80 million in additional taxes related to the depreciation recapture in connection with the REIT conversion.
The impact of these items will be a reduction in reported EPS of about $0.09 to $0.10 per share and a use of cash between $105 million and $108 million.
As noted the slides laying out our outlook for line items below adjusted OIBDA as well as the related items are included in the appendix.
That concludes our review.
In summary Q3 was another quarter of good financial performance and we're on track to achieve our financial goals for 2012.
We continue to execute against our 3-year plan sustaining high profits and cash flow in North America while driving stronger growth and higher returns in our International business and we continue to advance work in connection with the REIT conversion as part of our long-term approach to enhance value for shareholders.
Thanks and we'd now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of James Samford with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> The impact of Sandy I believe you've said that some potential impact to services.
Can you provide just a little bit of history on your geographic concentration in the tri-state area and the sort of prior natural disaster impacts that might have impacted your business.
Oh we have significant facilities in that area.
I couldn't tell you how many off the top of my head on how many square feet but it's significant.
You can assume that Metro New York New Jersey is one of our largest if not largest market geographically.
Historically we've had other natural disasters.
We've been through a bunch.
This one's a pretty big one it looks like.
It's a little early to tell the impact on customers.
But you'll see a wiggle what we'd call a wiggle in the revenue.
Storage doesn't get impacted.
It might get delayed by a week or 2 coming in but that's not a significant impact.
What happens is is service will decline.
Your transportation and retrieval/refile activity will decline.
That type of service I'm just trying to parse in my head real quick is not a major part of our service line of revenue.
So I would -- net-net it's a few million dollars I'm guessing right now but it's not $100 million.
It's not even $50 million.
I bet it's not $10 million.
It's a few million dollars that we'll see.
But we kind of keep track of everything so we just wanted to let you know that's happening.
Just like the London Olympics.
You can see the difference on a year-over-year comparison the thing's so steady.
Research Division</strong> And I guess just a quick -- I assume your 2013 outlook is still sort of on track at this point that you provided at Analyst Day? Yes we just -- all this will be -- I don't like -- or I guess I do like to call it noise I call it noise a lot.
It's noise but it just explains why things move a little bit here and there.
But yes we don't see any change in the trajectory of the business.
Yes I'd just say on the service front to Richard's point it's early to tell.
It will be more at the margin.
I think right now we don't have a good sense of how long the delays might be in place so that's...
As we spoke I just got an e-mail telling me that one of our high-activity facilities New York New Jersey area we just got into it as in to be able to be up and running delivering services.
We've been into it but not been able to deliver services.
So it looks like it's back online at these facilities.
Now we'll have to wait and see whether our customers are online and so forth.
Your next question comes from the line of George Tong with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Could you tell us what your outlook is in services demand x paper prices and when you might see a re-acceleration in the activity-based services and what might drive that? Well I don't know that we -- well there's 2 components to the activity-based services.
One the big driver down still is our healthcare business which we have said constantly is a business that frankly slowly is going away.
Not the business itself.
It's changing its nature.
It's becoming a much less active storage business.
And so the activity which that is our most activity vertical segment is coming way off.
The storage side of the business is growing nicely but the activity side is coming off.
That trend will continue slowly for quite a while okay? And then you have activity clients related to just all data getting less active.
That's also a slower -- that's also a slow trend.
And then third you have economic activity declines and we talked a lot about this in Investor Day.
It's hard to parse which percentage.
I mean we know what's going on in the healthcare which is a big part of it.
But add it all up you're talking $15 million to $20 million headwind in terms of total services on an annual basis.
And I think if we had good robust economies and as we weed through some of this that might come down by 1/3 or somewhere like that.
That's a guess though.
That's not a precise answer.
Research Division</strong> Right got it.
And you mentioned extra execution capability driving the accelerated investments in the fourth quarter.
Could you provide additional details on where the investments are going and what benefits or returns you're expecting to realize from the investments? Yes so we'll have -- as I have noted George we've got about $10 million of real estate transactions in the fourth quarter.
The biggest one is we're consolidating volume in London.
We have excess capacity and we're going to close a facility.
That's about a $6 million impact.
We've got some investments in the U.S.
as well.
We're consolidating volume at an existing -- we have an existing lease facility that we're going to move out of and take a charge there.
And we've got some investments going around just in terms of upgrading facilities as well.
And net-net -- that's factored into our outlook.
We're counting on that next year but those will have benefits in terms of reduced rental costs going into next year.
So I think Richard's point on the international front was the team's been executing extremely well.
We feel very good about the -- getting to our 2013 goals and I think we've got some ability here to move things forward.
Good return activity forward and faster and we're going to take advantage of that.
I mean the team's basically and we've done this before they've come to us and they said "Look we -- our plans for this year are pretty cooked and they're operating and the margins are flowing and so forth." And if we will relieve them on a reported basis from -- let them have some more expense in Q4 on a reported basis they'll accelerate and get at more and so those are good decisions and so we said "Sure let's do it." Your next question comes from the line of Nate Brochmann with William Blair &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I want to just have just a follow-up on that question a little bit and something that we talked about at Investor Day.
But obviously is you guys kind of cull through your portfolio of real estate and converting some leases to maybe purchase facilities et cetera and maybe some consolidation.
How far are you through that process of really looking at that portfolio and how much value might there to be unlocked as kind of we go forward through that process? Well I think we're -- to a degree we've had a level of activity going on for a long time right? Building consolidations are a normal part of what we do and so that work continues.
I think the opportunity we highlighted at Investor Day was we have basically a $2.5 billion universe in potential investment opportunity between buying out leases and investing.
And the real estate and expansion markets kind of a probability-based view on that.
We put out an estimate of $1 billion deployment perhaps over a long period of time and...
And buying in an existing lease facility is not to be confused with moving out and consolidating an inventory.
They're really kind of separate transactions okay? If we're consolidating inventory we're typically either moving out of an owned building and selling the building or moving out of a lease and taking a charge because the present value of where we're going justifies that investment.
Those are separate decisions.
We would tend to buy-in buildings buy-in leases where we have high-quality buildings good real estate and where the cost of financing it in an acquired mode is cheaper than the cost of the lease that we have.
And oftentimes that occurs at a lease renewal cycle or when landlords want to get some liquidity out of their portfolio and so on a negotiated basis.
So one way to look at is if we got $1 billion you'd say the majority of that is lease buyouts.
If we've got a cap rate of 8% on average on leases if we can finance at a lower rate directly that will be a net benefit to us.
So that might give you a sense of kind of the net annualized benefit we could realize over time from the financing side of that.
And we'll continue to increase our network utilization through other activities like building those as Richard talking about.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then second question.
We talked a little bit on the services in terms of some of the headwinds and also kind of the shredding services being down a little bit.
Is competition getting a little bit hotter in that in terms of at least here in Chicago we see some more competitors and some more trucks around? Is that a big concern or is that just on the periphery? Well the competition is always a concern because of -- and sure the shredding business has some large players and a lot a lot a lot of small players and it's a reasonably easy-entry business for the small players.
But our shredding services the bend [ph] tips and the number stops and all the activities are up and continue to grow quite nicely but what we're suffering is -- we're suffering 2 things: some price decline which is competitive-market driven but a lot driven off of a rollover of some very large enterprise accounts quite some years ago in a different market environment and which we then are repricing themselves or getting repriced to current markets.
But the big driver is the paper itself.
I mean the paper is a key driver of revenue and profitability in that business and it's gone from an all-time high to not quite an all-time low but a much lower number.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Steinerman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> [Audio Gap] growth I know you said it was in line with expectations but it was different than the second quarter rate.
Could you just go over those differences again? You went through them quickly.
And do you think that the fourth quarter storage growth will be similar to the third? Andrew we missed the very beginning of your question.
Was your question about storage growth? Research Division</strong> Yes so my question is about the internal growth of 2.4% in storage which you noted was in line with your expectations but it was different than the 4% in the second quarter.
Could you just go over those differences? And do you feel like the fourth quarter storage growth internally will be similar to the third? So the differences -- we had a very good Q2.
The International number came down from 7% to 5% and that was primarily just reduction from mid-double-digit growth in Latin America to 12%-ish type growth.
It was -- we had very good rates.
It was just a bit lower.
And we did see some -- we had a very good Q2 in Europe and that's came back down to more normalized levels I'd argue.
And there's seasonality in the storage side of the business which lends itself to the first half of the year versus the second half of the year.
North America as I mentioned was down a bit.
It was 1.5 versus 2.
And that it really is just kind of the quarter-to-quarter year-over-year comparisons.
We were up against the kind of volume built through Q3 of last year and came down a bit early this year.
But net-net it's been really quite flat.
We would expect to see some of those compares be a bit better in Q4.
So we're comfortable we're on track to the 4% full year number and the 3% internal number we've been talking about.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But there's not a lot of difference when you talk about the fourth quarter storage internal growth rate than the third quarter no other things to call out? No more similar than different which is typical in our business.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Bisbee with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> [Audio Gap] on that and dig in a bit into the North American storage.
It sounds like the business is flat x pricing and I guess that's been the recent trend not just this quarter.
But what's baked into that mid-term view or the -- was it through 2016 view that you gave at the Investor Day? Is that a continuation of flat North American volumes? And how confident are you that there's not a -- that we're not going to actually see the volume start to decline a bit? Well we -- just going back to Investor Day we talked about the longer-term outlook being 1% to 3% including a 1.5% to 2% pricing.
So that it is basically flat volume with revenue growth primarily coming from pricing.
And our churn has been stable in North America what's flowing out.
The incoming volume has come down moderately in terms of new sales and organic growth from customers but we can augment that through additional activities as well as through things like tuck-in acquisitions or customer acquisitions.
And we feel quite confident that we can -- it's a very slow change and that we can offset that through good return investments that keep the volume flowing in.
So we're...
And I think -- look there's no guarantee about the future in anything but if you look forward -- look where we are today look forward versus look back that you'll see significantly more focus of resources asset organization towards driving storage.
And that's in marketing programs sales programs compensation programs.
Everybody is aligned around this agenda and that was not true looking backwards and so -- and it will have benefits.
Research Division</strong> And then just following on that and I'm not trying to give you a hard time but the thought process around buying in a lot of real estate if it sounds like we're at a situation were flat is the expectation how do you think about the decision to buy properties in North America if it's really not growing? I mean would you buy them in markets where you'd have the ability to consolidate another facility into it if it shrinks? It seems to me the math isn't quite so obvious if there's the potential for weaker volumes.
Sure.
No look it's a local market -- it's not a local market decision it's a local market analysis.
If you were to -- and you do run the models of what if the business shrank over the next 50 years and so forth what's your last building standing what's your next-to-last building standing and so forth and so on and those are the obvious ones you want to buy.
Okay? And you run your portfolio that way.
You also recognize that if you were in a declining situation you're probably better off to own the real estate so you can have more flexibility of reselling it into the open market than you would be committed to a long lease.
So you increase the flexibility of your portfolio but we're not talking about -- relative to the size of our portfolio we're not talking about buying in that many of the buildings over time okay to make that issue a serious issue.
And the last and certainly not least is that we would likely deploy -- I don't know if I'd say a disproportion amount disproportion amount relative to the size of the business for sure in emerging markets where the real estate arbitrage is much much higher.
The cost of debt capital the cost of lease capital so to speak and financing in emerging markets is in line with venture capital returns and we would likely deploy a significant amount in places like that.
And I use kind of over and over the example that we've now gone outside of São Paulo Brazil and bought 10 acres of land and we're going to build a campus there because we can drive very very much better economics and we've got a very good growing business there.
And a lot of facilities we can -- on leases we can get out of that we can consolidate out of into.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one clean-up one.
What exactly are the organizational changes in the severance? Is that any -- is that a material number or you're just cleaning a few things up? It's in the range of $5 million to $7 million in Q4 and we've got a few different things going on but basically we're -- it's part of ongoing productivity-based initiatives we're looking at where we can be more efficient in the company and that's what it's related to.
So it's more than one activity.
They're smaller in terms of their individual scope but net-net we do expect a fair bit of severance cost to pull through Q4.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Schneeberger with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> You guys were discussing the weather impact from Sandy and addressing some of the short-term issues it could have on service.
Is there a potential for a positive impact longer-term perhaps? And with I would imagine very elevated insurance claims is that something that could show up in 2013? Well I think if we -- I think it's too early to call that.
It's -- net-net I don't think that will be a net benefit to us.
It's just too early to call.
Look I think the only -- generally speaking the only positive that comes out of these kind of messes are is -- is in certain customers will have heightened awareness around the quality of their own operations and where they're storing things and what they're doing and be more open to making a change and then there will likely be a few customers who have a bloody mess after this and we may get called in to help fix it which we do from time to time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just -- it was covered fairly well at the Investor Day but could you address Richard the main verticals financial services healthcare legal for instance just what you see for the intermediate-term outlook the next 12 to 18 months? In what respect? Research Division</strong> Just anything that would deviate from how they've been trending particularly healthcare over the next year or so.
Well let's take healthcare.
What we see in healthcare is a consistent trend.
We see actually good great opportunity inside the healthcare space as they computerize their health records and so forth.
They don't get rid of the paper records for lots of real reasons good reasons.
So we see lots of storage opportunity in the space.
We see lots of -- some hybrid or digital scanning opportunities and things like that.
I don't know if we see a trend but they're kind of in the middle of that and they've got some years of work.
The trend is the bigger hospitals started a long time ago and the bigger healthcare systems and the smaller ones are still working through it trying to figure out how to do it.
Financial services what you see there is -- I mean you know it's an industry that's under pressure and they push that pressure back at their vendors and we see a lot of that.
We see their activity rates have been down since 2007 and '08 come back slightly.
Which is the same thing you guys see in the capital markets okay? If we get robust markets and robust trading and robust everything else I'm sure their activities -- everybody will be smiling better and their activities will be up and so forth.
So I'd say you would see us -- whatever your outlook is for a given vertical in terms of their economic activity you will see that'll flow through to us and you'll see that the service sides respond faster and the storage respond slower.
There's a lag there.
Your next question comes from the line of Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you just comment a little bit on Slide 12 where it looks like there's an increase in both organic additions and destructions? Can you provide any color as to what's going on kind of on a sequential basis? Just finding the slide Shlomo sorry.
And you're looking at the outgoing volume on Slide 12? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes it looks like there was a step up both in outgoing volume and in organic additions and I just wanted to know if there's any color you could provide behind that.
You do see there's some seasonality in numbers.
I think sometimes it's important to look at Q3 to Q3 levels.
I think what you see in the organic additions is they're relatively stable.
And on the outgoing volume Q3 to Q3 is actually down a bit and are now calling -- you typically have some fluctuation quarter-to-quarter.
It's driven -- and many times larger events can cause quarter-to-quarterly fluctuation.
I think overall if you look at where Q2 and Q3 are they're actually down from where they were the prior 3 quarters and so -- it's one of the reasons we talk about the compares year-on-year is we knew we had some increase in the outgoing volume a little earlier in the year and that stabilized down so we have a tougher compare in Q3 but that should be sequentially a bit better as we get into Q4.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> What seasonality is there in this business? Can you just give us from a practical standpoint why there's a seasonality in 3Q? What is behind it if that's indeed what this chart is saying in your view? Seasonality in the business is more related -- you'll see a higher growth of storage in the first couple of quarters because people are cleaning out last year's records.
That's the biggest trend you see in terms of gross adds gross additions coming in.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the corporate it seems like you guys are taking costs down in the OIB and that's positively impacting OIBDA.
Can you talk about some of the items that happened that affected the quarter on a sequential basis? On corporate costs Shlomo? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
It's flow-through benefits of -- we had a number of initiatives we started advancing really late last year around looking at our support cost areas and trying to make sure they're well-aligned with good customer service but also being as efficient as we can be and we're seeing the flow-through benefits of that.
So it's across a number of functional areas.
It's something that we expect to continue to do on an ongoing basis and I think what you're seeing more than anything is given when we advance those initiatives we're starting to see the flow-through benefits of those year-on-year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the lower revenue from fuel surcharges is this just index-based stuff that you just had lower charges so you had lower -- lower fuel so lower surcharges? Yes surcharges were down.
Fuel prices have been down a bit and they were down about $1 million year-on-year in the quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last question I have is this the first time you've had back-to-back quarters of sequential down volumes in North America? So we had last quarter you noted it on the Analyst Day as well but is this kind of a historical period? Or is this something that has really been happening over the last few years just it's so close to 0 that you haven't really called it out? It's been basically flat.
We're -- if you look at the volumes and how they've trended over the last several quarters it's been up a bit down slightly but basically flat and we're expecting flat this year so it's -- I would say the headline in storage is flat in North America.
Research Division</strong> I'm not talking about revenue.
I'm talking about volumes.
I am too.
Storage volume is flat.
Down a bit because of the compare of Q3 to Q3 and that reflects just some of the ebbing and flowing of volume coming in now.
But as we go forward we expect it to be flat.
That's where we'll be this year.
So that's really the broader theme is it's relatively flat.
Your final question comes from the line of Kevin McVeigh with Macquarie.
Apologize if you answered this already but the components of the core services I know part of that's fuel part of it is just healthcare activity overall.
Can you just bracket in kind of round numbers what drove the decline there and how you're thinking about healthcare in particular? Richard I know that continues to be an area that -- on the service side that's been a little slower just how we're thinking about that going forward? Well I think -- we're thinking that healthcare is going to continue to decline and roughly come down to -- over quite a period of time to about half of what it used to be.
And it's got few more years before it will get itself to that level I think.
And I think the rest of it is more -- the bigger part of the rest of it is more economic activity.
So it depends on the economies what comes to on there I think.
So thank you everybody for coming this morning.
We do try to keep to at least an hour and I started off extending it short.
I've always misjudged that so I apologize to you.
I know you have other calls to get to.
Thanks for coming to Investor Day and we look forward to continue to communicate with you and we'll talk to you next quarter.
That does conclude today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Bonnie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Iron Mountain Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Call Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Melissa Marsden SVP of IR.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Bonnie and welcome everyone to our fourth quarter and year-end 2012 earnings conference call.
As Bonnie noted I'm Melissa Marsden Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and I just joined the company's IR team a few weeks ago.
This morning we'll hear from Bill Meaney our new CEO who will discuss highlights and the early focus areas; followed by Brian McKeon our CFO who will cover financial results and guidance.
After their prepared remarks we'll open up the phones for Q&amp;A.
Per our custom we have a user-controlled slide presentation at the Investor Relations page of our website at www.ironmountain.com.
Referring now to Slide 2 today's earnings call and slide presentation will contain a number of forward-looking statements most notably our outlook for our 2013 financial performance.
All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to today's press release the Safe Harbor language on this slide and our most recently filed annual report on Form 10-K for a discussion of the major risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those in our forward-looking statements.
In addition we use several non-GAAP measures when presenting our financial results and the reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures as required by Reg G can also be found at the Investor Relations page of our website in addition to today's press release.
With that I'd like introduce our new CEO Bill Meaney.
Thank you Melissa.
It's great to be here today.
I've had the opportunity to meet with several of you since joining the company in January and I look forward to getting to know our investors and analysts over the coming months.
Before I get started I'd like to just take a minute to welcome Melissa Marsden to Iron Mountain.
Brian and his team have been working with Melissa as a consultant for some time and she officially joined us in her current capacity as Senior Vice President of Investor Relations earlier this year.
Melissa brings more than 25 years of Investor Relations experience across a range of industries and most recently she served as Managing Director of IR of ProLogis which as some of you probably know is the global leader the largest global industrial REIT where she was named the top REIT IR officer by Institutional Investor.
So we're very pleased to have Melissa here and the capabilities that she brings to our team as we work to expand Iron Mountain's investor base.
Now that is the introduction to Melissa.
Let me just kick off with a couple of comments on our performance and then Brian will cover the details in a few minutes.
Iron Mountain wrapped up another solid year with revenues of $3 billion and adjusted OIBDA of $912 million and adjusted earnings per share of $1.21 all in line with our expectations.
In the fourth quarter we continued to achieve strong constant dollar storage rental growth of 5% underscoring the long-term durability of our business and providing a sturdy foundation for our overall financial performance.
Our storage rental revenue growth reflected both healthy increases in our International business as well as steady growth in our North American business and offset a modest decline in our total service revenue which was driven mainly by lower recycled paper prices.
These stable fundamentals are what attracted me to Iron Mountain namely a track record of durable growth strong cash flow generation high return opportunities in the international market and a great franchise with a strong culture.
While many companies experienced wild swings in revenues as global economies peak and trough Iron Mountain has the unique ability to sustain its growth rate throughout business cycles due to the attractive underlying stability of our storage business.
I did my due diligence and I believe we can sustain the durability of the business through opportunities in both the mature and emerging markets as well as potential adjacencies.
Be assured that as we pursue these opportunities we will continue to view them through our capital allocation approach which focuses on maximizing cash flow generating strong returns and supporting the steady long-term growth of our core business.
My near-term focus upon joining the company is to spend a good deal of time with customers investors and our associates around the globe.
I came away with a sense of opportunity related to the significant amount of unvended records that remain in the mature markets in both private and public sectors.
One way in which we are addressing that is organizing our sales efforts into vertical segments such as health care financial services energy and government and a closer alignment between our sales and product management groups.
It's early in the process but we are pleased with the progress to date.
This sector focus and Iron Mountain's strong customer relationships should in time give us permission to handle more data in record management processes for our customers and provide some higher value-added services.
Additionally Iron Mountain has an internationally recognized brand yet only about 1/4 of our revenues today are generated outside North America.
Overall many of the emerging markets are still early in the records outsourcing process supporting our continued expansion in international markets which is a great fit with my background.
I spent the last 27 years running multinational businesses from outside the United States and I'm very comfortable with the process.
To be clear in my view -- in the view of Iron Mountain international expansion is not about putting pins in the map.
We will pursue entry into additional markets with an aggressive yet disciplined approach that is consistent with our focus on return on invested capital and where we can develop leadership positions over time.
We are on track to achieve our goal of 700 basis points of International margin improvement by the end of 2013.
Entering to new markets may flow further International margin expansion slightly in the early stages of market penetration but as we've demonstrated in the past once we achieve market leadership our International margins are very consistent with those of our developed markets.
Lastly we look to invest where we can leverage the brand and build off our strengths but in areas that are adjacent to or directly tied to our core operational expertise.
At Investor Day Richard Reese talked about the opportunity for wholesale data centers where we can provide the secure space and customers bring in their own technology.
He highlighted that we are already doing this in our underground data center operations where we're approaching a run rate of some USD 20 million in annual revenues with substantial space to further expand.
This is just one example of where customers came to us and asked for a specific product or service and we'll continue to look at additional opportunities consistent with our core business.
The combination of our durable leadership position in developed markets emerging market opportunities and close-in adjacency provide a very solid foundation.
I'm very confident in our ability to build on this position and to maintain steady stable growth and strong cash flow.
In short I think we've got a great base from which to continue to drive sustainable value.
Beyond the opportunities to sustain the durability of the business I was really attracted by the nature of the organization.
It's not often that one gets a chance to lead a company that has the kind of franchise that Iron Mountain does.
The strength of our brand and the depth of our customer relationships in my opinion are unparalleled.
The culture is refreshing and apolitical something that is exceedingly rare in a global company.
There is deep operational know-how what I like to call the secret sauce and its customers trust us with their critical documents and it's what enables us to innovate and discuss with our customers how we can do more to improve the efficiency of their records management.
There's also an overarching objective of driving returns through smart and disciplined capital allocation with a focus on long-term and sustainable growth.
Assuming that we are successful with the Private Letter Ruling or the PLR the REIT will complement our core strategy and provide further certainty in our investment focus resulting in a source of stable and growing shareholder returns.
Financially we will have the flexibility to fully support high-return investments to expand our network capacity pursuing tuck-in acquisitions and geographic expansion opportunities as well as acquiring real estate.
We'll also retain the flexibility within the REIT test to expand closely related service opportunities as well.
As we move through the PLL process -- with the PLR process with the IRS we are working hard to advance our preparedness to operate as a REIT.
We have invested heavily in people processes and systems to enable us to be ready for conversion at the beginning of next year and are targeting the third quarter to have our REIT-critical systems in place.
This aggressive timeline results in additional investment which Brian will review but this is the right time to invest to ensure we're dotting our Is and crossing our Ts.
We're making a significant investment but one that pales in comparison to the incremental shareholder value we expect to be able to deliver as a REIT.
As we continue to work on the REIT conversion we have been familiarizing ourselves with various REIT sectors and their characteristics.
In terms of the nature of our business we believe that Iron Mountain is most like the self-storage but with an important difference.
We are enterprise storage serving 94% of the Fortune 1 000 as opposed to consumer self-storage which has a very different credit profile.
In terms of other characteristics of the business I think we believe we compare favorably with an attractive cash flow characteristics low volatility and low risk.
For example in terms of cash flow we have a much higher annual rental revenue per square foot roughly 2x that of the self-storage sector where we're approximately $27 a square foot versus $13 to $14 for self-storage.
We also have similar low maintenance CapEx to self-storage at roughly 6% of our storage rental gross profit and we have similarly low tenant improvements required when a new customer moves in.
If we look at it in terms of volatility and comparing ourselves to the self-storage market we have a very stable storage rental growth of plus 4% to plus 7% versus self-storage which is ranged anywhere from minus 5% to plus 9% over the past several years.
We also have very high customer retention rates of 98% compared with only about 55% of self-storage customers who stay more than one year.
On top of that the average life of a box in our storage rental business as most of you know is about 15 years.
In terms of the risk profile of Iron Mountain's business versus the self-storage business we have a very high-quality diversified customer base serving 94% of the Fortune 1 000 and we have more than 155 000 customers globally whereas self-storage has retail or individual consumers as customers with variable credit quality.
So we look forward bringing you the specifics of these and other metrics as well as our thoughts on Iron Mountain's valuation as a REIT over the coming quarters.
In summary we are executing against our business strategy and are well positioned to deliver against our financial objectives in 2013.
Our storage rental business is strong.
We have meaningful growth opportunities available to us to extend the durable storage annuity and we are making good progress towards delivering the REIT.
Before I turn it over to Brian I'd like to take this opportunity to thank Richard Reese for his innumerable contributions to Iron Mountain.
Many of you have come to know his candid and thoughtful style and I believe the culture of the company is due to his influence and leadership over the past 30 years.
As we met with investors over the past month many of you expressed your thanks to Richard for his stewardship of the company and his willingness to return during a difficult phase in the company's history.
He will be missed and I have truly appreciated his insights in the short time that I've gotten to work with him here.
I know you'll all join me in thanking him and wishing him well.
With that I'd like to turn it over to Brian.
Thanks Bill.
Let's turn to Slide 3 which highlights the key messages from today's review.
We delivered solid operating performance in Q4 driven by consistent storage rental growth.
Storage rental grew 5% on a constant dollar basis in the quarter supported by consistent gains in North America and 12% growth in International including benefits from our 2012 acquisitions in Brazil and Europe.
Overall growth trends were similar with reported results constrained by lower service revenues.
As expected we saw about $3 million of negative impact from lower year-on-year recycled paper pricing however the impact was less than we've seen in recent quarters and we've worked through the lapping of the significant price declines that began in Q4 2011.
Adjusted OIBDA was in line with our full year guidance.
Our profit results continue to be supported by International margin gains.
As reviewed in our Q3 call we saw impacts in Q4 from costs associated with accelerated facility transactions and a realignment within our sales and account management organizations as well as from the true-up of accruals at year end.
Overall we finished the year on track with our expectations supported by solid storage growth strong International gains and continued efficiencies in capital investment.
Today we are reiterating our full year 2013 financial outlook for revenues adjusted OIBDA and free cash flow.
We're increasing our CapEx guidance to reflect the recent facility lease buyout and the relocation of our Boston headquarters that was announced after Investor Day.
Additionally we're updating our preliminary outlook for our REIT conversion costs to reflect a more informed view of the expenditures required to complete the project particularly with respect to the International convergence.
We're investing to ensure that we meet the January 1 2014 deadline including having our REIT-critical systems operating in third quarter of this year.
Let's move on to Slide 4 to review our financial results in more detail.
Slide 4 compares our results for this quarter to the fourth quarter of 2011.
As noted Q4 results were as expected supported by 5% constant dollar storage rental growth.
Enterprise revenues grew 2% on a constant dollar basis as our International segment continued to drive strong performance.
International posted 10% constant dollar revenue growth supported by 4% internal growth and benefits from our acquisitions in Brazil and Switzerland.
North America posted flat constant currency revenue growth as a lower service revenues offset 2% storage rental gains.
Foreign exchanges had a minimal impact in the quarter.
Gross profit was $420 million in Q4 yielding a gross margin of 55.4% down 210 basis points compared to the same prior year period.
Storage gross margin decreased 120 basis points reflecting costs related to accelerated facility transactions in the U.K.
and in the Southeastern United States.
And service gross margins were down year-over-year due to decreased recycled paper prices and impact from lower core service activities.
Mixed impacts from 2012 acquisitions were also a contributing factor.
Adjusted OIBDA was $207 million or 27.2% of revenues in Q4.
Our underlying profit performance remained solid supported by continued improvement in our International segment.
In Q4 this improvement was offset by the negative impacts from the costs associated with the facility transactions I just described the realignment within the sales and account management teams in North America the integration of our 2012 acquisitions and the impact of year-end cost accrual true-ups.
Lower paper prices and lower service activity were also contributing factors to year-on-year decline in adjusted OIBDA.
Adjusted EPS for the quarter was $0.20 per share compared to $0.33 in Q4 2011.
The decrease was primarily related to lower adjusted OIBDA and increased interest expense related to our recent debt financing transactions in support of shareholder payouts and the REIT conversion.
Adjusted OIBDA and adjusted EPS exclude the impact of costs associated with the REIT conversion.
These costs reduced 2012 reported EPS by $0.07 per share.
Reported earnings per share of $0.15 includes $18 million of REIT costs $6 million of losses in asset dispositions and $2 million of other expense.
These impacts were partially offset by the impact of a lower effective tax rate due to foreign currency losses and discrete tax items.
Our structural tax rate for the quarter was 40%.
Let's now take a closer look at our revenue growth on Slide 5.
Slide 5 shows the components building to our overall revenue growth.
Q4 and full year growth rates were in line with our full year expectations.
For the quarter constant dollar growth was solid at 2.5%.
Overall constant dollar growth for the year was at the midpoint of our 0% to 2% range including the impact of lower paper prices.
Excluding these effects constant dollar growth for the year was a solid 2%.
In Q4 storage rental grew 5% driven by consistent performance in North America and continued strong growth in our International segment.
North America reported 2.4% constant dollar storage rental growth reflecting relatively flat Records Management volume and consistent pricing trends in the 1.5% to 2% range with some additional benefit from solid data protection storage rental growth.
International storage rental constant dollar growth was 12% for the quarter reflecting sustained double-digit growth in Latin America and Asia-Pac and benefits from the 2012 acquisitions.
Total services decreased 1% as expected headwinds in North American activity-based services and lower paper prices more than offset solid DMS growth and benefits from our 2012 acquisitions.
Overall North America service revenues declined 4% in the quarter with 1% of that decline related to paper.
Gains in DMS revenues were offset by decreased core service activity levels and lower revenues from special projects and ancillary service lines including film and sound and fulfillment services.
The International segment posted 8% service growth supported by acquisitions.
In terms of components building to overall growth storage rental internal growth at 3.2% for the quarter showed an improvement as expected compared to Q3.
Net global Records Management volume was up 1.8% on a year-on-year basis.
Service internal growth was minus 2% and total revenue internal growth was roughly 1%.
Acquisitions and foreign exchange changes combined to add about 1.5 points to our reported results -- growth results.
Overall our storage rental business remains durable providing consistent results and a solid foundation for our overall revenue performance.
Let's take a look at our storage rental performance over the last 12 quarters on Slide 6.
Slide 6 shows our constant dollar storage rental growth over the past 4 quarters to the enterprise as well as for our 2 operating segments.
The stability and durability of our storage rental business drives the economics of our business.
We've now reported 24 consecutive years of storage rental growth.
As you can see in this chart since 2009 our constant dollar enterprise storage rental growth has averaged 4% per the quarter while ranging between 2.5% and 5%.
North America which generates approximately 75% of our storage rental revenues continues to deliver stable growth of 2%.
Our strategy here is to sustain this level of growth by capturing opportunities in the unvended market and underserved verticals such as government.
As we outlined at Investor Day our target growth rate for North America storage rental is between 1% and 3%.
Our overall storage rental growth is enhanced by our fast-growing International segment which has averaged 9% constant dollar growth over the past 3 years.
This performance is supported by strong organic growth and more recently additional growth through acquisitions.
In the more developed International markets we'll  continue to support the growth of the annuity as we are in North America.
In addition we'll look to expand in high-quality high-growth emerging segments.
Over the next 3 years we expect to drive 5% to 9% storage rental growth overall in International.
Our long-term focus is to sustain the durability of our storage rental business as the key driver of our overall economics and the foundation for the long-term growth of our cash flows.
Let's now take a look at our full year profit results in Slide 7.
Slide 7 looks at our full year performance compared -- for 2012 compared to 2011.
In terms of our key financial metrics we delivered results that reflect consistent business trends and the achievement of our financial goals.
Reported revenue for the year was $3 billion up 1% on a constant dollar basis as solid storage gains offset impacts from lower recycled paper prices and declines in core service activity in developed markets.
Adjusted OIBDA was down 3% year-on-year on a constant dollar basis.
Lower paper prices pressured profits by about $30 million in 2012.
As noted at current prices we worked through these tough comparisons.
Year-on-year results were also impacted by discrete costs in Q4 including facility moves costs associated with the realignment of our sales and marketing organization and the year-end true-up of accruals.
These impacts offset gains driven by strong underlying International profit performance.
Adjusted EPS was $1.21 per share down 11% compared to 2011 reflecting lower adjusted OIBDA and higher interest expense incurred to support shareholder payouts and costs associated with the planned reconversion which more than offset the benefits from fewer weighted average shares outstanding for the full year.
2012 capital spending was $182 million including $54 million of acquired real estate and $13 million of REIT conversion CapEx.
As a percentage of revenues CapEx excluding real estate and REIT CapEx is 6.1% in line with our capital efficiency goals.
Free cash flow for the year was $347 million solidly within our guidance range compared to $467 million for 2011.
The year-on-year decrease was as expected reflecting lower adjusted OIBDA combined with higher cash taxes compared to low 2011 levels higher interest expense in support of our shareholder payout program and a lapping of lower cash incentive compensation payments in 2011.
The 2012 adjusted OIBDA and adjusted EPS results shown here exclude $34 million of costs associated with the REIT conversion.
These costs reduced 2012 reported EPS by about $0.14.
Note that 2011 adjusted OIBDA and adjusted EPS excluded $16 million of these costs and reduced reported EPS by about $0.05 per share.
In addition to the $30 million of REIT-related CapEx I just discussed we paid $80 million in taxes towards our D&amp;A recapture liability.
All told these items would have reduced free cash flow by about $116 million year-to-date.
We've included a slide outlining the actual and expected REIT costs and related expenditures in the appendix of this presentation.
Let's now turn to Slide 8 to review our full year results by segment.
Slide 8 shows key year-to-date metrics for each of our 3 segments compared to 2011.
Consistent with our business strategy we're sustaining high returns in our North America segment while continuing to build momentum in our International segment as a significant driver of profit and cash flow gains.
North America continues to deliver high profits and strong cash flows.
For the full year our North American business segment reported revenues at $2.2 billion supported by consistent 2% constant dollar storage rental gains.
Despite the impacts of lower recycled paper prices we sustained adjusted OIBDA margins of 42%.
Adjusted OIBDA in North America was down year-on-year due to a decrease in paper revenues of $23 million lower core service activity levels and costs associated with the facility transaction and the realignment in the sales and marketing organizations.
We also sustained capital efficiencies in North America this year spending at 4.5% of revenues excluding real estate.
Our International segment continues to post strong constant dollar revenues adjusted OIBDA and cash flow gains.
Adjusted OIBDA increased 10% on a constant dollar basis.
We're benefiting from cost improvement initiatives in Western European markets and strong profit performance in Asia-Pac.
Excluding acquisition integration costs and the accelerated facility transactions in the U.K.
International adjusted OIBDA margins expanded about 150 basis points this year.
Benefits from productivity initiatives and from continued solid growth across our International portfolio have us on track towards our business goals of approximately 25% margins in 2013.
Finally corporate expenses were consistent with prior year levels reflecting benefits from overhead cost control initiatives.
Overall we continue to drive strong operating performance across our portfolio.
Let's now take a look at our debt statistics on Slide 9.
Strong consistent cash flow generation enables us to maintain a sound balance sheet.
We're currently operating with a consolidated leverage ratio of 3.9x within our targeted 3x to 4x leverage range.
Our leverage ratio was increased over the past 2 years as planned to support shareholder payouts of $1.5 billion and expenditures in connection with our proposed conversion to a REIT over that period.
As we've previously stated the costs associated with REIT conversion including tax payments will temporarily and modestly push our leverage over the high end of our range -- of our target range.
We're well positioned in terms of cash and financing capacity.
At year end liquidity was more than $900 million with $243 million in cash and $667 million in additional borrowing capacity.
Our strong cash flow supported continued advancement of our shareholder payout strategy.
During the fourth quarter we paid $47 million in regular quarterly cash dividends at a rate of $0.27 per share in addition to the $140 million cash portion of our $700 million special dividend.
For the stock portion of this special dividend we issued 17 million new shares.
As we discussed on the Q3 call management recommended and the board at its regular scheduled meeting in December agreed to maintain the $0.27 per share quarterly cash dividend rate rather than reduce it based on the new higher number of shares outstanding.
This resulted in an increase to our dividend payout levels of nearly 10% over prior years.
We're managing our balance sheet consistent with our strategy while advancing substantial payouts to shareholders and we're well positioned to fund our business plan.
That concludes our review of our Q4 2012 results.
Overall 2012 was another good year in which we continued to drive solid financial performance and position ourselves well for continued success in 2013 and beyond.
Let's now turn to Slide 10 to review our 2013 outlook.
Today we're reiterating our full year 2013 revenue adjusted OIBDA and free cash flow guidance while updating our outlook for CapEx adjusted OIBDA and REIT costs.
As we first presented at Investor Day last October we're projecting 2013 reported revenues to be in the range of $3 020 000 000 to $3 100 000 000 or 0% to 3% constant dollar growth.
We're maintaining our outlook for adjusted OIBDA to be between $905 million and $935 million on an operating basis.
Storage rental growth is expected to remain strong at 4% on a constant dollar basis consistent with the past 2 years.
Service revenue growth is expected to be down moderately driven by consistent trends in developed markets.
Based on current prices recycled paper should have a limited impact on 2013 growth.
Adjusted EPS for 2013 is now expected to be in the range of $1.13 to $1.24.
The change from Investor Day is primarily due to some additional D&amp;A and interest expense as well as to formally update for the full number -- for the number of diluted shares outstanding that we have after the E&amp;P distribution.
We provided some estimates at Investor Day and this formally builds in the actual 17 million shares distributed.
The calculation of adjusted EPS now assumes 190 million shares outstanding and a structural tax rate of 39%.
We're increasing our full year capital expenditures to be approximately $290 million including an estimated $75 million for real estate.
The increase reflects the addition of $22 million for the relocation of our Boston headquarters that was announced in Q4 as well as about $11 million for the buyout of a lease in Dallas we completed earlier this year.
The $75 million we expect to spend on real estate this year includes $30 million for the expansion of our data center capacity in our Pennsylvania underground facility that we discussed at Investor Day.
Our outlook for operating free cash flow continues to be in the range of $320 million to $360 million as we expect cash tax efficiencies that will offset the net cash impact from the office move.
As we've been highlighting we anticipate significant onetime operating and capital costs associated with our potential conversion to a REIT.
These costs relates to substantial system investments legal and tax work advisory fees and other miscellaneous costs to implement the proposed structure.
Total operating expense and capital costs are now estimated to be in the $150 million to $200 million range up about $50 million from earlier estimates.
We expect the majority of these costs to be incurred in 2013.
We've increased our preliminary outlook in this area to reflect a more informed analysis of the conversion project particularly with respect to the scope and timing of our international conversions.
We're investing to ensure that we meet the January 1 2014 deadline including having our REIT-critical systems operating on a test basis by the third quarter of this year.
For 2013 we expect to incur between $65 million and $90 million of incremental expense between $30 million and $45 million of CapEx and to pay $105 million to $115 million in additional taxes related to the depreciation recapture all in connection with the REIT conversion.
The impact of these items will be a reduction in reported EPS of $0.26 to $0.36 and use of cash of $185 million to $230 million.
We'll continue to track and report these costs discretely from our underlying operating results.
Slides laying out our outlook for line items below adjusted OIBDA as well as for the REIT-related items are included in our appendix.
That concludes our review.
And in summary Q4 was a quarter of good financial performance and we're well positioned to achieve our financial goals in 2013.
We continue to execute against our business plans sustaining high profits and cash flow in North America and driving strong growth and higher returns in our International business.
And we continue to advance work in connection with the proposed REIT conversion as part of our long-term approach to enhance value creation for stockholders.
Thanks and we'd now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Kevin McVeigh of Macquarie.
Congratulations to Richard Bill and Melissa.
I wonder Brian just as we think about the uptick in the taxes related to the REIT the $105 million to $115 million up from $80 million what was the reason for that in terms of -- was it just a tighter discussions with the IRS or just any thoughts around that? Kevin this is Stephen.
No this is just a schedule of payments over the course of time.
There were -- there's more than one layer to it and there's a small second layer coming in in 2013 that wasn't there in 2012.
So this has got nothing to do with conversations with the IRS.
This is all fixed payments that just happened to be in bulk in 2013.
Got it.
And then Bill it sounded like you've had a wonderful transition so far.
One thing you mentioned were potential adjacencies.
Was that kind of primarily related to data storage or anything else in addition to kind of the traditional services past data storage? And would you do that organically or inorganically? I think -- right and the only thing that we've come out public on is the wholesale data center as a potential area for adjacencies but so there's a number of things that we're looking at that are across all those spectrums.
But I think the way to think about it is the things we're looking at is similar to when we went into the tape business.
So in 1995 I think roughly is when we really got going in the tape business and it was less than a $15 million business.
And today we've turned this into a $400 million $500 million business.
So I think that the question for us is what is the next natural adjacency just like we added tape alongside the box which has been excellent.
And there's a number of things we're looking at and the one that we've highlighted or come a little bit more public about is the wholesale data center is a potential area.
Our next question comes from James Samford of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask you quickly on the REIT conversion and where we are in terms of the next stage of E&amp;P distribution.
Is that -- and timing or any size as far as anything that you guys have come up with so far this year? James this is Brian.
What I tried to say on that the next E&amp;P distribution assuming we're successful with the feedback from the PLR which we don't have anything new to announce on that front but assuming we're successful it would be in 2014.
So we're not anticipating a E&amp;P distribution beyond the one that we did at the end of last year until 2014.
And that's consistent with normal timing on these types of things we have until the end of 2014 to do the formal distributions as part of the conversion process.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a quick follow-up on the tape backup and data protection segment.
What's the overall mix today? I think you said $400 million to $500 million -- $450 million to $500 million.
And is that segment growing or any metrics on either growth or margin expectations on that part of the business? It's -- again it's Brian.
It is growing.
We highlighted that actually North America gave us some accretive benefit to the overall growth rate.
You see somewhat similar dynamics in the tape business that you do to box in the sense that the archival use of tape continues to grow and so the storage side of the business is solid.
We're also getting the benefit of a refocus within the company over the last couple of years really post the divestiture of the digital business.
So a lot of the resources that were -- sales resources that were calling on CIOs were selling a broader spectrum of products and now they're really laser-focused on the tape business and we're starting to see the benefit of that flowing through our growth rate.
We are seeing headwinds in the tape business like we are in box in the sense of activity-based service.
There's less tape rotation going on.
It's more archival in nature and so there are some headwinds there that constrain the overall growth.
But it's quite a healthy business.
And I think a key thing to highlight there is it is very much aligned with the growth in digital data right? The tape is a storage format for digital information so it benefits from the explosion and growth of digital data.
So it's a very good business very nice returns for us and we're pleased with the progress we're making there.
Our next question comes from Gary Bisbee of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question can you just quantify Brian for us the costs related to the facility closures and how quickly do you get a return in terms of efficiency or savings going forward from those efforts? And secondly just the rest of the other incremental.
I think you said some accruals in incremental sales investments.
Yes the facility transactions there were 2 large ones.
One was in London.
It's basically closing one facility and consolidating into another.
And we had one in Nashville Tennessee in the U.S.
And we'll see returns from those quickly so those are basically payments we're making to get out of lease facilities and some other costs.
And we'll consolidate it to other buildings and so that's factored into our 2013 outlook.
It's very quick payback.
We do this all the time so this is nothing new.
We had some -- the other impacts in the quarter the sales and marketing realignment was about $4 million.
We highlighted paper being an issue year-on-year about $3 million.
And there were just a variety of things that kind of all went in one direction on the year-end accruals.
We had some litigation accruals.
We're still incurring some costs to finalize resolution of the government contract matter which is progressing well but there's a lot of money being spent there just to resolve that.
We had some adjustments to stock programs.
We moved to a world where we're paying a lot more in dividend so we made adjustments to how that impacts the stock incentive programs for employees.
We could basically give them credit for dividends in the future and just some other normal noise.
But those -- some total were several million dollars of impact.
So a lot of noise in the quarter.
When you cut through it it was -- we expected a bunch of this and so it's right in line with our guidance.
And operationally we feel good about the underlying performance.
The International business is on track good profit improvement in North America sustained margins.
We have endured some of the paper price swings but we've worked through that.
So we feel like we're in a good position to deliver the objectives that we outlined at Investor Day.
Research Division</strong> And I'm sorry how much specifically was the cost of those 2 facility closure charges? $7 million $7 million combined.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then a little more color on the sales.
I know there's been talk of investments in sales beginning a year ago or so.
Is this incremental on top of that in terms of a bit different strategy or is this just continuing to execute what you've been working on for a while? And is it -- do you have any tangible sense yet how the verticalization if that's a word is actually working? It's Bill.
I think that it's early days but what we did before is we did a very strong focus in verticalization around the health care segment and based on that we were able to see -- we were getting some good traction in gains against the headwinds that we were experiencing in health care with the drop in service revenues as people go into the electronic records.
We saw that actually really worked to have people to have sales teams that were specialized around certain vertical sectors.
So what we've done at the start of this year is we've launched a number of different sectors which I mentioned including government oil and gas financial services and doing exactly the same thing.
So it's early days but it was based on the success that we had in health care in terms of rejuvenating that business.
We thought that this really is the thing that makes sense to try to go after some of that unvended business and get more especially in the mature markets.
Our next question comes from George Tong of Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Bill could you talk a bit about the customer traction you're seeing with wholesale data centers how much this contributed to 4Q results and how much you're expecting this to contribute going forward? Well I think that we're approaching a run rate of $20 million for 2013 and we have a number of clients or customers that mainly came to us that we're hosting in that wholesale data center.
So we're in the process as part of this realignment of the sales force is to actually be more proactive in terms of bringing in additional revenue and that's where the investment that Brian highlighted the $30 million that we're budgeting this year to expand that is based on sales volume.
So we're not going -- we're not spending that money hoping that people come.
It is based on our expectations in terms of generating additional customers for that facility and that's the amount that we've budgeted to actually build up a facility to serve them.
So right now it's early in the year but we're sticking by our guidance that we're -- that's what we expect based on the pipeline that we're building.
And George it wasn't a major driver of our economics in Q4 and in 2013 we're investing in the front-end capability to continue to build out this business which we think could be a couple hundred million dollar business over time.
And so you'll start to see the benefits of that flowing through more in 2014 in terms of the profit results but right now it's not a major driver of our profit growth.
But we feel very good about the investments we're making.
The incremental returns on this are very attractive.
It's a great space and good execution and high end customer interest.
So we feel very good about this and I think to Bill's point it's a business that we can meter quite well.
We basically invest capital after we've got commitments and long-term contracts so it's a good business all around to invest behind.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's very helpful.
As a follow-up could you give us some color on what kind of customer activity you're seeing in the health care space particularly with regard to the computerization of health records? I think that first of all with the computerization of health care records we're getting a lot less service revenue which I think goes without saying.
So it's becoming much more archival.
So they're still retaining the paper records because they need that proof but in terms of the access to the information on those records that's being much -- more and more that's being scanned which is helping our scanning business.
And it's -- then once it's electronic they don't need to bring the records back and forth.
Where we're were finding some new storage opportunities are things that -- which I discussed with some of you for instance in the pathology segment and it's been an area that's been overlooked by a lot of the health care providers in the sense that they just stacked up these paraffin slides everywhere and also in terms of some of the tissue samples.
And that's a business that we're seeing some decent growth which is pure storage but needs to be stored under special environmental conditions.
Our next question comes from Andrew Steinerman of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Brian I know we're increasingly talking about constant currency growth but I appreciate the reference back to internal growth.
So when we look to 0% to 3% constant currency -- constant dollar growth for 2013 I wanted also a conversion back to organic growth.
Is there any acquisition that have occurred since Analyst Day? Is FX still a very modest change and so is internal growth going to be close to 0% to 3%? And the second question is within that 0% to 3% how should core service fair? Yes so breaking that down a bit for you if you're just looking at internal Andrew is we expect storage to be about 3% so consistent with where we are.
And services to be down modestly so it's sort of a -- the flat to minus 2% range I think would be a good estimate there.
And that is basically reflecting the activity base pressures we've talked about in more developed markets.
In the emerging markets we're internationally seeing very good service growth but still a significant part of our business is U.S.
and U.K.
So that's the breakdown.
Right now we've got about 1 point of growth in our outlook related to acquisitions and that just reflects what we've completed today right? So if we do more there will obviously be some accretion to that but that's our current outlook.
Research Division</strong> And FX? FX limited impact at this point.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And also when you said 3% for storage and 0% to 2% for services is that constant dollar or is that internal -- 0% to minus 2% I'm sorry.
I was referring to internal.
Our next question comes from Shlomo Rosenbaum of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up on Gary's question in terms of the onetime-ish type cost that came out in the quarter.
You talked about facility costs and the SG&amp;A realignment.
Can you just give us the dollar amount? If I kind of onetime those things I can pull them out and see what the underlying margin is for both North America and International? So I walked through some of the details with Gary.
The latter part of your question Shlomo I just wanted to clarify it.
You're trying to understand what was International versus U.S.? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And just a total dollar number.
In other words is it I think you said $7 million for facilities and then $4 million for the realignment.
Is the total onetime-ish type cost $11 million? And how are they split? I just want to confirm that and then see how they're split.
Right.
In addition to that you had year-end accrual impacts which are in the range of $10 million actually.
Yes in terms of if you sum total all of the impacts.
So we had a fair amount of year-end accrual activity as well.
Keep in mind that you have the paper year-on-year headwind of about $3 million as well.
So combined that was the key drivers of the performance.
I don't have the breakdown between North America and International in front of me.
I'm sure we can follow up on that for you.
We did try to normalize the International margin growth so I'm sure you can do the math on them.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just going forward for 2013 it looks like kind of an $8 million OIBDA improvement in margin to go down about 30 basis points.
Is there going to be a continued improvement should we think in the future that OIBDA should continue to gradually go up? And is the margin going down because you're getting better growth on International? Is that the way we should think of it? We highlighted at Investor Day that we are advancing some new business investments in 2013 areas like wholesale data center that we talked about.
We've got some other areas in beta in terms of new services around our tape business and highlighted there's about $10 million of investment there.
That is -- our underlying outlook for the business reflects sustaining North America returns and following through on the margin improvement that we have in International and then having moderate margin improvement post 2013.
So really what you're seeing is just a reflection of -- we are making some select new business investments in 2013 and that's mitigating some of the benefits from the International margin gains.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the second -- this is the second quarter I think you guys have said that the storage volumes in the U.S.
are relatively flat.
Do you they fall into the relatively flat negative territory or relatively flat positive territory? I'm just trying to figure out is there any trend to be seen over there at all? They were down 30 basis points year-on-year in North America.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Final question.
What's the Plan B if PLR doesn't come back favorable? We'll share more specifics with that if that's the case but we would -- our business strategy doesn't change.
We're committed to growing the business and in improving our operations as we've talked about it and returning capital to shareholders.
The REIT was a better way to do that and aligned with how we're managing the business.
We'll bring some more specifics around that but you should anticipate us just bringing clarity on how we intend to return capitals to shareholders in the context of our business strategy going forward but we don't have anything specific to share with you today.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Andrew Wittmann of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> So I just wanted to get your thoughts Brian since you've been kind of leading the REIT conversion process.
Is there anything to be read from the Correction Corp.'s and GEO Group approval process? Is there anything kind of takeaway that those offer maybe confidence or less confidence in your conversion process? Yes I think they're all independent events.
We don't have any insight into the dynamics in those discussions.
I mean we have our own set of facts and our own kind of proposals with the IRS so I can't offer any insight from what's going on with others.
I mean clearly there are more companies looking at this area and so I think this is an area that's getting a lot of attention in terms of review.
And that's -- there are other companies that are kind of nontraditional if you will in terms of proposing REIT structures but our facts and circumstances are discrete and distinct and I wouldn't read anything from other discussions into our situation.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
On the government opportunity as I think back about how you guys have talked about the government records and that they are -- they outsource but internally.
They have their own kind of document management facilities something that has been a long-term opportunity but probably one of the most difficult opportunities that you guys have had going after.
As you re-verticalize here are there any green shoots of success in capturing that government business? And I think in the context of austerity and fiscal cliff maybe that's more relevant today.
Is there anything to report there on early successes? Yes look I think that the -- I would put it in a bucket with all our vertical visions early days but we are doubling down on that.
And I think our view is net-net if the government comes under tighter and tighter budget pressure that's a net positive for us.
We're in a lot of discussions at different -- coming out from different angles with different government agencies including their own internal storage people and they are full and running out of capital.
So I think that there's -- the opportunity for us is growing but it is an area where we're doubling down our efforts to see if we can get something to happen in 2013.
It's early days but we're optimistic.
Otherwise we wouldn't have focused on that as a separate vertical.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe one final question.
It's really just around the M&amp;A environment.
There's been a bit of activity here in the last year or so.
I think you guys kind of forecasted that that might be happening.
Is there still more out there? And then with the balance sheet leverage at the high end and probably going over the high end of your range here with more of this conversion spend and what have you does that keep you maybe a little bit more conservative in how you go after that M&amp;A? Or do you feel I mean unconstrained by doing what you'd see as good deals? We're comfortable with the strategy that we've outlined.
The M&amp;A activity that we're driving is within our core business and the businesses that we buy the activity that you saw a fair amount in Q4 are smaller North American acquisitions.
They tend to be highly accretive bring very good profitability.
And so actually in terms of when you think about our leverage structure where we've historically been kind of 3x to 4x EBITDA when you get these businesses they fund -- a significant amount of them fund themselves in terms of the incremental OIBDA.
So we're comfortable with the acquisition kind of ranges that we've talked about.
And within the kind of the normal band that we've been functioning within I think we had an estimate of about $100 million a year in our longer-term estimates and quite comfortable we can manage that.
At this time there are no further questions.
Okay well just to wrap up I think we delivered on our expectations for the 2012 financial performance.
And looking forward to 2013 just to recap we expect continued solid growth in the storage rental and further expansion into existing and new emerging markets on our International side.
Sustained -- we don't see anything other than sustained high margins in North America and additional profit improvement which we've already highlighted in the International business.
And we'll continue to pursue these with a strong focus on prudent capital allocation with an overarching goal for total returns and delivering sustainable value to our shareholders.
So we want to thank you all for joining us today and we really appreciate your support.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Bonnie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Iron Mountain First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Melissa Marsden.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Bonnie and welcome everyone to our first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
I'm Melissa Marsden Senior Vice President of Investor Relations for the company.
This morning we'll hear from Bill Meaney our CEO who will discuss highlights and strategic initiatives; followed by Brian McKeon our CFO who will cover financial results.
After their prepared remarks we'll open up the phones for Q&amp;A.
Per our custom we have a user-controlled slide presentation at the Investor Relations page of our website at www.ironmountain.com.
Referring now to Slide 2.
Today's earnings call and slide presentation will contain a number of forward-looking statements most notably our outlook for 2013 financial performance.
All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to today's press release the Safe Harbor language on this slide and our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of the major risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those in our forward-looking statements.
In addition we use several non-GAAP measures when presenting our financial results.
The reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures as required by Reg G can be found at the Investor Relations page of our website as well as in today's press release.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Bill Meaney.
Thanks Melissa and thank you to everyone for joining us today.
We're off to a good start in 2013 with first quarter financial results in line with our expectations.
Total revenues were $747 million adjusted OIBDA was $227 million and adjusted earnings per share was $0.27 per share.
Operating performance also is tracking in line with our full year ranges with consistent storage rental constant dollar growth of 4.4% and storage rental internal growth of 3%.
As noted in recent quarters we continued to see a decrease in activity-based services.
These trends continue but we are able to offset these impacts to deliver solid profit results.
I'll turn it over to Brian to cover the details of our results in a few minutes.
But first I'd like to talk about what we're seeing in our markets and some of the ways in which we plan to sustain the durability of our core business.
Since our last report to you we've continued to make progress on many fronts and have integrated our strategic review into the budget process for 2014.
More specifically some of the areas of focus include: preparing to operate as a REIT; continue to emphasize organic growth both in the mature and emerging markets; expanding through acquisitions which are accretive and which meet our strategic and financial hurdles; and evaluating close-in  adjacencies.
With respect to the REIT we are moving forward with plans to build on our solid foundation and enhance our strategy.
As we've said before we can't comment on the specifics of our PLR or Private Letter Ruling.
We can say that in general the process can take about a year but we don't control the timing.
As you know we filed our PLR in mid-July 2012 and we continue to prepare for conversion moving full steam ahead with systems upgrades and the legal and tax restructuring necessary to move some of our International businesses into QRS.
We have accomplished much but there's more work to do.
Additionally we continue to advance our thinking about real estate investment opportunities and how we present the attractive characteristics of our business that align well with other REITs.
As we've said previously we have very high rental revenue per square foot and the quality and durability of our storage net operating income is exceptional with extremely low volatility across business cycles.
We also have a high credit quality customer base characterized by strong retention and relatively low maintenance and turnover costs.
We believe these characteristics will continue to support the solid fundamentals of our business and will be of interest to investors seeking both attractive current and total shareholder returns.
Turning now to operations.
We continued to see good growth opportunities in both our developed and emerging markets.
By developed I'm referring not only to our North American markets of Canada and the U.S.
but also to Australia Singapore the U.K.
as well as Western Europe where our business continues to perform well despite financial market uncertainty and challenging macroeconomic conditions.
There are several ways we look to sustain the durability of the business in our developed markets.
One is by enhancing our industry-specific expertise in vertical markets and adding value for customers through tailored solutions around Records Management and demonstrating how our solutions address their requirements whether they are regulatory commercial or operational in nature.
Another is by differentiating our core storage and service offerings with innovative tools that drive incremental storage from existing customers and attract new customers.
We are encouraged by early visibility into our pipeline of booked business and active pursuits.
This pipeline is slightly more skewed towards new customer relationships demonstrating the potential in the unvended or partially unvended market.
Generally speaking there is a long lead time between sizable new bookings and implementation so we expect very little of this new business pipeline to be reflected in our 2013 results.
On our last call I mentioned the realignment of our sales and marketing teams to focus on vertical market opportunities.
It's early days but we're making progress.
We pioneered this focus in the health care vertical and achieved a storage volume increase of 2% year-over-year in the first quarter in North America.
The growth from our higher margin storage rental revenues is offsetting expected pressures from lower margin services impacted by shifts towards electronic medical records.
Given the storage margins are more than 2x that of service this shift in the health care vertical has led to an overall increase in profit contribution.
Additionally we are receiving great feedback from customers who view us as their source for insight into industry best practices.
We have expanded forums such as the customer advisory board and industry symposiums to bring top customers together to discuss challenges and opportunities.
Based on insight from our financial services advisory board 2 subcommittees have already been formed to help shape future products and services.
Another example of our vertical market focus is the federal government.
While not a significant part of our business today we believe there is a sizable opportunity tied to the 2012 Presidential Directive on Records Management.
This directive facilitates federal agencies in better using records to assess the impact of programs reduce redundant efforts save money and share knowledge within and across their organizations.
We recently cosponsored a study that found federal government records are expected to grow from 8.5 billion to more than 20 billion records over the next 2 years.
Whilst the bulk of the new federal records are being created electronically 41% of those documents ultimately are printed and managed in paper format underscoring the durability of growth in the physical record storage.
Our penetration of this vertical segment is progressing slowly but we recently completed a deal to store 250 000 cubic feet of veterans claims records with potential to add document management services.
What we're finding is the federal government has historically awarded contracts to small systems integrators that don't always have the capability or the full know-how to service the business once they get it.
We're seeing real opportunities to partner with these smaller integrators in order to establish our foothold in this vertical segment.
Moreover we continue to be confident that the federal government will increasingly need to outsource Records Management with the private sector given their fiscal constraints.
In addition to our vertical market approach we are advancing our go-to-market approach to help differentiate our core storage and service offerings and as a means to tap the unvended market.
We've identified multiple unique customer types ranging from the pure physical storage outsourcer to the workflow digitizer seeking to convert all physical records to digital and several variations in between.
By customizing our approach we can better map our solutions to each type of customer integrating more consultative services.
An example of an offering for the sophisticated customer looking to unify records is our Accutrac solution which enables organizations to centralize the management of both physical and electronic records helping them find records faster and lower risks of noncompliance as well as cutting storage costs.
Let me now turn to emerging market opportunities.
By emerging I'm referring to the BRIC countries as well as other Latin American countries like Chile Argentina Central and Eastern Europe countries like Turkey the Czech Republic and Poland as well as other Asia Pacific markets such as Hong Kong.
Our emerging markets currently represent about a $300 million business for us and we have significant opportunities to expand our platform in these fast-growing countries through both acquisitions and organic growth positioning ourselves to capture the first wave of outsourcing.
In the aggregate these emerging markets achieved storage rental constant dollar revenue growth of 30% in the first quarter or 17% when excluding our recent acquisition of Grupo Store in Brazil last year.
Moreover we have a solid pipeline of potential acquisition candidates in emerging markets.
Many of these deals would accelerate the growth of our business into leadership positions which as we've noted in the past is a driver of incremental margin improvement in our International markets.
As we've noted many of these emerging markets are early in their process of outsourcing records management.
We have opportunities to enhance our growth in emerging markets by leveraging the solution-based product and service offerings we originated and refined in our developed markets where we've been in operation for much longer and implementing those programs in our emerging markets.
By helping customers early in the outsourcing process to become more efficient and reduce costs we will become a trusted partner and ultimately drive more business.
We are also continuously evaluating close-in adjacent businesses that support our core Records Management business and meet our return hurdles and we will continue to evaluate these opportunities through ROE cash flow and return on invested capital filters.
We have recently announced our plans to move forward with expansion of the underground wholesale data center in Pennsylvania that we talked about at Investor Day last October.
Again it is early in the process but we are encouraged by initial customer demand and we will prudently evaluate the opportunity through this initial effort before undertaking incremental investment.
Part of our investigation will include looking at the feasibility of above ground wholesale data centers on existing Iron Mountain land.
We believe we can continue to deliver sustainable value and support business growth by targeting 25% to 35% of our free cash flow for investment in emerging markets acquisitions and adjacencies.
We believe this level of investment would be similar under our existing structure or as a REIT and is consistent with our capital allocation approach through which we also maximize cash flow generate strong returns and maintain significant payouts to our stockholders.
To wrap up we have a great business with good momentum supported by a strategy to sustain our growth over the long term.
And with that I'll turn it over to Brian to discuss our financial results in more detail.
Thanks Bill.
Let's turn now to Slide 3 which highlights the key messages from today's review.
We delivered good operating results in Q1 driven by a consistent storage rental growth which supported solid profit performance.
Overall growth trends were consistent.
Storage rental growth grew 4.4% on a constant dollar basis in the quarter supported by 2% gains in North America and 12% growth in International including benefits from our 2012 acquisitions in Brazil and Europe.
While storage growth remains solid we saw similar declines in query-based core service activity leading to lower retrievable refile and transportation revenues in mature markets.
Service growth declines were a bit higher in Q1 as expected reflecting some tougher comparisons in International markets as well as declines in storage destruction and termination fees.
We expect these impacts to moderate as we work through the year.
Adjusted OIBDA was up 2% and on-track with our full year outlook.
Our profit results continue to be supported by International margin gains and sustained cost controls.
Overall Q1 was in line with our expectation supported by solid storage growth strong International gains and continued efficiencies in capital investment.
Today we're reiterating our full year 2013 performance outlook.
In addition to our revenue and profit performance our capital expenditures and free cash flow generation are all tracking to plan.
Let's move on to Slide 4 to review our financial results in more detail.
Slide 4 compares our results for this quarter to the first quarter of 2012.
As noted Q1 results were as expected supported by solid storage rental growth.
Enterprise revenues grew 0.5% on a constant dollar basis as our International segment continued to produce strong revenue performance.
International posted 7% constant dollar revenue growth supported by 12% storage rental growth including benefits from our acquisitions in Brazil and Switzerland.
North America posted minus 2% constant currency revenue growth as lower service revenues more than offset consistent 2% storage rental gains.
Year-on-year changes in recycled paper prices and FX rates had minimal impact in the quarter.
Gross profit was $426 million in Q1 yielding a gross margin of 57% down 80 basis points compared to the same prior year period.
Storage gross margins increased 40 basis points reflecting good cost management with growing revenues.
Service gross margins were down year-over-year due to decreased revenues from the lower core service activities.
Mix impacts from 2012 acquisitions was also a contributing factor.
Adjusted OIBDA was $227 million up 2% year-on-year.
Adjusted OIBDA margins improved to 30.5% of revenues in Q1 driven by lower SG&amp;A expense excluding REIT costs.
Our underlying profit performance continues to improve in our International segment consistent with our plans.
International adjusted OIBDA margins increased 100 basis points in Q1 as we remain on-track to achieve 25% margins in 2013.
Savings from the North American sales and account management realignment and lower stock option compensation expense were also contributing factors to the year-on-year increase in adjusted OIBDA.
Adjusted EPS for the quarter was $0.27 per share compared to $0.29 in Q1 2012.
The decrease was due to the higher number of shares outstanding following the issuance of 17 million new shares last November as part of our special dividend.
Adjusted OIBDA and adjusted EPS exclude the impact of costs associated with the REIT conversion.
These costs reduced Q1 2013 reported EPS by $0.09 per share net of tax.
GAAP earnings per share of $0.10 includes $25 million of REIT costs and $3 million of other expense partially offset by $1 million of gains on asset dispositions.
Our structural tax rate for the quarter was 38%.
Let's now take a closer look at our revenue growth on Slide 5.
Slide 5 shows the components building to our overall revenue growth.
Q1 growth rates were in line with our expectation and our -- with our expectations and our full year outlook.
In terms of components building to overall growth storage rental internal growth was 2.5% for the quarter service internal growth was minus 6.5% and total revenue internal growth was minus 1.4%.
Acquisitions and FX changes combined to add 1.4% to our reported results.
Overall our durable storage rental business provides a solid foundation for our overall revenue performance.
For the quarter consistent storage rental growth of 4.4% on a constant dollar basis supported total constant dollar revenue growth of 0.5%.
Year-on-year global net volume growth was 2.8% including about 1.1% benefit related to the store acquisition in Brazil.
North America reported 2% constant dollar storage rental growth reflecting relatively flat Records Management volume and consistent pricing trends.
International storage rental growth was 12% constant dollar for the quarter reflecting sustained double-digit growth in Latin America Central and Eastern Europe and Asia Pac.
For the year we expect overall storage rental to sustain consistent growth rates of about 4% on a constant dollar basis and about 3% on an internal basis.
Total services decreased 5% constant dollar as expected headwinds in activity-based services continued and we faced some tougher near-term comparisons in International.
These impacts more than offset solid DMS growth and benefits from our 2012 acquisitions.
The International segment posted 1% service growth supported by acquisitions DMS growth and higher project revenues which more than offset lower shredding revenues due to some customer terminations in early 2012.
We've now lapped those terminations and should have better comps as we move forward through the balance of the year.
Overall North American service revenues declined 7% in the quarter with about 4% of that decline related to activity-based core services.
Gains in DMS revenues were offset by lower revenues from special projects and ancillary service lines including entertainment and fulfillment services.
Paper prices had limited impact in Q1 as sorted office paper pricing has stabilized recently in the $150 to $160 per ton range.
Assuming stable recycled paper prices we expect to see improvement in our service revenue growth rates as we work through the year supported by gains in our International segments and from increases in DMS revenues as we continue to build this business.
Let's take a look at our segment performance on Slide 6.
Slide 6 shows key metrics for each of our 3 segments comparing Q1 of this year to Q1 2012.
Consistent with our business strategy we're sustaining high returns in our North America segment while we continue to build our International segment as a significant driver of profit and cash flow gains.
North America continues to deliver high profits and strong cash flows.
For Q1 our North American business segment reported revenues of $542 million supported by consistent 2% constant dollar storage rental gains.
We sustained adjusted OIBDA margins of 41% as savings from our recent sales and account management realignment offset a decrease in gross profits due to lower service revenues.
We're also sustaining capital efficiencies with spending at 4.4% of revenues excluding real estate.
Our International segment continues to post strong constant dollar revenue adjusted OIBDA and cash flow gains.
Adjusted OIBDA increased 10% on a constant dollar basis benefiting from cost improvement initiatives in Western European markets and strong profit performance in Asia Pac.
International adjusted OIBDA margins expanded about 100 basis points.
Benefits from productivity initiatives and from continued solid growth across our International portfolio have us on-track towards our goal of about 25% margins in 2013.
Finally corporate expenses were down compared to prior year levels reflecting benefits from overhead cost controls and lower stock option expense.
Overall we continued to drive solid operating performance across our portfolio consistent with our performance.
Let's now take a look at our debt statistics on Slide 7.
Strong consistent cash flow generation enables us to maintain a sound balance sheet.
Currently we're operating with a consolidated leverage ratio of 3.95x at the high end of our targeted 3x to 4x leverage range.
Our leverage ratio has increased over the past 2-plus years as planned to support cash shareholder payouts of $1.6 billion and expenditures in connection with our proposed conversion to a REIT over that period.
As we've stated previously the cost associated with REIT conversion including tax payments will temporarily and modestly push our leverage over the high end of our target range.
We're well-positioned in terms of cash and financing capacity.
At quarter end liquidity was more than $800 million with $230 million in cash and $612 million in additional borrowing capacity.
Our strong cash flow support continued advancement of our capital allocation strategy and our REIT conversion.
During the first quarter we paid $52 million in cash dividends and $31 million of REIT costs including $6 million of REIT-related CapEx.
We're managing our balance sheet consistent with our strategy while advancing substantial payouts to shareholders and we remain well-positioned to fund our business plan.
That concludes our review of the Q1 2013 results.
Overall this was a good quarter in which we continued to drive solid financial performance supported by storage rental gains and position ourselves to achieve our full year 2013 financial goals.
Let's now turn to Slide 8 to review our 2013 outlook.
Slide 8 summarizes our current 2013 operating outlook.
Today we're reiterating our full year 2013 guidance.
Our Q1 performance was as expected and consistent with our full year outlook.
We expect to sustain consistent storage rental growth and to see improvement in our service revenue growth rates through the balance of the year.
As we've been highlighting we anticipate significant one-time operating and capital costs associated with our potential conversion to a REIT.
These costs relate to substantial system investments legal and tax work advisory fees and other miscellaneous costs to implement the proposed structure.
Total operating expense and capital costs are estimated to be between $150 million and $200 million with the majority of these costs to be incurred in 2013.
We're investing to ensure that we meet the January 1 2014 deadline including having our REIT-critical systems operating on a test basis by the third quarter of this year.
For 2013 we expect to incur between $65 million and $95 million of incremental expense between $30 million and $45 million of CapEx and to pay $105 million to $115 million in additional taxes related to the depreciation recapture in connection with the REIT conversion.
The impact of these items will be a reduction of reported EPS of $0.26 to $0.36 per share and a use of cash of $185 million to $230 million.
We'll continue to track and report these costs discretely from our underlying operating results.
Slides laying out our outlook for line items below adjusted OIBDA as well as the REIT-related items are included in the Appendix.
That concludes our review.
In summary Q1 was a quarter of good financial performance and we're well-positioned to achieve our 2013 financial goals.
We continue to execute against our business plans sustaining high profits and cash flow in North America and driving strong growth and higher returns in our International business.
We continue to advance work in connection with the REIT conversion as part of our long-term approach to enhance value creation for stockholders.
Thank you we'd now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Kevin McVeigh of Macquarie.
Bill I'd love to kind of get your thoughts your first quarter out of the gate any upside surprises downside? It's kind of interesting it -- you really get a sense of the durability of the business model within all the additional responsibility in terms of managing through the REIT conversion process.
So just any thoughts on that initially would be helpful.
Kevin I think not really any big surprise.
We're tracking as planned.
I think the only thing that coming is from an outsider coming in it's always good to see that even though Europe is not doing well from a macroeconomic standpoint -- if you look at the mature markets in Western Europe is we continued to have solid physical growth in terms of the -- in terms of storage rental.
So we're still tracking quite well even in the mature markets.
And then emerging markets we're continuing to find more and more upside.
So I've been spending quite a bit of my time internationally over the last month or so and we do have real opportunities there and it's starting to show in our results.
So no real surprises I think we're pretty much within expectations.
But it's nice to see that things are tracking ahead.
Great.
And then Brian it looks like we're able to update kind of the REIT-related and other expenditures out through kind of '14 to '16.
And I know we can't comment on the PLR but any sense of what gave us the confidence to do that.
Just within the context of the PLR overall would be helpful.
Well I think we've said all along that going through this process we felt we had good arguments on the key issue areas that we need to resolution in the PLR and it's not certain.
That's why we need to get feedback from the IRS but we feel confident in our arguments and made the decision to move forward with the investments because we need to given the scope and complexity of our conversion effort to make sure that we're on track for the January 1 conversions.
So the estimates that we provided Kevin are consistent with what we've highlighted in the past.
I think we're just giving you some clarity on how that's playing out in terms of the phasing in 2013.
But it's the same range we've been highlighting.
No no no I know that.
I guess I thought the '14 to '16 that incremental data was new.
It looked like the '13 range was consistent but I hadn't seen the '14 to '16 so I didn't know if that was something that -- just what drove the decision to provide that.
I think it's consistent with what we've been sharing so...
Yes Kevin.
If we had put that out previously and it's really more to do with like the timing of tax payments primarily that drags it out to '16.
There are a couple of conversions that would likely take place past 12/31/13 which are also in that column but we've put that out before.
It's all consistent with the same plan we've been outlining.
Our next question comes from George Tong of Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to get some additional color around your progress in converting your systems to be REIT-compliant by the end of this year and to begin operating as a REIT by the beginning of next year.
Could you discuss your progress there? And how you expect the rollout to progress as we move forward? Sure no.
We again are targeting to be ready for the election on January 1.
And to be positioned to do that we have to align our legal entities internationally and we have the initial countries that we're converting which is the U.S.
and several other countries and need to have all our information systems aligned so that we can measure performance in qualified REIT subsidiaries taxable REIT subsidiaries and ensure that we're complying with the key requirements like the asset test.
So we're -- to do that effectively we're touching a lot of our ERP systems.
We have more than one in our company.
We've used different versions in International operations.
We're in the midst of the heavy lifting of all of that and preparing for kind of a transition over in -- this summer so that we can test this well in advance of the January 1 conversion.
And I would say there's a ton of work going on.
We're obviously investing a lot behind that but everything is on-track and we feel good about the progress that we're making there.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then as a follow-up question could you discuss the dynamics in your various International markets as it relates to storage growth? And any opportunities you're seeing in specific countries and strategies you have to increase the performance of some of the markets that you may not be a leader in currently? Well I think that -- thanks George.
I think let's kind of divide the International between 2 groups so the emerging and the mature markets.
On the mature side I think we continue to see some opportunity for tuck-in acquisitions.
But even absent of that we have seen consistently over a number of quarters now is solid -- not just solid revenue growth around storage but also solid cube growth.
So absolutely showing that where people are storing more and more paper and tapes with us during that period.
So that's good to see and that's both in countries where we have already established our market-leading position and those of countries where we are not in a market-leading position.
And in mature markets obviously we have to be more thoughtful in terms of looking at acquisitions that truly complement our current operations and build in terms of our franchise.
In the emerging markets we have first of all very strong fundamental underlying growth.
But there's also in a number of countries we've already established our market-leading position like Chile but we're also finding other countries where there's good acquisition opportunities to continue to build on those franchises.
And as I say the underlining franchise themselves are showing very high physical storage growth and revenue growth.
In addition in a number of the emerging markets specifically around Latin America we're finding a lot of growth around BPM or Business Process Management.
And that many cases leads us to have even a stickier relationship with a number of our customers.
In fact the number of our customers start with more -- with our work around BPM or managing some of their paper processes and then it leads to storage rather than the other way around.
But as I say it strengthens our relationship with those customers and we're showing good growth both on the Business Process Management whilst it has a lower margin but it has a very high return on invested capital and as I say and continued strong underlying growth in the physical storage business.
Our next question comes from Andrew Wittmann of Baird.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just dig in a little bit on your comments Bill on M&amp;A.
It sounds like you're looking at a lot of stuff right now.
I think previously we were thinking about the company over kind of like a 10-year period and thinking $100 million a year was kind of the right way to think about what capital allocation to M&amp;A could be.
Is that in the near term maybe elevated from that level based on what you're seeing out there today? It's hard to comment at this point.
We're pretty -- we're very disciplined in terms of our acquisition process.
And right now we're not constrained by capital but we are seeing more and more opportunities and as I say International expansion is an important part of our strategy.
We did as you know a fairly large acquisition last year in Brazil.
We continue to see acquisitions in our pipeline.
I think you can expect that we'll continue on that trend.
To say what our total appetite is in terms of expenditure around that at this point it's hard to say but I wouldn't change our guidance at this stage.
But we are aggressively looking at what makes sense from an acquisition standpoint and we will continue to do that.
But as I said it was a very clear view in terms of what our hurdle rates are in terms of return.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just in terms of managing the balance sheet maybe Brian on this you're going to poke a little bit above the targeted level.
How comfortable are you about going -- or how high would you go and for how long would you go if the right deal came around above that kind of targeted range? Yes that's a good question.
I mean as a company we've operated above 5x leverage.
I'm not saying that that's what we'd be targeting to do.
But I mean I think our business has a lot of capacity to support higher leverage.
I think we would look at it in the context of the opportunity.
We'd likely perhaps move more towards the 5x range if we needed to temporarily.
But I think we'd look at different alternatives and what's the right way to finance the acquisition too if we get something more significant.
But our longer-term goals are the same.
The intent would be to manage our leverage back down towards the 3x to 4x target range.
And we feel quite comfortable with the business that we have that we can both manage the short term and get back to where we're hoping to be over the long term.
Research Division</strong> And maybe just one more kind of on this theme.
Bill you kind of talked about you're exploring wholesale data centers on existing land.
I think strategically it makes some sense from a high level just given your focus on data management and outsourcing key data protection services.
But obviously you're clearly a technically more complex business in terms of what the building actually is and there are specialized developers and owners of that real estate today.
As you look at potentially getting into that business is this something you think you have the skill set in-house? Or is this an area that you think you'd have to kind of bring in a platform to do that? A good question.
Well first of all I think we start getting into this business because our customers asked us to start providing services.
So as you know we're already providing wholesale data center service to 7 customers in our underground facility as we sit here today.
And it's pretty much along the lines that you're saying is that there is an opportunity to continue to both expand that business and then when we look at what customers want is our underground facility outside Pittsburgh is more of a disaster recovery site and a number of the customers are also asking for wholesale data center services or retail services that service their day-to-day data processing needs.
And those need to be closer to their headquarters or their centers of operation.
So there's a link between aboveground and underground facilities.
That being said both because the question you asked and do we have the full skill set in-house and because it is a market where there are a number of competitors is we're doing it in a very thoughtful way in letting our customers lead us into these arrangements rather than spending a lot of capital upfront and building it and see if they come if you know what I mean.
And we are as part of this process adding the right people at the right spots.
But this is not large numbers of people but it's actually hiring the right senior leadership team to support Mark Kidd who is actually leading that effort for us to make sure that we have the right critical skill set that can evaluate the opportunity properly.
Our next question comes from Gary Bisbee of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to first ask about the color on the pipeline of new business opportunities in the commentary that you're optimistic and a lot of it is from new customers of the company.
We haven't heard a lot of comments in the past around that pipeline.
So can you give a little color on where you're seeing opportunities? And is this an acceleration from what the trend has been in recent years? And just what makes you have that positive commentary? I wouldn't say it's an exploding trend.
I think that similar to what we said I think -- I believe we said on the last call this verticalization I think of it as a way of actually taking out the drill bits and doing the hard mining to get to the next level in the vein of resources.
So it's similar along the lines of what we say we're starting to see some what I call the green shoots in the federal market with our win in the veterans area.
And we're seeing some green shoots in the health care area which is the vertical that we've been operating in the longest and we're getting into some related areas for our traditional health care clients which is now almost a 1-for-1 set off on a revenue basis of what we were losing on the service side because the medical records becoming electronic.
And yet it's at a -- it had more than a 2x margin because we're replacing that business the service business around electronic medical records with more physical storage in areas like pathology but also in terms of other physical records that is a 1-for-1 almost trade-off in terms of revenue but at more than 2x the margin.
So this is a trend where as I say is through the verticalization is mining deeper either in our current client relationships or clients that are in that sector but have traditionally not outsourced or completely outsourced their storage business.
Research Division</strong> And then just following up on that can you give an example or 2 of how the offerings have changed in health care? Are you doing things different or is it really understanding the pain points for the customer and how to adopt the current offerings to help them relieve their issues? It's a little bit of both.
So I mean one area and a new area which we've started in just the recent months is in the whole pathology area which was an area that oddly enough we were in way back when through an acquisition we did in Boston our first acquisition in Boston but it's now a business that we're coming back into.
As well it has a number of areas where they weren't as sensitive to the documentation that they were keeping either from a compliance standpoint or a space standpoint.
So it's more areas where there was less sensitivity in terms of space and or compliance requirements and they now need to have those documents stored in a secure way.
And the other side as I say is areas like pathology which people now are realizing that those types of samples need to be stored in a proper way.
Gary I'd also highlight that I think the dedicated sales focus in the health care vertical we had other product offerings.
We do DMS-type work we have our product offering around digital records center for medical imaging.
And being in the flow of all the change that's going on in the health care space has enabled our organization to identify opportunities to do things like grow storage.
So I think that part of the concept around the verticalization strategy is having more -- having sales and account management resources that have more specific industry insight.
And by being involved with the changes that our customers are going through we're better able to identify opportunities to do business with them.
And that's certainly been the case in health care.
Research Division</strong> Okay that make sense.
And then just one last one which is just what gives you confidence -- in the commentary I heard a comment I heard a couple of times that you think the service declines will ease as we move through the year.
Is it really just a comps issue or is there anything else going on? It's a comp issue in that we knew we were up against particularly in International some shredding account losses and we had a DMS account that we're working through.
And so we know we'll be up against more favorable compares.
But also that we're targeting improved growth in areas like DMS as we work through the year and that will help as well.
We just really wanted to highlight that this isn't a change in trend.
This is a kind of a consistent underlying trend on activity-based volume.
We do have some tougher comps and we expect those numbers to improve.
Our next question comes from Scott Schneeberger of Oppenheimer.
For Scott.
Can you take us a little deeper on the drivers of International margins in the quarter and if you see any particular dynamic that might enable you to exceed your long-term target there? The key drivers there we were having good underlying storage growth.
In the International business we had a 12% constant dollar 5% internal solid growth across the business.
And I think that is a good -- helps everything.
It's a high-margin business and helps us to build scales across our business.
And we continued to see the flow-through benefits of the improvement plan in Western Europe.
If you recall the portfolio review and the productivity improvement plan that we implemented those benefits to continue to just flow through.
We're comfortable that we're on track towards the goal that we outlined in the 2-year plan of the 25% margin growth.
This achievement this year not signaling any upside to that.
And we've indicated over time we think there is room for additional margin improvement in International but want to temper our expectations there where we think future gains will be more moderate and that we're really focused on maximizing the value opportunity there.
But -- so no change in the expectations but we feel good about the progress that we're making.
Yes and just one thing to add to that Scott is remember -- and again I think we mentioned this last time you have to look at our International business because of the growth potential there as a portfolio.
So as countries for instance if we take again Chile which has amongst the highest margins of our operations worldwide mature or emerging markets is because if we've got our market-leading position there there will be other places where we continue to build a market-leading position so it would generally drift those margins up.
But we are adding in new areas where we have real opportunity.
So it's a portfolio approach of adding less mature opportunities into a group of countries that may be getting more mature.
So net-net you have to -- it's not clear that it would even be the right strategy to say that our average margin would go up internationally because that would signal that we're not finding new markets to actually go into and eventually build a market-leading position.
So you have to look at it as a portfolio approach in International.
The key in International is to make sure that when we're doing acquisitions we have a clear discipline in terms of our return on invested capital and return on equity.
And we have a clear strategic vision of how that country or that investment will eventually build into a market-leading position.
Our next question comes from Steven Shui of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You guys had mentioned that the improvement in North American margins are partially due to the realignment of the sales force for the health care vertical.
Can you give us a sense of how much North American margins can potentially improve as you guys realign the sales force verticals beyond health care? We had a little trouble hearing you.
But -- the end of the question you're saying how much more could North American margins increase? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes once you realign the sales force beyond health care.
The sales force realignment that was done last year wasn't just related to health care it was a broader realignment.
And we've been consistently signaling don't expect margin improvement in North America.
I think we've got a very high margin business operation.
We're trying to sustain that and be balanced about an appropriate level of investment to ensure we have a healthy and sustained annuity over time.
So those efficiencies enabled us to sustain good returns and that's what you should expect for this year.
And just to emphasize Brian's comment the verticalization is about maintaining our consistent storage revenue growth in North America.
It's not about margin expansion.
There was a one-time benefit of that in terms of the realignment to the sales force that allowed us to be more efficient.
But the verticalization is really about to be able to maintain our consistent revenue growth performance around storage in North America.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And to change direction given where paper prices are now at a relatively depressed level compared to last year have you guys seen any improvement to the pricing environment for Shredding? Paper prices have been in a relatively consistent range $150 to $160 a ton for several months now.
So I think that stability it's a bit below the longer-term averages which would be in the $200 a ton range.
And I think the Shredding business we feel good about progress there.
But I wouldn't signal that there's any meaningful change in kind of pricing dynamics.
It's been a relatively stable environment.
Our next question comes from Andrew Steinerman of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Could you go back to internal revenue change in core service the minus 7 is kind of a larger number relative to last couple of years.
Do you feel like the things that have affected the first quarter will meaningfully get better through the year? Or do you feel like this will be a year of larger declines in core service than we've experienced in the past? Andrew we were trending minus 3 to minus 4 internal growth Q3 Q4.
If you look back to Q1 of last year we had growth in core service.
So this isn't a fundamental change.
I mean I think we're seeing very consistent kind of pressures on the mature market activity-based services and we would expect to move back towards more kind of the range that we were in the last couple of quarters and with opportunity to improve on that because we have goals that we have in terms of driving project-based revenue and building aspects of our business.
So I think it's -- we're trying to signal don't take Q1 and trend that out in terms of a growth rate that's more reflecting lapping and some specific things.
But I think the trends that we saw later last year are probably more indicative of where we'll be heading in the next couple of quarters.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful Brian and one more question on the same subject.
You also cited declines in destruction as part of that dynamic in core service.
And whenever I hear declines in destruction I often think that that should help the storage revenues.
Is that dynamic happening or is this a different type of destruction? Well we did see in terms of the destruction and termination fees it's not a huge driver of the number in North America but it was lower in Q1 down double digits.
Some of that's timing so I don't want to indicate like a fundamental change there.
But you're right that is a relatively positive dynamic.
I think it's reflective of a lot of the work that we've been doing over the last couple of years on customer retention customer excellence and the benefits of that.
So yes it should be something that helps us over time.
Some of -- to be fair I mean some of this is just timing and when things happen.
But I think that is a theme that hopefully you are hearing here that we feel quite good about the storage dynamic.
I think it's consistent it's healthy.
We're expanding our footprint globally and as that our International business continues to grow it has very healthy underlying growth rates.
We're feeling good about that as a longer-term trend.
Our next question comes from Gary Bisbee of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Follow up.
In thinking about all the investment you're doing in terms of preparing for the REIT is that fully captured in the one-time cost and charges that you've been giving us that number for the REIT? Or are there some costs through SG&amp;A and cost of sales that might fall off next year as you get through the process? And if so how significant are those costs? It won't fall off Gary.
It will go the other way candidly in the sense that we've been highlighting all along that as our anticipation as we come through the conversion process there's a whole bunch of one-time costs.
We will have a level of incremental ongoing costs in we've -- our estimate I believe has been $10 million to $15 million.
If you think about it we're going to need additional tax resources some additional financial resources legal resources to just manage the incremental compliance requirements things of that nature.
We do anticipate that over time we should get efficiencies as well out of this effort and that we're standardizing a lot of our systems and our approaches.
I think that's going to take a little time to flow through because our focus really here is to make sure we're getting to the goal line on the right -- as quickly as we can and to make sure we don't miss that.
But I wouldn't expect or I don't want to signal that we're going to see like a drop off in underlying costs.
We really tried to be clear about segregating these costs and they're separate from our ongoing operational costs.
At this time there are no further questions.
Thank you operator.
To wrap up we're off to a good start in 2013.
Our durable growth in storage rental continues we have attractive opportunities to sustain that growth through acquisitions and further expansion into emerging markets as well as investment in our adjacent businesses -- opportunities.
We are on track to deliver against our financial goals.
We're making good progress on preparations for our planned conversion to a REIT and we have an attractive storage rental business with durable high-quality net operating income that aligns well with REITs.
As we continue to execute against our plan we will be focused on prudent capital allocation maximizing total returns and delivering sustainable value to our shareholders.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Lashanda and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Iron Mountain Q2 2013 Earnings Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn today's call over to Ms.
Melissa Marsden.
Ms.
Marsden you may begin your conference.
Thank you and welcome everyone to our second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
I'm Melissa Marsden Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
And this morning we'll hear from Bill Meaney our CEO who will discuss highlights and strategic initiatives; followed by Brian McKeon our CFO who will cover financial results and guidance.
Stephen Golden VP IR is also with us today.
After prepared remarks we'll open up the phones for Q&amp;A.
Per our custom we have a user-controlled slide presentation available at the Investor Relations page of our website at www.ironmountain.com.
Referring now to Slide 2.
Today's earnings call and slide presentation will contain a number of forward-looking statements most notably our outlook for 2013 financial performance.
All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to today's press release the Safe Harbor language on this slide and our most recently filed annual report on Form 10-K and 10-Q for a discussion of the major risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those in our forward-looking statements.
In addition we use several non-GAAP measures when presenting our financial results.
The reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures as required by Reg G can be found at the Investor Relations page of our website as well as in today's press release.
With that I'd like to turn it over to Bill Meaney.
Thank you Melissa and many -- and my thanks to everyone joining us today and good morning.
Our second quarter results reflect our focus on sustaining the durability of the business in supporting our future growth.
Total revenues were $755 million adjusted OIBDA was $233 million and adjusted earnings per share was $0.29 per share.
These amounts include a $5 million legal accrual noted in our press release.
Prior to this accrual our financial performance was in line with our expectations for both the quarter and the year-to-date.
Operating performance is also tracking in line with our expectations with consistent storage rental constant dollar growth of 3% and storage rental internal growth of 2.3% for the quarter.
As we've indicated in recent quarters the trend towards lower levels of retrieval and refile activity and related transportation services in developed markets continues.
But also as expected service declines moderated somewhat during the second quarter and our solid storage rental revenue growth continued to offset service declines and support our consistent profit results.
Overall our full year outlook for operating performance remains the same aside from the impact of foreign currency exchange rates.
Before Brian reviews our financial performance I'd like to discuss our initiatives to continue to support the durability of our core business and the growth opportunities we're seeing in both our developed and emerging markets and progress on our plans to convert to a REIT.
As a reminder when I refer to developed markets for Iron Mountain that includes not only our North American markets of Canada and the United States but Australia and the U.K.
as well.
It also includes Western Europe where our team continues to deliver solid results with good volume growth and improved profitability.
This is despite a lackluster macroeconomic environment across Europe.
As I mentioned last quarter our strategy to sustain the durability of the business in our developed markets includes 3 elements.
One tailoring our sales and marketing efforts to focus on vertical markets and add value for customers through industry-specific solutions.
Two is differentiating our core storage and service offerings with innovative tools that drive incremental storage from existing customers as well as attracting new customers.
And three acquisition opportunities driven by ongoing consolidation in our industry.
With respect to the first of these elements we've worked through the realignment of our sales and marketing organizations to focus on verticals.
This transition has taken some time to implement but we're beginning to see results.
For example our focus on the health care market in North America is driving storage rental in this vertical offsetting declines in query-driven service activity.
We continue to see this dynamic in the second quarter with health care storage rental up roughly 3% year-to-date versus last year.
Being aligned along vertical markets also is permitting us to extend our reach into related segments such as life sciences.
While our foray into this segment is more recent we are seeing good interest from both new and existing customers driving increases in project-related complementary services as well as about a 3.5% increase in storage rental year-to-date.
We also have seen a nice pickup in new business bookings in this vertical segment although the related volume will not be reflected in this year's results.
Overall we continue to identify ways to leverage our industry-specific expertise and bring best practices to bear.
As we do this we are having more conversations deeper within our customers' organizations in increasing the potential to drive incremental business.
In addition to our vertical market approach we are continuing to differentiate our core storage and service offerings as a means to tap the un-vended market.
Consistent with this approach is our Archival Tape Management offering which is a solution within our data protection business that helps companies manage data from legacy systems.
Given the fast pace of growth in electronic data and the speed of change in technology most companies have a tiered system of data storage.
They seek to balance having the right amount of data protected in the right format in the right place and at the right time against the cost of storing that data.
Tape backup is often the second third and even fourth line of defense and remains the most cost-effective way to move data off-site and store it for long periods of time.
This service which we just launched in April provides quick reliable access to archival tapes for customers even after they've shut down legacy systems.
It also provides encryption of legacy data for compliance purposes and protects it from inadvertent disclosures.
This data protection offering promotes discussion with customers in the un-vended space and we're encouraged by a couple of early wins.
We also continue to expand our business in developed markets through active and attractive fold-in acquisitions.
Also during the quarter we completed the acquisition of 3 records management businesses owned by Texas-based Information Storage Consolidation Company expanding our presence in Eastern Michigan Dallas and Southeast Florida.
This acquisition adds midsized organizations to our customer roster and is consistent with our strategy for sustaining the durability of our storage business in developed markets where we continue to have a solid pipeline of active deals.
We are also pursuing a number of interesting opportunities to expand our platform in high-growth emerging markets through both organic growth and accretive acquisitions that meet our financial hurdles.
Customers in these markets often are just beginning to outsource their records management and we see a significant opportunity to provide storage and related services that can help them become more efficient and reduce costs.
Again we define emerging markets to include the BRIC countries in addition to other Latin American markets Central and Eastern Europe and Asia Pacific markets such as Hong Kong.
These emerging markets currently represent about 10% of total annual revenues or about a $300 million business for us and we have a number of attractive acquisitions and joint venture opportunities throughout these regions.
We believe our emerging market expansion will be an engine for future growth as demonstrated by strong storage-rental constant-dollar growth in these markets of 13% in the second quarter.
As we've previously noted achieving leadership in our international markets drives improved efficiencies similar to those in our developed markets.
However we manage our International business as a portfolio so our ongoing acquisition activity and entry into new markets naturally tempers our ability to continue to post significant further margin improvement in the near term.
That said we are very pleased with our progress on International margin improvement goal during the quarter achieving 24.6% for the year-to-date.
This represents a 280-basis-points improvement over the first half of last year and is a significant accomplishment for our International team.
In terms of business adjacencies we are making progress with plans to accelerate the expansion of our underground wholesale data center in Pennsylvania that we talked about on our last call.
We are developing our pipeline and continue to evaluate opportunities for incremental investment in this business.
Finally let me touch on the REIT.
As I'm sure you are all aware we've been advancing our preparations for conversion including seeking Private Letter Rulings or PLRs from the IRS.
In early June we disclosed in an 8-K filing that we have been notified by the IRS that it had formed a working group to study the legal definition of real estate as it relates to REITs.
We also said that as a result we expected ruling from some of our PLR requests as well as the PLR requests from other companies on similar issues to be delayed until the IRS completes its study which might take us beyond the approximate 1 year time line we have talked about since mid-July of last year.
Obviously we are beyond that time frame.
We felt it was important to disclose the delay and also to disclose that prior to the IRS pressing the pause button it had indicated to us that it was tentatively adverse to ruling that our racking structures are real estate for REIT purposes.
We also stated that it is not unusual to receive this type of preliminary indication as part of the PLR process.
We understand that the resolution of these issues is top of mind for all of you as well.
However we ask you to please understand that we are not providing any updates for you today with regard to the scope of the IRS working group study the timing of the study nor the tentatively adverse indication.
For those of you on the call not familiar with this matter I encourage you to refer to the 8-K filing from 6 June which includes other details as well as risk factors.
Given this lack of certainty with respect to the timing and our focus on conversion we plan to break from tradition and will host our next investor day in March 2014 as opposed to our typical mid-October time frame.
Despite this unforeseen delay we feel good about our position with respect to our racking structures as real estate under our interpretation of the current standards and this delay doesn't change our plans to move forward with those preparations we can control to ensure our readiness for conversion in January 2014.
For example on our targeted date of 1 July we successfully migrated our REIT-critical IT systems and processes to a new platform that enables us to operate internally as a REIT for a period of time before we officially elect REIT status.
This was a massive undertaking and I wish to thank publicly all of our cross functional teams who were successful in meeting this tight interim deadline.
These system enhancements will allow greater efficiencies and provide a robust foundation for future growth.
And you may see us undertake additional steps necessary to support conversion while we await clarity on the PLR all in the name of being prepared as we possibly can to convert in 2014.
Of course we can make no assurances we'll be successful in converting.
But we believe we fit well as a REIT due to the attractive characteristics of our business such as the quality and durability of our storage rental net operating income our high rental revenue per square foot the low volatility throughout economic ups and downs the high credit quality and the high retention customer base as well as relatively low maintenance and turnover costs.
But whilst the REIT structure complements our strategy our strategy for sustaining the durability of our business is not dependent upon the REIT.
Our business generates strong consistent cash flow in excess of what we require to invest in people processes and platforms to support our long-term growth.
Our targeted level for investment in emerging markets acquisitions and adjacencies is approximately 25% to 35% of our free cash flow and we believe this would be similar under our existing structure or as a REIT.
It is a level that is consistent with our capital allocation approach through which we seek to maximize cash flow and it leaves us with significant excess free cash flow to support attractive stockholder payouts.
Our business is solid with great fundamentals and we have a strategy to support growth and sustain the durability of our core storage rental business.
And with that I'll turn it over to Brian to discuss our financial results in more detail.
Thanks Bill.
Let's turn now to Slide 3 which highlights the key messages from today's review.
We delivered good operating results in Q2 in line with our expectations reflecting consistent storage rental growth and solid profit performance supported by international margin gains.
Overall our growth trends were consistent.
Storage rental grew 3% on a constant dollar basis in the quarter supported by consistent gains in North America and 7% growth in International including benefits from recent acquisitions in Brazil France and North America.
Durable storage gains continue to be partially offset by declines in query-based core service activity.
Core service growth declines improved relative to Q1 as expected reflecting more favorable comparisons in international markets but remain a headwind to our overall growth.
Underlying adjusted OIBDA performance was solid in Q2 supported by continued international margin gains and sustained cost controls.
Our Q2 and year-to-date adjusted OIBDA and adjusted EPS results were impacted by a legal accrual recorded in the quarter of $5 million or $0.02 per share.
Excluding the legal accrual impact adjusted OIBDA is up 1% year-to-date in line with our full year goals.
Today we're updating our full year 2013 performance outlook to reflect changes in FX exchange rates since the beginning of the year.
The strengthening of the dollar since the beginning of the year is projected to reduce full-year reported revenues between 1% and 1.5% with relatively similar impacts in adjusted OIBDA.
I'll speak more to these updates later in my remarks.
Let's move on to Slide 4 to review our financial results in more detail.
Slide 4 compares our results for this quarter to the second quarter of 2012.
As noted Q2 results were as expected.
Enterprise revenues grew 1.3% on a constant dollar basis as our International segment continued to produce strong revenue performance.
International posted 5% constant dollar revenue growth supported by 7% storage rental growth including benefits from our recent acquisitions in Brazil and France.
North America posted flat constant currency revenue growth as 2% storage rental gains were offset by lower core service revenues.
Foreign exchange rate changes reduced revenue growth by 0.5% in the quarter.
Adjusted OIBDA was $233 million or basically flat compared to last year's Q2 excluding the $5 million legal accrual.
A key driver of profit performance was the continued improvement in our International segment consistent with our plans.
International adjusted OIBDA increased 25% year-on-year in Q2 reflecting strong top line growth and continued margin gains.
Savings from North America cost improvement initiatives mitigated impacts from core service revenue declines.
Adjusted EPS for the quarter was $0.29 per share compared to $0.37 in Q2 2012.
Adjusting for the $0.02 per share impact of the legal accrual I described earlier adjusted EPS would have been $0.31 per share.
The year-on-year decrease was due primarily to 20 million additional shares outstanding including those issued as part of our special dividend last November.
Adjusted OIBDA and adjusted EPS exclude the impact of costs associated with the REIT conversion which reduced reported EPS by $0.08 per share net of tax.
GAAP earnings per share of $0.14 includes $24 million of REIT costs and $15 million of other expense partially offset by $2 million of gains on asset dispositions.
Our structural tax rate for the quarter was 39%.
Let's now take a closer look at our revenue growth on Slide 5.
Slide 5 shows the components building to our overall revenue growth.
Q2 growth rates were in line with our expectations and our full year outlook.
Our storage rental business remains durable providing a solid foundation for overall revenue performance.
For the quarter consistent storage rental growth of 3% on a constant dollar basis drove overall revenue performance and supported total constant dollar revenue growth of 1.3%.
Year-on-year global net volume growth was 1.4%.
North America reported 1.8% constant dollar storage rental growth reflecting relatively flat records management volume average records management pricing gains of 1.2% and benefits from our recent acquisition.
North American pricing gains were slightly lower in Q2 than recent trends reflecting impacts from prior year comparisons.
For the full year we expect pricing gains to be approximately 1.5%.
International storage rental growth of 6.6% constant dollar for the quarter reflected sustained double-digit growth in emerging markets.
For the year we expect overall storage rental to sustain consistent growth rates of about 3% on a constant dollar basis.
Total services decreased 1% constant dollar as International service growth was offset by North American service revenue declines reflecting lower activity-based core services and related transportation activity.
Gains in DMS and increased project revenues in both North America and International helped to offset these impacts.
Paper prices had limited impact in Q2 as lower average prices were partially offset by increased volume in North America.
At current paper price levels which are down 12% year-on-year however we will see some pressure on this front moving forward which will constrain overall service gains.
Overall total internal growth was 0.5% as 2.3% gains in storage rental more than offset service pressures.
Let's take a look at our segment performance on Slide 6.
Slide 6 looks at our year-to-date 2013 performance compared to last year.
In terms of our key financial metrics we delivered results that reflect consistent business trends and have us on track to achieve our full year financial goals.
Reported revenue of $1.5 billion was up 1% on a constant dollar basis driven by solid storage gains.
Adjusted OIBDA was flat year-over-year on a constant dollar basis.
As noted earlier excluding the $5 million legal accrual adjusted OIBDA grew 1% reflecting North America cost efficiencies and International margin improvement.
Adjusted EPS was $0.56 per share down 15% compared to the first half of last year reflecting the impact of additional shares issued in connection with the special dividend last November higher interest expense associated with shareholder payouts and the legal accrual noted earlier.
These impacts more than offset lower income tax expense in the period.
First half capital spending was $86 million excluding $20 million of real estate and $14 million of REIT conversion CapEx.
As a percentage of revenues CapEx excluding real estate and REIT CapEx is 5.7% of sales in line with our full year plans.
Free cash flow for the first 6 months of 2013 was $154 million compared to $117 million for the same period last year.
The year-on-year increase reflects lower cash taxes which were partially offset by higher capital spending.
The 2013 year-to-date adjusted OIBDA and adjusted EPS results shown here exclude $49 million of costs associated with the REIT conversion.
These costs reduced reported EPS by about $0.18.
Note that 2012 adjusted OIBDA and adjusted EPS excludes $5 million of these costs and reduces reported EPS by $0.02 per share.
In addition to the $14 million of REIT-related CapEx I just discussed we paid $28 million in taxes towards our D&amp;A recapture liability.
All told these items would reduce free cash flow by about $76 million year-to-date.
We've included a slide outlining the actual and expected REIT cost and related expenditures in the appendix of the presentation.
Let's now turn to Slide 7 to review our results by segment.
Slide 7 shows key year-to-date metrics for each of our 3 key segments.
Consistent with our business strategy we're sustaining high returns in our North American segment while we continue to build our International segment as a significant driver of profit and cash flow gains.
North America continues to deliver high profits and strong cash flows.
For the first half of 2013 our North American business segment reported revenues of $1.1 billion supported by consistent 2% constant dollar storage rental gains.
We sustained adjusted OIBDA margins of 42% as SG&amp;A savings offset pressures from lower service revenues.
We're also sustaining capital efficiencies with spending at 4.6% of revenues excluding real estate.
Our International segment continues to post strong constant dollar revenues adjusted OIBDA and cash flow gains.
Adjusted OIBDA increased 17% on a constant dollar basis benefiting from solid global growth and cost improvement initiatives in Western European markets.
International adjusted OIBDA margins have expanded 280 basis points year-to-date keeping us on track towards our goal of about 25% International segment margins in 2013.
Finally corporate expenses were up compared to prior year levels impacted by the $5 million legal accrual.
Let's now take a look at our debt statistics on Slide 8.
Solid cash flow generation enables us to maintain a sound balance sheet.
We're well positioned in terms of cash and financing capacity.
At quarter end liquidity was nearly $800 million with $259 million in cash and $535 million in additional borrowing capacity.
We are currently operating with a consolidated leverage ratio of 4.1x just above the high end of our targeted 3x to 4x leverage range.
Our leverage ratio was increased over the past 2-plus years as planned to support shareholder payouts of $1.7 billion and expenditures in connection with our proposed conversion to a REIT over that period.
As we stated previously the costs associated with REIT conversion including tax payments will temporarily push our leverage over the high end of our target range.
Our strong cash flows support continued advancement of our capital allocation strategy and our REIT conversion.
During the first half of the year we paid $103 million in cash dividends and $90 million of REIT costs including REIT-related CapEx and tax payments related to the depreciation recapture.
As we mentioned in our recently filed 8-K we expect to engage in some financing transactions in Q3 including amending our senior credit facility.
We're currently working on that amendment and expect to complete the process shortly.
The scope and timing of any additional financing activities is still to be determined and we'll keep you abreast of these transactions as they develop.
We're managing our balance sheet consistent with our strategy while advancing substantial payouts to shareholders and we remain well positioned to fund our business plan.
That concludes our review of the Q2 2013 results.
Let's now turn to Slide 9 to review our 2013 outlook.
Slide 9 summarizes our updated full year 2013 operating outlook.
While our business trends and operating fundamentals are consistent today we're updating our full year 2013 guidance to reflect FX rate changes.
Changes in FX rates since the beginning of the year are driving a projected reduction in reported revenues of more than $40 million or between 1% and 1.5% for the full year.
Adjusted OIBDA will be similarly impacted on a percentage basis.
We're now expecting full year revenues to be about $3 000 000 000 to $3 050 000 000 and adjusted OIBDA to be between $900 million and $925 million.
We're also updating our expectations for adjusted EPS to reflect the FX changes as well as updated estimates for interest in D&amp;A related to recent acquisitions.
We're not including any impacts from potential future refinancing activities as the scope and timing of those transactions are not final.
We'll update our outlook as appropriate on the next earnings call.
As we've been highlighting we anticipate significant onetime operating and capital costs associated with our potential conversion to a REIT.
These costs relate to substantial system investments legal and tax work advisory fees and other costs to implement the proposed structure.
We're investing to ensure that we meet the January 1 2014 deadline and several of our REIT-critical systems are now operating on a test basis.
For the year we expect to incur between $65 million and $95 million of incremental expense.
The impact of these costs will be a reduction on reported EPS of $0.26 to $0.36 per share.
Today we're also updating our estimate for the earnings and profit distribution related -- to reflect a more detailed assessment of our International profits in countries targeted for conversion in 2014.
As you know successful conversion to a REIT requires that we distribute all of our accumulated earnings and profits related to countries converted to shareholders by the end of our first year as a REIT.
Based on updated information and additional analysis we now expect our total distribution to be between $1.2 billion and $1.7 billion of which $700 million was paid out in 2012.
Slides laying out our outlook for line items below adjusted OIBDA as well as the REIT-related items are included in the appendix.
That concludes our review.
In summary Q2 was a quarter of solid financial performance and we're well positioned to achieve our full year financial goals.
We continue to execute against our business plan sustaining high profits and cash flow in North America and driving strong growth and higher returns in our International business.
And we continue to advance work in connection with the proposed REIT conversion as part of our long-term approach to enhance value creation for stockholders.
Thanks and we'd now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of George Tong with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Storage volumes growth this quarter it appears decelerated from the prior several quarters.
How much of this was driven by reduced growth benefits from your acquisition of Grupo Store in Brazil versus a fundamental change in volume trends that you're seeing? The acquisition impact was the primary driver.
We completed the Grupo Store acquisition in Q2 of last year and so we're completing the benefit that we got from that relatively larger acquisition.
The fundamental trends in the rest of the business very similar.
The -- as we noted actually the service growth rate improved a bit on a comparable basis.
We knew we had some unfavorable lapping last quarter that we worked through.
And basically our storage growth rates were consistent.
I did note that the North America pricing number was a little bit lower than we've been and that's more of a year-on-year comparison.
We're expecting kind of 1.5% net pricing gains in records management in North America for the full year and for the back half.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's helpful.
And as a follow-up you're seeing improving trends in the services business.
Do you expect to see services revenue declines to continue to moderate throughout the year? And any chance services growth can turn positive on a constant currency basis? Yes it's a good question.
I would say the trends are similar.
I think we -- it's a relatively better growth.
It was down 1% constant dollar and that's more -- better than Q1 largely because Q1 had some comparison issues.
We are seeing benefits from our growth in things like DMS and project-related revenue and continued expansion in the International business.
We did note that the paper pricing has moved lower so it was -- the SOP market price is now down to $138 a ton.
And that will be a headwind back half of the year.
So I'd be cautious about signaling an improvement because we're facing that dynamic.
But overall relatively similar trends and we're hoping that we can move this in a relatively more positive direction over time as we continue to build out these other service lines and grow our international presence.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin McVeigh with Macquarie.
Hey Brian can you give us a little more background on the $5 million legal accrual that we got in the quarter? Yes we tend to not want to get into specifics on legal accruals but we had a customer dispute that's been going on for a number of years goes back a number of years I should say in terms of the time period we're looking at.
And we're booking accrual related to that.
It's not anything that is operationally oriented.
And just given the size of it Kevin that's sort of a cumulative effect of something that's kind of impacted a number of years it was large enough for us to highlight that so that we don't give you a distorted view of what our underlying operational trends are.
But it's relatively unusual and just it's related more to a customer agreement.
Got it.
And then I just want to make sure and I think I heard you right but the incremental step up in the E&amp;P that was all International? Because it -- in terms of the step up because I think the range if I had it right was kind of $300 million to $800 million now it's an incremental $500 million to $1 billion.
That was kind of all International true up? Or it had nothing to do with potentially going out to 2015 on the REIT conversion right? Just to clarify the numbers we originally had $1 billion to $1.5 billion and we're taking it to $1.2 billion to $1.7 billion so it's a $200 million increase.
And it reflects -- just more detailed.
As you might imagine it's a complicated exercise trying to go back in time and calculate the exact kind of cumulative earnings and profits by country of what we've earned over time and the increase reflects updated estimates for the International business.
There isn't a change in terms of the time frame we're looking at.
This is related to the countries that we anticipate converting in 2014 with our initial wave one if you will and assuming we're successful with the REIT process.
Got it.
And then just any sense of timing from when you'll hear back from the IRS just given the decision to move the investor day? Is that kind of a reasonable proxy that we should hear before the investor day or around that any sense of timing on when we'll get some type of clarity? Kevin we can't really say anything more than we've already said in the 8-K.
So we just moved the investor day because we felt that doing it in October if we haven't got clarity one way or the other it would be a bit early to do that.
So -- but I wouldn't read anything into it because we can't say more than we've already told you.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Shui with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you guys give us the North America...
Steven can you speak up? Because we can't hear you.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you guys give us the North America volume growth number and talk about how that's been trending versus expectations? Sure the volume growth was down 0.2% so relatively flat consistent with recent trends and consistent with expectations and where we are.
We're advancing a number of initiatives including the vertical initiatives that Bill can talk to that our goal is to improve that rate over time.
But I would say the underlying trend is consistent with where we've been.
Yes there has -- it's almost dead on where we were for the year in 2012.
But I think one of the reasons why we're talking about the verticals and we highlighted 2 verticals where -- which are ones that we had stood up before we had made the major change where we're actually showing positive storage growth is because I think now I think I've said on a previous call is in the mature markets is that getting after the volume now is much more kind of underground mining whereas before maybe it was more like opencast.
So we have to be much more precise and much more diligent.
That being said I will highlight that in every Western European country we are in positive storage growth on an internal basis.
So it's -- the trend hasn't changed in North America but we're making some changes along the vertical line to try to improve that performance.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And assuming there's no word on the PLR by the beginning of 2014 how will that affect how you manage the business going into the year in terms of your IT and legal systems? And maybe you can also give us some color on if there's a plan B if the PLR comes back negative.
So on your first question I think we are as noted continue to advance work to do -- to be ready for our Jan 1 2014 goal and the systems that we're putting in place in terms of financial systems things of that nature will have benefit for our business regardless in terms of kind of standard platforms and kind of standardized ways of looking at information.
It's actually accelerated investments that we would've made as a company over time.
So we'll see benefits from that going forward.
As Bill noted we can't really speculate at this point on timing of a process but we think it's prudent to continue to move forward with those investments and we'll get benefit in our business overall.
In terms of a plan B if you will so if we were in a position that we weren't moving forward with converting to a REIT just to reinforce some things that we've said in the past we would be pursuing as a company the same business and capital allocation strategy.
We expect to generate -- continue to generate substantial cash flow.
We've indicated that we estimate we'd have about 70% of our free cash flow x real estate the way that we defined it publicly available for distribution to shareholders.
That's a longer-term kind of an average assuming a moderate level of M&amp;A investment $100 million to $150 million a year.
And obviously we don't convert we wouldn't have the benefit of some of the tax savings that come from that the discipline associated with the REIT structure.
But we'd still have substantial flexibility to support financial payouts.
And we'd expect to do that through a combination of a growing dividend which right now is about 60% of our free cash flow and likely some level of share repurchases.
So we haven't defined that plan specifically.
But directionally it's the same business and capital allocation strategy we continue to generate substantial cash flow and we'd be continuing to drive payouts to shareholders including a growing dividend.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Steinerman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Brian correct me if I'm right about this in kind of footnote #1 of your 2013 outlook which is now 0% to 2% internal growth.
That is a little bit of a bump up from the last estimate we had which included a negative 1 at the low end.
What's caused this kind of lean forwards? It's really rounding Andrew.
I think it's fundamentally the same outlook.
We took the opportunity given the FX changes to kind of like fold through kind of relook overall.
But I would say it's fundamentally the same outlook.
We have -- we do have some incremental benefit from acquisition kind of flowing through.
It's small but it's nothing -- there isn't -- fundamentally there isn't a change in sort of our operating outlook from where we were.
It's consistent excluding the FX changes.
Research Division</strong> Right and what would be a D&amp;A estimate for the year? I think we have that in the slides for you.
It's...
Research Division</strong> I missed that.
It's in the final appendix numbers.
Right now it's...
Research Division</strong> Okay I didn't get up to the appendix yet.
And then just to make sure we model the FX correctly.
Because that's what you're calling out here.
You called it $40 million for the year.
How much will FX have as a drag on third and fourth quarter in terms of growth rates? I believe it's about 1.5 points 1 point to 1.5 points.
Your next question comes from the line of Justin Hauke with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering so Brambles obviously announced that they're going to be spinning off Recall as its own publicly traded entity.
I guess my question is have you seen any change in strategy as they start to think about themselves as an independent entity? And also how does that maybe change the dynamic on the M&amp;A opportunities that are out there considering that they'll be infused with maybe a little bit more capital going forward? Well I think it's too early to tell.
I mean they've just made their announcement although the company you can say has been in play or under discussion for a while.
I think that net-net from our standpoint it's a good thing because I think having a company that is not in the dressing up stage for sale but rather operating in the public markets like we are then I think we would expect them to be competing on a purely rational basis not looking towards a transaction.
So I think that's always a good thing from our standpoint.
I think -- it's the -- so I think net-net for us it's a positive.
Whether or not they will be more aggressive in terms of acquisitions I mean they've been aggressive in terms of acquisitions before.
They've always been competing with us in the past and there's other people that compete with us in acquisitions.
So I think overall we welcome them to the forum of being a public company.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Brian just a quick one.
What was the EBITDA contribution from the acquisitions that you completed this quarter? Do you have a number for this year or maybe a full year run rate? It's small for the full year.
Acquisitions year-to-date it's about $2 million additive.
So it's -- and that's net of the initial integration cost.
Obviously those get more accretive over time.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Schneeberger with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Brian in the press release it calls out the declines in service revenue moderating one of the reasons being increased special records management project volume.
Could you take us a level deeper on that and if it's a trend that could persist? Well it's been a focus area for us for a while but I think as we've -- it's early on but as we increase the focus around serving vertical segments and having our sales organization aligned with them I think we're identifying opportunities to customers not just through storage but through some transitions that they work in terms of how they're managing their organization.
So it is something that we're hopeful to be a continued positive trend.
And it's consistent with our business focus.
So I think the -- I do want to reinforce the kind of the main change from Q1 to Q2 is kind of get working through some tough lapping.
We had some customer losses that we worked in shredding in International we worked through some of those things.
But look we're encouraged with their progress on their front and we do have some ongoing headwinds that are -- kind of constrain growth.
The query-based service activity continues to be a challenge and right now paper will be a bit of a challenge.
But overall we feel good that we're on the right track with the strategy.
Research Division</strong> And then just looking across your major verticals legal health care could you give us a feel -- and others could you give us a feeling as to just trends within them and in particular health care? Well I think in health care I highlighted in the remarks that we're seeing about a 3% year-on-year growth in storage.
But I think that if you look at the services we continue to feel the headwinds.
Because the service mainly historically in health care has been about active file or in terms of retrieving -- when hospitals need to retrieve people's medical files.
And of course that's going electronic.
So what we've done now with the vertical is we've gone into new areas and mined deeper within the health care client -- customers helping them make themselves paperless in their operations and get the paper out of there and stored properly.
So much more of an archival trend.
But as you see it's -- we're getting significant year-on-year improvement in terms of the amount of storage volume we're getting.
And I think I highlighted in the last call bear in mind also that margin for us on storage is about 2x what it is on the service.
So we continue to see a trend towards the electronic medical record which takes away some of the service revenue that we had before on active file.
But at the same time we're getting into new areas and helping our customers store even more offsite and we like those trends.
Research Division</strong> Anything notably outstanding in legal or financial services or has that been fairly consistent with the past? That's been pretty much consistent in the past.
Those are 2 areas where the vertical -- we've stood up the verticals this year so they're relatively new in those areas.
So it's too early to really say how that is progressing.
But I think right now it's trending pretty much consistent with the past.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Berg with Post Advisory Group.
LLC</strong> Two questions just housekeeping.
Going back to the legal accrual that goes back over how many years? It's over a decade.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And with respect to realigning the sales force in the different verticals is that completed now across all verticals or are you still rolling that out among some? It's pretty much completed but the one thing I just want to highlight is it's work in progress.
Because as we stood them up we look at making sure that we've picked the right verticals and we're getting the benefits that we want.
So yes we have done the realignment and we've set the organization up but it's one of these things where we have clear metrics around each of those and we continue to evaluate them.
LLC</strong> And from the ones you did earlier to the ones you did most recently how much of a differential in performance are you seeing? Well I think the 2 that I've highlighted the ones that's been up the longest which is both life sciences and health care and we're seeing as I said 3% roughly 3% to 3.5% year-on-year storage growth in those 2.
Overall in North America as Brian highlighted earlier we're down about 0.2% in terms of physical storage growth year-on-year.
So you can see the difference that we're getting in those 2.
But I'm not going to try to -- I think it would be dangerous to extrapolate across the board.
But that's -- we are -- it is one and it's not the only thing we're doing but it is one of the things that we're doing to try to mimic similar performance that we're getting out of mature markets in Europe in terms of physical storage growth.
As I said this is much more like going from opencast mining to underground mining.
Part of the tools and the drills that we're deploying to get at the -- get at the storage revenue is this verticalization of the sales and marketing groups.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn today's call back over to your presenters for closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
To wrap up our 2013 performance is on track.
It's driven by the consistent growth in our storage rental business.
And we believe we have numerous opportunities to sustain that growth in both developed and emerging markets through our vertical market focus our innovative tools and services that drive incremental opportunities and attractive acquisitions.
And we continue to make progress on preparations for our planned conversion to a REIT.
As we move forward through the year and sharpen our focus on the key drivers of value for our business we will as always continue to focus on prudent capital allocation maximizing total returns and delivering sustainable value to our shareholders.
Thank you for joining us this morning and have a good day.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Iron Mountain Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call may be recorded.
I'll now introduce your host for today's conference Melissa Marsden.
You may begin.
Thank you and welcome everyone to our third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
I'm Melissa Marsden Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
And this morning we'll hear from Bill Meaney our CEO who will discuss highlights for the quarter and strategic initiatives followed by Brian McKeon our CFO who will cover financial results and guidance.
Rod Day acting CFO and Stephen Golden VP IR are also with us today.
After prepared remarks we'll open up the phones for Q&amp;A.
Per our custom we have a user-controlled slide presentation at the Investor Relations page of our website at www.ironmountain.com.
Referring now to Slide 2 of that presentation today's earnings call and slide presentation will contain a number of forward-looking statements most notably our outlook for 2013 and 2014 financial performance.
All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to today's press release the Safe Harbor language on this slide and our most recently filed annual report on Form 10-K for a discussion of the major risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those in our forward-looking statements.
In addition we use several non-GAAP measures when presenting our financial results and the reconciliations of those non-GAAP measures as required by Reg G can be found at the Investor Relations page of our website as well as in today's press release.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Bill Meaney.
Thanks Melissa and thank you to everyone for joining us this morning.
Before we begin I wish to congratulate the Red Sox.
Sorry for those of you that aren't fans better luck next year.
It was a great season and a great win.
I couldn't ask for more after being out of the country for 27 years and coming back home to see the Sox win the World Series.
So let's just hope that the other Boston teams do as well this year.
Now back to business.
During the third quarter we continued to work on advancing our strategy by sustaining the durability of our business through attractive core acquisitions and supporting the long-term growth through expansion into fast-growing emerging markets and selective investment in emerging businesses.
Our financial results were in line with our expectations with a total revenue of $756 million adjusted OIBDA of $240 million and adjusted earnings per share of $0.31 per share.
We did incur some costs related to the implementation of our strategy although our underlying performance remains solid and consistent with the recent trends.
I'll cover these charges at a high level and then Brian will have more on how they impact our outlook as well as the impact from recent acquisitions on our guidance for the remainder of 2013.
The changes we -- the charges we took in the third quarter and expect to take in the fourth quarter relate to some realignment within our organizational structure with a view towards speed and simplicity.
These changes will help fuel our growth strategy by consolidating activities both within and across units thereby eliminating duplication increasing spans and reducing layers throughout the organization.
Additionally these changes will reduce operating costs to mitigate anticipated core service revenue declines and cost inflation and will provide the financial resources for investment in new areas that are adjacent to our core activities.
We also booked early debt extinguishment charges related to our successful August refinancing activities which we undertook to align our capital structure with our long-term strategy in order to both lower our cost of capital and extend maturity.
This was a tremendous accomplishment particularly as our treasury team was amending and upsizing our senior credit facility at the same time.
Setting aside the charges for a moment it was a good quarter which we continued to build on the core strengths of our organization and enhance our platform for long-term growth and sustainable returns.
And we continued to make good progress with initiatives that support each of the 3 main pillars of our strategic priority.
As a reminder those priorities are: driving continued profitability growth in our mature markets; further penetration in the emerging markets; and identifying incubating and scaling emerging businesses.
Earlier this month we gathered the senior leadership of the company to sharpen our focus on the strategic priorities that will drive our business in the future and to ensure that our plans for execution are closely aligned with those priorities.
We have more detail -- we will have more detail on the specific initiatives at our Investor Day in March.
And as we refine our execution plans we will continue to pursue opportunities that align with the 3 pillars I just described.
For example you saw our announcement a couple of weeks ago about our acquisition of Cornerstone Records Management for a total consideration of USD 191 million.
Cornerstone has a good business with storage representing more than 60% of its revenues and a strong presence amongst small and mid-sized customers in the U.S.
We expect the transaction to yield attractive fold-in economics with ROIC of the 10% plus range above our cost of capital which translates into mid-teens equity returns.
We do expect to incur some incremental capital and move costs as we realize real estate synergies over time.
And OIBDA from this transaction should reach USD 30 million on a fully integrated basis.
We were also active with acquisitions in the international markets during the quarter.
In August we announced the acquisition of the Colombian records management and data protection business of G4S the market leader in Colombia for USD 54 million.
The acquisition represents our entry into Colombia one of the fastest-growing economies in Latin America and is consistent with our objective to grow our presence and achieve market leadership in attractive emerging markets.
Additionally we completed the acquisition of File Service in Peru valued at USD 16 million which advances us to the leading position in that country as well.
These transactions offer the potential for future benefits as we integrate them into our existing Latin American business which includes operations in Argentina Brazil Chile and Mexico.
Also during the quarter we acquired a small data protection business in France.
In total we have completed acquisitions totaling approximately USD 320 million thus far in 2013 with roughly $220 million of that in the mature markets of the U.S.
France and $100 million in emerging markets.
Growing our presence in emerging markets is an important part of our long-term growth strategy as constant dollar revenue growth in emerging markets during Q3 was 23% with 15% internal growth.
In addition we continue to evaluate the potential of emerging businesses with data centers representing our most significant investment to date.
During the quarter we broke ground on our first regional data center in Northborough Massachusetts just outside Boston at our existing campus for record storage.
This data center is being built to satisfy stringent security and compliance requirements that we believe will be attractive to many highly regulated organizations in industries such as health care biotech and financial services.
We are making good progress with building our base from which to scale this business.
And in total we expect to invest roughly USD 40 million in the data center business in 2014.
As we were considering frameworks for enhancing our focus on emerging adjacent businesses we noticed a common construct and best practice amongst leading innovative companies.
To help support leaders with launching and running their new businesses they typically appoint senior seasoned executives to lead these efforts.
In keeping with that best practice we are creating a new executive position with Harry Ebbighausen who's currently President of North America taking on formal responsibility for emerging businesses effective the beginning of next year.
Harry has the track record and respect within the organization to champion these efforts and make sure we are leveraging our resources and capabilities wherever possible.
We are splitting Harry's current role into 2 areas: 1 focused on physical records management and another focused on data protection and recovery.
This separation of roles will align responsibilities with our growth strategy and provide more discrete focus on product lines.
John Tomovcsik or JT will take on responsibility for records management DMS and shred for North America.
JT currently Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer for North America has been with the company for more than 27 years in various operations and sales roles spanning multiple product lines.
He also leads North American operations as one of the primary leaders behind the group's continuous improvement model which drove significant profitability increases between 2007 and 2010.
In addition to this focus around product lines we will be leveraging our global capabilities in a more coordinated way in areas such as product management marketing for example with the goal of maintaining continuity and exploiting our global scale and knowledge whilst operating more efficiently.
We may have further realignment of our organization as we continue to refine our execution plan.
We'll have more color on this in March.
Turning now to our progress with preparations for REIT conversion.
We successfully completed the integration of REIT-critical IT systems on July 1.
We are continuing the internal work necessary to ensure compliance with the REIT tests even if we don't have final written rulings from the IRS on our outstanding PLRs or private letter rulings prior to January 1.
However we won't be disclosing REIT-related metrics or reporting externally as a REIT until such time as the IRS's final decision is rendered.
As I noted on last quarter's call we aren't providing interim updates as we move through the process with the IRS.
As most of you are aware we have several PLRs in the queue.
To the extent that we were to receive verbal indications of rulings throughout the normal give-and-take review process on some of these PLRs it could be misinterpreted if we were to disclose partial information prior to having formal confirmation from the IRS on all matters necessary to convert.
Although we don't yet have clarity on our outstanding PLRs we plan to move forward with our plans to convert.
The REIT structure does not impact our strategy or execution plan.
It simply enhances returns.
Our strategy is focused on sustaining the durability of the business maximizing free cash flow and supporting attractive stockholder returns regardless of whether or not we ultimately convert to a REIT.
Our free cash flow before discretionary investments which we define as M&amp;A real estate emerging businesses and dividends is roughly USD 300 million to USD 340 million based on our anticipated CapEx included in 2014 guidance which includes about USD 50 million of CapEx related to acquisition integration and consolidation of facilities in Latin America in order to drive additional synergies.
With regard to discretionary spending we have a pipeline of attractive acquisition opportunities as demonstrated by our recent transactions in both mature and emerging markets.
Generally these transactions are accretive fairly quickly due to our ability to integrate them into our existing infrastructure and consolidate facilities.
We also have opportunities to invest in emerging businesses similar to the way we are growing our data center business.
As always all our investments are made through a clear capital allocation approach to deliver long-term sustainable returns to shareholders.
With respect to new adjacent businesses we will start small with some interesting new opportunities assess them and either scale them or scrap them.
Further to our capital allocation approach we know some of you have questions about what our dividend level and/or share repurchase program might look as a C-Corp.
I would just like to reiterate that we are committed to enhancing shareholder payouts and will strive for a dividend level and/or share repurchases that allow for consistent growth over the long term in line with growth in the free cash flow of the business whilst allowing the flexibility to pursue high-return investments that support growth.
Again Brian will have more details but with regard to our preliminary view on 2014 we are projecting solid constant dollar revenue growth of 2% to 4% and constant dollar adjusted OIBDA growth of 2% to 5% consistent with the long-term goals we've referenced to in the past.
Our guidance incorporates any efficiency benefits from our organizational realignment.
As I noted earlier some of this will help offset pressure from expected continued declines in core service activity while some will be reinvested to advance our strategy which we believe yield attractive returns in excess of our hurdle rates.
Moreover in the future you can expect that we will engage in the organization a continuous improvement approach focused on enhancing profitability to offset headwinds in the service side of the business provide for some profit growth and provide resources for investment in future growth.
Before I turn over the call I want to sincerely thank Brian for his contributions as CFO over the last 6.5 years.
He's added a great deal of value for both the company and our investors and he will be missed.
Brian is not just a great professional but he's been a great colleague and I am truly thankful for his help with my transition over the past year.
Brian is moving to a new opportunity at the beginning of next year and we wish him all the best.
He'll be working with us through the end of the year to transition the role.
I wish also to introduce Rod Day currently CFO of International who has been with us for 5 years.
Rod is very knowledgeable about our operations and emerging market strategy.
He was instrumental in driving the 700 basis points of profit improvement achieved in our International business over a 3-year period and achieving this against a backdrop where he helped add a number of new emerging markets to the portfolio.
He's been a good steward of capital having allocated resources amongst numerous international markets whilst deploying more than USD 0.5 billion for acquisitions and capital expenditures during that same period.
He has also been involved from the start with the changes we need to make our International business to ensure compliance with REIT tests.
We'll be in good hands with Rod as the acting CFO of the enterprise while we consider both internal and external candidates.
In summary we had a solid quarter punctuated by several major accomplishments related to the execution of our plan and further progress towards REIT preparedness including alignment of our capital structure.
We are making some changes to the organization to support our strategy and speed of execution.
And we believe our plan sets us up well to sustain the durability of the business and support long-term growth.
Additionally our outlook for 2014 is solid and in line with our expectations for the business.
With that I'd now like to turn the call over to Brian.
Thanks Bill.
Given that we've got a lot to cover today including our preliminary outlook for 2014 we moved a few of our regular year-to-date slides to the appendix for your reference.
Let's turn now to Slide 3 which highlights the key messages from today's review.
We delivered solid results in Q3 reflecting strong operating performance supported by consistent storage rental growth International profit gains as well as benefits from recent acquisitions.
Storage rental grew 4% on a constant dollar basis in the quarter supported by consistent 2% gains in North America and 10% growth in International including benefits from recent acquisitions in Latin America and North America.
Adjusted OIBDA performance was in line with expectations in Q3 driven by continued International margin gains and sustained cost controls.
As we deliver solid operating performance we continue to advance our strategic plan supported by core acquisitions and investments in our data center offerings and capabilities.
These investments are intended to sustain the durability of our core business and provide a platform for future revenue and profit growth.
For the full year 2013 the core business is on track to achieve its financial goals.
Today we're updating our 2013 outlook to reflect recently completed acquisitions including Cornerstone and the impact of the restructuring charges of about $30 million we expect to record in 2013.
Looking ahead to 2014 we expect constant dollar growth of 2% to 4% in revenues and 2% to 5% in adjusted OIBDA supported by continued strong operating performance and the benefits of our 2013 acquisitions.
Although we continue to pursue REIT conversion effective January 1 2014 our preliminary 2014 outlook assumes C-Corp reporting.
Let's move on to Slide 4 to review our financial results in more detail.
Slide 4 compares our results for this quarter to the third quarter of 2012.
Q3 results were in line with our expectations and consistent with recent trends.
Enterprise revenues grew 2.2% on a constant dollar basis as our International segment continued to produce strong results.
International posted 7% constant dollar revenue growth supported by 10% storage rental growth including benefits from our recent acquisitions in Colombia and Peru.
North America posted flat constant dollar revenue growth as 2% storage rental gains were offset by lower complementary service revenues.
FX rate changes reduced revenue growth by approximately 130 basis points in the quarter.
Adjusted OIBDA was $240 million up 0.4% excluding the $5 million restructuring charge.
A key driver of profit performance was the continued improvement in our International segment consistent with our plans.
International adjusted OIBDA increased 18% year-on-year in Q3 reflecting strong top line growth and continued margin gains.
Year-to-date our International adjusted OIBDA margin is 25% in line with our 3-year improvement plan to increase International margins by 700 basis points.
We expect the underlying margin to exceed 25% for the full year though the reported numbers will be slightly lower due to the impacts of recently completed acquisitions and related integration costs.
Adjusted EPS for the quarter was $0.31 per share compared to $0.34 in Q3 2012.
The year-on-year decrease was due primarily to 19 million additional shares outstanding including those issued as part of our special dividend last November.
Adjusted OIBDA and adjusted EPS exclude the impact of costs associated with the REIT conversion which reduced reported EPS by $0.08 per share net of tax.
GAAP earnings per share of $0.03 included $21 million of REIT cost and $46 million of other expense including $44 million of early debt extinguishment charges in connection with our Q3 refinancing activities.
Our structural tax rate for the quarter was 38%.
Let's now take a closer look at our revenue growth on Slide 5.
Slide 5 shows the components building to our overall revenue growth.
Q3 growth rates showed some improvement compared to last quarter and were in line with our full year outlook.
For the quarter consistent storage rental growth of 3.6% on a constant dollar basis drove overall revenue performance.
Year-on-year global net volume growth was 3.2% including a 2.2% benefit from our 2013 acquisitions.
North America posted 1.6% constant dollar storage rental growth reflecting relatively flat records management volume pricing of 1.3% and the benefits from our recent acquisitions.
North American pricing gains were consistent in Q2 (sic) [Q3] reflecting impacts from prior year comparisons.
For the full year we expect pricing gains to be approximately 1.5%.
International storage rental growth was 9.5% in constant dollar for the quarter reflecting 24% growth in emerging markets supported by strong organic gains and benefits from acquisitions.
Internal storage rental growth remained strong in International with a 6.5% gain in the quarter.
For the year we expect overall storage rental growth to grow about 4% on a constant dollar basis.
Total services were flat on a constant dollar basis in Q3 as International service growth supported by acquisitions was offset by North American service declines driven by lower complementary service revenues.
Higher incoming volumes and related transportation revenues helped to offset these impacts in the quarter.
Average paper prices declined 19% year-on-year resulting in $3 million less revenue in Q3 compared to the last year.
At current paper prices levels which are down about 15% versus the 2012 average we will see some pressure on this front moving forward which will constrain overall service gains.
Overall total internal growth was 1% as 2.3% gains in storage rental more than offset modest service declines.
Let's move now to Slide 6 and review our 2013 acquisitions in more detail.
As you know acquisitions are an important tool we use to execute key components of our stated business strategy to drive continued profitable growth in our mature markets and to further penetrate attractive emerging markets.
To date in 2013 we've completed 6 core acquisitions for a total consideration of approximately $320 million.
This includes our most recent acquisition of Cornerstone Records Management here in the U.S.
for approximately $190 million.
Excluding Cornerstone which was a unique opportunity we spent approximately $130 million on core acquisitions so far this year.
This aligns with our projected average annual deployment of $50 million to $150 million presented at Investor Day last October.
In the mature markets the goal is to optimize the storage network we've built through fold-in acquisitions and extend the durability of these high-return businesses.
Although Cornerstone is certainly larger than the typical business we're likely to acquire the fold-in economics of this transaction are attractive and will support future revenue and profit growth.
Post acquisition we generally realize the benefits of operating efficiencies within the first year or so.
Benefits derived from rationalizing the real estate portfolio in an acquisition may take up to several years depending on the size of the business lease expiration dates and the volume that needs to be moved.
All of this is factored into our valuation models as we make our investment decisions.
We continue to acquire businesses in high-growth emerging markets to build market leadership and position ourselves to capture the first-time outsourcing wave taking place in these countries.
In June we acquired Archivum in Brazil building on last year's acquisition of Grupo Store.
In September we acquired File Service the leading records management company in Peru and entered a new market with the acquisition of the records management division of G4S in Colombia.
Our acquisition pipeline remains robust and we'll continue to evaluate these opportunities through a disciplined capital allocation and ROIC lens ensuring we create value for our shareholders.
Let's now turn to Slide 7 to look at our balance sheet metrics.
As previously announced we completed several financing transactions that sustained our sound balance sheet.
First we amended our senior credit facility upsizing it to $1.5 billion with a syndicate of 21 banks.
The new facility is composed entirely of a revolving credit facility with no term loans.
Pricing under the credit facility didn't change as a result of this amendment and is based on our choice of interest rate and currency options plus an applicable margin which varies based on certain financial ratios.
We also took advantage of attractive market opportunities to lower the cost of our fixed debt and extend maturities by issuing $600 million of 6% senior notes due 2023 in the U.S.
and $20 million of 6 1/8% senior Canadian dollar notes due in 2021.
The net proceeds of these transactions were used to redeem all our 8% senior subordinated notes due 2018 and 2020 to redeem our outstanding 7 1/2% Canadian dollar senior sub notes due in 2017 and to fund a cash tender for $138 million of our 8 3/8% senior sub notes due in 2021.
Through the amendment to our credit agreement we changed our consolidated leverage ratio for compliance purposes to a lease-adjusted consolidated leverage ratio which is an EBITDAR-based calculation that adds leases to our total debt.
This better aligns with how rating agencies view our leverage and recognizes that leases are a form of financing.
At the end of Q3 that ratio was 4.9x with a requirement not to exceed 6.5x.
This compares to 4.2x calculated under the prior credit agreement which excluded the impact of leases from the calculation and had a requirement not to exceed 5.5x.
To align with this new calculation we're establishing a target lease-adjusted consolidated leverage range of 4 to 5x.
This equates to our previous range of 3 to 4x excluding lease financing.
As I just indicated we're currently operating with a net total lease-adjusted leverage ratio of 4.9x which is just below the high end of our targeted 4 to 5x range.
Our leverage ratio has increased over the past 2-plus years as planned to support shareholder payouts of $1.7 billion expenditures in connection with our proposed conversion to a REIT and recent acquisitions.
The costs associated with REIT conversion including tax payments will temporarily push our leverage to or just above the high end of our range.
We're well positioned in terms of cash and financing capacity.
At quarter end liquidity was more than $1.1 billion with $172 million in cash and $975 million in additional borrowing capacity.
Our strong cash flows support continued advancement of our capital allocation strategy and our REIT conversion.
Year-to-date we paid $155 million in cash dividends and $130 million of REIT costs including REIT-related CapEx and tax payments related to depreciation recapture.
We're managing our balance sheet consistent with our strategy while advancing substantial payouts to shareholders and we remain well positioned to fund our business plan.
That concludes a review of the Q3 2013 results.
Let's now turn to Slide 8 to review our 2014 outlook -- or excuse me our 2013 outlook.
Slide 8 summarizes our updated 2013 operating outlook.
As I mentioned earlier our business trends and operating fundamentals are consistent and we're on track to achieve our financial goals for 2013.
Today we're upgrading our full year 2013 guidance to reflect recently completed acquisitions including Cornerstone and the $30 million of restructuring charges Bill discussed in his comments.
For ease of discussion we're presenting our updated outlook for the underlying business excluding the $30 million of restructuring charges separately and then layering in the charges to show their impact on our expected reported results.
We're now expecting full year revenues to be between $3 025 000 000 and $3 050 000 000 and adjusted OIBDA ex restructuring to be between $905 million and $925 million.
Our expectations for adjusted EPS CapEx and free cash flow remain basically the same as last quarter with the exception of $5 million of data center spending that will now take place in 2014.
The impact of the restructuring charge will be to reduce adjusted OIBDA by $30 million adjust EPS by $0.10 per share and free cash flow by $18 million.
As we've been highlighting we anticipate significant one-time operating capital costs associated with our potential conversion to a REIT.
These costs relate to system investments legal and tax work advisory fees and other miscellaneous costs to implement the proposed structure.
We're investing to ensure that we meet the January 1 2014 deadline and several of our REIT-critical systems are now operating on a test basis.
For the year we expect to incur between $65 million and $95 million of incremental expense.
The impact of these costs will be a reduction in reported EPS of $0.26 to $0.36.
These costs are tracking consistently with previously disclosed estimates of total conversion costs.
Slides laying out our outlook for line items below adjusted OIBDA as well as the REIT-related items are included in the appendix.
Let's move now to Slide 9 to begin our review of the preliminary 2014 outlook.
Slide 9 highlights key factors supporting our preliminary outlook for 2014 performance.
First let me remind you that we continue to -- although we continue to pursue REIT conversion our preliminary 2014 outlook assumes C-Corp reporting.
As such there are approximately $10 million to $15 million of ongoing REIT compliance costs that are not included in our operating forecast for 2014.
These costs are currently being categorized as REIT costs and being reported separately.
If and when we successfully convert to a REIT we'll update our guidance accordingly.
As noted earlier our outlook is for 2% to 4% constant dollar revenue growth and 2% to 5% constant dollar adjusted OIBDA growth in 2014 supported by sustained performance in North America solid revenue profit growth in our International segment and benefits from our 2013 acquisitions.
We expect to realize $30 million to $40 million in annual cost savings from our restructuring plan.
These savings will offset cost inflation and pressure from continuing service activity declines and fund investments to support our growth strategy.
Our International business excluding the impact of acquisitions and their related integration costs will continue to accrete margin of about 50 basis points next year building on the 700 basis point improvement we achieved over the last 3 years.
Assuming FX rates remain at recent levels foreign exchange will not have a material impact on our reported growth rates in 2014.
The 6 core acquisitions completed to date in 2013 will build on sustained operating performance and set a solid foundation for future revenue and profit growth consistent with our long-term strategy.
Overall we expect these completed transactions to add 2.5 percentage points to our constant dollar revenue growth in 2014 along with $20 million to $25 million of incremental adjusted OIBDA after initial integration costs.
Additional efficiency and operating gains will be realized over time as our real estate consolidation plans are implemented for these businesses.
Our CapEx and free cash flow will be impacted by our recent acquisitions and investments in our data centers.
We targeted nearly $40 million of CapEx for acquisitions primarily Cornerstone and about $10 million to support real estate consolidations especially in Brazil and Argentina.
These investments will drive future profit growth.
We also expect to about -- to invest about $40 million in data center build-outs including our first aboveground facility in Massachusetts.
Let's turn to Slide 10 to summarize our 2014 outlook.
Again on a constant dollar basis we're targeting 2% to 4% revenue growth and 2% to 5% adjusted OIBDA growth.
On a reported basis this outlook supports our preliminary revenue guidance of between $3 090 000 000 and $3 170 000 000 and adjusted OIBDA of $930 million to $960 million.
Our outlook for adjusted EPS is to remain in the range of $1.03 to $1.14 per share as adjusted OIBDA gains are offset by higher depreciation and amortization and increased interest expense.
Our adjusted EPS calculation assumes 193 million shares outstanding and a structural tax rate of $39 million -- of 39%.
Our outlook is for consistent underlying free cash flow to reflect solid operating performance and consistent trends.
The year-on-year decrease in expected free cash flow is primarily due to higher capital expenditures of $245 million for the year driven by approximately $50 million in acquisition integration and real estate consolidations designed to drive future profit gains.
This outlook for 2014 is preliminary and is based on current FX rates paper prices and shares outstanding any or all of which can change materially in short periods of time.
We'll update our outlook again on our Q4 earnings call to reflect changes if any in these variables.
A slide laying out our outlook for line items below adjusted OIBDA is included in the appendix.
That concludes our review.
In summary Q3 was a quarter of solid financial performance and we're on track to achieve our 2013 financial goals.
We continue to execute against our business plan sustaining high profits and cash flow in North America and driving strong growth and higher returns in our International business.
We continue to advance work in connection with the REIT conversion as part of our long-term approach to enhance value creation for stockholders.
Thank you and we'd now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from George Tong of Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> I want to get a sense for what your outlook is for organic storage volume trends in North America.
How much has your sales force verticalization and sales and marketing investments contributed to capping the un-vended storage opportunity? George it's Bill.
I think right now we're still seeing continued traction on the verticalization but again as I said last time it's still early days because we stood up a number of the verticals.
I think right now in terms of volume growth is we're flat trying to trend upward in some of the markets that we've applied it to.
But I think in terms of revenue we're still seeing the 1% 1.5% revenue growth if we look at the North American business.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And within International storage can you talk about whether you're maintaining share in the countries where you have a leadership position and what your progress is in taking non-leadership countries to leadership positions? Well I think on that we're actually gaining share in the markets where we have leadership positions and we're in some countries where we've been at it longer than others in spots in South America for instance we're mimicking margins that we see in North America in the most mature markets.
So that's progressing very well.
I think that the -- overall I think if you look at the countries Peru we did an acquisition which puts us into a strong leadership position now in Peru this year.
Last year through our acquisitions in Brazil we achieved a market position but we've done now an even more recent acquisition in Brazil which furthers the distance between ourselves and our next competitor.
So I think with the targeted acquisitions we've done is we've continued to build market-leading positions.
So if we kind of look at in Latin America right now in Chile Brazil Peru and Colombia because the acquisition we did in Colombia was already in a leading or pole position in that market we have clear market-leading positions in all those countries.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And can you talk a bit about the progress you're making and additional color in scaling your wholesale data center business and any other diversifying growth initiatives you have beyond wholesale data centers? It's too early for us to comment on it.
We have a pipeline in the emerging business which Harry is now taking over.
And there's a number of things that are building up in that pipeline and we're screening those to figure out which ones will go to the testing phase.
And as I said we'll test and then based on those tests we'll either drop or we'll scale.
So we're in the process of that.
In terms of the wholesale data center space we are making some real progress.
And in fact we're starting to see more and more synergies between the wholesale data space and our data protection business because many customers like the continuity in terms of what we can do for them vis-à-vis their tiered archiving strategy so it's more of a continuous product.
So again early days but that's why we were encouraged to go ahead to start the construction of the aboveground facility in Northborough Massachusetts.
Research Division</strong> And then last question excluding special charges this quarter OIBDA was -- margins were flat from the prior year.
What are the drivers for continued margin upside? Any specifics you have especially on the International front? I think on the International front I think Brian highlighted and he can go into more specifics is a modest gain.
But I think again I think I said this last time on the call you need to think about International as a portfolio play.
And that's why I highlighted in my remarks that Rod with his leadership in International achieved 700 basis points whilst adding a number of emerging markets.
Because when we buy these emerging market plays it takes us a while to get them to the margins that we get as we fold in and rationalize the real estate.
And so our view is that if you start seeing a major ramp-up in the overall International margin it's saying that we're not finding places that are good opportunities to start building market-leading positions in other geographies.
So next year I think Brian highlighted it it's a fairly modest improvement in terms of our OIBDA margin on International.
It's not saying that the business isn't growing in value.
It's just saying that we see an acquisition pipeline which it takes time to actually bring those things up both to a market-leading position and to actually consolidate the operations so that we start mimicking the margins.
So we have countries in South America that as I say are at the same or actually even slightly higher margin than the United States.
And we have others that are further back on the development curve that are growing.
So it is really a portfolio play.
Yes that's exactly right.
I think in North America we're trying to sustain very high returns where we have in 2/3 of our portfolio internationally where we have leadership and very good returns we're trying to sustain those as well and drive additional margin improvement overall as we continue to scale out the International portfolio and control our overhead costs in corporate and drive efficiencies that enable us to reinvest selectively against new growth opportunities.
So in balance right now we're in a zone where our profit is projected to grow at or slightly above our revenue growth rate.
And I think over time as we continue to be successful advancing growth opportunities I think that will give us greater chance to kind of leverage our cost base and produce some margin gains.
Yes.
And one thing on that just to add to Brian's comment is the thing you should keep in mind that we're always doing these things above our hurdle rate.
So yes we want to actually make even higher returns on equity but these acquisitions that we're doing in these emerging markets typically are plus-20% return on equity and have very attractive obviously then returns on invested capital.
But as they grow then of course the returns grow even more.
Our next question comes from Shlomo Rosenbaum of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Bill I want ask you a little more about Cornerstone.
The acquisition is this would you say more of a real estate consolidation play? Or is this more of a play where you have a much better entree into this mid-market where you guys typically haven't played that much? Good question Shlomo.
It's both.
I think that first of all to your first question on the real estate side the reason why the returns look so attractive as we say it's mid-teens in terms of return on equity and 10%-plus return on invested capital is going to your real estate question.
It's almost like a pickup and move because there's such an overlap in terms of their real estate and ours.
So it takes a little while because I think some of the leases go out to 5 years where we won't be able to consolidate the real estate overnight.
But we're going to be able to consolidate a lot of it fairly quickly.
So it is to your point a real estate operations consolidation move is what's in our acquisition model driving the value first and foremost.
So that's what we based our modeling on and that's what we're banking the returns on.
So it's something that we're very comfortable with.
I think the potential upside to outperform that's very difficult to quantify.
Is your comment about their presence on the middle market? In some of the organizational changes I alluded to is also helping us get at that.
So we are looking to get some D&amp;A from Cornerstone and doing -- being more aggressive in the middle market where we may not have been as present in the past.
And we think there's some interesting opportunities there.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Do you think you're going to need to stand up a separate sales organization? Because I mean typically the typical account that they went after has really has a different parameter than the kind of national or even international accounts that you typically go after.
Shlomo I'd rather get into that on Investor Day in March because -- I'm not trying to be coy but the announcement that we've made in terms of the reorganization of the alignment and restructuring that we're taking is going -- part of that is addressing your question.
And as you can probably appreciate we're in the process of communicating that throughout the organization.
So I don't want to really get ahead of myself in terms of our announcements internally.
But part of our restructuring is to actually address the question that you're asking.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'll move on from there.
I appreciate that.
The core service decline was kind of the lowest we've seen since 1Q '12.
Just from what you guys talked about in terms of expectation that service to continue to weigh do I assume that you guys view this as an anomaly as opposed to a bottoming? I think there are similarities in the trend Shlomo.
We are seeing benefit as we're acquiring businesses and integrating them.
The related transportation activity and things of that nature there's a benefit that flows through core service.
We are seeing some leveling of the service trends.
I don't want to make too much of that at this stage but I think some of the flattening we're beginning to see it's still down and we're still anticipating a level of pressure there.
And we also just have some more favorable compares year-on-year.
We worked through some of the tougher comparison areas like our Shredding business in International.
So on balance it's somewhat better and we've got some discrete things that are helping us but I would reinforce we still expect to have a level of pressure on just the really the key impact of technology which is not on our storage business but more on how paper records are used in business operations.
We do anticipate some level of pressure going forward.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then Brian maybe you could just walk us through the difference between the OIBDA and the free cash flow this year and the OIBDA and the free cash flow of next year.
I mean how much of it is the difference of interest expense? And how much of it are relating to some of the other efforts that you guys have maybe in data center and some of the other things? It's principally capital.
So if you took our numbers next year Shlomo we try to highlight that there's roughly $50 million of investment in integrating the acquisitions as well as including some discrete investments we're making in Latin America to capture -- to get more efficient real estate operations.
If you adjust it for that $50 million number I think you basically see very similar trends year-on-year in adjusted OIBDA.
We'll have somewhat -- we have low cash taxes this year driven by the timing of some payments.
But next year that will be more normalized as well.
Our next question comes from Andrew Steinerman of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry I can't resist.
I'm going to ask another core service question if that's okay.
So in the quarter there's language in the press release that says new incoming volume related to transportation.
So could you just be specific? You definitely have been very clear that there's a long-term trend to less retrievals but in the third quarter was there some recovery in that retrieval piece? And then looking at 2014 do you feel like core service internally could be flattish? Andrew it's add lots [ph] is where we're seeing some benefit.
There is some acquisition benefit as well.
But the add lots [ph] it's an area of focus in terms of selling force effectiveness growth in international markets.
We're seeing -- we saw better trends on add lots [ph] or new incoming volume in Q3.
And I think your outlook overall next year for services is in the ballpark.
Kind of I think overall our underlying growth on an internal basis we're looking at 2% to 3% storage and relatively flat service numbers.
And obviously paper and things like that will have some impact on that.
But given our current view that those are reasonable estimates.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And that flattish comment about service for 2014 was an internal comment right? That was internal that's right.
So there's about 2.5% benefit overall from the acquisitions.
Our next question comes from Andrew Wittmann of Baird.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to ask first on kind of the data center strategy Bill and maybe Brian as well.
Just kind of can you help us phase in what you think kind of what a reasonable capital outlay for that business is? And then more strategically can you just talk about how as kind of a real estate play here Iron Mountain is going to differentiate in the marketplace versus some already some pretty good competitors? And then maybe lastly if you haven't already can you comment on if this data center that you're currently starting construction on is spec or if it already has some tenants? I think first of all this is -- the reason why we have an emerging business this is a step-by-step approach as we said it is.
We invest capital based on where we see that this potential demand is the way to test it out.
So right now our plan is the $40 million that we've discussed that we've earmarked which is both expanding our operation in Boyers in the underground facility as well as building the aboveground facility at our campus in Northborough Massachusetts.
I think that the other part of your question is how do we compete against the other players in this space is the feedback -- and I was actually with a customer last week the feedback we're getting is that because of our strong customer relationships on the data protection side and our understanding in terms of what CIOs and data center infrastructure people understand what their business is about is that they're very comfortable talking to us especially when they start thinking about their archiving strategy in a more continuous method.
So what we're finding is that we actually do have a differentiated brand.
And in fact we've hired a couple of people who used to be in what are competitors to us today.
So early days still but we felt confident enough based on the lead generation and customers that we're starting to sign up that this was is definitely a business that we should pay attention to and continue to test and develop.
So I think right now I think that's where we are.
I think in terms of customers signed up as you probably can appreciate it is that it's chicken and egg.
In other words to sign somebody into a colo or a wholesale data center contract and the Northborough facility is more about colocation is that the facility has to be done or nearly done.
But we didn't break ground until we had a robust enough pipeline of leads that we felt comfortable that this was a very low-risk opportunity to or a low-risk investment in terms of to start the construction.
And at this point we haven't signed anyone for the Northborough facility but we have a strong pipeline that we feel pretty comfortable with that we'll be able to get traction relatively soon when the facility is completed.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
That's helpful.
And then I wanted to just dig in on some of your comments.
You kind of mentioned that there are several PLRs with the IRS.
As we look at the 8-K from the summer it really seemed like that the racking was the one that was specifically called out there as kind of the main issue.
Not looking for any insight as to where we are in the process but just to understand the scope and the number of issues in front of the IRS should investors be thinking about that summer 8-K on racking as really the kind of the crux of the issue? Or are there other in these several PLRs that are out there that also we should be thinking about or contemplating as we think about the company here today? So Andrew there are a range of topics that we sought clarity from the IRS in terms of REIT conversion.
Just going back to what we said in the past there are in our lens a few key issues.
Racking is one of them.
Goodwill is another topic.
There's some specifics related to our business model on how we store items that results to something that we wanted to clarify.
The issue of racking was specifically what the IRS had highlighted when they informed us about the formation of the working group and the delay in the process.
And so that was the issue that they were centered on related to whatever it is they're sorting out through the working group.
There are other topics that we need to clarify.
And consistent with what we've said all along going back in time and as we've said we feel good about our arguments.
And it's not certain the outcomes are uncertain here but we feel good about our arguments and positioning and we'll continue to work to be ready to become a REIT assuming we can get favorable clarification on that over time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So is it fair to say that just because these other issues weren't mentioned in the 8-K that you filed this summer that that does not necessarily mean that they're fully addressed or signed off on by the IRS? Trying to answer that question though -- we haven't referred to getting clarity on other issues with the IRS.
Our next question comes from Kevin McVeigh of Macquarie.
Bill in terms of the search what are you looking for in terms of CFO? And as you think about that just any characteristics you're looking for.
I mean Brian has obviously done a wonderful job operationally.
What are you focused on as you think about the next candidate in that seat? Look I think you can have a long list and it can be trying to identify purple squirrels so to speak.
I think that we feel pretty good that we have strong internal candidates.
But it's like any of these situations you need to go outside and look at the benchmarks.
And we will look across both the REIT and non-REIT world.
It's going to be important whoever is the CFO going forward has a strong operating bend as well as a good financial bend because we do have a fairly -- I wouldn't say complex business but we have a lot of moving pieces and it's a very global business.
So we think we have both strong internal candidates but we also think it's important to benchmark those people against what the market also has available to us.
So we'll see how we progress.
But one other thing that I highlighted on the call about Harry's move with JT coming in his place Brian's moving out and Rod is coming in it is a company that we take seriously succession planning and building bench strength.
So we feel like we're in good shape.
But at the same time I think for good diligence we should go out and see what the market has.
Got it.
And then kind of any sense on timing -- I know when kind of Brian came in John had transitioned before Brian came in.
Any sense of timing on when we should expect an announcement? No.
I think we're in the process of appointing a headhunter to assist us with it and we're going to go through as fast and deliberate as we can but I don't think that we can be pinned down to a timing at this point.
Got it.
And then just shifting gears looking at kind of the storage internal growth.
I mean it looks like we're seeing a pretty consistent trend in terms of a slower rate of destruction and obviously the storage overall benefiting.
That seems pretty consistent with past recoveries.
As you think about the reacceleration and the internal growth in the core storage business is this tracking pretty similar to past recoveries? And should we expect more organic sales as kind of -- overall I know it's always a function of -- there's a macro component to it.
But any kind of flavor on that as well? Kevin I think that I wouldn't because I think that -- look especially given a lot of the -- there's been a lot of legal holds recently as well.
And some of it is just driven by legal holds.
And as those cases get cleared you can get some lumpiness in terms of the destruction.
So I wouldn't at this point read too much into those trends.
I think where some of the things that we're highlighting which I discussed in an earlier question about how we're making some realignments and adjustments in our go-to-market that we think that we're going to get a better response and share of say the middle market I think is where the benefit is going to come from.
At this point I wouldn't start reading too much into trends around destruction.
I think where our attention is focusing on much more improving the inbounding rather than thinking that we have a lot of control or see a different trend on the destruction side.
I would say I think the trends reinforce the durability of this business and we're doing quite well in a slower-growth global economy and I think have opportunities to build on that operationally.
And if there's improvement in the macro economy that can help us as well over time.
Great and then just if I could what percentage of the business now is kind of middle market versus larger enterprise on the storage side? Roughly half of our business is customers larger customers with multiyear agreements and roughly half are customers that are relatively smaller that are on annual agreements and that's in terms of revenue not in terms of number of customers.
Obviously they'd be more smaller.
But I think that the opportunity here is to not just increase the focus on the relatively small customers but also to extend our reach a bit here and really fully develop that opportunity.
And in terms of the un-vended opportunity I think there's a lot of indications that there's still substantial potential there.
So we have a good established base but I think it's something that the company can build on.
Our next question comes from Scott Schneeberger of Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> On the lines of the services Brian you answered Andrew earlier on I believe it was core service as kind of an outlook for next year.
And I just want to confirm that was core as opposed to overall service because I noticed in the press release complementary services decreased due to delayed timing in some document management services and special projects.
And the second part of this question is are you seeing a buildup now of special project activity and it's just delayed? Or is that a more broad longer-term statement? The special project was just a very specific reference to the quarter just kind of near-term activity just trying to highlight some of the drivers.
And the reference was to core service.
Overall service probably is going to be flattish as well just because we do anticipate some pressure from -- given where paper prices are currently offsetting some of the gains that we're making on other fronts.
But I think overall a relatively flattish core service outlook before acquisitions and internal growth of 2% to 3% storage.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question will be with regard to acquisitions you guys mentioned somewhere in the prepared remarks that the kind of the long-term guidance for acquisitions was somewhere domestic and emerging $50 million to $150 million and kind of near the high end of range of that without even bringing Cornerstone into the mix.
So I just want to get an update on how you're thinking about that longer term.
Is there going to be a pause? Or is it a bit of a pedal to the metal from here? Scott I think that we have -- if we look at International we've got a pretty strong pipeline so I don't see much pausing because we've got them queued up to a certain degree.
But it's opportunistic.
We don't chase deals and we don't chase markets.
But we are constantly scanning the horizon and we see especially in the International side some good opportunities.
We see some possible good bolt-ins in some of our core markets to keep those strong and healthy and our cash flow going forward.
But it's also opportunistic.
We don't control the timing on these things.
But we feel pretty good for instance with the International pipeline.
I think we probably have to kind of close it and wrap it up then if it's okay.
We're a little bit over time.
So I want to thank you operator.
And to wrap it up just to emphasize we had a good quarter driven by consistent growth in our storage rental business and we made good progress on all 3 key pillars of our strategy which is sustaining growth in the mature markets growing our presence in the emerging markets and evaluating incubating and scaling new emerging businesses.
Our financial position continues to be strong and we feel good about the opportunities to grow the business at attractive returns on capital based on what we see going forward.
We've enhanced our focus on the key drivers of value for the business and are starting to realign the organization for maximum efficiency and to go after those opportunities.
As we implement our plan we will always continue to focus on improving capital allocation maximizing the total returns and delivering a sustainable value to our shareholders.
So I want to thank you all for joining us this morning and let's hope the Sox keep it up.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Iron Mountain Q4 2013 Earnings Call Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I'll now introduce your host for today's conference Melissa Marsden.
You may begin.
Thank you Nicole and welcome everyone to our Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
I'm Melissa Marsden Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
And this morning we'll hear from Bill Meaney CEO who will discuss highlights for the quarter and strategic initiatives; followed by Rod Day CFO who will cover financial results and guidance.
After prepared remarks we will open up the phone for Q&amp;A.
And as is our custom we have a user-controlled slide presentation available on the Investor Relations page of our website at www.ironmountain.com.
Referring now to Slide 2.
Today's earnings call and slide presentation will contain a number of forward-looking statements most notably our outlook for 2014 financial performance.
All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to today's press release the Safe Harbor language on this slide and our most recently filed annual report on Form 10-K for a discussion of the major risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those in our forward-looking statements.
In addition we use several non-GAAP measures when presenting our financial results.
The reconciliation to these non-GAAP measures as required by Reg G can be found again on the Investor Relations page of our website as well as in today's press release.
Before I turn the call over to Bill Meaney I'd like to add 2 things.
First registration is now open for our Investor Day to be held on March 26 at the Pierre Hotel in New York.
You can find registration details on the Investor Relations website under Events.
And second I'd like to thank Stephen Golden for his years of service to Iron Mountain Investor Relations.
As many of you know he will be leaving Iron Mountain end of March and I know you all join me in wishing him well in his future endeavors.
Also Colton Bria [ph] our new Director of IR is here today and looking forward to working with you moving forward.
With that Bill care to [ph] begin? Thank you Melissa and good morning to everyone joining us today.
Before I discuss the results of the quarter I want to take a moment to acknowledge the tragic fire that burned one of our record storage facilities outside Buenos Aires earlier this month.
We're deeply saddened by the death of the very first responders who rushed to save our facility as well as their colleagues injured while fighting the blaze.
As reported all Iron Mountain employees who worked in that facility are safe and accounted for.
The building was equipped with both fire detection as well as sprinkler systems and we continue to work with authorities in participating fully in the investigation to understand what happened.
Whilst this -- that is ongoing our collective thoughts and prayers remain with the brave firefighters and their families and those injured fighting the blaze.
I also wish to thank 4 employees of Iron Mountain who rushed into the fire to fight it until they were ordered to leave by the fire brigade.
Their display of bravery selflessness has been moving to all of us and I am proud to be one of their colleagues.
Turning now to performance of our business.
We had a strong finish to the year.
Financial results for the fourth quarter were in line with our expectations excluding restructuring charges related to our organizational realignment.
In addition we achieved solid operating results as we advanced our strategy plan -- strategic plan to sustain the durability of our high-return business in developed markets expanded into high-growth emerging markets and evaluated investment opportunities in promising emerging businesses.
Total revenue for the quarter was USD 769 million excluding charges of $19 million related to our organizational restructuring which were in line the amount previewed in our third quarter report.
Adjusted OIBDA was $214 million and adjusted earnings per share was $0.22 per share for the quarter.
The execution of our reorganization went as planned and we continue to maintain good cost discipline in the wake of these changes.
It is early but we expect the combination of these organizational changes enhanced enterprise cost controls and the adjusted OIBDA improvement achieved in our International businesses to support our continued high level of profitability.
In our International business all regions ended the year in line with or ahead of expectations to deliver the adjusted OIBDA improvement target of 25% established 3 years ago.
To put that into perspective this achievement represents improvement of roughly USD 100 million in annualized OIBDA over that time frame.
Our fourth quarter results were slightly impacted by foreign currency fluctuations and decreases in paper pricing.
We continue to monitor these factors as we move into 2014.
But at present the impact is not significant enough to warrant adjustments to our 2014 full year outlook.
Overall business fundamentals for the fourth quarter excluding restructuring charges were in line with our expectations and fairly consistent with trends in the recent quarters.
Constant dollar storage rental growth for the quarter was quite strong at 4.9% driven by 12.5% growth in International and consistent 2.2% growth in North America.
Total storage rental internal growth was 1.3% in the fourth quarter.
This growth rate was impacted by contract renewals and some upfront costs associated with competitive win.
Our outlook for storage rental internal growth in 2014 remains consistent with the 2% to 2.5% level we've seen in recent periods.
Flow through from acquisition activity earlier in the year was a meaningful growth driver.
We continue to view acquisitions as an important element of our strategy to extend our durable storage rental revenue.
We closed on more than USD 320 million of transactions globally during the year whilst building a robust pipeline of additional opportunity.
In all cases our M&amp;A activities must exceed our cost capital and follow our return on invested capital guideline.
In developed markets our leading platform of people properties and services allows us to quickly and accretively integrate acquisitions and achieve targeted returns.
During the fourth quarter we closed on our acquisition of Cornerstone Records Management in the U.S.
As we work through the integration of Cornerstone revenue for the period -- partial period was just shy of our target whilst OIBDA contribution came in slightly ahead of expectations.
Additionally the first storage facility consolidation from this acquisition occurred in late January and we have several more plans for the first half of the year helping us to more quickly realize the integration benefits versus our original plan.
As we've noted we expect this transaction to build attractive bold and economic ROIC of [ph] 10% plus which translates into the mid-teens in terms of equity returns.
In emerging markets our strategy remains to acquire or partner with local storage companies to expand our market leadership enhance returns and capture the initial wave of records outsourcing in these markets.
These acquisitions also provide new business from local customers and deepen our relationships with multinational customers who increasingly seek the security and efficiency that can be gained by consolidating records and information management with one global provider.
Late in the quarter we completed the acquisition of Databox in China.
Whilst a relatively small transaction this deal provides its platform from which we can thoroughly investigate the broader market opportunity and learn from our new customers and employees.
It also provides entry into several key cities including Shanghai Beijing Guangzhou Chengdu and Chongqing which are in addition to our current locations in China mainly Hong Kong and Shenzhen.
This transaction is addition to 4 deals we successfully on-boarded in Latin America in 2013 which will bring in roughly USD 60 million in annualized revenue.
In all cases we are on track with our business models which are based upon exceeding risk-adjusted hurdle rates which exceed our cost of capital.
We have a strong pipeline of additional opportunities in emerging markets.
Whilst these markets represent just 10% of our total business today with a 23% increase in constant dollar storage rental growth for the year they are an important part of our long-term growth strategy and offer significant expansion potential.
With regard to emerging businesses we are on track construction of our first data center outside of Boston and expect to bring it online before the end of the second quarter.
As we noted in our 2014 guidance we expect to invest roughly USD 40 million in this business in 2014 doing so in phases to minimize risk.
And our recent wins and pipeline of deals support our capital plan for the year.
It's early days but at present pricing and returns appear healthy in our target segments.
We'll have more on this emerging business in our Investor Day in late March but we are pleased with the progress we're making and the response from both new as well as our current data protection customers.
Let me briefly touch upon our preparations for REIT conversion.
Our actual REIT capital and operating expenditures came in within the range we projected back in 2012 and we have successfully completed the internal work necessary to enable us to comply with REIT requirements.
Following roughly 6 months of dry run and [ph] testing we began operating in a manner consistent with being a REIT as of 1 January 2014.
License to your appreciation [ph] and thanks to all who have worked tirelessly to get us to this point.
By all measures this is a massive undertaking and we brought the project in on time and on budget.
Of course we don't control every step of the process and we don't yet have final written rulings from the IRS on our outstanding private letter ruling or PLR.
However we took these steps to prepare us for a decision help preserve the related tax benefits for our stockholders for 2014 and to be able to demonstrate REIT compliance on a look-back basis should we ultimately be successful in converting.
As I noted on last quarter's call we don't intend to provide interim updates as to the nature of our communications with the IRS and we cannot make any assurances that the IRS will ultimately provide us with a favorable ruling on our racking structure or other requests.
Once again the REIT structure does not impact our strategy or how we execute it.
It enhances our return.
Our strategy continues to be focused on sustaining the durability of the business maximizing free cash flow and supporting attractive stockholder returns regardless of whether or not we ultimately convert.
We generate significant free cash flow and the amount we have available pursuing strategic investment isn't appreciably different as a REIT or a C-Corp.
We have many attractive opportunities to invest to grow the business over the long term and we'll do so prudently consistent with our capital allocation focus.
As we advance our strategic plan I wish to reiterate that we are committed to enhancing long-term shareholder return under either a REIT or a C-Corp structure.
Over the long term we will strive for consistent moderate dividend growth whilst permitting the flexibility to pursue high-return investment.
As we look out to this year we are reiterating our guidance which assumes solid constant dollar revenue growth and adjusted OIBDA growth in line with the long-term goals we've talked about in the past.
We see consistent trends for storage rentals in North America and a moderation in the rate of service activity decline.
Internationally we are improving our commercial focus as being a good trajectory as we move into 2014 driven by both organic growth and high-returning acquisition.
To summarize we had a solid quarter punctuated by the closing of additional acquisitions achievement of further milestones related to the REIT preparedness and progress on the execution of our realignment and implementation of our strategic plan.
We believe our plan will help us sustain the durability of the business and support long-term growth.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Rod.
Thanks Bill and thank you everyone for joining us today.
Let's now turn to Slide 3 which highlights key messages of today's review.
We had good results in quarter 4 supported by strong constant dollar storage rental growth and international profit gains as well as benefits from recent acquisitions in Latin America and North America.
Storage rental growth grew 5% on a constant dollar basis in the quarter supported by a consistent 2% gain in North America and 13% growth in International.
Adjusted OIBDA performance was in line with expectations in Q4 driven by our International business which achieved its 3-year margin improvement goal and by sustained cost management.
Included in our fourth quarter adjusted OIBDA and adjusted EPS is $19 million restructuring [ph] charges as discussed on our last earnings call.
Looking at the full year our revenue adjusted OIBDA adjusted EPS results all landed in our guidance ranges.
CapEx was a bit higher than originally expected as we accelerated capital projects from 2014 into 2013.
And free cash flow benefited from lower cash taxes due to timing of payments.
Today we are reiterating our 2014 full year guidance put forth at our Q3 earnings call.
We continue to expect call it constant dollar growth of 2% to 4% of total revenues and 2% to 5% for adjusted OIBDA.
Let's move on to Slide 4 to review our financial results in more detail.
Slide 4 compares our results for this quarter to the fourth quarter of 2012.
Q4 operating results were generally in line with our expectations and consistent with recent trends.
Enterprise revenues were 3% on a constant dollar basis as our International segment continues to produce strong result.
International posted 10% constant dollar revenue growth supported by 13% storage rental growth including benefits from our recent acquisitions in Colombia and Peru.
North America posted flat constant dollar revenue growth as 2% storage rental gains were offset by lower complementary service revenues.
FX rate changes reduced revenue growth by approximately 130 basis points in the quarter.
Adjusted OIBDA was $214 million up 3% excluding the $19 million restructuring charge.
A key driver of profit performance was continued improvement in our International segments where adjusted OIBDA excluding $4 million of restructuring charges increased 32% year-on-year in Q4.
Adjusted EPS for the quarter was $0.15 per share or $0.22 per share excluding restructuring charges compared to $0.20 in Q4 2012.
Adjusted OIBDA and adjusted EPS excluding the impact of costs associated with the REIT conversion which reduced reported EPS by $0.04 per share net of tax.
GAAP earnings per share $0.25 including $40 million of REIT costs $11 million of other expense and a tax benefit related to foreign dividends favorable all-in [ph] settlements and released certain valuation reserves.
Our structural tax rate for the quarter was 39%.
Let's now take a look -- close look at our revenue on Slide 5.
Slide 5 shows the components building to our overall revenue growth.
For the quarter storage rental growth of 4.9% on a constant dollar basis drove overall revenue performance.
Year-on-year global net volume growth was 5.8% including a 4.5% benefit from our 2013 acquisition.
North America reported 2.2% constant dollar storage rental growth reflecting relatively flat records for management volume pricing of just under 1% and benefits from our recent acquisition.
North American pricing gains were below recent quarters reflecting impacts from contract renewals and some upfront costs associated with competitive win.
For the full year pricing gains were 1.3%.
International storage rental growth was 12.5% on a constant dollar basis for the quarter reflecting a 29% growth in emerging markets supported by strong organic growth in [ph] benefits from acquisitions.
Internal storage rental growth remained strong with a 6.3% gain in the quarter.
Total service revenues down 40 basis points on a constant dollar basis and International service growth supported by acquisitions was offset by North American service declines driven by lower complementary service revenues.
Average paper prices declined 13% year-on-year resulting in a $5 million less revenue in Q4.
For the full year average paper prices were down 10%.
Overall total internal growth was negative 1.1% in Q4 as 1.3% gains in storage rental was more than offset by 4.4% service declines.
Let's now move to Slide 6 and review our full year results.
Slide 6 looks at our full year 2013 performance compared to 2012.
Our results reflect consistent business trends with reported revenue of $3.03 billion up 2% on a constant dollar basis.
Adjusted OIBDA excluding restructuring charges of $23 million was up 1% on a constant dollar basis.
Adjusted EPS of $1.03 per share down 15% compared to 2012.
This reflects the impact of restructuring charges full year impact of additional shares issued with a special dividend in November 2012 and higher interest expense.
These impacts more than offset lower income tax expense.
Capital spending for the year was $223 million excluding $66 million of real estate and $23 million of REIT conversion capital.
As a percent of revenues CapEx excluding real estate and REIT CapEx is 7.4%.
Capital spending finished slightly higher than guidance as we accelerated certain projects including sustainability projects from 2014 into 2013.
Free cash flow for 2013 was $390 million compared to $347 million last year.
The year-on-year increase reflects lower cash taxes which were partially offset by high capital spending.
The 2013 adjusted OIBDA and adjusted EPS results here shown excludes $83 million of costs associated with the REIT conversion.
These costs reduced [ph] reported EPS by approximately $0.30.
In addition to the $23 million of REIT-related capital expenditures [ph] we paid $53 million in taxes towards our D&amp;A REIT capital liability.
All told these items reduced free cash flow by $130 million.
We've included a slide outlining the actual and expected REIT costs and related expenditures in the appendix for this presentation.
Let's now turn to Slide 7 to review our results by segment.
Slide 7 shows the metrics for each of our 3 segments comparing 2013 to 2012.
Consistent with our business strategy we're sustaining higher returns in our North American segments where we continue to build our International segment a significant driver of profit and cash flow gain.
North America continues to deliver high profit and strong cash.
For 2013 our North American business segment reported revenues of $2.2 billion.
We sustained adjusted OIBDA margins of 41% as increased storage gross margins and SG&amp;A savings offset restructuring costs and pressures from the lower service revenues.
We're also sustaining capital efficiencies.
We're spending 5.5% of revenues including real estate.
Our International segment continues to post strong constant dollar revenues adjusted OIBDA and cash flow gain.
Adjusted OIBDA increased 19% on a constant dollar basis benefiting from solid global growth and cost improvement initiatives in Western European markets.
International adjusted OIBDA margins have expanded more than 300 basis points excluding the impacts of restructuring costs in 2013 as we achieved our goal of 25% International segment margin.
Finally corporate expenses were up compared to prior years driven by the restructuring costs and increase in people and professional fees.
Let's now take a look at our debt statistic on Slide 8.
Solid cash flow generation enabled us to maintain a sound balance sheet.
We are well positioned in terms of cash and financing capacity.
At quarter end liquidity was more than $900 million with $120 million in cash and $820 million in additional borrowing capacity.
As discussed on our last call in the amendment of our credit agreements we changed our consolidated leverage ratio for compliance purposes to a net total lease adjusted leverage ratio which is an EBITDAR-based calculation that adds leases [ph] to our total debt.
This better aligns with how rating agencies view our leverage.
At the end of Q4 that ratio was 5.0 with a requirement not to exceed 6.5.
To align with this new calculation we're establishing a target of net total lease adjusted leverage range of 4 to 5.
This equates to our previous range of 3 to 4 excluding lease financing.
Our net total lease adjusted leverage ratio of 5.0x which is at the high end of our target range has increased over the past 3 years as planned to support shareholder payout expenditures in connection with our proposed conversion to a REIT and recent acquisitions.
Further as previously stated we expect leverage to temporarily exceed our target range in the short term due to costs associated with REIT conversion.
Our strong cash flow for the quarter continued advance on [ph] our cash allocation strategy and our REIT conversion.
In 2013 we paid $207 million in cash dividends and $159 million of REIT costs including REIT-based CapEx and tax payments related to the depreciation of recapture.
We are managing our balance sheet consistent with our strategy while advancing financial payout to [ph] shareholders and we remain well positioned to fund our business plan.
Let's now turn to Slide 9 for a review of our 2014 outlook.
Slide 9 summarizes our 2014 operating outlook.
As I mentioned earlier today we're reiterating our full year 2014 guidance.
We're expecting full year revenues of $3.09 billion to $3.17 billion and adjusted OIBDA of $930 million to $960 million.
Our expectations for adjusted EPS and free cash flow remain the same as well.
As we have been highlighting we are incurring significant onetime operating capital costs associated with our potential conversion to a REIT.
These costs relate to systems investments legal and tax work advisory fees and other miscellaneous costs to implement the proposed structure.
We invested to ensure that we met the January 1 2014 deadline in compliance with all REIT requirements.
We have met that deadline.
We were able to delay certain costs primarily associated with additional country conversions and now expect between $32 million and $47 million being heard [ph] in 2014 and we're tightening our guidance range to $185 million to $200 million of these REIT costs.
We are also tightening the range for our depreciation recapture payments to $210 million to $225 million.
We report -- we have included a table with these REIT-related costs in the appendix for your reference.
That concludes our review.
In summary Q4 was a good quarter supported by strong international performance and the recent acquisition.
Our full year performance was in line with our guidance.
We continue to execute our business plan with the same high profit and cash flow in North America driving strong growth and higher return in our International business.
We continue to advance work in connection with REIT conversion as part of our long-term approach to enhance value creation for shareholders.
Thank you.
We'd now be happy to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Scott Schneeberger of Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Could you guys just provide us with some thoughts with regards to the margin kind of bouncing around the quarter? But congratulations on the 25% target achievement.
What do you see going forward? What are the -- what could be better to help or be a hindrance as we look out into 2014 and beyond? Is that question specifically related to International or the business as a whole? Research Division</strong> No the International.
I'm sorry if I didn't specify.
Yes so on International we expect further improvements in the International margin.
Really it's a continuation of the strategy that we've been having and it builds leadership positions in the markets in which we operate.
And from that it enabled us to drive high margins off the back of it.
So we see continued improvement on that side.
One thing Scott just to give you a bit of extra flavor to that is that what we're talking about is in terms of the current portfolio.
But the other side of it which we always say on the International side is that we're constantly adding new -- well I shouldn't say new markets but new acquisitions in the pipeline.
So as we -- it's a portfolio play if you will.
So in other words that if we look at our most pure market [indiscernible] the markets where we've established some key positions that Rod had alluded to is those returns already mimic what we see in North America for instance.
When we actually enter a new market and -- or build out our capacity market like what we're doing in Brazil we see a regular input [ph] in terms of those margins over time.
But we also need to understand that as we actually go into new markets that we start at one end of the spectrum and then build it to the other.
The only thing I would just say is in all those cases though is we go in to the view that we have to exceed even on the initial acquisitions our return on -- our hurdle in terms of return on capital.
But over time even beyond the initial returns on invested capital we see the returns start mimicking what we get.
North America hasn't hit those market leading positions if that makes sense.
Research Division</strong> Switching up a bit.
Service is still moving along.
I've realized a little bit of headwind for paper prices.
Could you speak a little bit to trends you're seeing with retrievals with construction? And then also evident to the special project that could be picking up and historically I think you view that as potentially a precursor for more activity in the business and including [ph] the storage.
Just any color you can provide along this line.
Yes I mean we did see some moderation in the rate of decline of service activities as we ended [ph] second half of 2013.
And that continues.
And as we worked our way through into Q4 I think we're nervous about calling it a big fundamental shift in the business in terms of a change in trend.
But at least there was continuation of a slightly more positive sign through Q4.
Yes.
And then coming Scott to your question about DMS or related service and how it drives storage I think that there's kind of 2 parts to that.
I think first and foremost is that our customers are much more interested in solutions that we provide around their whole information management requirement hence the reason why over a year ago we started going to a much more vertical process in terms of how we align our sales force to our customers.
We've talked about that on previous calls in terms of the industry verticals that we had.
And one of the main reasons for that is to be able to address for our larger enterprise customers those requirements that they have around a total solution.
So there you're absolutely right.
I think especially in emerging markets we have seen a very strong link in terms of providing those services in additional storage.
But I think this is -- it's very much related to our vertical strategy in addressing a solution around information management beyond just storing the physical document or electronic information.
Our next question comes from George Tong of Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Storage rental internal growth this quarter decelerated to 1.0% [ph] which is below your 2%-plus growth in prior quarters.
Is this something we should be concerned about? I think what we saw in Q4 was there was a number of pricing actions that we took around some contract wins and some contract renewals which resulted in a number of payments that we did announce that will be made in the beginning of the contract.
We sort of had a slight dampening effect in Q4.
I think for the outlook for 2014 we're expecting to get back more to the sort of 2% range we've seen historically.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's very helpful.
And then switching gears to the Wholesale Data Center business.
Could you just give us a little bit of color there in terms of initiatives? How much capital you have planning -- are you planning to allocate how much customer commitments you have lined up? Okay.
So I think on that George is that -- I think we're still consistent with the guidance that we've given previously that we're allocating about USD 40 million worth of CapEx for 2014.
And the way you should think about that is about 80-20.
Now the 80% of that is linked to strong or high visibility around customer commitments or requirements.
20% is what I would call kind of fundamental infrastructure.
So we're still very much driven by making sure that we have customers that are leading the vast majority of our CapEx in that business.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin McVeigh of Macquarie.
Just to circle back to the core services.
What are you modeling for paper prices in '14 number one? And then number two was there any weather impact? Because it seems like between a $5 million headwind from paper in Q4 there was probably some weather-related impact I'd imagine on the service activity levels.
It's probably firmer than what those numbers suggest.
So I'm trying to reconcile why we're headed into call it a bottom when it seems like fundamentals are improving pretty steadily there.
Maybe I'll start with the paper price.
We're not calling really any up or down on that but started off as paper.
We saw $133 a ton [ph] in Q4 baked in [ph] our projections.
We're going to project that forward as opposed to making extrapolations up or down.
SO obviously if it was to improve that will good.
If it goes down further [indiscernible] is the negative.
So that's kind of how we view the outlook.
In terms of service...
Yes.
And Kevin on the service side we did see some weather-related impact.
It's the winter that keeps giving in the Northeast especially tough on actually throughout the country.
So we have seen some of that but we don't try to project much into that.
I think that the -- I think that's fair to say.
But I think also if you unpack our service revenue to a certain degree as Rod said previously if you look at the what we would call kind of the retrievals and re-files which is the kind of the core part of our service revenue we do see a flattening out of the decreasing trend in that part of the business.
The paper trend as -- is probably the biggest single impact in terms of our service revenue for Q4 which Rod highlighted down from previous year associated with some specific projects which are related to our document management services.
But you're right to call out that weather has put a certain amount of headwinds on our service revenue in Q4.
Understood.
And then hey Bill in terms of the REIT when is the last -- like what's the last day of 2014 where it can be retroactive to the first of the year? So I guess said another way what date does that PLR need to come in where it can still be effective for all of 2014? I was waiting for a question on the REIT.
We finally got it.
It's in actually I believe October 2015.
Rod will keep me honest because it's when we actually have to file our return for 2014 with all the normal conventions.
So it's roughly I think October 2015.
Is that -- Rod do you agree with that? Yes yes.
Got it.
And then just one other thing on that.
It looks like on the outlook you pulled for lack of a better word in the Q3 slide deck kind of the outlook at 2014 to 2016 across the REIT related and other expenditures.
Now it's all coming into 2014.
What drove that change? Is that just better visibility? Or any -- or am I overanalyzing anything there? I think you're probably overanalyzing it and anything there [ph].
We're just now showing guidance for 2014.
And then assuming that we have a positive ruling from the IRS is there will be ongoing REIT costs associated with not just supporting the normal recording for a REIT but also as we convert more countries from a TRS to a QRS.
So I think you're overanalyzing.
We're just showing the guidance now for 2014.
Helpful.
And then what if -- if you do the E&amp;P would that be similar in mix in terms of stock versus cash as what you did the first time? Yes yes exactly.
Our next question comes from the line of Andrew Steinerman of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to go back to storage rental internal growth which decelerated like a point to the 1.3.
I know you anticipate it to go back to 2 2.5 for 2014.
I just don't see why the type of pricing that you're talking about initial pricing on contract would only affect one quarter.
I think as Rod kind of alluded to on the first thing Andrew was it was related to a few specific large customer renewals and retroactive decreases we had to give associated with that which we took the impact in Q4.
So it's a -- very specific around a couple of large customers.
And so we have visibility going out for the rest of the 2014 and can -- those are much more one-off adjustments.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And when you're in the renewal environment even if you have to make those type of adjustments retroactively are there price escalators built into the out years of the long-term contract that you're seeing recently? It depends on the contract Andrew.
But you're right to say that generally we use the escalators that are high to CPI.
But it depends on how long the contract is for and it's a mix.
But generally what you're saying is correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly when we talk about the fourth quarter that's mostly just that price retroactivity that you just talked about.
When you look at volume growth for storage internal growth is there much change there? No.
Actually the volume growth remains on track.
It clearly is related to a couple specific large contract renewals.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Rod if you'll entertain this question because I get it a fair bit.
It's about AFFO.
And I know we talked about it at last Analyst Day and the company presented around that.
When you look at the company free cash flow guide of $300 million to $340 million what factors should investors take into account when trying to calculate AFFO? Andrew Steve here.
Look you're talking about a couple of different things.
But the biggest differences between what kind of a basic AFFO would and the way we report our free cash flow is obviously taxes.
It is a full burden of taxes in our free cash flow does not exist to a large extent in an AFFO calculation.
And additionally the AFFO only subtracts out maintenance CapEx from the cash generated by the business.
And in our free cash flow calculation we subtract maintenance CapEx as well as normal growth and other sorts of things excluding the real estate.
So those are the 2 big differences between the 2 cash flow base number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just -- I know the figure that we used in the past when talking about maintenance CapEx but is the definition for AFFO different than Iron Mountain's previous comments older comments on how much of your CapEx is maintenance CapEx? No not really.
The definition should be the same.
We will -- in a REIT scenario we will likely report it slightly different.
We'll indicate what portion of that maintenance CapEx refers specifically to real estate and what portion refers to other on non-real estate assets.
This should remain the same.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Shlomo Rosenbaum of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask a little bit more about the Cornerstone acquisition and I understand that the -- usually the first stage of the acquisition is go ahead and integrate it in order to get the cost synergies.
But I was just wondering if there are initiatives right now to kind of broaden the tail space over there and to try and go after the end market which is not historically kind of a paramount end market? Shlomo this is Bill.
Yes -- no I think it's the question.
I think that that was one of the key attractiveness for us on Cornerstone.
There were really kind of 2 aspects.
One is the operational aspect which we've highlighted is that -- and we're actually nicely ahead of plan in terms of being able to get that.
The other part was the fact that Cornerstone had a very good representation in the middle market part of the business.
In part of our realignment of strategy which we talked about I think on the last call and throw in some more detail on the Investor Day was really that is getting much more focused through the 19 regions that we've set up across North America to go after that middle market and Cornerstone fits very nicely into that initiative.
So that's where their sweet spot was.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> So are you already -- you already started building out kind of the tails over there? Or are we still kind of early stages it takes time to build the business? No.
We've already done that.
In fact we've already integrated a number of their sales people into our organization both on the -- boots on the ground as well as some of the performance management associated with that to go after that market.
That's actually already complete.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay and then just Slide 11 the $500 million to $1 billion of estimated E&amp;P distribution is that a total number? Or is this kind of an incremental number? Just want to understand that.
For 2014.
That's incremental.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> So it should be a total of $500 million to $1 billion that'll come in 2014 and a similar type of mix as to what we saw years ago? Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan Dolev of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I've got one quick housekeeping question and a follow-up.
So would you mind like in previous quarters break out North America organic storage growth versus International in Q4? We don't have enough time.
We'll get back to you on it.
Research Division</strong> Another question Recall a big competitor of yours reported results earlier this week.
I think they had about 2.8% constant currency growth excluding M&amp;A.
Yours is probably like 1.5% or so lower in the last 2 quarters.
Is there -- is that a mix issue? Is there anything else that we should be thinking about when comparing the companies? Any color would be great.
Well obviously Recall had less storages in America compared to International relative to what I know -- what we know without bearing on the result.
Yes yes because you have to understand their record their pure records management size in North America is about 1/10 of ours so it's -- as Rod said they're more biased towards the International market.
Our next question comes from the line of Manav Patnaik from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question around the acquisitions pipeline.
And obviously you guys did a fair number $320 million this year.
How should we expect that based on what you're seeing today? Should that annual spend be in the next digit level relative to I think it was the 100 to 150 you guys have guided on the last Investor Day? I think that the -- Manav I think that the guidance that we gave at the last Investor Day is the right general expectation.
I think at Investor Day coming up in March we'll give you a better view in terms of where we think we're going to end up over the next 3 years in terms of our acquisition pipeline because we have built a pretty robust pipeline mainly focused at the emerging markets.
So our focus is to primarily grow the emerging markets which tend to be smaller in size but in higher growth areas.
So I think that the guidance that we gave last time I think still is the right general guidance.
And I think we'll give you more color in terms of what the impact of our acquisition pipeline should look like over the next 3 years when we all meet at the end of March.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on the Chinese acquisition I mean could you maybe just bring in the size of either that acquisition your market your presence relative today and what that could mean? Yes.
Actually I just came back from China so I can give you a little bit of an update on that is that the -- first of all it's a nice little acquisition.
As we said this is -- it's not massive but it actually builds out our location across China and gives us a similar footprint as our other what I would call international competitors or a little bit bigger than some of our international competitors in China.
So we feel pretty good about that.
I think that the -- I think it's fair to say right now with our China footprint we have a footprint that is attractive and meets the requirements of our international clients.
But we're still not what I would call a buyer for SOEs state-owned enterprise.
And there there are larger and local competitors that are serving state-owned enterprise markets.
So right now it's early days in China but we feel good that we've now got a platform that first of all can satisfy our international customer base; and second gives us a lot more intel on the ground in terms of better opportunities.
But we're still what I wouldn't call a large book provider of services for the state-owned enterprise.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And just one last one just sort of on the Recall now spinning off.
Have you seen any change in strategy or more competition for these acquisitions that you're going after that [ph] at all? I think so far we haven't.
I mean I know they announced a couple of acquisitions this past week.
They -- I mean they were always -- they were a good competitor before they spun out.
They're I'm sure going to continue to be a good competitor now that they've spun out.
So I can't say there'd be any change.
I think that they will I think like us be very disciplined in terms of the way that they allocate capital especially now that they're a public company.
So I don't see any major change or anything like that.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Jay Remig [ph] of Wall Street Journal.
I just wanted to see if you could fill us in on the status on the investigation in the fire at your new warehouse in Buenos Aires and if there's any kind of indication of the cause of that fire if they're trying to -- if there was possibly arson involved or not.
If you could just kind of fill us in how that's going.
I think first and foremost is that we've been working with the authorities to assist in any way that we can to their investigation.
So is this being led by obviously the local authorities.
So we don't have any information other than what's already out there that has been released by the authorities.
But I think it would be wrong for us to even speculate at this point.
We can't really go beyond what we've said it did have fire detection fire suppression systems in the operation.
We did have security guards on duty 24 hours so there were people monitoring the facility.
But this is clearly a very tragic event and the only thing I would just add is that nobody spends more than we do in terms of trying to prevent these types of occurrences.
But at this point we're cooperating with the authorities.
Like them we want to find out what the root cause was.
I'm showing no further questions in the queue.
Okay.
Well thank you very much operator.
In summary we had a good quarter and wrapped up a solid year underscoring the durability of our storage rental business.
We began to execute on our recent organization realignment and advance initiatives to extend the durability of our business.
This included acquisitions in both the emerging and the developed markets that will generate attractive returns on our capital as we integrate these businesses into our core and additional investments in the emerging data center business.
These initiatives are consistent with our continued focus on prudent capital allocation and maximizing total return and we believe they will support sustainable long-term growth and allow us to deliver durable returns to our shareholders.
We look forward to sharing more details with you at our upcoming Investor Day and thank you for joining us this morning.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude today's call and you may all disconnect.
Have a great day everyone.
Good morning.
My name is Melissa and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Iron Mountain Q1 2014 Earnings Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Melissa Marsden.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you and welcome everyone to our First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
I'm Melissa Marsden Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
This morning we'll hear from Bill Meaney our CEO who will discuss highlights of the quarter and strategic initiatives followed by Rod Day CFO who will cover financial results.
After prepared remarks we'll open up the phones for Q&amp;A.
As is our custom we have a user-controlled slide presentation available on the Investor Relations page of our website at www.ironmountain.com.
Referring now to Slide 2.
Today's earnings call and slide presentation will contain a number of forward-looking statements.
All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to today's press release the Safe Harbor language on this slide and our most recently filed annual report on Form 10-K for a discussion of the major risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those in our forward-looking statements.
In addition we use several non-GAAP measures when presenting our financial results.
The reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures as required by Reg G can be found at the Investor Relations page of our website as well as in today's press release.
Before I turn the call over to Bill Meaney I would like to add that on February 28 we stated that we were in discussions with the IRS on a number of our PLR requests and we did not intend to provide additional interim updates with respect to any of the specific PLR requests or generally our progression through the IRS's PLR process.
Accordingly we will not be discussing the status of our PLR request on today's call.
With that Bill would you please begin? Thank you Melissa and good morning everyone.
I would like to thank those of you who attended our investor conference last month.
We very much appreciate the opportunity to present our strategy for future growth and to demonstrate the durability in low volatility which have become a hallmark of Iron Mountain.
Before I discuss our results for the quarter I want to knowledge that many if not all of you who are looking for an update with respect to our conversion to a REIT.
As Melissa just said in our forward-looking statements we will not be discussing the status of our PLR request on today's call.
Turning now to the performance of our business.
Total revenue for the quarter was $770 million up 4.7% on a constant dollar basis with adjusted OIBDA of $229 million and adjusted EPS of $0.26 per share all of which were in line with our expectations.
We maintained our high enterprise adjusted OIBDA margins of roughly 30% during the quarter with consistent performance in our North American segments and international margins coming in slightly ahead of our targeted level of about 25%.
In addition we achieved solid operating results as we advanced our strategic plan to sustain the durability of our high-return business in developed markets expand into high-growth emerging markets and invest in emerging business opportunities the most advanced of which is our data center business.
Storage rental revenue the key economic driver of our business was up 5.3% in constant dollars reflecting strong growth of nearly 13% in our international business and constant dollar growth of roughly 3% in both North American Records and Information Management or RIM and North America Data Management or DM.
This breakout for North America is consistent with the way we manage our business and is reflected in our new segment disclosure which I discussed during our Investor Day.
Rod will have more detail on our segmented results shortly.
Total storage rental internal growth was 1.4% for the first quarter.
North America RIM internal growth was impacted by a mix shift to slightly lower average pricing on some contract renewals which were biased towards a mix of enterprise customers.
These contract renewals have led to better retention rates and we have seen North America RIM volume up approximately 600 000 cubic feet from the end of Q4 on an internal basis.
As we noted at our recent event there are several elements to driving storage growth in our developed markets.
It is a mix of organic volume growth from existing customers; sales from new customers including those that were previously un-vended; and some fold-in M&amp;A at the right price with solid returns.
And on top of that you have price.
We continue to analyze optimum pricing across our customer base and that sometimes means taking some deliberate price dilution to win long-term volume and/or sustain the durability of our customer relationships.
All this being said we continue to be able to invest in our customer relationships and product development through ongoing productivity enhancements.
We maintained our North American RIM margins with a 37.5% margin versus 37% last year through continuous improvement initiatives which we undertake to yield both real productivity gains and to modify our cost base as the business becomes more archival for certain segments.
Our financial and operating results were further enhanced by the successful integration of acquisitions completed in 2013.
Acquisitions continue to be an integral part of our strategy.
They enable us to achieve leadership positions in emerging markets and leverage our unparalleled platform of people properties and services in developed markets.
As always our acquisition strategy is guided by our capital allocation approach through which we must exceed our cost of capital and achieve targeted returns in excess of our hurdle rates.
Moreover we always undertake acquisitions with a view how an investment can further both our market leadership as well as the continued durability of our business.
We've been actively executing against our deal pipeline since the beginning of the year completing 5 international transactions representing $60 million of total consideration and another $5 million of tuck-in acquisitions in the U.S.
In developed markets our leading platform allows us to quickly and accretively integrate acquisitions and achieve targeted returns.
These tuck-in acquisitions have very attractive fold-in economics with ROIC of 10% plus or roughly mid-teens equity returns.
Internationally we closed 3 deals in Turkey and Poland.
Both are emerging market transactions with attractive growth characteristics where we have achieved or are developing market leadership positions.
Constant dollar storage rental growth from emerging markets was 32% in the first quarter with an internal storage rental growth of 13%.
As we recently highlighted we have a strong pipeline of additional opportunities in emerging markets representing more than 3x the level needed to achieve our goal of generating an incremental $100 million to $120 million in revenue from emerging market acquisitions by the end of 2016.
Combined with 10% plus compounded annual growth in revenue from our existing base we believe we can grow this portion of our business to 16% of total revenues by the end of 2016 from 11.6% of total constant dollar revenues today and from a previous base of 10% less than a year ago.
With regard to emerging businesses.
We are on track with bringing our first data center near Boston online by the end of the second quarter.
We invested an additional $6 million in the first quarter to complete the first phase of the construction and we are pleased with the interest we are seeing.
Since applying a focus on the business a year ago we have seen all of the existing customers in our underground data center in Pennsylvania increase their custom with us by 10% to 15% in line with industry averages.
We completed our first foray into the colo market in the underground last December and we have already contracted for 30% of the space with a pipeline equal to approximately 10x the remaining space available.
Additionally we are seeing more deals and larger deals in our pipeline.
For the first phase of our 3-phase 6-megawatt campus near Boston we have strong customer interest with a pipeline of about 3x our initial capacity there.
We are still in the early stages of developing this business but we are pleased with what we're seeing in terms of interest and expect to achieve attractive returns on investment.
We continue to monitor our progress and invest capital in a success-based manner.
As we look forward to the remainder of 2014 we anticipate continued solid constant dollar revenue storage rental revenue and adjusted OIBDA growth in line with the long-term goals we've discussed in the past.
We expect consistent trends for durable storage rental revenue in developed markets and a moderation in the rate of service revenue declines.
In our emerging markets we are maintaining and modestly improving our profitability even as we add to our emerging market base.
We are on track to make this segment which achieves low double-digit internal storage growth rates a more significant portion of our overall sales mix.
Moreover in our emerging business area we continue to identify and test opportunities which are near adjacencies to our core business and resonate with our customers.
Overall it was a solid quarter anchored by further progress on our strategic plan.
We believe we are on track to deliver against our 2014 goals as well as our longer-term objectives.
As a reminder those are to: first deliver total shareholder returns in the range of 8% to 9% in line with the S&amp;P 500 provide predictable earnings and dividend growth with low volatility and nurture our ability to generate potential upside from additional emerging business opportunities.
On a final note whilst we are not providing any PLR updates as we have said and reiterated at our Investor Day we believe we fit well as a REIT due to our sizable real estate portfolio and attractive characteristics such as a high net operating income per square foot low turnover costs and high customer quality and retention.
The REIT structure also complements our strategy whilst enhancing payouts to our stockholders and highlights our highly disciplined approach around asset allocation.
As a REIT we would continue to generate the cash flow necessary to sustain the durability of the business and support attractive stockholder returns in line with our long-term strategic plan.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Rod.
Thanks Bill.
Let's now turn to Slide 3 which highlights the key messages from today's review.
We delivered solid results in Q1 which were supported by strong constant dollar storage rental growth good profit performance and the benefits from recent acquisitions in emerging and developed markets.
As Bill stated storage rental growth grew 5.3% on a constant dollar basis in the quarter.
This was supported by 3.0% and 2.8% growth in the North American Records and Information Management and Data Management segments respectively as well as 12.7% growth in the International segment.
Adjusted OIBDA was in line with expectations in Q1.
Included in our first quarter adjusted OIBDA and adjusted EPS is $2.4 million of restructuring charges as well as $3.5 million in charges for the insurance deductible associated with the recent fire in one of our facilities in Argentina.
We expect to incur an additional $3.3 million in the remainder of 2014 in connection with the organizational realignment.
Our Q1 '14 CapEx of $47 million excluding real estate and REIT costs was in line with our expectations.
Free cash flow of negative $20 million was primarily driven by higher cash interest expense the payment for restructuring charges accrued at the year end as well as the timing of payables.
Looking at the free cash flow on a rolling 12-month basis this was $320 million in line with our projections.
At this time we are not making any changes to our guidance.
Although 2014 full year results will be boosted by recent acquisitions this increase to revenue will be partially offset by the FX losses based on current rates.
In addition there is some volatility relating to costs in Argentina but at this time our best view is these fall within the range of our guidance.
Let's move on to Slide 4 to review our financial results in more detail.
As we discussed previously during this quarter we amended our reporting structure to align the way we manage the business.
We changed the composition of our North American segment to the following 3 operating segments: first North American Records and Information Management or RIM; second the North American Data Management or DM; and finally the emerging businesses.
Emerging businesses are currently a component of the corporate and other segment.
As we break down the numbers Q1 operating results were generally in line with our expectations and consistent with recent trends.
Enterprise revenues grew 4.7% on a constant dollar basis as our International segment continued to produce strong results.
Indeed International posted 12.8% constant dollar total revenue growth helped by benefits from our recent acquisitions in emerging and developed markets.
North American RIM posted 2.7% constant dollar total revenue growth.
North American DM posted a 1 .5% decline in constant dollar total revenue.
As we mentioned at our recent Investor Day this business is becoming more archival in nature which has created headwinds in the service revenue although to be clear we continue to see consistent growth in DM storage revenue.
Our corporate and other segment reflects revenue from our data center business.
FX rate changes reduced total growth by approximately 160 basis points in the quarter.
Adjusted OIBDA was $229 million up 0.5% including the previously mentioned $2.4 million restructuring and the $3.5 million insurance deductible charges.
A key driver of profit performance was the continued improvement in our International segments as well as margin improvement in our North American RIM segments.
Adjusted EPS for the quarter was $0.26 per share compared to $0.27 in Q1 2013.
GAAP earnings per share were $0.22 including $10 million of REIT costs $5 million of other expense and $8 million of gains primarily from the disposal of property assets in the United Kingdom as we continue to consolidate our operations.
Our structural tax rate for the quarter was 39.4%.
Let's now take a closer look at the components of revenue growth on Slide 5.
Overall total revenue internal growth was 0.5%.
When we add the benefit from acquisitions of 4.2% and the offsetting 1.6% impact from negative foreign currency movements total revenue reported growth was 3.1% for the quarter.
Storage rental growth of 1.4% reflects the pricing mix that Bill described.
However we maintain solid margins in the business due to our speed and agility initiatives.
Looking at the storage service split.
Total storage rental growth of 5.3% on a constant dollar basis drove overall revenue performance.
North American RIM reported 3.0% constant dollar storage rental growth reflecting flat records management volume pricing of 0.8% and the benefits from recent acquisitions.
Records and Information Management pricing gains were below historical quarters which reflects taking some appropriate pricing management to win and/or sustain the durability of customer relationships.
North American DM reported 2.8% constant dollar storage rental growth driven by organic revenue which was 2.3% for the quarter.
International storage rental growth was 12.7% constant dollar for the quarter reflecting 32% storage rental revenue growth in emerging markets supported by strong organic growth and the benefits from acquisition.
Internal storage rental growth remained strong with a 5.2% gain in the quarter.
Total service revenues were up 3.8% on a constant dollar basis supported by recent acquisitions as well as increases in imaging projects and shredding activity offset somewhat by a decrease in paper pricing when compared with the period 1 year ago.
In North American RIM paper-related revenue increased due to volume increases but this was partially offset by average paper price declines approximately 5% year-on-year.
On a more general level as noted in recent quarters we have seen a moderation in the rate of decline in our North American RIM service business.
DM Service revenues are experiencing headwinds associated with the trend towards reduced activity levels and related transport revenues.
International service growth was boosted by acquisitions and special projects.
Let's now move to Slide 6 to discuss our volume growth.
As we mentioned at our Investor Day our proprietary customer insights platform is giving us a better view on customer thinking and that's resulting in lower levels of termination.
Also as noted despite secular trends in the use of paper we continue to see roughly the same amount of incoming volume from existing customers.
In addition we are seeing an uptick in new sales and of course volumes are bolstered by acquisition activity.
The resulting worldwide net volume growth of 6.7% in Q1 '14 is compared to the previous year.
Let's now move to Slide 7 to discuss our segments in more detail.
Consistent with our strategy we're sustaining high returns in our North American segments as we continue to build out our International segment as a significant driver of profit.
North America Records and Information Management delivered solid profits and reported revenues of $446 million increasing 2.7% on a constant dollar basis.
This increase was driven by acquisitions.
Adjusted OIBDA margins improved by 50 basis points year-over-year due to reduced overhead costs as a result of our restructuring efforts.
We're also sustaining capital efficiency with spending at 3.8% of revenues excluding real estate.
North American Data Management delivered revenues of $97 million for Q1 which declined by 1.5% on a constant dollar basis primarily due to the decline in service revenues.
This service decline was the result of a trend towards reduced activity and related transportation revenues as the business becomes more archival.
Adjusted OIBDA margins declined by 400 basis points year-over-year due to the service revenue headwinds and cost reductions not yet being in proportion to the decline in revenue.
Our International segment continues to post strong revenues and contribution progress.
Adjusted OIBDA increased 23.8% on a constant dollar basis benefiting from good global growth and cost improvement initiatives in developed markets.
The International business continued to deliver profitability on a portfolio basis in line with our mid-20s target with adjusted OIBDA margins of 26.2% for the first quarter.
Finally corporate and other revenue was down due to a change in contract terms with an early-stage customer as we continue to build out our pipeline in the data center business.
Adjusted OIBDA was down compared to prior year levels driven by the insurance deductible restructuring costs compensation and consulting fees relating to various strategic initiatives.
Let's now talk about our acquisitions for 2014 on Slide 8.
Acquisitions are an important element of our stated business strategy to drive continued profitable growth in our developed markets and to further penetrate attractive emerging markets.
Through the end of April we have completed 5 core transactions investing approximately $60 million.
These include 3 deals in Turkey and Poland which enhanced our leadership position in these emerging markets and the acquisition of a leading provider of off-site data storage and data protection services in Australia.
In addition we increased our ownership of a joint venture in Denmark.
Post-acquisition we generally realize the benefits of operating efficiencies within the first year or so.
However acquisition integration costs impacts our adjusted OIBDA for the first year.
Benefits derived from rationalizing the real estate portfolio in an acquisition may take up to several years depending on the size of the business lease expiration dates and the volume that needs to be moved.
All of this is factored into our valuation models as we make our investment decisions.
Our acquisition pipeline remains robust and we will continue to evaluate these opportunities through disciplined capital allocation and a return on capital lens ensuring we create value for our shareholders.
Let's now turn to Slide 9 and look at our current debt.
Solid cash flow generation enables us to maintain a sound balance sheet.
We are well positioned in terms of cash and financing capacity.
At the quarter end liquidity was about $560 million with $170 million in cash and $390 million in additional borrowing capacity.
Our total lease-adjusted leverage ratio of 5.1x which is the high end of our targeted range has increased over the past 3 years as planned to support shareholder payouts expenditures in connection with our proposed conversion to a REIT and recent acquisitions.
Further as previously stated we expect leverage to temporarily exceed our target range in the short term due to costs associated with the REIT conversion.
Our strong cash flows support continued advancement of our capital allocation strategy and our REIT conversion.
In Q1 we paid $53 million in cash dividends and $10 million of REIT costs including REIT-related CapEx.
We're managing our balance sheet consistent with our strategy while advancing substantial payments to shareholders and we remain well positioned to fund our business.
So this concludes our review.
In summary Q1 was a good quarter supported by sustained storage rental performance continued high levels of profitability in our North American segments and strong International performance and recent acquisitions.
We continue to execute against our strategy extending our reach into high-growth emerging markets driving continued profitable growth in our developed markets and prudently pursuing new business opportunities that are adjacent to our core business.
And with that operator we're ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from George Tong.
Research Division</strong> Could you provide some color on your organic storage revenue trends? I see they improved fractionally from last quarter but the organic internal growth remains below your 2% historical range.
Just some color on what drove performance in the quarter or when you might expect growth to return back to your 2% historical level.
George thanks for your question.
The 1.4% and if you see our historical trends which were kind of 2% 2.5% I think we made a deliberate decision and you can see it in terms of our retention rates.
Our retention rates are up about 30 basis points and when we were looking at renewing large enterprise customers we look at retention obviously which is a key driver in terms of our long-term economic performance the terms in other words how long those are.
So for example we just renewed a financial service client where we not only increased the volume that we have with that client but we went from a normal 5-year contract to a 10-year contract.
So we put all that into the mix when we look at that.
So overall what we're trying -- what we look at is optimizing or maximizing the revenue and profitability of our customers and we look at price we look at volume and retention we look at the length of the contract and the contract terms all with a view in terms of building the durability of our business.
So if you put that in the mix and you see where we've delivered on the OIBDA so you said well historically we were at 2% 2.5%.
We were at 1.4% but we increased retention by 30 basis points and we still hit our OIBDA target.
So it's a number of things the variables that we look at.
And when we look at these specific renewals it made a lot more sense to make sure that we improved our retention rate especially with a view of signing up longer contract terms.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And could you provide some additional detail on the organization realignment actions you've taken in the quarter and what benefits from a cost perspective you expect to see as a result? I think that the -- first it's consistent with what we said on an earlier call I think it was back in October when we discussed our reorganization is that whilst there is a reduction in our cost base associated with it that was not the motivation for our realignment.
And the realignment was triggered back in October but some of that is just falling through in terms of the restructuring costs in quarter 1 of 2014.
So the reorganization was for the most part completed last year but there were some kind of carry-on in terms of the first quarter.
The main part of that was taking out 2 layers in our North American organization and mimicking what we have probably internationally that comes naturally around the country organization and we've instilled this -- installed something similar in the United States where we've put a lot more accountability into the local markets and that was really with a view to be more competitive in the mid-market segment.
Combined with our acquisition of Cornerstone those 2 things came together with the reorganization as I say again with a view to be more competitive and have more accountability going after the mid-sized segment.
I'll go to the next question.
It is from Scott [indiscernible].
I guess following up on George's first question I think you partially answered it.
But we've seen a nice trend in terminations and destructions and you were talking about retention but could you delve in a little bit more on the progress you've made there and what you're seeing? I can -- maybe I'll give the first part of the answer and then let Rod emphasize because he was also referring to some of the tools that we've introduced.
But we have brought in some more I would say sophisticated tools and then made some investments to better predict when we seem to be losing traction with customers.
And when we go in early on you have a much more I would say robust discussion which includes how long we can renew the contract for.
So we saw some contracts which normally renew for 3 years and we renewed them for 5 years as I highlighted just previously.
We had a contract where we didn't have anywhere near the share of wallet that we do now.
Actually we went from having a fraction of their wallet to 100% of their wallet and instead of a 5-year contract to a 10-year contract.
And when we look at that that leads to not only better retention rates which as we said you can see the results in this quarter.
Whether you look at North America or you look at our overall business we've improved retention rates by about 30 basis points.
But in addition is we are gaining better terms and conditions in terms of the length of those contracts which as you know for us this is a -- it's all about the durability and low volatility of our business.
And then Rod I don't know if you want to add anything to that.
Well just to build on that a little bit Bill there's really 2 sides to the equation here.
Scott one is we've invested in sort of predictive analytics to better understand the likelihood of customers terminating or destroying then trying to work with them in a more proactive way both for our benefit as well as their benefit.
And I do think we're seeing the consequences of that starting to come through in some of our key volumetrics.
The other thing that we use to sort of build from that is to think more about the long-term value of the customer relationship rather than as sort of just a short-term quick win that we might try and get.
So by thinking about that and then structuring that value into the contract over a longer period of time again we think it's better for us and better for the customer.
So hopefully and I think we are operating in a more sort of sophisticated manner.
Is this fairly broad based? Are you seeing any variances across the end markets which you serve with regard to destructions and terminations and for that matter new business wins? I think that probably the best way you have to have a little bit of a helicopter view especially our exposure to financial services where you have legal holes in specific markets that can skew the data one way or the other on any given period.
I think we have to look at -- I think probably the better way to look at it is do we see a different trend say in North America versus our other developed markets say in Western Europe or Australia.
And I would say that we see very consistent -- we're using similar approaches to the market that Rod just described and I would say we're seeing similar trends almost identical trends across both of those markets in the improvement that we're getting.
And then finally if I could slip in one more.
Just how is the pricing environment across storage and service what you're seeing what may be some of the pushbacks you're hearing from customers or are they fairly open to the strategies you're applying? I think the price -- again I'm going to let Rod maybe follow up.
But I think first of all on the price is that from our customers is it's much more important in terms of what their overall both quality and cost of their whole records program is.
And quality is about obviously making sure -- if you think about this as a safety deposit box for some of the most valuable documents for our customers it's making sure that those things are stored in a way and can be retrieved in a timely fashion when they need them.
And the other thing is to make sure they have a robust records management program which means that they retain the things that they need to and they don't retain the things that they don't need to.
So that's -- and then the other aspect is how much does that whole program cost? So those are the types of discussions that we have with our customers rather than on a specific price.
I think in any low-inflation environment is that everybody is driven by trying to get more productivity out of their operations and we're not immune to that like any other vendor.
But the conversation we're having with our customers is how can we reduce the cost of their total program and at the same time improve the quality of that program which may mean lower volume for some customers in certain areas but it definitely doesn't mean lower margin from our standpoint.
I think that's right Bill.
Really what we're trying to get at is what value can we bring to the customer? It's a complicated mix.
It's not just storage there's a whole lot of service elements that we provide as well.
And as the industry leader we're concerned to make sure we bring that value and demonstrate that value to the customer.
So as part of our negotiations it's a sort of wider and more holistic discussion I suppose rather than just a simple price discussion.
And I think by doing that it's good for us and it's good for the customer.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Shlomo Rosenbaum.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> This is Josh James actually filling in for Shlomo.
I just wonder if you could give us an update...
Shlomo I'm sorry can you just speak up? We're just barely hearing you.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> This is actually Josh James filling in for Shlomo.
I was wondering if you could just give us a quick update on how the Cornerstone acquisition is progressing? I think in terms of the integration Josh it's ahead of plan.
I think the revenue is slightly lower than what we originally expected.
But in terms of overall OIBDA delivery it's -- we're comfortably ahead of plan.
I mean that was in effect much more similar to a large pickup and move.
The other thing as I alluded to earlier on the call is where we've picked up significant benefit is insight on how our commercial operations can be better aligned to serving customers in what I would call the mid-market.
So I think between those 2 things in terms of our ability to integrate and synergize it quicker than we thought and then also pick up some DNA about going after or aligning some of our commercial operations to the middle market I would say it's gone quite well.
I don't know Rod if you want to comment about on any of the financial? Yes I mean I think just on the revenue point just to be clear it was never that far off in terms of our expectations when we went into the deal sort of few hundred thousand.
And actually as we've been able to work with the business that gap if you like has been closing as the months have progressed.
So actually I think we're encouraged by their performance by what we've seen top line and bottom line pluses as Bill said very sort of secondary benefits in terms of better understanding of small and mid-market that we can gain from.
Your next question comes from Dan Dolev.
Research Division</strong> Question about North American OIBDA margins.
They've been down a few quarters in a row.
What would need to happen for North America margins to maybe bottom or start to reaccelerate at some point? I think it's really -- I'll let Rod comment more specifically but it's really a tale of 2 stories.
I think the OIBDA margins of North America haven't gone down when you look at our storage business.
But as the business becomes more archival then the service side of the business does take certain headwinds and there are 2 things going on: one is paper prices makes a fairly large impact on that but the other thing is that as the business becomes more archival whether you look at the RIM business or the DM business is that you can only -- you can only be so proactive in terms of restructuring your cost base because you still have to service the customers until they become that less active.
So it is kind of a thing where we can be proactive to a certain degree but during this transition until the declines in service revenue or the archival nature kind of flattens out in the business there will continue to be pressure under the service side of the margins.
But to be clear on the storage side is we are maintaining our margins on the storage side and in fact in most cases improving them.
So I don't know Rod if you want to...
Yes I think that's right.
And you can see that a little bit in our numbers for the quarter actually.
Because on the RIM side the Records and Information Management side if you look year-on-year our margins actually improved by 50 basis points.
And there's sort of 3 drivers of that if you like.
One is sort of ongoing good performance within storage.
Two is the sort of slowdown in the rate of decline that we've seen in service within the RIM side of things.
And three sort of within that context we've also been very proactive about taking out costs to try and sort of make sure we can maintain and enhance margin.
So you can see that coming through in the RIM segment.
If you look at Data Management though you do see a decline in margins which is where the service decline is more accentuated at this point.
And that presents us with a challenge if you like in terms [ph] of having to sort of take costs out as quickly as we can so at least try and mitigate that impact.
So it depends a little bit in terms of where we're at within the segment.
But at least on the RIM side we're up.
And Data Management where we are seeing more of these service headwinds we're down but taking action on the cost side.
And I think on the -- the only thing I would just add to what Rod said is on the -- and if we look at Data Management remember we're talking about a base of 60% OIBDA margins on that business.
And the storage component whilst we've seen a decline as the business becomes -- tape is used much more for archive than backup purposes we've seen an increase in our storage volume even though that tape format is becoming more efficient et cetera.
So we actually -- the amount of data that we're storing continues to grow.
It's not for backup as much anymore it's much more for archival.
And you need to do this in the context that we're talking about at 60% margin business.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Andy Wittmann.
Research Division</strong> I didn't want to ask about your IRS process but I did want to get your view on any implications or your thoughts really around the successful conversions of Lamar CBS Outdoor and what that could potentially mean for the kind of overall thinking? Well that was a good way of Andy not asking a question about the REIT process.
All I can say is we congratulate them both.
I mean we're in a completely different business segment so I don't think you can read much into their process versus ours.
But I appreciate the question.
Research Division</strong> I mean what you gave us is fair and to hear that is actually helpful.
Also wanted to get a thought just kind of on that sales strategy for the mid-market as well as what you did with the verticalization.
Are you seeing benefits from that already or is that still yet to come? Just kind of your view of the success there.
I think that there's still a lot more to come.
I think we are clearly seeing some.
I mean I think that the 30 basis points of improvement on retention -- don't forget retention is almost the same as selling for us because of our presence and leadership in a lot of these segments right.
So retention is an important bellwether and it is getting closer to the customers through verticalization through using better analytical tools that Rod discussed in his remarks.
I think this is all starting to have a benefit.
That being said some of the things that we're doing around the middle market and even for a large enterprise customers I think it's early days.
As we discussed at Investor Day we're in the process of standing up a central marketing operation under a chief marketing officer that's still being implemented.
So I do think there are ways where as a company we can use our unique scale to further our leadership position and I think that there's more to be done but we are starting to see some benefits as we've highlighted around retention.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then maybe just a final question Rod.
I was hoping you could give us a little bit of a flavor as to the acquisitions that you've done this year.
I guess we've kind of heard you've added some acquisitions you've had some FX headwinds.
No change to the guidance because obviously the annuity is large.
But can you help us -- can you put a pencil to the paper on what the FX dollar headwind and the revenue benefit is from the acquisitions for the year? So approximately for the acquisitions we'd be looking at around $20 million something like that.
And there will be more detail in the 10-K on this.
And similar kind of offset on the FX side.
Research Division</strong> And to be clear the 2014 contributions so it's partial year contribution from these acquisitions not the run rate annualized contribution of revenue? No sorry that's annualized.
But the fact is we sort of made these acquisitions fairly early in the year so actually wouldn't be far off that number.
There are no further questions.
I will now turn the call over to CEO Bill Meaney for closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
To wrap up we delivered a solid quarter with strong constant dollar growth and margins.
We have many attractive investment opportunities in order to grow our business over the long term and we'll do so prudently consistent with our focused capital allocation approach.
At the same time we will continue to sustain the durability of our storage rental business expand our presence in emerging markets and pursue attractive emerging business opportunities.
We believe our durable platform and deliberate growth plan will continue to deliver opportunity and maximize total returns for our shareholders.
Moreover the value of these returns are further enhanced due to the higher certainty and lower volatility inherent in the nature of our business which combines a durable and global customer base with superior scale.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Kimberly and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Iron Mountain Q2 Earnings Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Ms.
Marsden you may begin your conference.
Thank you Kimberly and welcome everyone to our second quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
I'm Melissa Marsden Senior Vice President Investor Relations for the company.
This morning we'll hear from Bill Meaney CEO who will discuss highlights for the quarter and progress toward our strategic initiatives followed by Rod Day CFO who will cover financial results and discuss elements of our new supplemental reporting package.
After prepared remarks we'll open up the phones for Q&amp;A.
Per our custom we have a user-controlled slide presentation available at the Investor Relations page of our website at www.ironmountain.com.
Today's earnings call and slide presentation will contain a number of forward-looking statements most notably our outlook for 2014 financial performance.
All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to today's press release Slide 2 of the supplemental reporting package the Safe Harbor language on this slide and our most recently filed annual report on Form 10-K for a discussion of the major risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those on our forward-looking statements.
In addition we use several non-GAAP measures when presenting our financial results.
The reconciliations to these non-GAAP measures as required by Reg G are included in these supplemental reporting package.
With that Bill would you please begin? Thank you Melissa and good morning everyone.
This was a good quarter for the company highlighted by the receipt in late June of the favorable private letter ruling from the IRS and our conversion to a REIT.
As we've said from the beginning of the process we believe we fit well as a REIT due to our sizable real estate portfolio.
We have a very attractive business model through which we incur occupancy costs on a square foot basis and generate storage rental revenue on a cubic foot basis.
This significant spread between our cost and our return on investment generates high net operating income per square foot and is core to how we create value for our stockholders.
We also distinguished ourselves through low turnover costs per square foot.
We have no TIs or tenant improvements required if a customer terminates and we bring in another customer's records.
We also have a low customer churn of less than 2% per annum as well as maintaining high quality receivables giving our service to 950 of the Fortune 1 000.
The REIT structure complements our strategy whilst enhancing payouts and it highlights our highly disciplined approach around asset allocation.
As a REIT we expect to continue to generate the cash flow necessary to support attractive stockholder return and to invest -- to sustain the durability of the business while continuing to identify opportunities for enhanced growth in line with our long-term strategic plan.
We also see the potential to purchase a significant portion of our leased real estate over time thereby reducing our cost of debt and enhancing residual values.
The recent roadshow presentation available on our website addresses many of the common questions related to our conversion.
So we're not going to spend a lot of time on that in prepared remarks today.
Rather I'll focus on what we're seeing in the business and the progress on our strategic plan and then Rod will cover financial and operating specifics whilst directing you to the relevant sections of our new supplemental reporting package.
Turning now to financial highlights.
Total revenue for the quarter was $787 million up 4.4% on a constant dollar basis with adjusted OIBDA of $242 million and adjusted earnings per share of $0.41 per share up roughly 5%.
These results were in line with our presentation during our Investor Day in March and demonstrate the same growth rate on a like-for-like basis both as a C-corp as well as now as a REIT.
We maintained our high adjusted OIBDA margins for the total enterprise of roughly 31% during the quarter with consistent performance in our North American segments and international margins in line with our targeted level in the mid-20s percent range.
In addition we achieved solid operating results and are making good progress on our strategic plan to sustain the durability of our high return business in developed markets having added a net 1.3 million cubic feet of internal growth in the first half of the year in North America.
Moreover having reached 12% of our sales coming from emerging markets by the end of Q2 we are on track to our goal of having 16% of our sales from this high-growth segment by 2016.
Finally we continue to identify and test new and emerging business opportunities as well as further scaling of our data center opportunity.
Total storage rental revenue the key economic driver of our business was up 5.7% in constant dollars driven by strong growth of 14% in our International business and constant dollar growth of 3.3% in North American Records and Information Management or RIM.
Storage rental internal growth of 1.6% for the quarter reflected solid growth in Records Management volume of 1.7% in terms of internal growth and 7.6% if we include acquisitions year-on-year.
We continue to see improvement in retention in North America where a total records management storage volume outflows dropped to 6.6% from 6.8% in the first quarter and 7.1% in the fourth quarter 2013.
We are pleased with this progress as the reduction and terminations supported by our first quarter of net positive volume growth in North America Records Management since 2011.
Importantly we maintained strong North American Records Management margins of more than 38% during the quarter through ongoing productivity enhancements whilst continuing to invest in strengthening customer relationships and product development.
In our internal -- International business constant dollars storage rental growth was about 14% overall with 32% constant dollar growth in emerging markets.
These emerging markets which as I mentioned represent just 12% of our total enterprise revenues today have very favorable growth dynamics.
Emerging market storage rental internal growth was 12% in the second quarter whilst volume expanded by 10% excluding acquisitions or 33% in total reflecting the successful integration of acquisitions completed in 2013.
Acquisitions continue to be an integral part of our strategy overall with a particular emphasis in these high-growth markets.
We have a strong pipeline of opportunities in emerging markets with more than 3x the coverage needed to achieve our goal of growing this part of our business to 16% of total revenue by the end of 2016.
We evaluate acquisitions in terms of how they can both further our market leadership and sustain the durability of our business after first establishing that we can exceed our cost of capital and achieve our targeted returns.
During the second quarter we completed a few small customer acquisitions in the U.S.
as well as tuck-in -- a tuck-in acquisition in Brazil and closed the previously announced transaction in Poland bringing us to about $60 million of company acquisitions and another $10 million of customer acquisitions year-to-date.
Within our emerging business opportunity area we are pleased with the early interest in our data center operations.
We have booked more than 70% of the inventory space we developed in our underground facility and are kicking off our next phase of development there.
Additionally we have signed our first few small deals in our data center near Boston which we just completed last month.
It is early days but we have a good pipeline building up.
Our targeted segment of the data center market has good growth dynamics and the potential to generate very attractive returns and we will continue to employ a success-based approach to investment as we look to scale this business.
For the remainder of the year we anticipate continued solid constant dollar storage rental revenue and adjusted OIBDA growth in line with the 4% longer-term goals we've discussed in the past.
We expect consistent trends with what we're seeing for durable storage rental revenue in developed markets and a moderation in the rate of activity-based service revenue declines.
We are on track to make emerging markets which achieve low-double digit internal storage growth rates a more significant portion of our overall sales mix.
And in our emerging business area we continue to identify and test opportunities which are complementary to our core business and resonate with our customers.
Overall Q2 was a very solid quarter anchored by our favorable REIT news and further progress on our strategic plan.
We believe we are on track to deliver against our 2014 goals as well as our longer term objectives.
As a reminder those are to: deliver shareholder total shareholder returns in the range of 8% to 9% in line with the S&amp;P 500; provide predictable earnings and dividend growth with low volatility; and generate further upside over and above the 8% to 9% returns from our investments and additional emerging business opportunities.
Currently it is interesting to note that we are well on track with this overall goal given our current dividend yield of approximately 6% combined with our growth in OIBDA of 5% or what translates loosely into a total shareholder return or TSR of 11% plus any upside from emerging businesses.
The REIT supports these goals as the yield component is now a bigger contributor to our targeted returns and supports our capital allocation approach.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Rod.
Thanks Bill.
In keeping with our conversion to a REIT we have begun to transition our financial disclosure to provide information that we believe will be useful to both current investors as well as potential new investors.
Going forward rather than issuing a standalone press release and posting slides supplemental debt statistics and GAAP reconciliations on the website we will provide all these disclosures in 1 comprehensive supplemental reporting package.
We anticipate enhancements to this package over time and would welcome your feedback.
With that let me direct your attention to the financial highlights on Page 7.
We delivered solid results in Q2 which were supported by strong storage rental growth good profit performance and the benefits from recent acquisitions in emerging and developed markets.
Total reported revenues were $787 million for the quarter up more than 4% compared with $754 million in 2013.
Both gross margin and adjusted OIBDA were up approximately 4% in line with our strategic planning goals.
Year-to-date adjusted OIBDA in 2014 includes $3.6 million of costs associated with the company's 2013 restructuring and $3.9 million of ongoing REIT compliance costs.
Adjusted EPS of $0.41 increased by about 5% from $0.39 in the second quarter of 2013 which was restated to be on a comparable basis using our current structural tax rate of roughly 15%.
For both the quarter and the year-to-date we booked sizable discrete net tax benefits associated with the reversal of deferred tax liabilities and assets related to our conversion.
Just a bit more color on this.
Tax accounting for C-Corps requires the recognition of deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future expected tax impact of temporary differences between our tax basis and our financial reporting basis.
As a REIT instead of that booked to tax difference being reflected at our U.S.
federal tax rate of 35% it is now being reflected at 0% for the portion of the business that is included in the REIT and the QRS or qualified REIT subsidiary structure.
This is effectively a onetime reset of our deferred tax liabilities and assets and resulted in a large noncash benefit.
While we no longer -- while we'll no longer be taxed at the U.S.
federal level on our QRS income we will continue to pay local tax on our international operations including in those countries that were converted to the REIT structure.
And of course we'll continue to pay taxes on our global service operations and certain state taxes.
But the REIT structure allows us to effectively repatriate storage-related income from the REIT countries and distribute it to stockholders without double taxation.
While our structural rate for year-to-date came out to 15% we continue to believe that a rate in the 17% range over the long term is about right.
For the full year in 2014 we expect the structural rate to be between 15% and 17%.
We have normalized FFO to adjust for these one-off tax effects as well.
Another highlight from this page is our summary of our investments in capital expenditures.
As you can see due to the nature of our storage rental business maintenance CapEx per foot is very low.
Maintenance CapEx of roughly $30 million year-to-date is running slightly behind the $90 million midpoint of our full year guidance as we typically see in the majority of CapEx improvement projects undertaken in the latter portion of the year.
Other CapEx is right in line with the $50 million midpoint of the full year guidance and real estate investment including racking is on pace with our full year expectation of around $200 million.
Turning to components of revenue growth on Page 8.
On a constant dollar basis revenue is up 4.4% reflecting solid storage rental revenue gains of 5.7% while service revenue growth of 2.7% was driven by recent acquisitions as well as fees from new inbound volume and increases in imaging projects and shredding activity.
On a constant dollar basis first half total revenue growth was 4.6% driven by storage rental revenue gains of 5.5% and service revenue growth of 3.3%.
Also on this page you can see that we continue to demonstrate improvement in net volume growth in Records Management with total year-on-year volume growth in the quarter of 7.6% including acquisitions or 1.7% excluding acquisitions.
As we've noted previously despite secular trends in the use of paper we continue to see very consistent trends in the amount of incoming volume from our existing customers.
In addition we had increased contribution from acquisitions year-over-year and further improvements in the level of terminations and withdrawals particularly in North America as Bill highlighted earlier.
On Page 10 we present components of growth on a segment basis.
As you'll recall in the first quarter we amended our reporting structure to align with the way we manage the business.
We broke down our North American segment into North American Records and Information Management or RIM North American Data Management or DM an emerging business which are currently a component of the corporate and other segments.
Q2 segment results were generally in line with our expectations and consistent with recent trends.
North America Records and Information Management delivered positive storage rental internal growth and maintained strong adjusted OIBDA margins of about 38%.
We also improved capital efficiency with spending at 4.3% of revenues excluding real estate.
North American Data Management storage rental was flat.
Service declines continued to reflect the trend towards reduced activity and related transportation revenues as the business becomes more archival.
However we maintained strong adjusted OIBDA margins of more than 60% in this segment despite the reduction in revenues.
The International segment continues to generate strong growth with 14% constant dollar storage rental and 11.6% constant dollar growth in services driven by recurring imaging projects.
International business continue to deliver profitability on a portfolio basis in line with our mid-20s target with adjusted OIBDA margins of 23.8%.
This is slightly down on the previous quarter as a result of phasing of acquisition integration spends.
Finally corporate and other revenue was up 9% reflecting growth in data center service revenues.
As Bill noted we're building out our pipeline in the data center business so these comparisons are on a very small basis.
On Page 17 we provide reconciliations from net income to FFO and then show further adjustments for noncash items to arrive at AFFO.
Our FFO and AFFO figures reflect the deferred tax benefit resulting from the flushing entry that I mentioned earlier.
If you were to use the Q2 normalized FFO as the run rate for the second half or $118 million times 2 and add it to the year-to-date FFO of about $225 million you will arrive at about $460 million of FFO consistent with our full year guidance.
A similar approach to AFFO revealed about $600 million for the full year.
As mentioned on our reapproval call with our projected ordinary dividend of $400 million to $420 million we have strong coverage for our dividend relative to AFFO.
Turning to some of our new disclosures.
On Page 18 we present storage net operating income to provide a closer look at NOI from our records management and data management storage operations.
We have also added a summary of our global real estate portfolio on Page 19 to show owned versus leased buildings and the associated facilities counts in square footage by major region.
And on Page 20 we provide square footage of racked space by product type: records management primarily the bulks business and data protection or tapes.
NOI per racked square foot on this page highlights the attractive economics that we derive from our real estate which Bill mentioned earlier.
On Page 22 we provide utilization for our records management and data protection businesses.
The top portion of the page shows the trailing 5-quarter trend in both cubic feet of records and data protection tapes stored as well as year-over-year growth.
The bar charts towards the bottom of the page show the total amounts of installed racking we have in these 2 businesses and the capacity we have for racking assuming our buildings were all fully racked.
The utilization numbers below are the cubic feet of records or number of DPUs stored expressed as a percentage of the racking we have in place and as a percentage of what our maximum rack capacity could be.
As you can see our utilization rates are quite high.
We believe that due to frictional vacancy our maximum utilization is in the mid-90s percent.
Bear in mind that in the new facility we would generally target to achieve stabilized utilization in about 3 years.
We have some upside here as we enhance the utilization through acquisition integration and facility consolidation over time.
On Page 23 we show service business detail.
This presentation has been updated from what was provided in our recent roadshow presentation.
Effective July 1 of this year we established CRS service entities in each of our identified REIT countries which included transferring the designation of some employees who perform services in our warehouses that were previously categorized as storage-related.
The transfers of these of these employees in REIT countries resulted in a shift of about $7 million of labor expenses previously categorized as storage rental labor to services labor.
We expect similar minor transfers of storage rental labor costs in the future as we establish CRS service entities in any future REITs countries.
So the basis for year-over-year comparisons will generally not be the same.
We have provided a look at our customer base on Page 24.
This highlights our StrongBox retention of around 93% as well as the diversification of our large global customer base.
We also provide sales marketing and account management and customer acquisition costs which we think of as similar to typical REIT turnover costs.
Shifting to the balance sheet.
Pages 25 and 26 present our debt maturity schedule and related metrics.
Solid cash flow generation enables us to maintain a sound balance sheet.
At quarter end liquidity was virtually unchanged from Q1 at about $536 million with $170 million in cash and $390 million in additional borrowing capacity.
Our total lease-adjusted leverage ratio of 5.1x which is at the high end of our targeted range has increased over the past 3 years as planned to support shareholder payouts expenditures in connection with our proposed conversion to our REITs and recent acquisitions.
We expect leverage to temporarily exceed our target range of 4x to 5x in the short term due to costs associated with the REIT conversion.
We do have extraordinary expenditures remaining in the first year of conversion including: about a $130 million of cash associated with a special distribution assuming the midpoint of our range and today's share price; another $85 million representing the bulk of the remaining tax recapture payments due to the change in our depreciation schedule; and another $30 million of REIT conversion costs.
If you were to look at 2014 on a normalized basis absent these costs and grow the components of free cash flow into 2015 at our expected growth rate and adjusted OIBDA our excess cash available for investment after paying our ordinary dividends more than covers core real estate investments including racking and leasehold improvements.
Should we be more opportunistic about acquiring buildings outright or buildings associated with business acquisitions we would look to borrow at our targeted leverage ratio or perhaps use equity to fund such investments.
Given the returns we can generate from leveraging our scale and global platform such financing would be a good use of capital.
Lastly on Page 28 we have provided components of value which is a summary of the various parts of our business to facilitate valuation.
A couple of things to note.
We present storage NOI and service OIBDA excluding rent expense in order to present storage economics on a consistent basis whether leased or owned.
We also provide our total rent expense in the liabilities area.
We are currently showing investment in buildings racking and acquisition at book value but it's our intent to -- ultimately to provide a schedule of these investment categories with our expected returns.
This schedule is followed by comprehensive definition of terms which we believe will be helpful to investors to adjust to our new disclosure.
In summary Q2 was a good quarter supported by sustained storage rental performance continued high levels of profitability in our North American segments and strong international and emerging market performance.
And with that operator we're ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question is from the line of George Tong with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Bill internal growth and storage rentals this quarter increased about 1.6% which is up from the prior quarter's growth of 1.4% but still is below historical 2% growth levels.
Can you discuss your outlook for internal storage growth and what potential catalysts that you can see that can drive further acceleration? No I think that as we said last time we weren't guiding for an immediate rebound to what we saw last year.
But I think you have to look at the total picture in terms of the volume growth that we generated.
Let's say this is the first quarter since 2011 that we had a positive volume growth in North America.
So there is a balance to get in terms -- because what we're looking for is total revenue not just on the pricing front.
I think in terms of -- on the price I think the -- it's an area in a low-inflation environment that we continue to work on and optimize further.
But I think we're still where we were last quarter which we are slightly improved from where we were 3 months ago.
But we're saying it's more of a gradual improvement to expect rather than a rapid rebound to the 2% that you referenced.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And turning to services.
Internal growth this quarter reflected some lower project fees in customer terms in North America.
Do you think this is a secular trend or do you expect a rebound in internal growth and services next quarter? I think there is 2 bits as you know on the service front.
There are things that are what I would call core services that related to our records management and data management business and then there is the project side.
And the -- I wouldn't say they're secular.
You're right to call out that the change in trend on the service revenue side is driven by a drop-off in some project -- large projects that we had last year.
But projects in their very nature are lumpy and it's not -- the fact that some of those haven't been replaced at the same level in this quarter is not a trend it's rather just the nature of that part of the business.
In terms of the other part of the business that we've been calling out as having headwinds which is related to our core services around data management and records management there we do see a flattening out of the headwinds if you will.
But I think in terms of the thing that was driving the major change in this quarter was the lumpiness of some of the specific projects that we do to service some of our customers.
Research Division</strong> All right makes sense.
Rod you've indicated you expect an effective tax rate of about 17% on a go-forward basis.
Can you detail how taxes will play out in the remainder of the year and what you expect cash tax savings to be taking into account differences between book and cash taxes? Yes.
So in terms of the rate that we expect we had 15% in Q2 as I said earlier.
The range that we expect for the remainder of the year will be between 15% and 17%.
The reason for the slight level of uncertainty is that we obviously still pay tax on our overseas operations within those countries and also within -- on the service activity that we have within North America.
So depending on the mix of the business that will drive some small variation in the amounts of tax that we have to pay.
So therefore we do see a range if you like between 15% and 17%.
In terms of the cash tax saving I'd say the sort of simple way to think about that would be if you say historically we used to pay 39% and we're now down in the sort of 15% to 17% that would be sort of the ratio to take as the kind of key driver of change.
We will as I was saying though earlier have to pay additional tax associated with the slowdown in the depreciation of our racking and that will come through this year.
It's not part of our normalized tax rate but it will impact our numbers this year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And you're still expecting cash tax savings of about $120 million per year? Correct yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly you've indicated you're accelerating your acquisition plans and plans to own more strategic real estate over time.
Can you detail how you plan to finance these growth plans and if there will be a need for capital raises near term? We are still working through the details of that because the key thing for us is obviously to finance these in the most effective way.
The likelihood is that we will finance some through debt and some through some level of equity but we will structure this in such a way that we can generate the maximum level of returns for our investors.
And we'll provide more details of that as we work our way through that later this year.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Schneeberger with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Just following-up on one of George's questions special project activity in the service area.
There has been a belief in the past that that can be an indicator that business is picking up or slowing down.
And you mentioned it's been lumpy.
Do you guys take any readthrough from what you're seeing right now or do you just stick more with the view of the lumpiness and it's not really a foreshadowing of things to come? No I don't think it's a very good leading indicator for Scott on the activity levels.
So the nature of these things for instance -- I think one of our larger projects last year was for a mortgage company because they had certain things that they were actually selling and repackaging to someone else and we had to go in and help them which both scan and organize a number of these documents.
So it's that kind of lumpiness of activity.
It's usually related to either a on-boarding of a major customer that has some specific needs or a major customer doing some kind of transaction that requires special services.
So it tends to not have a very good correlation with I think any leading indicator.
So it really is a one-off type project.
Now given the -- it's even probably more lumpy than you see when you look at our business from an analytical standpoint but given the scale of our business some of those lumps smooth out but it really is of that kind of nature.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then with regard primarily in core storage and we'll group shredding in as well could you discuss the pricing environment and the competitive environment and what you're seeing out there? I think that the -- I think it's fairly stable.
I think that if anything -- if you look at -- I think it was on Page 8.
If you look at the trends in what's happening I think that we don't see I think additional pressure on that.
I think what we see now is what we euphemistically call the power of the mountain is we've got a lot more focused in honing our commercial skills.
And as a result we are doing better both on defense and offense.
So if you look at the trends from a year ago until today you'll see that we've done better both in terms of sales so out there winning by about 300 basis points over the whole period that we've got graft and we've improve our defense by about 80 basis points.
So I think that the -- I wouldn't -- and if you look at that in an environment where we're still pushing revenue -- positive revenue growth are we making some trade-offs? Maybe but a lot of it is also the segments that happen to be addressing both in terms of the countries we're going after and the customers that we're going after.
So I think net-net I don't see a major change in the competitive market other than we're using the power of the mountain or the scale that we have for the benefit of our customers I think much more fuller or much more comprehensively.
I think the only thing that's a challenge in the low-inflationary environments that we have is price is always a challenge.
Because most of the countries that we operate in at least ones that we have any significant size are in low inflationary environments and putting price increases through and those types of environments is always difficult.
Research Division</strong> And just you cited that chart on Page 8.
I'm curious over the coming year or 18 months where do you think -- excluding acquisitions from the discussion which of the buckets there do you think will show the most change? I can tell ideally which ones you'd like to move the most but which do you think will have the most significant moves? Well let's look at the chart.
If we look at Q2 '14 just so we're just looking at the same numbers.
So let's look at the charts by color chain [ph].
So if you look you look of the dark blue block just above the line and the right red black just below the line I think those things are going to tend to run in similar trends.
Although the light red to me also tends to have some lumpiness some of that is to do with legal holds coming on or off so you can have some movement around that 4.7.
But I think generally that's what we would call the organic growth of the business.
So I think as I've pointed out previously that independent of everything else even though paper itself is in decline document growth -- new document growth from existing customers tends to be in the 6% to 7% range which is the dark blue block and I expect that to stay in that range.
That gets netted out because customers are going through different life cycles with their inventory and that's been bouncing around the 4.5% to say 4.7% range.
And I would expect those -- so I expect those 2 to be relatively stable going forward.
I think the -- lets leave the acquisitions out because that is -- we do have an acquisition strategy biased more towards the emerging markets.
But I think what you're really referring to is: what's the organic growth health of the business in terms of things that are -- that's more incremental? So I think then it really comes down to you asking are we going to do better or with the trend in terms of new sales which is the lighter blue or the kind of medium blue bar 2.2%; and our defense which is the out perm so where we are actually are losing business which is dark red of minus 2%.
To say that we're going to continue on a certain trend line I'm not going to guide for that.
The only thing I would say is that I think the improvement that we've highlighted I think we should be able to hang on to in that order of magnitude of where we're taking is -- we're quite encouraged by a couple of things that we've done with our commercial operation both in terms of the way that we develop products now and take advantage of our global scale not just local scale in terms of getting insights in terms of what customers find helpful in terms of our product and solution delivery.
And then the other part of it is is that some of the reorganization of our sales force that we've talked about a few quarters now both in terms of the verticalization which again gives us better insights in terms of solutions that our customers are looking for.
And that seems to be resonating where you see in both the better -- in trend both in new sales as well as defense.
And then the last aspect is is that we are boosting our presence in the middle market.
Our presence in the enterprise part of the segment has been strong for many many years but we're now also trying to have a similar representation in the middle market.
So again I think there is lots of things that underpin that we should be able to maintain those kinds of trends but I'm not guiding for major increase in either of those.
Bill it's interesting points you make there.
One sort of addition I just want to add is that we have service revenue associated with our perms and terms.
And as they've decreased in the quarter that actually had impact to our service revenue in the quarter.
And it's a negative as it were on service but it's a positive for the longer term of the business.
Research Division</strong> And Rod just one other thing.
And I like the new presentation by the way.
On Page 24 where you show North America revenue by vertical that pie chart what is that? Is that the end of 2013? Is that as of June 30? And could you give us a feel for maybe over the past few years and maybe looking forward to some activity you're seeing in the verticals how might that pie chart change? Yes.
So the numbers refer to sort of year-to-date '14 so it's kind of the latest view.
I think what you'll see is that as we sort of develop out our vertical strategy and really look to drive specific areas we would expect some shift in this chart although it's likely to be slow just kind of given the annuity basis of our business.
So the kind of areas where we do see potential for example would be federal which is one area where there's plenty of unvended [ph] activity for us to go after the whole area the life sciences energy and business services very interesting new areas for us to be getting after.
Legal and financial insurance historically we've been very strong in those segments.
We'd expect to continue to bolster our presence.
But in terms of potential relative to some of the other segments it's probably less.
So I would suggest.
But would you agree with that Bill? Yes I think that's a good summary.
The only thing I also would add is in the other category a lot of that is the middle market.
And we have roughly 20% share of wallet in the middle market where we have say 60% share of wallet in the large enterprise market.
So I'm not saying that we're going to get to the same share of wallet.
But we do feel like the federal market that we're underrepresented in others.
So how those things move out? But I would say that -- I agree with Ron saying as we're well represented in kind of the Big 3 so to speak legal financial and insurance not that we wouldn't want more business there.
We are constantly pushing.
But we do have some areas like federal and I would say the middle market and other where we're underrepresented and we think there's real opportunity.
Research Division</strong> One more if I can sneak in then I'll turnover.
Just the one topic you didn't hit in that category was healthcare.
I'm curious if you're seeing anything changed on that front? It's a good question.
We do normally talk about healthcare so I'm glad you brought that up Scott.
We have -- we continue to be pleased with what we are seeing the swap-out or the change.
Because obviously the electronic medical records has affected our service revenue in healthcare probably more than any other vertical as more and more of the healthcare records have gone online.
That being said we've been able to increase our storage revenue in healthcare by taking in more records.
So we have year-on-year storage growth of almost a little less than 1% which goes to that trend.
So they're not destroying the records.
In fact we're getting more records as they're cleaning out the hospitals as well.
In storage as you recall has about 2x the margin that service.
So healthcare continues to be a major focus for us.
We are also finding through these conversations which goes back to Rod's comment about the verticalization is we're gaining further insights on how we can service them even beyond the traditional what I would call medical record area.
So it is an area where I think innovation is actually helping us especially shifting us to higher-margin work.
Your next question is from the line of Andrew Steinerman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> You talked about the activity service revenue declines narrowing.
I remember this activity-based moving boxes around moving tapes around being a drag for many years.
I think it might have started in 2009.
My question is: why do you feel now is a time where these activity service revenues are starting to even-out and do we think that's kind of sustainable? I think that the -- well there is kind of a couple of things.
One is that we're still seeing -- if we look at the 2 businesses Andrew I think it's worthwhile to look at records management versus data management because data management we still are seeing probably stronger headwinds in terms of getting to a what I'll call a stable floor than we are in records management.
And the reason for that simply is that we're still finishing up the transition from tape being for backup and recovery to tape being an archival product.
Right? So our storage volume it continues to grow in the DM business but how tape is being used is different.
So as a result we're doing this transition to a different service model which happens to have a lower activity associated with it.
And the thing I should highlight is we are able to maintain our margins pretty closely during these drops in activity.
So it's important to understand that it's an activity-driven.
Whereas on the records management side the data that we're looking at we are further down that cycle if I will that transition to a more archival nature.
So things like I was highlighting in healthcare healthcare traditionally was a high-service business because it had a lot of what we call active file with medical records going backwards and forwards between the hospitals and our facilities.
That obviously is gone away or going away fairly quickly in most locations.
So I think in records management that trend to archival nature of our services is further ahead and we see that decline flattening out.
So that's what we're really -- where we're looking at.
At some point it does get to the transition from active to archive you get through 80% 90% of the transition and I think that's where we're at with the records management.
And we are -- I think we're well down that journey with data management but we're not as far down the journey as we are with records management.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And do you think we'll ever get to a point where the service revenue activity-based service revenues could be flat? I think relatively it's -- I think that it's probably going to kind of go up and down a little bit.
I think the -- and it depends on what we replace some of that service revenues.
So some of it is where we're replacing -- we're cannibalize our own backwards and forwards transportation if you will by providing them scanning and online options to retrieve data as well.
So the part of it is is we're also providing different ways for the customer to get the information back that's more efficient.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifle.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask a little bit about some of the real estate side of things.
In terms of potential lease buyout does your portfolio have any particular amount to favorable purchase options versus market value? Is there anything in there that's particularly attractive if you go through the portfolio like a certain percentage of them? Yes.
I mean actually on Slide 27 of the supplement so it gives you a sort of the profile of how our leases look to expire.
And what this shows -- if you look at the top chart it shows when the leases come up the sort of first expiration as it were and then the bottom is what would happen if we were to extend our leases into the longer term.
And so the reason why there is such a difference is that when we've taken out lease agreements we have typically looked for very long-term leases.
So we've always kind of had that option in there for us to be able to extent.
So the first point I guess in terms of our ability to buy is we are long-term tenants.
People see us as long-terms tenants.
And we try to sort of structure that within our lease arrangements.
And so then the second thing we try to do not with all leases but with certainly a significant number is indeed to incorporate elements as sort of buyout clauses within there which should work to our advantage.
So we have a purchase option immediate -- so a good approach is an option of around sort of 6 million square feet and that should be at good terms for us.
And we would look to move forward on -- so any elements of that.
We will always do this in a way that creates value for shareholders but that's kind of where we stand today.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> So is there an arbitrage opportunity in your portfolio your lease versus buy in terms of market value? That's just what I'm trying to get it Yes.
No for sure.
So if you think of it typically we might borrow around 6% -- the lease rate if you like would be around 8%.
So you've got a 200-basis-point spread as a sort of general rule.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Basically let me just restate what I'm trying to get at it is there -- I'm saying in terms of the purchase options will you be buying real estate at below-market prices when you exercise those options? That's an actual but more what I'm getting it.
I think the way to think about it is just reemphasizing what Rod is saying.
Because we have fair market clauses in most of our leases virtually almost all of our leases when we renew that allows -- so the way you have to think about it is it's the cost of financing is how you create value it's not the arbitrage in terms of being able to get something at a lower price.
So I think the better way to model it or to think about it is that 200-basis-point spread which is around the financing cost of 8% to lease 6% to own right? Because I wouldn't try to build in us being able to buy at a better price.
I think where the arbitrage comes in potentially is on the residual values.
Because what we're capturing especially in the emerging markets which we are -- in my previous life I played this out a number of times where we used to buy real estate purposely because we could capture in 15 or 20 years the urban growth to capture additional residual value.
So that's a longer-term capture.
And I think you have to also do it as a backdrop.
When we say leases is that a number of our leases -- as I say these typically are very long leases.
So it -- in fact if you look in places like Asia you typically can only buy leaseholds but you are able to get effectively the full economical ownership.
In fact in some markets you can even get this part of the residual value because of your ability to trade leases.
That's not in very country but in some countries you can do that.
So that's what we're really talking about is how do we actually take some these long-term leases where we have a lot of the economics of owning and how do we further capture it? And I think the best way to think of it is the 200 basis points of potential spread between cost of ownership.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if I just take that further so to the extent that you will issue equity in order to affect either lease buyouts or property's M&amp;A the immediate impact on a lease buyout would be the 200-basis-point spread and that should be accretive to investors on a cash flow basis? Is that the way to think of it? I think -- I'll actually let Rod speak but I think what Rod's saying it will be a blend most likely.
I mean that's the one thing that we're working out is the blend between equity and debt to do that.
So it will be on a blended basis.
So that's right Bill.
But certainly we aim for the -- I think to the point we are aiming for the investments to be accretive.
Correct.
Yes.
Yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> I mean the other part of that in terms of I think people are kind of getting to this is in terms of potential equity issuances is that how fast should you deploy or raise additional equity? How fast would you be able to deploy that in terms of being able to increase your FFO per share and AFFO per share? In other words do you think there'll be a lag time of 6 months or you'd be doing it kind of at the money as you need that type of stuff and so you'd make it immediately accretive? I think it would depend on the speed with which we could effectively acquire the leases if I'm answering the question.
So it will be -- it will depend on that phasing.
So we wouldn't -- obviously we wouldn't be able to buy all our leases on sort of day 1 but we would have -- we would expect to have a program to do so over time.
And I think -- look none of these things -- it'd be wonderful if we could do something today and it's absolutely accretive the next day.
I mean these things -- we look at allocating capital on net present value basis and an earning per shares basis over stabilized returns and we look at how long it takes you to get there versus how much you have to take in early.
I think that the ability for most companies to be able to time these things exactly is never there.
But I think it's fair to say emphasizing what Rod's point is is that if we go out and raise equity for instance it will be with a clear visibility and understanding of how that becomes accretive for the shareholders.
But to say that you can do these things matching on a one-to-one basis instantaneously I think we're not saying it can't be done but I would say right now that it's hard to see how to do that.
That being said whatever we do we'd be -- we would have the transparency around it with our shareholders and investors that how that is accretive in terms of their interest in the company.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's fair.
And then just kind of a housekeeping question on Slide 28 in the annualized NOI.
Could you just maybe Rod walk us through a little bit what you mean exactly for a stabilized portfolio versus the NOI that you would be reporting on a quarterly basis? Yes.
So the way to think about the stabilized portfolio is is a kind of like-for-like.
So where we -- so we're kind of excluding acquisitions and buildings that would have come out of that portfolio.
It's just kind of like core if you like within that.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> So it's going to exclude racking that's not fully utilized? I'm trying to just...
No it's the buildings as opposed to the racking.
If we sell a building or acquire a building in the period we wouldn't include that.
Your next question is from the line of Dan Dolev with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Just a really quick data point.
Two questions on Slide 8.
Sorry if I missed that.
Are those LTMs or are those quarterly figures? Those are LTM.
Research Division</strong> And I don't know if you've mentioned it already but would you mind giving the data point on how this would look like on a North America record management like you did in the last few quarters? Those same metrics but on a North America basis? Yes I highlighted that in my remarks.
If you go back -- I think you'll see that I went through.
For instance in North America we added 1.3 million cubic feet of internal growth in the first half of this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So but you didn't specify those specific -- the things that make up the buyer [ph] you did not specify that specific what's organic versus disruption et cetera for North America right? Like the equivalent of Slide 8 for North America? Yes what I can give you is for instance is that below the bar for North America was minus 6.6%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the...
Which is a minus 6.7% in this one.
And we can give you the numbers on above the bar.
But what the North American -- so the North American below the bar is a little bit better than what it is on a consolidated basis.
And then in terms of the net volume growth before acquisitions in North America as I said we added 1.3 million cubic feet.
Which is 0.3%.
So you kind of got a minus 6.7% you got a plus 7% on...
Research Division</strong> Right it improved.
On an LTM basis it improved versus Q4 and Q3 of last year.
It's an improvement? Actually yes.
This concludes our Q&amp;A session.
Presenters I would now like to turn the conference back over to you for closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
To wrap up we had a strong quarter that demonstrates the durability of Iron Mountain as well as our renewed commercial focus in delivering what we call "the power of the mountain" to our customers through harnessing our scale in product development and solution delivery.
We demonstrated progress with our strategic plan in several areas.
We are getting more out of developed markets with solid improvement in volume and improved trend in internal growth.
We are building our business in emerging markets and continuing to drive strong organic growth there.
And our conversion to a REIT is driving improved returns enhanced disclosure and we believe over time an expanded shareholder base.
We feel very strongly as a real estate company the REIT structure enhances the value to our shareholders.
And we're committed to driving attractive returns through continued expected growth in OIBDA and ultimately FFO and AFFO of about 4% and believe the durability and stable growth in our business will support growth in our dividend in line with cash flow growth over the long term.
Thank you very much for joining us today.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Tasha [ph] and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Iron Mountain Q3 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Melissa Marsden Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Tasha [ph] and welcome everyone to our Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
This morning we'll hear from Bill Meaney CEO who will discuss highlights for the quarter and our progress towards strategic initiatives; followed by Rod Day CFO who will cover financial results and discuss portions of our supplemental reporting package.
After our prepared remarks we'll open up the phones for Q&amp;A.
Per our custom we have a user-controlled slide presentation on the Investor Relations page of our website at www.ironmountain.com.
Referring now to Slide 2.
Today's earnings call and slide presentation will contain a number of forward-looking statements most notably our outlook for 2014 and 2015 financial performance.
All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to today's press release earnings commentary the Safe Harbor language on this slide and our most recently filed annual report on form 10-K for a discussion of the major risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those in our forward-looking statements.
In addition we use several non-GAAP measures when presenting our financial results.
The reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures as required by Reg G are included in this supplemental reporting package.
With that Bill would you please begin? Thank you Melissa and good morning everyone.
We are pleased to report another quarter of strong operating performance with progress over -- on our 3-year strategic plan and other important initiatives.
During the quarter we continued to strengthen our performance in the developed markets further expanded the portion of our business from faster-growing emerging markets increased the momentum in our emerging business segment and accelerated our real estate purchase program.
We also declared our first regular quarterly dividend as a REIT in the remainder of our EMP distribution resulting in a substantial payout to stockholders.
Our financial results for the quarter continued to reflect some noise related to our REIT conversion.
I'll touch on the highlights and Rod will address the specifics in a few minutes.
Total revenue for the quarter was $783 million up 3.9% on a constant dollar basis in line with our 3-year plan to achieve 4% compounded annual growth.
Adjusted OIBDA and adjusted EPS were both impacted by restructuring charges as well as ongoing REIT compliance costs which were not in last year's numbers.
Turning to the operating highlights.
Total storage rental revenue a key economic driver of our business was up 5.6% in constant dollars driven by strong growth of 12.5% in our international business 3.3% in North American Records and Information Management and 1.9% growth in Data Management.
Strong storage rental growth in the third quarter reflects our focus on driving net positive storage rental volume growth in developed markets.
Year-to-date we added 3.7 million cubic feet net of acquisitions or 0.8% volume growth.
Of this amount North America alone was positive 1.6 million cubic feet.
We also continued to improve retention with further reductions in customer terminations and permanent withdrawals in North America bringing total volume outflows down to 6.3% from 6.6% in the second quarter.
The combination of improved customer retention together with internal and new sales has yielded North America the positive internal volume growth of 1.6 million cubic feet referenced above.
These trends underscore the durability of our high-return business in the mature developed markets which remain fragmented with significant unvended potential and the success of our targeted sales and customer retention initiatives.
Turning to emerging market performance.
As of the end of the third quarter we now have 12.2% of total revenue coming from these high-growth markets up from 10.5% at the beginning of the year progressing nicely towards our goal of 16% by the end of 2016.
Emerging market internal storage rental growth -- revenue growth was 10% in the third quarter driven by internal volume growth of 9%.
Including acquisition gains volume growth was 19% in the emerging markets.
Acquisitions continued to be an integral part of our strategy with particular emphasis on high-growth emerging markets.
Since our last quarterly report we closed on the acquisition of Keepers Brazil our fourth acquisition there in the last 2 years.
Brazil's record management market is expected to continue to grow in the high single digits annually for the next 3 to 5 years and we are achieving steady improvement in profits and returns as we continue to enhance our leadership position.
We also anticipate further enhancement as we shift operations to our new campus in Hortolândia near São Paulo over the next few years.
Additionally in Eastern Europe we bought out the vast majority of our JV partners' interest in Serbia Denmark Russia and the Ukraine and we acquired ALCZ a provider of records management services in the Czech Republic increasing the size of our business there by some 15%.
We have a strong pipeline of opportunities in emerging markets with more than 4x the coverage needed to achieve our goal of having at least 16% of our sales from emerging markets by 2016.
We continue to evaluate acquisitions in terms of how they can both further our market leadership and sustain the durability of our business after first establishing that we can exceed our cost to capital and achieve our targeted returns.
Within our emerging business opportunity area we continue to experience good momentum in our data center operations.
We will invest roughly $27 million this year to expand capacity by 25% and deliver the space related to bookings in our Pennsylvania underground facility where more than 90% of the inventory space is contracted.
We also signed our first few deals in the initial phase of our new aboveground facility in Boston and have a pipeline of about 3x our initial capacity.
Our year-to-date investment in this business is about $19 million and we plan to invest another $16 million or so in the fourth quarter to accommodate capacity requirements in the underground facility.
As we've noted in the past we will invest in our data center business based on customer wins.
Another strategic goal as a REIT is our plan to own more of our real estate over time and continue to optimize our portfolio.
Since the beginning of the year we've bought in or have under contract more than 700 000 square feet of space including properties in Colorado Michigan Ohio Illinois and Virginia as well as one building in Cork Ireland.
Our primary focus however will be on U.S.
properties where we have a total of 22.5 million square feet of purchase opportunity.
Moreover through purchase options we have a clear path towards ownership of an additional 3.4 million square feet.
Execution of these options would shift our own percentage by about 5 points implying that together with the recent purchases our owned or controlled portfolio of real estate represents approximately 40% of our total.
Expected unlevered IRRs or internal rates of return on properties purchased to date are between 9% and 12%.
It's important to note that we also have a substantial portion of our properties covered by attractive lease rates given the long-term nature of those lease arrangements so those will generally not be part of early purchase consideration.
We also disposed of some older properties and will continue to prune the portfolio to maximize the value of our real estate holdings.
In other REIT-related developments we declared both our first regular quarterly dividend of $0.475 per share and a special distribution of $3.62 per share representing the remainder of the EMP purge to be distributed 80% in stock and up to 20% in cash.
As you may know the 3-day pricing period for the special distribution ended last night resulting in an average price of $35.55 per share.
As a result we expect to issue approximately 15.7 million shares bringing our total outstanding to 209 million shares.
Our quarterly dividend rate was based on an assumption of 209 million shares outstanding following the stock dividend.
Subject to board approval we expect to declare and pay another regular quarterly dividend of $0.475 per share in December.
We also expect to declare and pay a catch-up dividend which will represent the remainder of the total $400 million of ordinary dividends to be distributed in 2014.
We don't yet know that precise per share rate but we expect to outline the remaining 2014 payments later in November.
These dividend payments are significant as they represent the culmination of our conversion to a REIT and demonstrate our commitment to enhancing stockholder returns through attractive payouts and steady long-term cash flow growth.
At our current payout rate in yesterday's share price our dividend represents a 5.3% yield well in excess of most REITs and supports our goal to deliver total shareholder returns in excess of the 8% to 9% TSR or total shareholder return of the S&amp;P 500.
Combining our current yield of 5.3% with our expected adjusted OIBDA growth of approximately 4% results in a TSR for Iron Mountain of over 9% prior to dividend reinvestment and also before we add potential upside from additional emerging business opportunities.
Importantly the REIT structure is consistent with our capital allocation goals and does not limit our ability to fund our business plan.
After maintenance and IT-related CapEx and the dividend we retained enough cash to support investment associated with internal growth in our core business.
As we become more active with acquisitions and the purchase of real estate we expect to fund that incremental investment with additional borrowing or equity issuance similar to the manner in which most REITs fund external growth.
As we've said from the beginning of the process our business is well-suited to the REIT structure due to our sizable real estate portfolio and our attractive business model through which we incur occupancy costs on a square-foot basis but generate storage rental revenue on a cubic foot basis.
This significant spread between our costs and our return on investment generates high net operating income per square foot and is core to how we create value for our stockholders.
We also distinguish ourselves through low-maintenance CapEx and low turnover costs per square foot.
We have no TIs or tenant improvements required if a customer terminates and we bring in another customer's records.
We also have a low customer churn of less than 2% per annum as well as excellent customer credit quality given our service to 950 of the Fortune 1000.
Due to the 15-year average life of a box in our storage facilities we also have very low volatility in the growth of our storage rental business even during turbulent economic cycles.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Rod.
Thanks Bill.
We continue to be pleased with our operating performance.
We had a solid third quarter anchored by storage rental and improving volume growth as well as benefits from acquisitions in emerging and developed markets.
I will begin today with an overview of our third quarter financial performance followed by an update on our outlook for the remainder of the year and a preliminary outlook for 2015.
I will then address our capital deployment activities and conclude with a discussion of various REIT metrics.
As a reminder we now provide all of our financial disclosures and the earnings commentary in one comprehensive supplemental reporting package.
I will be referring to certain pages of this package throughout my remarks.
Turning to our financial results for the quarter.
Let me direct you to financial highlights on Page 8.
Supported by strong storage rental growth total reported revenues were $783 million for the quarter up approximately 4% compared with $755 million in 2013.
Adjusted OIBDA declined by approximately 2% reflecting ongoing REIT compliance costs as well as acquisition-related costs when compared to prior year.
Year-to-date adjusted OIBDA increased by 1% which includes $3.5 million of costs associated with our 2013 restructuring and approximately $8 million of REIT compliance costs.
For comparison adjusted OIBDA for the first 9 months of 2013 included $5 million in restructuring charges.
Adjusted EPS of $0.35 is consistent with our annual guidance.
For the quarter it would have been $0.40 prior to a $0.02 impact from ongoing REIT compliance costs and $0.03 impact from depreciation and amortization related to REIT CapEx and investments.
Additionally EPS for 2013 was restated to be on a comparable basis using our structural tax rate of roughly 15%.
Similarly our structural tax rate for year-to-date 2014 came out to 16%.
We continue to believe our tax rate will be roughly in the same range over the long term.
On a GAAP basis net income was impacted by approximately $40 million tax provision which represents the revisions or estimates made in the second quarter for the reversal of current and deferred tax assets and liabilities in connection with the REIT conversion and taxes related to foreign repatriation.
Also highlighted on this page are investment and capital expenditures.
Year-to-date maintenance CapEx of roughly $45 million is on a run rate to be below our $80 million to $100 million full year guidance range.
However we typically see the majority of capital improvement projects undertaken in the latter portion of the year.
Other CapEx of $33 million is roughly in line with the $50 million midpoint of our full year guidance and real estate investment of $145 million which includes racking is on track with our full year expectation of around $200 million.
As Bill noted we are accelerating our efforts to own more of our real estate over time and you can track the changes to our global real estate portfolio on Page 19.
Over the long term we believe that the purchase of our real estate will create value for our shareholders.
The fundamentals of our business remain strong as evidenced by solid storage rental revenue growth.
On Page 9 looking at the top line growth for the quarter on a constant dollar basis revenue is up 3.9% reflecting solid storage rental revenue gains of 5.6% and service revenue growth of 1.3%.
The growth in service revenue was driven by recent acquisitions and increases in imaging projects.
On a constant dollar basis year-to-date total revenue growth was 4.3% driven by storage rental revenue gains of 5.5% and service revenue growth of 2.6%.
Also on the same page we show total worldwide volume growth.
We continue to demonstrate improvement in net volume growth in Records Management with total year-on-year volume growth in the quarter of 5.5% including acquisitions or 1.8% excluding acquisitions.
Volume trends remain consistent with prior quarters demonstrating stable incoming volume from existing customers important additional contributions from acquisitions and further improvements in the level of terminations and withdrawals.
Let's turn to Page 11 where we present components of growth on a segment basis.
Q3 segment results were generally in line with our expectations as our storage rental revenue continues to exhibit durability.
North American Records and Information Management or RIM delivered positive storage rental internal growth and adjusted OIBDA expansion of 160 basis points to 39.5%.
North American Data Management or DM delivered storage rental internal growth of 1.4%.
However the decline in service revenues in the DM business drove adjusted OIBDA margins for this segment down for the quarter.
That said DM remains a high-margin business of 56.2%.
Declines in service revenues continue to reflect the trends towards reduced activity and related transportation revenues as our customers rotate their tapes less frequently and the biggest business becomes more archival.
The International segment continued to generate attractive results with 6.8% storage rental internal growth.
Internal service revenue growth for this segment declined by approximately 1.5% primarily due to the reduction in nonrecurring customer projects.
The International business continued to deliver profitability on a portfolio basis in line with our mid-20s targets with adjusted OIBDA margins of 24.5% year-to-date.
Finally Corporate and Other revenue was up about 10% reflecting growth in data-centric service revenues.
As Bill noted we are making good progress and we expect to end the year near a $20 million revenue run rate.
Turning now to our outlook for the remainder of 2014 and preliminary guidance for 2015 on Page 10.
Our business trends and operating fundamentals remain consistent and we are on track to achieve our financial goals for 2014.
Therefore we are maintaining the majority of our 2014 guidance whilst tightening some of our ranges.
That said we have made 2 changes to our guidance that impact earnings per share.
The first relates to the partial year impact of new shares that will be issued as a result of the special distribution.
This will obviously impact our per-share metrics.
The second relates to foreign exchange pressures.
For the first half of the year modest pressures from FX were offset by contribution from acquisitions and consistent core performance which allowed us to remain comfortable within our previous ranges.
However as we have progressed through the year we have witnessed further material strengthening of the dollar which is outweighing the benefit from acquisitions and consistent performance.
In the light of these recent changes it is prudent to adjust for the known currency impact at this time.
So as a result of the stock distribution and the impact of the foreign currency exchange rates we have reduced adjusted EPS guidance for 2014 to $1.33 to $1.44 from our current range of $1.37 to $1.52.
In addition normalized FFO per share will be reduced to $2.21 to $2.46 from the current range of $2.25 to $2.51.
Moving on to our preliminary guidance for 2015.
From an operational standpoint we believe we are on track to deliver our long-term goals given the durability and strong fundamentals of our business.
We are projecting constant dollar revenue growth of 1% to 5% and growth in adjusted OIBDA of 2% to 5% in line with our strategic plan.
Please note these growth ranges are in constant dollars based on our 2014 budget constant dollar rates.
If the dollar remains strong the current estimated impact on revenue and contribution could be at 100 to 150 basis points.
We expect adjusted EPS to be in the range of $1.23 to $1.38 for 2015.
To be clear this guidance reflects an anticipation of an absolute increase in total earnings in constant dollars offset on a per-share basis by the impact of the additional 15.8 million shares issued in connection with the special distribution.
Driven by the consistent growth in our business and stable fundamentals we expect normalized FFO to be between $440 million and $480 million with AFFO between $570 million and $610 million.
And in addition we anticipate that our dividend growth will continue to be in line with contribution growth.
From a CapEx standpoint we expect to maintain level spend on maintenance CapEx and acquisitions although we anticipate an uptick in real estate investment driven by our purchase plan.
We will update our outlook again on our Q4 earnings call to reflect changes if any including the impact of FX.
Shifting to the balance sheet.
Pages 25 and 26 present our debt maturity schedule and related metrics.
At quarter end we had liquidity of about $1.2 million.
Our total lease-adjusted leverage ratio of 5.2x has increased over the past 3 years as planned to support shareholder payouts expenditures in connection with our proposed conversion to a REIT and recent acquisitions.
At today's stock price our debt to total market capitalization is roughly 36%.
We continue to shift our debt financing to international markets.
In addition to having our expenses denominated in local currencies we have long-dated bonds in Canadian dollars pounds sterling euro and more currencies available under our credit facility.
This provides a natural foreign exchange hedge to support our growth in international markets and reduce taxable income in local jurisdictions.
In September we issued the equivalent of about GBP 400 million in a private pounds sterling fed offering in the U.K.
and established a line of credit in Brazil to support our growth.
Turning now to REIT-specific metrics on Page 20.
We have provided storage NOI per racked square foot which highlights the attractive economics we derive from our real estate for both our RM and DP businesses.
We continue to achieve storage NOI in excess of $21 per square foot amongst the highest in the REIT sector.
On Page 21 our racking and building utilization rates remain high and in line with prior quarter at 91% and 83% respectively.
We believe that due to frictional vacancy our maximum racking utilization is in the mid-90s.
When we enter into a new facility we generally target to achieve stabilized utilization in about 3 years' time.
On Page 28 we have provided components of value a summary of the various parts of our business to facilitate valuation.
As a reminder we present both storage NOI and service OIBDA excluding rent expense in order to present storage economics on a consistent basis whether leased or owned.
To balance that we provide total rent expense in the liabilities area.
Finally we are currently showing investment in buildings racking and acquisition at book value but it's our intent ultimately to provide a schedule of these investment categories with our expected returns.
As we have stated in the past we will continue to enhance our supplemental reporting and we welcome your feedback.
So in summary Q3 was a solid quarter consistent with prior performance and supported by a sustained storage rental performance stable profitability on our North American segments and strong international and emerging market performance.
I will now hand the call back to Bill.
Thanks Rod.
And before we move to Q&amp;A I'd like to sum up by saying that despite some noise this quarter due to one-offs and aligning ourselves as a REIT we are in line with our expectations and consistent with the strategic plan we laid out at Investor Day.
The fundamentals are important and we're pleased with the positive momentum we're seeing in the business.
More specifically we are driving volume in storage rental across both developed and emerging markets we're shifting our revenue mix to faster growing emerging markets and we're executing on attractive acquisitions and focusing on building scale particularly given the highly fragmented nature of the markets we operate in.
Our momentum leading into 2015 is strong.
Our storage rental revenue internal growth accelerated to 2.2% in the third quarter having started the year in the first quarter at 1.4%.
In addition to continue strong internal volume growth in our Emerging Markets of 9% we added 3.7 million cubic feet of internal growth in our developed markets as well and added 1.6 million cubic feet in North America alone.
In our emerging business area we expanded capacity in the data center business by 25% and more than 90% of the inventory space is contracted.
And we've added another 700 000 square feet to our owned real estate portfolio at unlevered returns between 9% and 12%.
2015 preliminary guidance calls for similar growth in operating performance and adjusted OIBDA although we anticipate some reported revenue headwinds due to the continued strengthening of the dollar.
We expect consistent trends for durable storage rental revenue in developed markets and are on track to continue to make emerging markets a more significant portion of our overall sales mix.
And we continue to identify and incubate new business opportunities that are complementary to our core business.
We believe the culmination of these key drivers in steady growth in earnings and AFFO consistent with our [indiscernible] day projections and related growth in our dividend.
With that Operator we're ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Andrew Steinerman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to dive into the acceleration of the internal storage revenue growth.
Obviously it was very encouraging but the service revenue was down more.
And my question is aren't these 2 sort of tied like fewer destructions means less service revenues which helps accelerate internal storage? And of course storage is a better business.
And so when you put that all together I see you're looking for 1% to 2% internal for 2015.
I assume you think that service will be kind of stable or positive to get there.
So just help me with the confluence between service and storage internal revenue growth in the quarter and how it frames your 2015 comments.
So let me start Andrew and then I'll let Rod chime in on it.
I mean first of all the thing you're highlighting is part of the story but I think it's only part of the story.
I think if you actually look at our service revenue is in the data management space or our tape business that's where we've seen more of an acceleration or a continued increase in terms of the drop in service revenue.
It's starting to slow down but that's the area which probably started a little bit after the drop in service revenue in our box business but is still continuing whereas in the box business we do see more stability.
Some of it is a reduction in destructions because there is some -- as we said last time on the call there's some choppiness in terms of the way legal holds come in and out in terms of when things are queued up for destruction.
But also a part of the story is the data management business.
So we feel good where we're guiding in terms of the overall growth in storage rental and I think we said at the beginning of the year we expected to get back into the 2s and we've achieved that.
So we feel like we're set up for good momentum next year but I think it is important to call out that in our data management business we continue to see a decline in service as that business becomes more and more archival.
And then Rod if you want to add anything? Yes.
I mean Andrew obviously there's a small sort of relationship between lower destructions and then impacting service revenues.
So we're not hiding from that but it's not really what's explaining what's going on in service.
And just on that particular point clearly we'd rather have the queues given the sort of the perpetuity value of them than take the destruction revenue.
So in terms of long-term value for the business it's clearly a trade-off that we'd want to make.
In terms of looking to 2015 and sort of answering that part of your question what we're expecting within the numbers certainly we expect to sort of maintain the improved and good performance I think we're now seeing on the storage side.
We're not expecting a sort of radical turnaround in service by any means but we would expect to see some more modest improvements particularly in areas such as our imaging business which is actually showing reasonable progress this year at reasonable margins as well.
So areas like that we're looking into to see what we can do to continue to drive performance.
So hopefully that answers your question.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Schneeberger with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> On the service question.
I'm curious about the special projects.
Could you talk about what you're seeing ebbs and flows there and what your outlook is going forward for how meaningful those will be? I think that -- Scott I think these are -- they are large specific projects.
Sometimes they are consulting projects when we are bringing a new customers in there's a number of things that they want to look at in terms of cleaning up some of their processes or digitizing parts of their inventory.
So it's everything from bringing in new customers and some of the costs associated with that from their standpoint to one-off projects again where customers are going through a major cleanup or digitization of some of their records.
So it's one of those areas which is probably the more difficult to guide for because it's something that is usually driven by customer relationships and specific asks on their part.
So it is something that we market for but it's something that is hard to predict.
And I think that's right and actually it can be a little bit lumpy.
I mean our business is obviously pretty predicable when compared to most businesses.
But in Q3 last year we actually had quite a large project in the data management space that kind of impacted some of our comparables.
But they can be profitable lines of activity for us so we'd expect to continue doing them but they can sort of jump around a little bit quarter to quarter.
And the only thing I would add to that is we expect that and it is -- you can think of it as also a -- it's a marketing expense that has a very nice profit associated with it in terms of either maintaining a strong customer relationship as a way we differentiate ourselves with our customers or as I said earlier in terms of getting a customer in but it is also an area where we're able to variabilize our cost base.
So it's something that we can preserve the margins even though you have this lumpiness but it's very much part of why we -- our revenue is so sticky because we're able to provide these additional services to our customers when they need it.
Research Division</strong>.
Now I may have missed this.
Did you indicate your expectation within guidance for paper prices in 2015? I didn't actually say anything on that but our expectation would be for it to be flat year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then could you address swing factors with regard to high end low end of guidance range for 2015? I imagine that the sizable acquisition pipeline will contribute there but -- to the high end or the low end.
But could you talk to some other drivers you think that will be meaningful in swinging the variance? Well certainly as you say acquisitions both in terms of the rate at which we bring on businesses and the speed at which we're able to integrate them have an impact.
And for sure -- and as we look to next year FX is going to be an issue.
We've seen as I was saying in the remarks earlier that the dollar has strengthened particularly over the last month or so.
Clearly that could get stronger it could get weaker and so we're studying that closely and we'd look to update guidance at the beginning of next year as regards to FX but that is an issue just given the sort of the global nature of our business.
And you mentioned the shreds paper price that's always a volatility that we have to manage.
And another one within that for us will be our DMS scanning business which has a sort of project component to it.
To sort of build on the conversation we were talking about earlier is that we are making reasonable progress actually in that area at the moment and we -- obviously we hope to continue to do so.
But that's another item that can move.
Research Division</strong> And then just one final one for me.
Are you content with the size of the sales force you have where they're focused where they're located? Any major internal initiatives on that front into 2015? I think we are -- I think on that point is that where our investment on the sales force is less on organization and reorg.
We think the reorganization we did last year to get them much more in tune and closer to the market.
Because as I said in my remarks our market is still very fragmented so we wanted to make sure that we were aligning the sales force with those real opportunities and unvended opportunities are.
I think our focus this year now is less on the reorganization because we think we've got that right but more on the training in performance management of the sales force.
So that's really the focus and so we think we've got the right numbers we've got them in the right places and now it's about equipping them from a training in performance management standpoint.
Your next question comes from the line of George Tong with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Going deeper into the storage business can you map out how you expect volume and pricing trends to play out in your various geographies and what implications that will mean for future internal storage growth trends? I think that the -- let me kind of back up and just highlight kind of the journey that we're on.
So if you look at say a year ago pretty much all of '13 you would see if we net out acquisitions then you would have about 1.1% growth rate in terms of net incoming volume on the storage business or on the box business right? And if you look at where -- if you look at '14 I mean -- yes '14 during that same period you'll see that we've trended up from 1.5% net volume internal growth rate to this latest quarter of 1.8%.
So if you think about it we've added 70 bps over the course of the year in terms of our internal growth rate.
So if you're seeing -- and then at the same time you see what we've done on the revenue side as we said we started off at 1.4% in terms of storage internal growth rate in terms of revenue and we're up to 2.2%.
What we see going forward is and it kind of relates to the last question from Scott in terms of what we're doing with our sales force is we really do think now that we've got the sales force organized in the right buckets and looking at the right opportunities is -- and now we're spending -- investing a lot more money and time in terms of the training in performance management of that sales force.
So what we would see is that continued trend going forward.
We do think that from a pricing standpoint as we start going into some of the unvended areas we would expect that we could continue the type of performance that we've got in the latest quarter.
So that's -- and that's really what we're focused on right now and we're seeing that.
And when you ask about geographies the big part of that growth that 70 basis points of growth that I've highlighted in terms of across our business has been mainly -- the improvements mainly come out of -- or the deltas come out of the developed market.
So a lot of this realignment of the sales force has been focused at the developed market which is far from being dead because I said it's still -- we find the developed markets when we really got into it is much more fragmented and much more unvended than we previously suspected.
So we would expect to be able to continue the kind of performance that we saw in the third quarter going forward into '15.
Research Division</strong> Very helpful Bill.
And then on the services side can you provide some additional color on the rate at which services trends are stabilizing? Any positive or negative catalyst that can move the needle with services? Let me just stay high level.
I'm going to let Rod comment in a little bit more in detail.
I think that it's a tale of 2 -- let's take 3 different components of looking at the services.
The one part on the box side of the business which I think we've been calling out for the last couple of quarters we see a flattening out of that.
In other words that business is becoming more archival but we see kind of a stabilization in terms of the service rates that we're getting in that business and we've been very successful in terms of stripping out costs as that business is becoming more archival.
So we've got a good match between our costs and our activities in the box business and we see a flattening out of that decline.
If we look in the data management business is we see continued single-digit decline but significant single-digit decline in that business over time then we're able to reduce costs in line with that.
But we think that if we look at it we think the data management business or the tape business is a little bit behind in the life cycle in terms of trending towards the archival side of the business.
So I think we're in the earlier part of the game if you will in terms of that flattening out.
So I wouldn't call that as a flattening-out trend yet but we're able to manage it from a margin standpoint.
And then the third bucket is really some of the things that we were referring to before is the DMS or in some places we call it BPM-type processes and there there's 2 parts of it.
There is what I would call the ones that are much more long-contracted embedded part of the process with our customers and these are multiyear contracts where it's kind of an ongoing trend.
And then we have some of these large projects which are usually associated with a change or a specific need for the customers.
But I don't know Rod if you want to comment in more detail? I don't know I think you've hit on the sort of the key dynamics that we see.
I suppose that the other point I would make is within services where we have the shredding business as well which is performing this year.
But as I was saying earlier the importance of paper price can sort of swing that up or down.
It's actually been pretty stable this year.
But I think in terms of the sort of the fundamental dynamics of -- and the bottoming out some signs of bottoming out within RM less so within DM.
I think probably the only other thing I'd add is then obviously what we do try to do is make sure we're managing costs very tightly against whatever revenues that we have.
I think it's been said on a number of occasions it's the storage part of our business is where most of the value comes from.
Services is an important contributor but less material in terms of overall value.
So the challenge for us is as these trends sort of work their way out we need to -- and have been continuing to sort of make sure our costs are mapped accordingly.
Research Division</strong> Very helpful.
And then just from a margin perspective we had some impact this quarter from REIT compliance costs and acquisition-related costs.
Just looking ahead how do you expect these costs to evolve? And what kinds of sources of margin expansion can help mitigate these incremental costs? Well certainly the REIT costs that we now include in our adjusted OIBDA are those that -- essentially those costs are the need to allow us to sustain the REIT structure going forward.
So if you think -- we're effectively incurring them this year we would expect to incur them again next year.
So from a year-on-year dynamic this year is kind of a negative because we didn't have them last year.
Next year it will be neutral from a year-on-year perspective.
I think in terms of acquisitions it will depend obviously on the -- what the future acquisition program is and how it plays out.
The way that we work our acquisitions today is that in the first year there's typically a significant amount of integration expense as we look to make sure we drive the synergies out of the businesses that we get.
And then from year 2 the benefits really start to flow through.
So from the acquisitions that we've made so far clearly there will be a benefit year-on-year as we go '15 to '14.
I think in terms of what does that mean fully in '15 it will depend on when we do any more acquisitions going forward and the sort of the level of them.
We're expecting that our acquisition program will be similar in scale but clearly it's always hard to predict exactly what we'll be able to close.
Your next question comes from the line of Justin Hauke with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Let me just -- following up on that margin question and I apologize if some of this -- I did hear was in the prepared remarks.
But on the international margin decline what -- I mean that was down 290 basis points.
I assume some of that was these M&amp;A costs.
But can you maybe give us that number in the magnitude just to kind of help us think about what's going on there? Well I think what we do on the international side is we really try to manage it so over the course of the year we're around the 25% mark.
So year-to-date I think we're at 24.5%.
I think in the quarter itself it was below that.
Certainly that number is the one that tends to get impacted more by phasing of acquisition -- the acquisition integration spend because that's where a significant amount of our acquisitions have been.
So it can sort of jump around a bit depending on whether we're investing to get synergies or the synergies are coming out.
But overall I think we're quite happy where we're at tracking to the sort of mid-20s margin and that's pretty much where we are year-to-date.
Yes the only thing I'd add to it.
You -- just reiterating or emphasizing what Rod is saying is we wouldn't change -- we've said that -- we had that program to target the improvement to get up to 25% or mid-20% margins in the international portfolio we wouldn't move off of that.
You will get noise from time to time because of the timing of certain acquisitions and integration costs associated with that but we feel pretty good about the portfolio as it is today that the maturing of some and adding of others that we think that mid-20s in terms of margin target is where we'll maintain.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
I guess my second question is kind of a 2-part I guess around M&amp;A.
I mean the first part just mechanically how much M&amp;A revenue is assumed in the 2015 guidance? And I guess the capital that you're planning in the guidance to spend do you have revenue and OIBDA attached to that in the guidance? Or would that be incremental? That's the first part.
And then I guess the second part of the question would be given the leverage and the capital needs that you have is there anything that would prohibit you from doing larger acquisitions if they came to the market maybe through an equity issuance? And how do you think about your cost to capital here as ability to do that? Maybe just to answer the first point if you look at what we've done the year-on-year benefit from acquisitions will be $30 million.
And in terms of future spend do you want to...
I think it's hard to say what we can and we can't do in terms of acquisitions.
We don't see a need on the -- this year we obviously didn't need to do a major equity raise.
So I suppose these things are always possible but this year for sure we didn't have to contemplate anything like that to do the acquisitions that we have.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But if something was to be more material where it wasn't the smaller acquisitions that are out here is equity a potential tool that you could use? Yes equity is always a potential tool but I don't like to talk about hypotheticals when -- because it depends on what the markets are doing and everything else.
So -- but I mean equity and debt are always the tool that you have when you're investing in your business or doing acquisitions.
But as I said this past year we didn't have to contemplate that.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just to be clear that $30 million benefit from M&amp;A in 2015 that's -- you said Rod that that was from the acquisitions that have been completed year-to-date that doesn't include any potential acquisitions? Yes that's exactly right Justin that's where we're at.
And then clearly if we are to do more there will be more coming through.
We'll obviously look to update the guidance at the end of next quarter on this because it can be a material impact on our numbers but that's kind of where we're heading at the moment.
Your next question comes from the line of Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> I wanted to start just a little bit on Slide 9 just going over some of the trends over there.
On the bottom chart in Records Management volume growth since the beginning of the year we've seen the out firm terminations go down.
I was wondering how much of that is kind of a natural change that you're seeing? And how much of that had to do with the contracting -- proactive contracting changes that you guys made? And should we expect that to continue to improve through the course of next year? Shlomo it's Bill.
It's a good question.
I think that what I would say is that we're down to really where you would expect to be roughly around the -- we're at 1.9%.
So yes the 2% to 1.9% I think is probably the right level of that.
And I wouldn't say it was even the contracting terms I think it just came down to good customer service and good customer management.
I think -- quite frankly we had take our eye off the ball.
We've introduced some software and tools which I think we discussed at Investor Day which has really helped us identify when we were kind of off the point in terms of customer service so that we could intervene before we had what I would call a significant customer service failure.
So I think that has helped.
So we've been able to play a lot better defense by keeping our customers happy and servicing them more proactively and that's really helped a lot.
So believe it or not it's just been focusing on the basics of the business rather than any magic from either contracting or anything else.
But I think at some point I think that clearly the 2.7% if you look back in Q4 of 2012 was way too high.
And I think we're getting to the levels that I think a business with a good customer service apparatus would be targeting.
So I think we're in the zone now.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> And I appreciate that.
What about the organic side of the business over there -- we saw 6.8 going down to 6.1.
Is that -- where is your sense of that kind of stabilizing? And is that the manifestation of kind of industry trends? How should we think of it? I know clearly the goal is to offset the 2 that we're talking about right now just trying to gauge if that's going to be kind of -- you've achieved the optimum.
Or where you think you can get on the bottom? Where we are on that side of it? I think -- look I think part of it is driven by mix quite frankly.
In other words -- and not just in the North American versus international but even the country mix within international there are certain countries that we find that we're going into that are really at the early stages of outsourcing and there are other ones that we're entering and they are more mature in their outsourcing so they have lower growth rates.
The other thing is -- and also being honest about it is that there's -- it's more art than science how we split between the new sales and the organic.
Because in the new sales it's both new logos and new business opportunities with existing customers.
So it's a little bit -- so you have to kind of look at both numbers together but I would say right now is -- clearly in the mature markets is that we've always said they're kind of in the 6% to 7% range.
Some of them are more trending towards the 6%.
Some of them are still kind of in the upper 6% to 7%.
And then the other thing is even in the emerging markets we find quite significant variances between what the organic growth rate is in different countries.
So some of the organic growth rates in some of the emerging markets for instance is north of 10% and others is at 7%.
So I think it's both a country mix issue.
I think it's even within the developed markets there's a mix across countries.
And then the other aspect about it is there is an art rather than scientific split between new sales and the organic.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then just a couple of other ones.
Rod will changes to FX impact the $4.10 to $4.20 in dividends expected for 2015? I guess it would depend on the extent of any FX change.
I think sitting where we are today we would be pretty comparable with that range.
But I suppose I'm just putting a caveat out there if things were to take a real significant turn for the worse in terms of a real material strengthening of the dollar we just have to sort of reserve the right to have a look at that.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Sure.
But just leaving the exchange rates where they are today and just carrying them forward you're comfortable with that $4.10 to $4.20? Yes that's fine.
But as I -- Shlomo we've seen quite a marked shift just in the last month.
So it may even come back to our advantage but it is a bit volatile at the moment.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Sure got it.
And then finally Bill where do you guys stand in terms of going after the smaller business and the Cornerstone acquisition? I noticed it was kind of a strategic a little bit more platform over there.
We talked about progress in prior quarters.
Can you just give us an update there? Yes thanks.
That's a good question.
Well first of all I think that we still remain focused on what I would call that middle market because that tends to be say both very fragmented and very unvended right? So we think that's kind of a really interesting area and there's a lot of growth in that segment.
So I would say that it's early days in terms of us fully capturing the revenue synergies if you will or kind of the D&amp;A synergies that we aim to get from the Cornerstone in the sense that this year we did the reorganization the whole sales force.
So the sales force is aligned to go after that highly fragmented and unvended middle market but we've concentrated our training this year more on the verticals.
And this -- in 2015 actually starting I think it's next quarter so the last quarter of this year and early in 2015 is we're really focusing rolling out both our training in performance management associated with that unvended middle market part of the segment where Cornerstone played quite well at.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> And is pricing higher or lower over there versus the larger...
It tends to be higher and -- but also the service cost is higher associated with these because these are smaller -- obviously smaller customers.
So we do see a correlation between size of customer and pricing but also our cost is different servicing this.
At this time there are no further questions.
Are there any closing remarks? Actually I just wanted to make a clarification.
In my statement earlier I think I said that we would -- our current liquidity is $1.2 million.
We're actually down to our last $1 billion as opposed $1 million.
So I should have said $1.2 billion.
Just so in case anyone was having a heart attack.
So thanks.
Thank you very much.
Thanks for all your time and we'll speak to you next quarter.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Kavita and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Iron Mountain Q4 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I’ll now turn the call over to Ms.
Melissa Marsden.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Kavita.
And welcome everyone to our fourth quarter and year end 2014 earnings conference call.
This morning we'll hear from Bill Meaney CEO who will discuss highlights for the quarter and year as well as progress towards our strategic initiatives followed by Rod Day CFO who will cover financial results and updated guidance for 2015.
After our prepared remarks we'll open up the phones for Q&amp;A.
As we have done for the past couple of quarters we have posted our earnings commentary and supplemental disclosure package on our Investor Relations page of the website at www.ironmountain.com under investorrelations/financialinformation.
Referring now to page two of that supplemental package.
Today's earnings call and slide presentation will contain a number of forward-looking statements most notably our outlook for 2015 financial performance.
All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to today's press release earnings commentary the Safe Harbor language on this slide and our most recently filed annual report on Form 10-K for a discussion of the major risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those in our forward-looking statements.
In addition we use several non-GAAP measures when presenting our financial results.
The reconciliations to these non-GAAP measures as required by Reg G are included in the supplemental reporting package.
With that Bill would you please begin? Thank you Melissa and good morning everyone.
Before I begin I think given recent new stories following on from our December announcement with respect to a proposal to acquire Recall.
I think I should just make a statement before we get into discussing our results for both the quarter and the year.
We strongly believe that our acquisition of Recall would provide both companies shareholders with a unique opportunity to participate in the growth of the combined businesses with attractive growth prospects.
We believe that there is significant value creation potential from such a transaction for both companies customers as well.
We continue to try to figure out ways to narrow the valuation gap but will only pursue a deal at the right price.
We have nothing to report at this time.
With that let me turn to our results.
We are pleased to report another quarter of strong operating performance wrapping up an eventful year of good progress on our three-year strategic plan and our successful conversion to a REIT.
During 2014 we continue to improve results in our developed markets expanded our exposure to faster growing emerging markets and generated momentum in our emerging business segment.
In addition we expanded our REIT investor outreach and we were added to the MSCI REIT in the FTSE/NAREIT indices inclusion in these important benchmarks is important for generating a high level -- a higher level of awareness of Iron Mountain as an attractive REIT investment.
Let me now turn to financial highlights Rod will have more in a few minutes.
On a constant dollar basis our financial results for 2014 were right in line with our expectations.
The significant strengthening of the dollar in the fourth quarter impacted our reported figures as it did for most multinational resulting in growth in total revenue and adjusted OIBDA of over 3% including restructuring charges.
But on a constant dollar basis we believe more -- which we believe more accurately reflects core operating performance growth in these measures was just under 5% at the top end of our ranges.
These results are supported by the durability of our storage rental business and are in line with our three-year plan to achieve 4% compounded annual growth on a constant dollar basis in both total revenues and adjusted OIBDA.
Turning to operating highlights total storage revenue the key economic driver of our business was up 5.4% in constant dollars for the year driven by strong growth of 13% in our international business and roughly 3% gain in both our North American Records and Information Management and Data Management segments.
These results reflect our continued focus on driving net positive Records Management volume in storage rental revenue growth in developed markets and further penetration into higher growth emerging markets.
In developed markets we further sharpened our focus with the fourth quarter sale of our shredded operations in the U.K.
Ireland and Australia.
We chose to divest these businesses because they were much smaller than our North American operations and we did not benefit from the same scale.
At the same time we acquired Securit Records Management in Canada which brought us nine facilities in 3 million cubic feet of records including available space to support the on-boarding of a major new customer.
In Records Management we added more than 18 million cubic feet of net storage volume worldwide on a base of 500 million cubic feet at the beginning of the year or 3.6% net growth.
The growth was in part achieved as a result of the significant turnaround from negative to positive internal volume growth in other words before any impact of acquisitions we achieved in North America.
Importantly North America represented 20% or more than 20% of our gain for the year excluding volume from acquisitions.
Globally we maintained customer churn of under 2%.
This is unchanged from Q3 levels but represents a 30% improvement over the level of customer losses experienced two years ago.
This combination of improved customer retention growth in new sale and consistent new volume from existing customers drove 3.5% internal storage rental growth in the fourth quarter continuing the steady improvement we achieved throughout the year.
Our strong fourth quarter growth rate did benefit from favorable comps relative to the 1.3% internal storage rental growth in the same period last year but even when normalizing for that we saw a nice pickup and are pleased with the momentum as we head into 2015.
Our internal storage rental revenue growth expectations for this year are in the range of 2% to 2.5%.
Turning to emerging markets.
We are making good progress towards our goal of 16% of total revenue from emerging markets by the end of next year.
These high-growth countries represent 13.9% of our total revenues at the end of the year on a constant dollar basis using our 2014 FX budget rates and a 12.8% on reported basis.
You’ll hear from Rod that FX currency rates will be a drag on reported performance this year.
Whilst our operating margin in virtually all our countries are naturally hedged and preserved like most multinationals we’re not immune to the effects of currency translation in terms of absolute earnings impact in U.S.
dollars.
However given our opportunity to expand internationally on what is today a relatively small international base we like the fact that we have the benefit of investing in U.S.
dollars overseas during this part of the currency cycle.
We continue to see attractive growth potential in both storage and service in these markets as they’re beginning to embrace outsourcing of enterprise storage especially given the durability of our business.
Both internal total revenue and internal storage rental growth in these markets was more than 15% in the fourth quarter.
In addition unlike more mature multinational growth rates are fairly similar around the globe we are in a unique position to invest in our capital markets where we are still early in the growth cycle enabling us to capture higher growth rates of a lower basis thereby enhancing our returns in the medium-to-long term.
Given this is a backdrop acquisitions continue to be an integral part of our strategy with a focus on high-growth emerging markets.
We completed $190 million of acquisitions in 2014 including the records inventory of smaller Records Management companies with more than $125 million of the total in emerging markets through Eastern Europe Latin America and the Asia-Pacific regions.
We have a strong pipeline of acquisition opportunities in emerging markets with more than four times the coverage needed to achieve our goal of 16% on a constant dollar basis and will continue to evaluate those opportunities in light of our targeted returns in favorable underlying growth dynamics that support the durability of our business.
Within our emerging business opportunity area we continue to make progress in our data center operations.
We have invested more than $70 million to date with $35 million of that in 2014 expanding our capacity in the underground facility in delivering our first phase in Boston.
Whilst absorption in our Boston data center is just beginning to pick up on a blended basis we have achieved stabilized unlevered return on invested capital in this business of 9% which we feel -- which we feel is good given how recently we added our new capacity and expected this return will stabilize at 11% to 12% on a fully utilized basis.
We continue to evaluate other emerging business opportunities that leverage our unique platform as a leader in enterprise storage.
We see the potential to extend our brand strength in chain of custody and logistics to a broader range of offerings.
Many of these opportunities are customer driven where they asked for our assistance in solving an enterprise storage need whether it be upstream in their supply chain or downstream to support distribution.
We expect to have more on this at our Investor Day in October.
These facets of our strategic plan all support the durability of our business the sustainability of our cash flow and are fit as a REIT.
When you consider the nature of our business our enterprise storage foundation compares very favorably with self-storage.
We have superior customer credit quality given our service to more than 92% of the Fortune 1000.
We serve more than 155 000 business customers which leads to a diversified revenue stream in low customer churn of less than 2% per year.
Unlike consumer self-storage where customers tend to be in transition and frequently have more temporary need the average life of a box in our facilities is 15 years.
This means we have very low volatility.
In fact we posted 26 years of consecutive growth in storage rental revenue which persisted even throughout the great financial crisis.
And like self-storage we have a service component to our business that is inextricably linked to our customers underlying storage needs.
We also compare very favorably with the industrial sector if you think about the nature of our operating facilities.
The major difference is that our real estate costs are incurred by the square foot but we generate storage rental revenue by the cubic foot.
We're essentially renting air.
This multiplier effect generates a significant spread between our costs and our return on investment.
It yields a very high net operating income per square foot and is core to how we create value for our stockholders.
Similar to the industrial sector we have a low maintenance CapEx requirement but our turnover costs are even lower on a per foot basis.
And when we invested incremental racking structures within an existing industrial shell we can generate very strong returns due to this volume dynamic.
As we’ve talked on recent calls we intend to buy $800 million to $1 billion of our leased facilities over the next 8 to 10 years shifting our mix to a higher percentage of owned properties.
This supports our REIT status but it also means we have more optionality over the long term.
If we consolidate in the market and exit buildings that we own we can leased them to customers for other industrial or distribution uses or we can create value by selling them or redeveloping the underlying real estate in infill markets for alternative use.
Importantly the REIT structure is consistent with our capital allocation goals and does not limit our ability to fund our business plan.
As we become more active in buying in our properties and execute our acquisition pipeline we expect to fund that incremental investment with additional borrowing and/or equity issuance similar to the manner in which most REITs fund external growth.
You may have seen that the board declared our first quarter dividend of $0.475 per share this week at a $40 stock price.
Our implied cap rate is about 7.5% well above where other property sectors are trading.
At the same share price our dividend represents a 4.8% yield well in excess of most REITs combined with our goal to grow adjusted OIBDA by 4% on a compounded rate.
Our dividend level supports our goal to deliver total shareholder returns in line with the 8% to 9% TSR or total shareholder return of the S&amp;P 500.
And this goal is prior to any potential upside from additional emerging business opportunities.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Rod.
Thanks Bill.
We continue to execute well against our strategic plan.
And we're pleased with our strong operating performance for the year.
Our results underscore the durability of our storage rental business and demonstrate the benefit of acquisitions we have made in emerging and developed markets.
I’ll begin today with an overview of our fourth quarter and full-year financial performance followed by an update on our outlook for 2015.
I will then address our capital deployment activities and conclude with a discussion of various REIT metrics.
Please note that throughout my prepared remarks I will reference selected slides from our comprehensive supplemental reporting package which can be found on the Investor Relations portion of our website.
Turning to our financial results for the quarter and the year let me direct you to the financial highlights on page 8.
Supported by strong storage rental growth total reported revenues were $778 million up approximately 1% compared with Q4 of 2013 and up 5% on a constant dollar basis.
For the year total revenues grew by 3% to $3.1 billion or by 4% on a constant dollar basis and in constant dollars at the top end of our guidance range.
Adjusted OIBDA for the quarter was $220 million compared with $195 million in 2013.
For the full year adjusted OIBDA grew by 4% to $926 million or by 5% to $934 million on a constant dollar basis.
For comparison adjusted OIBDA for 2014 included $3.5 million of costs associated with the company’s restructuring initiative.
In addition adjusted OIBDA in 2013 included $19 million in the fourth quarter and $23 million in the full year of restructuring costs.
Adjusted EPS for the quarter was $0.25 per diluted share compared with $0.21 in 2013.
For full year 2014 adjusted EPS of $1.36 was within our guidance range.
As we highlighted on our Q3 earnings call adjusted EPS for the full year was impacted by REIT compliance costs and an increase in depreciation and amortization expenses associated with our conversion to a REIT as well as acceleration of real estate consolidation and some of our acquisitions.
It’s important to note that adjusted EPS for 2013 was restated to be on a comparable basis using our structural tax rate of roughly 15%.
Our structural rate for the year came out to 14% as a result of lower pre-tax income in international jurisdictions which was impacted by the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar.
We continue to believe that our tax rate will be approximately 15% to 16% over the long term.
The fundamentals of our business remained strong as evidenced by solid storage rental revenue growth.
On page 9 topline growth for the quarter on a constant dollar basis was up 5% reflecting solid storage rental revenue gains of 5% and service revenue growth of 4%.
The growth in service revenue was driven by increased project activity improvement in paper revenue and recent acquisitions.
On a constant dollar basis full year total revenue growth was 4% driven by storage rental revenue gains of 5% and service revenue growth of 3%.
Also on the same page we show total worldwide volume growth.
We continue to demonstrate improvements in net volume growth in Records Management with total year-on-year volume growth of 3.6% including acquisitions or 1.9% excluding acquisitions.
Growth excluding acquisitions maintained the steady improvements in performance that we have seen in the last two years.
Within this we continue to see strong volume from existing customers provided approximately 30 million cubic feet of storage worldwide in this category.
This number of boxes is consistent with prior years but the percentage growth dipped to just below 6% in Q4 driven by the denominator effects of our growing base of records under management.
Let’s turn to page 12 where we present components of growth on a segment basis.
Q4 and full year segment results were generally in line with our expectations as our strong storage rental revenue continues to exhibit durability.
North American records and information management or RIM delivered positive storage rental internal growth and maintained strong adjusted OIBDA margins of 38.5% during the fourth quarter and the year.
North American Data Management or DM delivered storage rental internal growth of 6% in the fourth quarter and 2% for the year.
During the fourth quarter the strong storage rental growth in DM more than offset the decline in service revenues resulting in adjusted OIBDA expansion of 130 basis points.
Declines in service revenues and Data Management continue to reflect the trends towards reduced activity and related transportation revenues as our customers rotate their taste less frequently and the business becomes more archival.
The International segment continued to generate attractive results with 8% storage rental internal growth and 4% internal service revenue growth for the quarter.
For the full year storage rental internal growth was 6% and internal service revenue growth was 2%.
The international business continued to deliver profitability on a portfolio basis in line with our mid 20s targets for the year.
Adjusted OIBDA margins for the fourth quarter were impacted by costs related to continuous improvement in integration expenses and other IT project expenses.
Let me direct you now to page 11 where we lay out our performance for the year against our guidance.
We will cover this as a high level noting that constant dollar revenue and adjusted OIBDA were at the high end of our growth expectations.
Our full year FFO and AFFO were also in line with our expectations excluding the impact of FX.
Our total distributions for the year including the E&amp;P purge or special distribution were about $1.1 billion.
Approximately $200 million was return of capital representing less than 20% of the total.
It is common for a REIT to have some portion of its distributions characterized as return of capital particularly in its initial year.
In order to qualify as a REIT it was critical that we purge our entire legacy E&amp;P including the E&amp;P from our foreign QRS entities before the end of 2014.
We intentionally built the level of conservatism into our distribution estimates as we did not want to risk on this distributing and filing to qualify.
Also highlighted on this page our investment and capital expenditures we have made during the year.
Real estate investment of $200 million for the year is in line with the midpoint of our guidance.
Our maintenance CapEx was $83 million at the low end of the guidance range.
Non-real estate investment of $43 million was slightly below the low end of our guidance range.
This was driven by timing of certain IT investments which will now occur in 2015.
Acquisitions for the year were $189 million at the low end of our guidance range.
Although the acquisition pipeline is large we are very selective in the acquisitions that we undertake and we ensure that they are meeting our hurdle rates.
Turning now to our outlook for 2015 on page 10 business trends and operating fundamentals remain consistent.
Operationally we remain on track to achieve our long-term financial objectives given the durability and strong fundamentals of our business.
That said we have updated our 2015 guidance to reflect FX headwinds and our new constant currency rate which was based on rates at the beginning of this year.
We are projecting constant dollar revenue growth of 1% to 5% and growth in adjusted OIBDA of 1% to 5% in line with our strategic plan.
We expect adjusted EPS to be in the range of $1.15 to $1.30.
To be clear this guidance similar to the preliminary guidance we provided at the last earnings call reflects our anticipation of an absolute increase in total earnings in constant dollars offset on a per share basis by the impact of shares issued in connection with the special distribution and in addition the impact of FX.
Driven by the consistent growth in our business and stable fundamentals we expect normalized FFO to be between $425 million to $465 million with AFFO between $480 million and $520 million.
Please note that for 2015 guidance we have deducted non-real estate investment from our AFFO calculation in response to constructive feedback.
While not strictly maintenance related capital expense these expenditures are necessary for us to support our RIET IT and customer interface systems and a somewhat recurring in nature.
Therefore we believe this change to our definition of AFFO is a more conservative approach.
As you saw yesterday we announced our first quarterly dividend for the year of $0.475 per share.
We continue to believe that our cash flow supports our dividends at current levels and we expect our dividends to grow in line with operating performance.
From a capital spend standpoint we expect investment in real estate be to $230 million to $270 million including investment in racking.
Maintenance CapEx consistent with prior years is expected to be in the $70 million to $90 million range.
Non-real estate investment is also expected to be in the $70 million to 90 million range which is higher than recent years due to the inclusion of REIT compliance related CapEx and the timing of certain IT investments.
Acquisition investments are expected to be $150 million to $250 million.
It’s difficult to be precise here as acquisitions are opportunistic in nature.
We will update our outlook again on our Q1 earnings call to reflect any changes if any including the impact of any further changes up or down in FX.
Shifting to the balance sheet pages 26 and 27 present all debt maturity schedule and related metrics.
At quarter end we had liquidity of more than $700 million.
As forecasted at our Investor Day last year our lease adjusted leverage ratio would increase to support shareholder payouts expenditures in connection with our proposed conversion to a REIT and recent acquisitions.
In quarter end it was 5.4 times as planned.
At today's stock price our debt to total market capitalization is roughly 36%.
Turning now to REIT specific metrics on page 20 we provide our global real estate portfolio which highlights our leased and owned facilities worldwide.
The number of leased facilities increased slightly compared to the third quarter of 2014 as a result of our international acquisitions through which we assumed a few operating leases.
As we begin to consolidate facilities and execute on our real estate purchase plan we expect to increase the portion of owned facilities by a square footage.
On page 21 we have provided storage net operating income or NOI per racked square foot which highlights the attractive economics we derive from our real estate.
We continue to achieve strong storage NOI from combined Records Management and Data Management of approximately $29 per racked square foot worldwide due to the multiplier effects of renting our space by the cubic foot.
This level compares favorably to NOI per square foot for most property types within the REIT sector.
On page 22 our racking and building utilization rates are high and have improved slightly since the last quarter at 91% and 83% respectively for the Records Management portfolio.
We believe that due to frictional vacancy our maximum racking utilization is in the mid-90s.
When we enter into a new facility we generally target to achieve stabilized utilization in about three years' time.
On page 29 we have provided components of value the summary of the various parts of our business to facilitate valuation.
As a reminder we present both storage NOI and service OIBDA excluding rent expense in order to present storage economics on a consistent basis whether leased or owned.
To balance that we provide total rent expense in the liabilities area.
We think about our valuation as a REIT by applying the self-storage or industrial cap rates to our annualized NOI from our storage rental business.
On top of the market value of our storage business we add the value of the services business by applying appropriate multiple.
We also provide other tangible assets our current investments in buildings and racking as well as the book value of recent acquisitions.
We also provide liabilities including our annual rent expense to which we apply cap rate and deduct as another form of debt.
We hope you find this disclosure useful.
And as we've said in prior communications we will continue to enhance our supplemental reporting and welcome feedback.
With that I will now turn the call back to Bill.
Thanks Rod.
Before we move to Q&amp;A I’d like to summarize this morning’s key points.
Our 2014 financial results were on track with our expectations prior to the impact of foreign currency and in fact revenue on a constant dollar basis was at the top end of our range.
Moreover we look for similar constant dollar growth in 2015 consistent with the three-year plan we laid out at our Investor Day nearly a year ago.
Our fourth quarter operating results demonstrated the success of our initiatives to drive volume in storage rental growth in both our developed and emerging markets and we’re maintaining momentum as we move into 2015.
We have attractive high return investment opportunities in all of our segments including potential acquisitions in developed and emerging markets and interesting initiatives to leverage our enterprise storage rent through emerging business opportunities.
We are maintaining our dividend in line with the growth in operating profit which represents an attractive yield whilst providing cash flow to fund required CapEx and a portion of our growth investment.
We’ll continue to maintain our capital allocation discipline.
And like most REITs we'll look forward -- we’ll look to fund external growth with new capital after first demonstrating our ability to generate the appropriate returns.
Our business is durable and predictable and is characterized by attractive fundamentals compared with self-storage and industrial property types.
While FX has been a drag in the recent quarter we also see the current FX environment has an opportunity to take advantage of the strong U.S.
dollar to increase our small but growing investment in the high growth emerging markets at favorable rate.
With that Operator we're ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from line of Andrew Steinerman with JPMorgan.
At the internal growth in service up 3% and actually I did catch also that it was an easier comp? You mentioned even normalizing for the easier comp this looks like a recovery? Could you go over some of the components of what drove a positive experience in North American service on an organic basis and looking into 2015 do you think this will be a volatile division or do you think that will be firming up? Andrew I think you were slipped at the beginning.
But I think your -- I don’t think we -- I hope we've got all of your you are asking about the internal growth.
And we called out the fact that we’re guiding for 2% to 2.5% and we had a very strong quarter.
You want to understand how volatile that is and what drove the improvement.
Is that correct? On the service side of North American box On the service side? Yeah.
Okay.
I think on the service side I will let Rod talk you through because you also asked for the different components and I think I would say as an introductory mark before Rod takes you through the different components of that? Because there as you know there are multiple things in our service revenue some of it is driven by paper prices.
Some of it’s driven by the ins and outs associated with our Records Management business.
There are different components that are more volatile and more in direct control of the operations.
So I think we have seen an improvement around our imaging business and paper prices and we have a new dedicated leader that’s just looking at our digital or scanning operations so we have seen an improvement in that area.
But we still see some of the underlying trends especially in our Data Management area in terms of the some of the service associated with transport but Rod you may want to talk about it in more detail.
Yeah.
I think that’s right Bill.
The way I think about service revenue and I’m sure I think you do as well is that service revenue that we can directly influence and this is more sort of independent if you like from some of our core Records Management business and then there is service activity that is dependent on the activity of what’s going on within whole storage side.
I think what was positive for us in Q4 we look at the first areas of the stuff that we can influence directly.
We had a particularly good quarter in what we call projects.
So that’s where we do specific assignments for customers to sort of help them more with Records Management issues and that was a good strong performance.
In addition we also have the benefit of a good shred performance during Q4 some of which was driven by an improved paper price that we’ve seen take-off bit in Q4.
In terms of the activity associated with our records business within the RM side although there was still a sort of modest decline the decline is not as serious as we’ve seen.
And so again I think you know we were nervous about calling the bottom of that.
But at least it was a more favorable quarter than we’ve seen and actually follows on from Q3 in that regard.
I think the contrast of that would be as Bill said within the DM side we did see quite a significant drop in service activity associated with tight and sort of tight rotation.
Now let’s talk about 2015.
As Bill said we’ve actually done a bit of reorganization on the service side particularly within North America to give more focus to our scanning business and our shredding business which I think will benefit us.
And I would hope that within the RM side although that’s probably still be continuing declines with activity associated with box but that should be it and that would be at lower levels.
But on the DM side I do think we will continue to see quite significant reduction so.
In terms of summary in terms of the activity that we can control I think will be -- I’m hoping for a good performance there on the stuff that is more difficult for us to control.
RM more positive than it’s been.
DM I think will continue to struggle.
Okay.
The other thing I would add to that Andrew is on the DM side there is a couple of initiatives that we are doing to try to mitigate that.
First of all we do have a new offering in Secure Destruction which we are seeing albeit off a small base but very rapid growth on that base.
So I think you'll start seeing that come through in some of the service numbers associated with the DM business.
The other aspect is that we have taken a focus on maintaining and in some cases trying to add additional volume and what we call our premium transport services around DM which is dedicated transport.
So there are couple puts and takes in initiatives that we've just started in last quarter last year and we expect those to continue to come through.
But the overall trend in DM as it becomes more archival like the box business.
The DM business is a little bit behind in terms of the lifecycle of that.
Okay.
Thank you.
Next question comes from the line of Kevin McVeigh with Macquarie.
A real nice job.
Hey.
Obviously I don’t know if you can’t comment on Recall at all but they reported they said there is further discussions things like that.
Just any update in terms of how you are thinking about that Bill particularly given the pullback in the Aussie dollar does that impact kind of the approach? And are there any milestones that as you think about the potential transaction from a timing perspective or is it just -- any update at all if you can talk to it? Thanks for that.
I guess Kevin you probably expect -- I don't have much more to say than what my statement is that we’ve obviously seen attractiveness of such a transaction which is the reason why we put a proposal forward in December.
And we look at different aspects of the business that is attracted by it.
But it's really a question of whether or not we can get to a value that works for both sides.
But I think I don't have any more to say than in my opening statement.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Hey.
And just wondering if I had a rate it looks like on the initial ’15 guide the internal growth was 1% to 2%.
Now we are saying two to two and a half percentage is that right? Say that again? I'm sorry.
I’m sorry.
The internal growth overall in the 2015 guide I thought initially was 1% to 2% and if I have it now I think you bulk that up to two to two and a half percentage is that right? Yeah.
I think just to be clear there is probably a distinction between -- so if there is a distinction means total internal growth in storage internal growth side.
Bill referenced storage internal growth of being sort of 2% to 2.5% which is kind of the number that we would expect for 2015 which is distinct from total revenue growth.
Got it.
Because it seems like you are doing a really nice job there.
And then just one other question in terms of -- with the drop in fuel I know you had fuel surcharges did that kind of work against you so I guess it seems like the internal growth is probably even stronger than what you'd suggest if some of those surcharges were starting to runoff or Am I thinking about that incorrectly? No you're right actually.
It does don't have an impact.
It did have a relatively small impact to be honest in the backend of Q4.
And it obviously doesn’t impact the EBITDA but it does impact the revenue slightly.
Okay.
And then just one last and I apologize.
I will get back to queue.
It sounded like Bill you announced a major new customer.
It doesn’t look like the CapEx from a racking perspective picked up.
Was that a secured customer.
or was that kind of an organic and any sense as to just what’s vertical that’s in? I think you're referring to is in relation to the Secure acquisition I’d say it also helped us on-boarding a major new customer is that what you are referring to Kevin? Yes.
Yeah.
No I think that -- well it did help us a little bit in terms of the amount of CapEx for racking that we needed to deploy for that because we were able -- we bought Secure they had some spare capacity in some of their other facilities which we are able to use to onboard this new customer.
So I think that is true and that’s up in Canada.
Okay.
Super.
Thanks so much nice job.
Thanks.
Thanks Kevin.
Your next question comes from the line of Andy Wittman with Robert W.
Baird.
Thank you for taking my questions.
I wanted to start by digging into some of the restructuring costs in fourth quarter.
You may have said this on the conference call rather but I missed it.
What were the restructuring costs this year and last year in 4Q specifically? Okay.
Sorry just want to get a sense of the comparability of the margins? No.
I got it here.
So the restructuring charge for this year in Q4 was zero and for last year was $18.6 million.
Okay.
So that implies that the margins are somewhat weaker here as we look at the segments it looks like some of that was driven internationally it looks like the guidance for next year takes a low end of the EBITDA or the OIBDA growth down a smidge? I guess Bill when you think about that what’s the driver there is that continue to be the international performance or is it something else? Could you help us understand that little bit better? Well I think that if you look at our international performance is still in the range though we said slightly below the 25% that we reported last year.
But it really is dependent in terms of how we grow the emerging market portfolio because it’s a -- it will ebb and flow as we add new countries into that portfolios.
As we said before it’s -- you put something in the funnel and it grows to mimic U.S.
margins which are even much higher than the 25% that a year ago we reported in the international segment.
So that will ebb and flow in that range as we actually add new investments as we build market leading positions in the various geographies on the emerging market portfolio.
Maybe I’ll just make a comment on FX just because that’s the difference if you’d like between the guidance say we have approximately 40% of our revenues internationally and we’ve seen a 12% decrease in FX on those revenues across those basket of currencies so as a kind of impacted around sort of 4% 4.5%.
So you can see that the scale of the issue if you like and that’s what’s -- that’s really the only thing that’s driven the change in guidance.
Got it.
And then just how much of the factor is pricing and I know several quarters ago now there were some large customers that you decided that wasn’t worth to loss the customer to keep down the churn I think that ultimately was obviously I think a smart decision? How much of that continued Bill and how much of pricing is maybe a factor in your margin performance? It’s a good question Andy.
The pricing -- the beginning of the year we probably weren’t as sophisticated as being into on pricing.
In the middle of the year we hired a new person in-charge of pricing and we on boarded in November our new Chief Marketing Officer with that comes under.
So we have seen during the course of the year being able to up our game in the pricing area.
So this year obviously we turned around the performance in North America from a volume perspective.
So that helps as well and we put those two together which especially towards the second half of the year in terms of adding more sophistication and more horsepower in our pricing area you put those two together and that’s why we feel pretty confident that when we talked about internal storage revenue growth for next year in the 2% to 2.5% range.
And if you recall in quarter one last year we started off at 1.3%.
So it’s been a nice trend and we've been building some momentum through the year both on the volume side and now on the latter half of the year on the pricing side.
That’s really helpful.
If I -- could you allow me one more question I guess this one to Rod on the capital structure.
Debt-to-EBITDA now at 5.4 times just wanted to get your sense of your comfort level there? I guess last time we checked that was at the high-end or slightly above your targeted range? Is there been the change in the way you look at the range or is this really kind of staying there recognizing that you maybe able to get a lot more EBITDA if you can come to terms with Recall without having a lot of incremental debt therefore taking you better into your targeted range that way? I just trying to understand how you are thinking about that if there's a need for fresh equity through a public offering or if you feel like you are going to re-equitize the balance sheet through a deal and if that's what’s preventing you from maybe reducing the leverage that way? Actually I don’t really want to talk about on sort of Recall and how that would may or may not impact things.
Let me just talk about in isolations.
I think the first point to say is that the leverage ratio of 5.4% is exactly what we predicted at our I Day presentations.
So there’s actually no surprise in that.
And we’ve landed in a preciosity of the point where we thought we would.
But our stance is over the long-term -- a range of 4% to 5% we think is optimal from a sort of cost of debt or cost of equity and trade off.
But in terms of -- and raising any further record as Bill referenced in his remarks we would do that on the basis of having compelling investments to make in a bid in acquisitions or in real estate in particular.
Very very common for a REIT that’s the situation that we are in and that’s how we would look to fund things going forward.
Okay.
No do you want to add on that Bill? I think that’s spot on.
That’s fine.
Thanks guys for the answers.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of George Tong with Piper Jaffray.
If you look at Record Management volume growth this quarter ex-acquisition it was relatively consistent on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
But if you look at the fourth quarter organic storage revenue growth it accelerated from 2.2% to 3.5% given the volume growth was consistent on a quarter-to-quarter basis is the different essentially coming from stronger pricing trend? Yes.
That’s good.
There was actually a slight improvement in terms of our volume growth quarter-on-quarter.
But you are right and George it doesn’t explain the full difference by any means.
Two things that are going on.
One we benefit from relatively weak compared to last year because as you may recall on our earnings call this time last year we were talking about a number sort of pricing adjustments down with what we have to make during that period.
So in a sense the sort of the year-on-year comparison and it slightly falls.
But even if you strip that out we have seen an improvement a disproportionate improvement relative to our volume.
And that comes back to -- in terms of the overall mix price and that’s what Bill was referencing earlier in terms of our ability if you like to get more pricing traction than we’ve been able to do and maybe earlier in the year.
Yeah.
No I think that’s right.
So as you called out we started off Q1 at a storage rental internal revenue growth of 1.4%.
We ended up the year at 3.5%.
As you say even if you correct other things that Rod’s talking about you were in the upper half of the 2s in terms of internal revenue storage growth rates.
So we've seen a really nice trend in pick up during that area.
I think we also guided at the beginning of the year that we were -- we did call out that we were underperforming and we are very comfortable that we could get to the 2% to 2.5% range and we think we’ll be able to continue that momentum this year.
And just to pick you up on one other thing is that we have seen a nice progression in terms of the volume growth the storage volume growth over the last say two years where we've gone from Q1 in 2013 in terms of internal storage volume growth before acquisitions of 1.1% net growth and we progressed up to this last quarter of 1.9% growth.
So we've seen a very nice expansion and that's really been driven by both better offense and defense in terms of retaining customers and also gaining new customers so we feel like things are starting to come together.
So we feel pretty confident that we'll be able maintain that momentum into 2015.
Great.
That’s helpful.
And last quarter your C dollar OIBDA growth was indicated to be 2% to 5% while this quarter the range was widened to 1% to 5%.
Can you talk about how your views on margins have evolved over the past quarter? Really no material shift other than the issue of FX as I was referencing earlier so and that's really the only change that we have to our thinking.
Okay.
And then last question for me.
Real estate acquisitions I think in the past you've indicated they will be largely funded by ATM offering which is typical of RIETs.
Can you discuss returns you’ve seen from recent real estate acquisitions you’ve done and what the plan is for 2015? Yes.
So in terms of the returns that we would expect from acquisitions I would distinguish between acquisitions that we make in developed markets and acquisitions that we make in emerging markets.
And given the sort of the risk profile within emerging markets we look for higher returns than we would expect than in developed markets.
The range that we look for is 9% to 11% so that the -- I'm always worried about quoting averages here because each day when we look at on a case-by-case basis and risks adjusts and make sure that we’re getting good quality returns on a case-by-case basis.
The average is 9% to 11% typically higher in emerging and it is easier to take lower returns in developed where it’s more predictable.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifel.
Good morning.
Could you -- it looks to me that the service revenues -- just following up on Andrew’s question it is better than it’s been in a very long time.
Can you give us just the organic services revenue in North America in aggregate was it positive? The North American service revenue for the quarter Andrew or just for the year? For the quarter.
For the quarter.
Sorry.
Yeah definitely.
On a constant currency rate we are at 2.4% in the Records Management which is a good performance.
But we have seen a decline of 4.2% in Data Management but certainly in the North American space that was a strong -- sorry the RIM space that was strong performances compared to where we’ve been.
If I put them together North American general services is positive now? Yes.
Okay.
Very good.
And then what’s going on in the U.S.
government market.
You guys added some capacity I saw in news like a month ago.
Is the government right to go after that really huge market that you guys have been talking about for years? Yeah.
Shlomo I think it is a good question.
And you probably also noticed I think we had a press release just a couple of weeks ago that we had a new head of federal who has a wide of depth and experience in that that area.
We have as you know that we invest when we can see the revenue coming.
And I think we feel like we’re getting pretty close on a number of discussions with the federal government and we still see that has a very big unvented opportunity for us.
So yes we are and it’s probably little bit overstated to say we’re bullish but we feel that we're building momentum in that vertical.
And we’re really pleased by how fast our new leader of the federal business seems to be getting his feet under the desk.
Okay.
Great.
And then middle-market any update over there in terms of kind of a strategy post the acquisition you made a little while ago? I think that the -- on a Cornerstone acquisition which I think you’re referring to we talked about that we’re getting some of the D&amp;A to go after that market.
We do think that that's a real opportunity for us because as I think I’ve said before is our market share or representation in that market is almost a quarter of what it is in the large enterprise market.
And that is the market that tends to have better internal growth rates among themselves and good pricing.
So that is an area where we have taken some of the D&amp;A from Cornerstone and we have some of our folks working on how to better go after that.
And also the reorganization that we did a year ago is already starting to show some benefit in terms of better penetrating that market and that was breaking -- getting the feel people aligned with the local territories much tighter.
So I would say we’re still in the early part of the game on that but we're starting to see -- we definitely see the opportunity and we’re starting to slowly see some results in that area.
Okay.
And this is for Rod.
Just going and looking at a kind of change in the AFFO calculation.
Is this $70 million that you moved out of AFFO because some focus somewhat more recurring is that non-real estate investment correct line on slide 10? That’s correct.
That’s exactly right.
And just to get a little bit history on that we were talking to a number of REIT investors and there was kind of confusion around what’s maintenance for a company like us.
So we’ve always had the real estate maintenance expense within our AFFO and following feedback we thought it was appropriate to include this additional spend which is generally sort of recurring in nature.
And therefore it gets sort of more conservative and more prudent view of what the AFFO number should be.
So is there a difference between the $70 million that came down in the $70 million to $90 million range? So I don’t ….
In other words if I take AFFO in the old definition to the new definition it’s down $70 million but the range of $70 million to $90 million.
Is there an improvement somewhere else? No.
No that’s the only adjustment.
Okay.
Would you mind just walking us through kind of sources and uses for next year? From starting with an AFFO that should be roughly $500 million and I take kind of the midpoint of real estate investment maintenance CapEx business and customer acquisitions.
I netted out on the $500 million and I would go to issue about negative $30 million use about $400 million of dividends.
Is there -- there is clearly you have about $600 million of liquidity if you pulled that all with debt you kind of bump out of our debt.
How should we think of it from a modeling perspective? I think while I draw that try my best for the case that would be long sort of detailed analysis.
If we could do that offline very happy to do that but it will take quite some time to work that through with you.
Okay.
I appreciate it.
I’ll take your appointment.
Thank you very much.
Bye.
Your final question comes from the line of Dan Dolev for Jefferies.
My question I won’t take step back and kind of look at the last few years and ask you if I look at the last three years you spend about all-in $1.5 billion in CapEx.
And if I look at the EBITDA progression so called since 2011 it’s down about 2.5%.
So what kind of return were you aiming to get on the CapEx and why isn’t EBITDA growing if you did get return on that CapEx? Thanks.
I think that what you disentangle is Sort of what’s been going on with the some of the underlying performance of the business certainly in the sort of ‘11 and ‘12 period and the returns that we’re getting from the CapEx that we spend.
So during the sort of the ‘11 and ‘12 period the two things were happening.
And one is we had a sort of poor performance on our services side of the business but it impacts our business negatively.
And the second is depending on which EBITDA you’re looking at we’re investing in REIT costs which obviously has the benefit further down the P&amp;L in terms of tax.
And if you then just strip out the CapEx the investments that we’ve made.
The typical returns we look to get on those certainly in excess of our WAC which is 8% and obviously that will vary depending on the secured investment that we are making.
But then if you sort of layer them back on top that will then contribute in a positive way to EBITDA.
Okay.
Understood.
Okay.
And one last follow up on the dividend you sounded a little bit more reserve if I understood correctly on ’15 dividend? Are you still committed to $4.10 to $4.20? I think we are -- so the reason why we gave the -- this is a dollar guidance in the previous quarter was really because there was so much going on with the dividend with special projects and an E&amp;P projects and special payments.
And we are happy that we were getting questions coming in from investors because it was quite a confusing pitch.
So we thought that would be helpful number to put out.
Now we are through all that.
We will just go I don’t know sort of quarterly basis in terms of our per dividends payment.
So I think Bill referenced in his remarks.
Our policy like is to grow that dividends in line with our operating performance and that’s what we were doing.
Yeah.
That the only I was just saying I think we are -- I think it’s also clear where we are guiding now is on a per share basis and I think I kind of fumbled over cents whatever but its $47.5 of per share is what we are guiding over and that as Rod said grows in line with operating income because we are now through the project.
I think with that I’d like to turn it back over to the operator.
And at this time I will turn it back over to Bill Meaney for closing remarks.
Yeah.
I think I have already done the remarks Operator.
So I just want to thank you all for joining us this morning for our call and we look forward to speaking to you in three months.
Thank you.
That does conclude today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Felicia and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Iron Mountain Q1 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
I will now like to hand the conference over to Melissa Marsden Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Felicia and welcome everyone to our first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
As I'm sure everyone joining us this morning knows we also announced an agreement in principle to acquire Recall.
This morning we'll hear from Bill Meaney our CEO who will discuss highlights for the quarter some key points related to the proposed transaction as well as progress toward our strategic initiatives; followed by Rod Day our CFO who will cover financial results.
After our prepared remarks we'll open up the phones for Q&amp;A.
As we have done for the last few quarters we have posted our earnings commentary and supplemental disclosure package on the Investor Relations page of our website at www.ironmountain.com under Investor Relations/Financial Information.
We've also posted there a brief presentation related to the proposed Recall transaction at the same location.
Referring now to page two of the supplemental today's earnings call and slide presentation will contain a number of forward-looking statements most notably our outlook for 2015 financial performance.
All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to today's press release earnings commentary the Safe Harbor language on this slide and in the Recall presentation and our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K for discussion of the major risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those in our forward-looking statements.
In addition we use several non-GAAP measures when presenting our financial results.
The reconciliations to these non-GAAP measures as required by Reg G are included in the supplemental reporting package.
With that Bill would you please begin? Thank you Melissa and good morning everyone.
Let me first extend our apology for such a short notice on the change in timing for the release of first quarter results.
But given that it was driven by our agreement in principle to acquire Recall we felt it was important to combine the news.
I would like to start by saying we are pleased to announce that our results in the first quarter meet or exceed our expectations.
We continue to build operational momentum in the business which is in turn driving strong financial results in spite of the significant FX headwinds.
However given the breaking news associated with the agreement in principle to acquire Recall I'd like to start with the discussion of this agreement.
First I should say we are very excited about our agreed proposal to acquire Recall.
We think this proposed transaction represents an attractive value proposition supported by significant synergies and believe it will be highly accretive.
Our revised offer reflects the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar and other favorable changes since our last proposal particularly regarding transaction related tax assumptions.
Of course we have yet to complete due diligence to reach a definitive agreement and the successful completion of the transaction is subject to customary conditions noted in today's press release.
We have a few slides related to the proposal the proposed transaction that we have posted to our Investor Relations website which I'll touch on briefly.
Turning first to slide three the proposed acquisition is an all stock deal at a fixed exchange rate of 0.1722 of an Iron Mountain share for each Recall share.
Additionally we've made a provision that each Recall shareholder can elect up to a maximum of 5 000 shares to be paid in cash at AUD$8.50 per share subject to a cap on the total cash consideration of AUD$225 million.
On slide five we estimate there is an opportunity to achieve synergies of between US$125 million and US$140 million driven by economies of scale from the combination of infrastructure and overhead.
We expect to realize 50% of these synergies in year two which will already yield by year two high-single digit accretion in EPS FFO and AFFO.
Another benefit of the proposed transaction in the medium term is that it supports our de-leveraging strategy.
Additionally we have complementary market platforms with Recall having a more developed presence with the small-to-medium businesses in the U.S.
whilst we have more significant presence with larger enterprise customers in the U.S.
Turning to slide six we also have complementary geographic coverage with Recall having more exposure to faster growing international markets.
Slide seven provides a bit more detail on the benefits to Recall shareholders including the ability through stock ownership to participate in future upside and be supported through a secondary listing in Australia.
Slide eight shows more detail on our estimated net synergies as well as our expected integration and other costs that would be incurred in year one to achieve those synergies.
Assuming the midpoint of the synergy range consensus estimates of Recall's 2015 EBITDA and the fixed exchange ratio we estimate our going-in EBITDA multiple is just over 12 times and is reduced by 4 turns to 4.5 turns on a fully synergized basis demonstrating the benefits of the proposed transaction.
Lastly on slide nine we've provided a list of next steps in the process.
With that overview of the proposed transaction let me turn to our results.
We are pleased to report another quarter of strong operating performance extending recent progress with continued positive organic volume growth in solid storage rental internal growth.
We continue to execute on our three-year strategic plan which rests on three pillars; getting more from our developed markets expanding our presence in faster growing emerging markets and continue to explore adjacent opportunities in our emerging business segment.
Rod will have more details in a few minutes but I'll start by highlighting that on a constant dollar basis our financial results for the first quarter were in line or ahead of our expectations with total revenue up 2% and adjusted OIBDA up 5.7% on a constant dollar basis or 4.5% on a constant dollar basis if normalized for restructuring charges as shown on page 20 in our supplemental.
We saw further strengthening of the U.S.
dollar in the first quarter which impacted our reported results but the fundamental trends in the business remains solid and we are pleased with the momentum.
Our results are supported by the durability of our storage rental business and are in line with our strategic plan.
If you reviewed our supplemental disclosure before the call today you probably noted that we added a further breakdown of our International business.
Effective with this quarter's reporting; we've broken the former International segment into Western Europe and Other International.
With this segment change we've consolidated executive leadership of North America and Western European markets under Patrick Keddy to provide better focus and alignment within our developed markets.
Patrick has run our UK and Western European markets for several years now having originally joined us from Pitney Bowes where he ran its entire business outside the U.S.
including operations in 28 countries.
JT Tomovcsik will continue to run our North American Records and Information Management business and Eileen Sweeney will add Western Europe to her leadership responsibilities and will head Data Management in all developed markets.
She and JT will coordinate their efforts through Patrick.
This integration of executive leadership in North America and Western Europe will allow us to present a single face to our major customers in our largest markets and we'll be better positioned as a global service provider not just a company with a global footprint.
Marc Duale will continue to run emerging markets through the Other International segment which covers Latin America Asia-Pacific and Central and Eastern Europe.
This segment also includes Australia as it is easy to manage within this segment due to the geographic proximity.
We think this structure will better fuel our continued momentum in developed markets and continue our expansion in emerging markets thereby more closely tying performance to our strategic plan.
Turning to operating highlights total storage revenue a key economic driver of our business grew by 4.6% on a constant dollar basis during the quarter reflecting continued strong growth from the Other International segment and consistent trends in Western Europe as well as North America RIM and DM or Data Management.
Worldwide internal growth in storage rental of 3% continued to show resilience.
Whilst internal growth did benefit slightly from favorable comps relative to the 1.4% internal storage rental growth in the same period last year we are seeing continued momentum and are maintaining our view for internal storage rental revenue growth for 2015 of between 2% and 2.5%.
In Records Management we added roughly 18 million cubic feet of net storage volume worldwide on a trailing 12-month basis representing 3.5% net growth.
This growth was in part achieved as a result of the significant turnaround we are continuing to achieve in North America from negative to positive internal volume growth or in other words before benefit from acquisitions.
Importantly North America represents nearly 25% of our net volume gains for the trailing 12 months excluding acquisitions.
Globally we maintained customer retention of 98% in line with our fourth quarter 2014 levels but a significant improvement over the level of customer turnover experienced just two years ago.
In our Data Management business we continue to see solid storage revenue growth although as noted in recent quarters we are still experiencing headwinds related to reduced frequency of customer tape rotation.
Whilst we continue to evaluate ways to right-size our cost structure to align with this trend we are continuing to develop new product and services in the Data Management segment to leverage our strong customer relationships in the more than 200 000 stops we make each month.
During the quarter Google named us as the ingestion partner for its new Nearline cloud solution.
This means we are the preferred provider to assist Google Cloud customers in uploading all the data saved in legacy data storage formats that predated cloud storage so they can better use big data.
We plan to begin offering this service later this summer.
We also are seeing good early reception to our Restoration Assurance Program that helps customers retrieve data from legacy media and optimize their backup environment for future technologies.
Moreover just last week we announced a strategic relationship with EMC to deliver cloud backup and replication services which helps customers optimize their on-premise and off-premise data protection strategy.
We are the only one of their providers to offer data domain replication to the cloud with tape-out capabilities.
These new initiatives are in their early days and we are not guiding to a specific contribution from them but they demonstrate our thought leadership innovation capabilities and partnership with other world leaders in information management like Google and EMC.
Turning to emerging markets we are making good progress towards our goal of 16% of total revenue from emerging markets by the end of next year.
These high growth markets represent 13.6% of our total revenue at the end of the quarter on a constant dollar basis.
Like most multinationals we do have exposure to the effects of currency translation in terms of absolute earnings and cash impact in U.S.
dollars.
While FX variability does impact the absolute dollars we report the impact on our gross and adjusted OIBDA margins is almost completely muted because most of our expenses are denominated in local currency thereby creating a natural hedge.
On the other hand the current FX environment gives us a positive window in terms of investments.
Given our opportunity to expand internationally on what is today a relatively small international base we believe we can create significant value over time by investing selectively in these higher growth markets using strong U.S dollars during this part of the currency cycle.
We continue to see attractive growth potential in both storage and service in emerging markets as they are still in the early part of the outsourcing of enterprise storage.
Internal storage rental growth in our Other International segment was 11.1% in the first quarter.
Rod will describe more fully the impact of foreign currency exchange rate impacts on our reported performance for the quarter.
Furthermore we intend to pursue attractive investment opportunities that extend durability of the storage rental business.
As we've discussed on recent calls we plan to buy $700 million to $1 billion of our leased facilities over the next eight years to 10 years shifting our mix to a higher percentage of owned properties.
On average we are achieving a spread of roughly 150 basis points between our going-in cap rates and market cap rates whilst positioning ourselves to capture long-term residual value from ownership.
Importantly the REIT structure is consistent with our capital allocation goals.
It does not limit our ability to fund our business plan.
As we became more active in buying in our properties and executing on our acquisition pipeline we expect to fund that incremental investment with additional borrowing and/or equity issuance similar to the manner in which most REITs fund external growth.
As you think about opportunities to grow our storage rental business it is important not to lose sight of the solid durability of the business which is underpinned by roughly $1.5 billion of net operating income from our storage business alone.
This amount of NOI is comparable to that generated by the leaders in the industrial and self-storage sectors.
And we have other attractive business characteristics that compare favorably with REITs.
Our enterprise storage foundation is similar to self-storage but we serve more than 92% of the Fortune 1000 with superior customer credit quality.
We have a diversified base of more than 155 000 business customers with 98% customer retention and a 15-year average life of box in our facilities.
Our business has a very low volatility as highlighted by a track record of 26 years the consecutive growth in storage rental revenue even throughout the recent recession.
And like self-storage we have a service component to our business that is inextricably linked to our customers' underlying storage needs.
We also compare very favorably with the industrial sector with the major difference that our real estate costs are incurred by the square foot but we generate storage rental revenue by the cubic foot yielding a very high net operating income per square foot.
Similar to the industrial sector we have a low maintenance CapEx requirement but our turnover costs are even lower on a per foot basis.
And when we invest in incremental Racking Structures within an existing industrial shell we generate very strong returns due to the leverage associated with this volume achieved with reduced growth CapEx.
To wrap up we're excited to be announcing the proposed transaction with Recall and reporting a quarter of strong operating performance.
Our results were in line with or ahead of expectations and we remain on track to achieve our long-term goals.
Our business is durable and generates strong cash flow that more than covers our dividend and provides a portion of growth CapEx.
And as we look at our longer-term growth potential we have multiple capital allocation opportunities to invest in attractive returns that exceed our cost of capital and support long-term growth in our dividend.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Rod.
Thanks Bill.
We're pleased with the momentum we continue to see in our business and the strong operating performance we saw in the first quarter of 2015.
Our results continue to demonstrate the durability of our storage rental business and the benefits of acquisitions we made in developed and emerging markets in prior periods.
Before I begin I'd like to note that our outlook for 2015 doesn't contemplate potential contribution or impact from the proposed transaction with Recall.
As noted by Bill we have yet to reach a definitive agreement; we're just embarking on the due diligence process.
To frame my remarks I'll begin today with an overview of our first quarter performance including a review of our new segment disclosure.
I'll briefly touch on our outlook for 2015 which remains unchanged since our update in February of this year.
Finally I will address other metrics through a REIT lens.
Let's turn to our worldwide financial results for the quarter.
Referring now to pages eight and nine of our supplemental supported by strong storage rental growth total reported revenues were $749 million up approximately 2.2% compared with Q1 of 2015 on a constant dollar basis.
Reported revenue for the quarter declined by 2.7% year-over-year as a result of the continued strengthening of the U.S.
dollar which impacted total revenues by approximately 5% or $37 million.
Adjusted OIBDA for the quarter was $231 million compared with $229 million in 2014 up 1.2% on a reported basis and 5.7% on a constant dollar basis.
Adjusted OIBDA increased year-over-year due to improved storage profits somewhat offset by a reduction in service profits.
In addition overhead expenses declined partly as we are seeing the benefits of our efficiency initiatives.
To illustrate the 4.5% year-over-year improvement in normalized adjusted OIBDA we've included a bridging schedule on page 20 of our supplemental package.
Normalized funds from operations or FFO per share was $0.50 for the quarter while adjusted funds from operations or AFFO was $128 million.
The year-over-year decline in AFFO was driven by variances in deferred tax expenses.
Adjusted EPS for the quarter was $0.32 per diluted share compared with $0.35 in the first quarter of 2014.
The decline in adjusted EPS year-over-year is driven by a 10% increase in share count related to the special distribution we made in the fourth quarter of 2014.
In addition adjusted EPS was impacted by an increase in interest expense related to higher levels of debt and a slightly higher structural tax rate.
The increase in borrowings was driven primarily by REIT conversion related expenses such as E&amp;P purge and the D&amp;A recapture payments.
Our structural tax rate for Q1 2015 came out to 16.2% as result of a slight mix change driven by a higher income from foreign jurisdictions.
It's important to note that adjusted EPS for 2014 was restated to be on a comparable basis using our structural tax rate of roughly 15%.
We continue to believe that our tax rate will be approximately 15% to 16% over the longer-term.
To illustrate the changes to adjusted EPS we've included a bridging schedule on page 21 of our supplemental.
The fundamentals of our business remained strong as evidenced by solid storage rental growth of 5% offset by a decline in service revenue of 1% on a constant dollar basis.
As Bill mentioned in an effort to look more closely tie our leadership structure to the strategic plan we have broken out the former International segments into two segments Western Europe and Other International to facilitate managing the business along the developed emerging lines we've talked about in the past.
I will now discuss Records Management or RM volume trend across this new segmentation.
As you can see in the supplemental on pages 10 and 11 we've expanded our disclosure by illustrating Records Management volume trends by segments.
As you can see we've achieved positive volume growth of 1.2% in North America 5.4% in Western Europe and 12.9% in the Other International segments reporting Global Records Management net volume growth of 3.5%.
We continue to experience strong organic growth with first quarter total year-on-year volume growth of 1.9% excluding acquisitions.
Underlying this growth is the stable incoming volume from existing customers who added approximately 30 million gross cubic feet of storage in the last 12 months which is consistent with prior periods.
Let's now turn to our financial performance by segments.
North America Records and Information Management or RIM delivered positive storage rental internal growth and expanded OIBDA margins by more than 300 basis points during the first quarter.
This expansion in adjusted OIBDA margins was driven by a decline in overhead costs as we continue to execute on our speed and agility efforts.
North American Data Management or DM delivered storage rental internal growth of 5.2% in the first quarter.
However service declined by 5.9% as DM tape management becomes more archival.
During the first quarter DM adjusted OIBDA declined to 52.7% partly as a result of the new product launches related to our Restoration Assurance Program and other initiatives that Bill covered in his remarks.
We believe these will prove very positive investments for the longer-term.
The Western Europe segment generated solid results with 3.7% storage rental internal growth which was partially offset by a decline of 2.6% in internal service revenue.
The Western Europe business is similar to North America in its level of market maturity.
However there are certain countries within these segments where we don't have a strong leadership position which in turn results in profit margins that are lower than North American margins although returns are still well above required hurdle rates.
In addition it's important to note that the Western Europe segment includes head office costs which reduces our adjusted OIBDA margins.
Excluding the head office costs the margin in this segment would be in the mid to high 30% range.
Adjusted OIBDA margin percentages remain stable in the first quarter despite the decline in service revenues although absolute dollar adjusted OIBDA fell primarily as a result of FX headwinds.
The Other International segments which is made up of emerging markets in Australia showed strong growth in both storage and service revenues.
Storage rental internal growth was 11.1% and service internal growth was 6.8%.
We expect adjusted OIBDA for this segment to deliver profitability on a portfolio basis in the high-teens to low 20%s range as we continue to expand our exposure in these fast growing markets.
Adjusted OIBDA for the first quarter was impacted by FX headwinds and integration costs.
Historical data for Other International on a full year basis will be available in our amended 10-K which will be filed in the short-term.
As I mentioned at the outset our outlook for 2015 remains consistent with the guidance we provided in February during our fourth quarter earnings call.
In addition at this time our guidance doesn't reflect the benefit or impact of the potential Recall transaction.
Business trends and operating fundamentals remain consistent.
Operationally we remain on-track to deliver our long-term financial objectives given the durability and strong fundamentals of our business.
That said the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar continues to impact our reported results.
However we believe that we will remain within the ranges of our guidance.
As a reminder our guidance includes an expectation of roughly 12% decline in reported non-U.S.
dollar denominated revenue for 2015 relative to FX rates in place in 2014.
Revenues outside the U.S.
make up 40% of total worldwide revenue.
As a result we expect the FX impact on total revenue for 2015 to be 4% to 5%.
Lastly although there is no seasonality to our quarters there is typically a moderate ramp in revenue performance as the year progresses.
Our strong cash flow continues to support our dividend at current levels and we expect our dividends to grow in line with operating performance.
Our estimate for cash available for distribution and discretionary investment for 2015 remains $470 million which gives us ample dividend coverage and the ability to fund a portion of our core growth investments.
As we've previously said we expect to fund discretionary investments including real estate and acquisitions through external funding whether through equity or borrowings.
Shifting to the balance sheet at quarter end we had a liquidity of more than $780 million.
Quarter end our lease adjusted ratio was 5.5 times as planned.
At Monday's stock price our debt to total market capitalization is roughly 38% in line with major REIT averages.
Turning now to REIT specific metrics as we begin to accelerate consolidation of facilities and execute on our real estate purchase plan we expect to increase the portion of owned facilities by square footage.
We continue to achieve strong storage NOI approximately $27 per racked square foot worldwide which compares favorably to NOI per square foot for most property types within the REIT sector.
Our racking and building utilization rates are high at 91% and 83% respectively for the Records Management portfolio.
We believe that due to frictional vacancy our maximum racking utilization is in the mid-90%s.
When we enter into a new facility we generally target to achieve stabilized utilization in about three years' time.
We added a new page to the supplemental page 32 which highlights our investments for racking projects in process building development and building acquisitions by major geographic region their total expected return and anticipated returns.
We will continue to enhance our disclosure as we move forward through the year.
Lastly similar to prior quarters we are providing components of value a summary of the various parts of our business to facilitate valuation.
As a reminder we present both storage NOI and service OIBDA excluding rent expense in order to present storage economics on a consistent basis whether leased or owned.
To balance that we provide total rent expense in the liabilities area.
In an effort to ensure transparency to our shareholders we will continue to enhance our supplemental disclosure and provide more details to help you better understand our business and its underlying fundamentals.
As always we welcome your feedback.
Operator with that we will now take questions.
And your first question comes from the line of Kevin McVeigh with Macquarie.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey congratulations on Recall and actually the results just a great outcome and obviously with the REIT just very good execution.
My question was more along the lines of what does the organic growth look like the combined entity post the deal? And then just – and I know it's probably little bit ways out but how does that impact kind of the dividend and just leverage ratios on a pro forma basis to the extent you can give us any color? Hi.
Good morning Kevin.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey Bill.
I think you're going to appreciate that we haven't done our due diligence to this point so to give us – to give you specific guidance we're just not in a position to do that.
I think that – I think you can probably get a sense of it in terms of we – we're looking at something that synergizes in the 7.5 times to 8 times range based on the $125 million to $140 million worth of synergies we've guided.
So it is clearly very accretive on EPS FFO and AFFO which obliviously drives to deleveraging and dividend growth.
But at this point we haven't done the due diligence on the company so we're not in a position to guide for that.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just those synergies Bill they assume any potential divestitures you might have to do to the extent there is any trust concern? You can probably appreciate that we have taken counsel on the anti-trust side and we feel that there is a very good – a very good beneficial path through any of the hurdles that we may meet in terms of regulatory.
Inc.</span></strong> Super.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of George Tong with Piper Jaffray.
Hi thanks.
Good morning.
And I'll also extend my congratulations on your agreement to acquire Recall.
You've outlined cost synergies between $125 million and $140 million.
Can you discuss your confidence around achieving these synergies and provide some thoughts on how much tax synergies you might achieve from the transaction? Thanks George.
I think first of all the synergies include both tax and operational benefits.
I mean it's probably fair to say we've been a little bit conservative because we've just been relying on really public information and we haven't been able to do due diligence.
So we feel very confident that we can deliver those numbers but you'll notice we're probably less bullish than some of the analysts' reports that have been written previously on.
So we are pretty comfortable and that is – that's including all the regulatory aspects tax aspects and operational aspects built into that number the puts and takes associated with that.
Yes maybe just to build on that Bill and George as you know we've done hundreds of acquisitions over the year obviously not on this (33:55) scale.
But we try to use that experience when – to come to bear in sort of calculating what we think is a sensible range for synergies (34:05).
That's helpful.
And can you walk through your expectations for the regulatory approval process including timing and your expectations around market share discussions? Again we've taken a counsel on that.
In other words we've been in consultation for a period of time now with external counsel that specializes in that area and we think we can achieve a satisfactory outcome.
But we haven't finalized the proposal we haven't done any fillings.
So at this point to speculate on that I think it would be pure speculation.
But we do feel that based on the studies that we've done so far with external counsel that we'll achieve a satisfactory outcome.
Great.
And then last question can you talk about how this transaction impacts your ability to continue to operate as a REIT? This – our – again that was one of our key pieces of analysis that we did when we looked at the acquisition is to determine our level of confidence that we could both acquire it and absorb it into our REIT structure in other words convert the Recall assets into a REIT.
And again we will confirm that through the due diligence process but we are highly confident that we can do that.
So we wouldn't do it otherwise unless we could convert the Recall assets into the REIT.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Steinerman with JPMorgan.
Hi it's Andrew.
Just tell me if I missed this again I would like to know the question asked before out of the $125 million to $140 million how much are the potential tax savings from REIT conversion? I can give you a sort of approximate number Andrew based on our analysis so far.
We think it's around $10 million could be slightly more.
But clearly that's one of the elements that we'd hope to get a better handle on through due diligence.
Okay.
So you are only assuming $10 million so that could be a conservative estimate.
Well you have to look at the size of Recall's business in North America that is storage related so don't forget their business is not that large in North America it's a global business but it's in North America where you have the tax benefits.
So their tax liability in North America is not as big as you may think.
Yeah.
So we don't get – there wouldn't be savings on the shredding business as an example.
Well said.
So if I can get one more question.
Okay.
So let's assume low tax benefits be conservative there you're talking about still four times turn pre to post synergies.
If you look at Iron Mountain's history it's really kind of been two times to four times so this would be towards the high end of the synergies.
And when I look at Recall's racking utilization of about 90% that's really close to Iron Mountain's racking utilization.
What other things do you know again from the public that makes you feel like you can get towards the high end of pre to post synergies synergization multiples.
Andrew if you – the thing that's a little bit unique about Recall it is at the higher end but we have achieved that before as you pointed out.
And the reason why we feel that it's at the higher end and maybe it exceeds some of our best integrations is that Recall is one of the few out there that runs an international platform.
So they have a lot – if you look at their SG&amp;A it's very different than the SG&amp;A of a small regional player.
Because they are actually built – they are running a global company with all the costs that are associated with that albeit they are doing at a scale that's one forth our size.
So if you look at their SG&amp;A I think you can get a handle on why we feel that the $125 million to $140 million is actually a conservative or – we feel very confident around that number.
Okay.
That was a good reminder.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys thank you for taking my questions.
Bill could you talk a little bit about the realistic timeframe – in the first year you talked about – you mentioned maybe half the synergies.
What's the realistic timeframe to kind of get the balance of the synergies? Is this something that facility consolidation really takes kind of two years to five years or how should we think of that in terms of conceptually and potentially modeling it? Shlomo you've been around a long time so you answer the question for me.
But no I think it's a good question.
So just to clarify in year two there we think we'll be half way through the synergies.
So the first year I mean first year we're assuming is 2016 just for people to be level set.
So year two would be 2017.
So we think 2016 is a lot of the heavy lifting in terms of the restructuring then in 2017 is when you start – that that cost starts falling away and you start seeing the benefits split bleed through.
So 2002 – I think at – year two 2017 we see about half the benefits coming through.
And exactly as you say we'll get a better handle on it through due diligence but the rest of it comes through – a lot of it is driven by the real estate consolidation and that generally takes the timeframe you're talking about two years to five years.
It depends on the nature of their leases and our leases in the areas that we're overlapping.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just from a fundamental perspective how is the volume growth in North American Records Management this quarter over the second half of last year you guys generated positive growth can you kind of talk about will the trend continue was it up down the same? I'm sorry I didn't get the question.
I heard the beginning of it you were referring back to the continued growth the internal volume growth in North America but what was – what did you say at the end? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
I just – did the trend – we had for years seen volumes be down but kind of revenue be flat to up a little bit because of pricing.
The second half of last year we saw North American volumes get to be positive do we – in this first quarter what was the trend in North American volumes? Actually in the supplemental on page 10 we've broken this all the key numbers out in more detail than we've done historically.
And what you can see if you were to strip out business acquisitions to just sort of look underlying there was a 0.5% growth year-on-year in Q1 2015 which actually compares quite consistently with the previous three quarters.
And then if you go back further in time looking at this chart at the beginning of 2013 you can see that to your point was when we were at zero or negative growth.
One thing I want – and this was feedback that we received from a number of analysts and investors.
So hopefully if you look in the supplemental on pages 10 and 11 I'd direct you to those in part of the organizational shift and putting all of the developed markets under a single leader is we've been – we've broken out and built a lot more transparency in terms of how our volume works.
And then – so hopefully you'll start seeing you can see how that trend has been building as you say as Rod pointed out Q1 we maintained the same 0.5% positive volume growth as we did in Q4 just in the North American business.
And you have to remember you can say those are small percentages but it's off a very big base.
So North America alone we have over 370 million cubic feet.
So it's significant.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And if I just want to look ahead a little bit into the future in terms of the REIT structure what happens if paper pricing kind of bounces back to what it was like three years three and half years ago do you have enough kind of room in the REIT structure that you're not worried about coming close to any of the – kind of the restrictions that are over there in terms of assets and income? I'll let Rod kind of answer it in detail but the one thing I think we covered this on previous calls you need to keep in mind is that there is at some point actually increasing profitability on our shred helps us the way the test works because there is a back and forth.
In other words we have to get shred to a certain level of profitability.
So having higher prices – having higher profitability in shred doesn't necessarily lead to the result that you think it does.
So that's kind of at a very high level way of saying we have plenty of headroom but Rod you may want to be a bit more specific.
Yes there's actually a specific on shred as Bill says around sort of cross subsidization between the QRS and the TRS so that if we increase the profitability of shred it would actually work to the advantage of some of our REIT tests.
But I think the broader point and – that you make Shlomo is that around just sensitivity to issues within the business and do we have enough cushion within our REITs and against the REIT test to be able to handle that.
We think we do.
It's something that we're very conscious of and we analyze lots of different scenarios and sensitivities to try and ensure that that is the case.
And very specifically which is probably what's behind your question is if we look at the acquisition of Recall we don't envision a problem of combining.
Recall's business is quite a bit smaller their strip quite a bit smaller than ours in North America.
And we don't see a problem in terms of combining those two businesses.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay very good.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Sachin Shah with Albert Fried.
Hi good morning.
Congratulations on the Recall possible offer.
I just wanted to just make sure as far as risk to transaction.
I know you're conducting due diligence but is there anything that you expect that you may uncover or something that may not cause this deal to move forward after you completed due diligence? We wouldn't be making a public announcement about the deal if we thought there was a high risk item that would crater the deal.
I mean clearly we have to do the due diligence.
So we haven't made a binding agreement but we have an agreed proposal with Recall and we wouldn't do that if we expected to have a major hiccup in the process.
So we don't see anything.
Okay.
And in the presentation you mentioned the ratio is fixed and so in the due diligence process is there a subject for another revision or the due diligence is just confirmation of what's the fixed exchange ratio of 0.1722? It's fixed and it's subject to confirmatory due diligence.
So there's no – I mean there's no expectation or you'd have to renegotiate the whole term.
So it really is that we've done enough work on it that we're very comfortable that that is the right valuation.
And Recall's board also feels that it's the right valuation for their shareholders.
And now the next three weeks to four weeks that we highlighted in the press release is about confirmatory due diligence.
Okay.
Just one last question if you don't mind.
On the regulatory approvals you mentioned that you are not expecting any kind of essentially hiccups any idea what they may be? Is it just to U.S.
Australia or is there any other jurisdictions that may be needed – major jurisdictions? I think you can understand at this point we're not going to comment on what the regulatory authorities in different jurisdictions may think or not think of it.
The only thing I would just repeat is that we have taken extensive counsel from external advisors or lawyers on this point and we believe that we will achieve a satisfactory outcome in those jurisdictions.
Okay.
So that's not part of the due diligence that's already done.
The due diligence is more operational.
We will also learn more about the regulatory aspects during the due diligence.
Due diligence is primarily operational but we will learn a number of things during that period which will be helpful.
Excellent.
Thank you very much.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Han Zhang with Churchill Capital.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
My question is you said you won't comment on what are the regulatory approvals you're seeking but could you just tell me more about in which jurisdictions you are seeking those approvals I mean U.S.
Australia but for example is China involved? At this point we don't expect an issue in China.
Both of our businesses are very small in China.
I mean the Chinese government will take their own view I'm sure.
But it's – both of us have – I mean it improves both of our position but neither one of us are very large in the China context.
Okay.
And could you tell me how many dividends would you expect to pay before the close of the deal? Well it depends on the closing of the deal.
We pay quarterly.
So you can see that we expect this deal to close within 12 months.
So that would be the maximum you would expect.
But I mean we've – we can't guide on how long it's going to take us to go through the various regulatory authorities to consummate the merger.
But we pay quarterly generally right? Hi.
This is Ramesh Zhang's colleague.
Have you had any informal discussions with any regulators at this point in time? No.
We haven't.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Well looks like we are through the Q&amp;A operator.
I just want to thank you for your flexibility and again apologies for the short notice but I think you can imagine that given the timing of achieving a positive result on the acquisition of Recall we felt it was important to combine that with our earnings call which was originally scheduled for Thursday.
So again thank you very much for your flexibility and just to reiterate that we're very pleased in terms of our results in the first quarter continue to show real momentum in the operating performance and improvement in the business.
And of course we're very excited to finally end the speculation around Recall and to have agreed a proposal to acquire the company.
So thank you very much and have a good day.
Thank you.
And this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Keyva and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Iron Mountain Q2 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I will now like to hand the call over to Senior Vice President Investor Relations Melissa Marsden.
Please go ahead Ma’am.
Thank you Keyva and good morning everyone.
This morning we’ll begin our call with remarks from Bill Meaney our President and CEO who will discuss highlights for the quarter and progress towards our strategic initiatives followed by Rod Day our CFO who will cover financial and operating results.
After our prepared remarks we'll open up the phones for Q&amp;A.
As we have done for the last few quarters we have posted our earnings commentary and supplemental disclosure package on the Investor Relations page of our website at www.ironmountain.com under Investor Relations/Financial Information.
Referring now to page two of the supplemental today's earnings call and supplemental package do contain a number of forward-looking statements most notably our outlook for 2015 financial performance.
All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to today’s supplemental the Safe Harbor language on this slide and our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K for discussion of the major risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those in our forward-looking statements.
In addition we use several non-GAAP measures when presenting our financial results.
And the reconciliations to those measures as required by Reg G are included in the supplemental reporting package.
With that Bill would you please begin? Thank you Melissa and good morning everyone.
We’re pleased to be reporting solid second quarter results that we’re in line with our expectations on a constant currency basis and underscore the durability of our core business.
Despite the FX headwinds we’re comfortable maintaining our guidance our for 2015 as we typically see a bit of a ramp in the second half of the year.
It was a very eventful quarter with the announcement of our agreement to acquire Recall Holdings and the initiation of our transformation plan which will drive significant improvement in our overhead cost structure and support strong cash flow generation in years to come even prior to the substantial and additional synergies we anticipate from our acquisition of Recall.
I’ll get to the last two items shortly but first I would like briefly cover certain financial and operating highlights.
Our momentum in the storage rental business continues to build and drive durable results in line with our strategic plan.
On a constant dollar basis total revenue growth for the quarter was 2.2% reflecting continued solid storage rental gains of 4.1% and service revenue declines of just 0.6% foreign currency impact year-over-year in total revenue by roughly 6% reflecting the strong appreciation of the dollar experiences at this time in 2014.
We also continued to see good internal growth with storage rental up 2.7% for the quarter and 2.9% for the year-to-date reflecting continued strong growth from data management or DM and the other international segment and stable performance in Western Europe and North America rim.
As we look at the remainder of the year we are seeing consistent trends and are maintaining our view for internal storage rental revenue growth for 2015 in the mid 2% range.
The realignment of our data management business we initiated last year is yielding good result.
DM storage continue to show very strong internal growth with 5.3% increase over last year.
Total service revenue internal growth was flat for the quarter and down just 0.5 point year-to-date in line with our expectations for continued yet moderating top line headwinds.
Looking at volume in records management we added roughly 14 million cubic feet of net storage volume worldwide on a trailing 12 months basis representing 2.8% net growth.
This growth was maintained in part as a result of the significant turnaround we are continuing to achieve in North America from negative to positive internal volume growth or in other words before benefit from acquisitions.
Net volume growth in North America was 1.2% or 0.4% on an internal basis excluding acquisitions in line with Q1 levels.
Globally we maintain customer retention of 98% in line with the first quarter and a 20% improvement over the level of customer turnover experienced just two years ago.
Now turning to our transformation overhead optimization program we announced in June prior to the Recall acquisition news.
We’ve spoken with many of you about this over the past several weeks and highlighted our reorganization in April in which we put a single leader over our developed market has facilitated this important program.
This initiative calls for taking $100 million out of overhead costs or SG&amp;A between now and 2018 in this independent of and additive to the Recall acquisition.
This will bring us from our current overhead of more than 28% of total revenue down to the mid 20% range and more in keeping with best practices for companies with similar size in global reach.
Importantly we have already implemented a portion of this program and achieved $50 million of cost reduction or half of these savings with a charge to be taken in Q3 and the full benefit of the $50 million to be realized in 2016.
With a partial year contribution from this program we expect the net impact for 2015 to be neutral.
Also in recent communications we’ve illustrated how the decline in our service margins over the past few years and more recently FX headwinds have offset the attractive returns we achieved from investment in real estate in acquisitions.
In fact during this period we have been achieving unlevered returns on invested growth capital in the low teens and have seen significant contribution flow through in the past couple of years.
We initiated some programs last year and are continuing to implement changes that we believe will allow us to stabilize the service margin trend line and get back to around 27% by the end of the year.
It is important to keep this in perspective.
While service represents 40% of our total revenue today it represents just 17% of our total gross profit.
Again to be clear we are talking about a slowdown in the activity of physical records and tapes being retrieved not a slowdown in incoming volume of records and tapes to be stored.
Whilst demand for typical office cut sheet paper has declined between 2% and 4% in the mature markets in the past few years we continue to see the same number of boxes being inbounded from our existing customer year-after-year demonstrating the durability of the storage rental business.
We do continue to expect service revenue headwinds of negative 1% to negative 2% annually over the next few years and in fact we did see flat service revenue this quarter compared to a year ago period.
And whiles we can’t completely offset the impact of lower service revenues due to a decline in retrieval and re-file in transportation activity we can do more to align our service cost structure with this decrease in activity levels.
So what are we doing to address this service margin decline? First we are looking at ways to variabilized more of our cost.
Second we are exploring efforts to make more efficient use of third party logistic suppliers or 3PL where we can be assured they will maintain our quality and focus on secured chain of custody.
We have used this in Europe on a smaller scale and believe we can expand the use of 3PL elsewhere.
And third we are using technology more proactively such as using sensors to detect when shred bins are ready – are ready to be emptied to make roots more efficient.
Additionally in this quarter we have seen an uptick in our bad debt.
This has come out of our North American business and is primarily the result of refining our billing process over the past 18 months to 24 months.
During this transition we didn’t adequately refine the process before moving responsibility for the North American billing offshore.
Here is now our robust plan in place addressing this.
Now let’s turn to the Recall transaction.
This deal is extremely compelling in terms of industrial logic and strategic fit and is supported by meaningful synergies that drive significant accretion.
I assume by now you are familiar with the basic terms of the deal so I won’t review all the information but rather just touch upon the highlights.
In the announcement presentation we illustrate estimated total net synergies of $155 million with $110 million of that to be achieved by 2017.
These synergies are driven by economies of scale from the combination of infrastructure and overhead and when fully realized will lead to double-digit accretion in adjusted EPS FFO per share and AFFO.
At 25% of our size Recall is managing a similar global platform in terms of country coverage as they are in 24 countries compared to our 36 which drives much of the overhead synergies.
Another benefit of the proposed transaction in the medium term is that it supports our deleveraging strategy.
With the additional cash available to us from our transformation plan as well as recall synergies we can not only fund a stable and growing dividend per share but we also generate the capital we need for growth.
Additionally we have complementary market platforms with Recall having a more developed presence in the small-to-medium businesses whilst we have significant presence with the larger enterprise customers.
We’ve been on the road over the past several weeks and have met with a number of our shareholders as well as recalled major holders in Australia.
And what we’re hearing is universal agreement that our two companies are worth more together than they are separately.
You can see that several Recall shareholders have increased their holdings and appreciate the attractiveness of owing the combined company.
Even our most seasoned devices have noted that they cannot remember a deal that delivered 26% EPS accretion in three years time.
In the next several weeks we expect to file the shareholder meeting document seeking approval of the acquisition which will have additional detail including proforma results.
Turning back Iron Mountain on past calls we discussed progress on our three-year strategic plan which rests on three pillars getting more from our developed markets expanding our presence in faster-growing emerging markets and continued to explore adjacent opportunities in our emerging business segment.
Whilst the Recall acquisition and transformation plan have guarded a bit more internal and external attention of late we continued to make good progress on our base plan achieving consistent positive storage volume growth in developed markets in completing an organizational realignment to put developed markets under common leadership which enables our ability to implement our latest transformation program as well as to accelerate our service margin initiatives.
Additionally in emerging markets we continued to progress towards our goal of 16% of total revenue from these markets by the end of next year.
We pressed the pause button on acquisition for a moment to assess some of the transactions in the pipeline might be affected by the Recall acquisition but we are resuming activity and continue to be pleased with the quality size and scope of our pipeline.
We’ve also discussed on recent calls how we have been impacted by the effects of currency translation in terms of absolute earnings and cash impact in U.S.
dollars.
While FX variability does impact the absolute dollars we report the impact on our gross and adjusted OIBDA margins is muted because most of our expenses are denominated in local currency thereby creating a natural hedge.
On the other hand we continue to believe that the current strong dollars – positive in terms of investments opportunity.
Given our intend to expand what is today a relatively small international base we believe we can create significant value over time by investing selectively in these higher growth markets using strong U.S.
dollars during this part of the currency cycle.
This may take the form of M&amp;A or in the purchase or development of real estate.
In both cases we can benefit from investing at a low basis.
In addition we have deepened our focus in the real estate investment area adding an experienced REIT asset manager to accelerate our plan to buy $700 million to $1 billion of our leased facilities over the next eight years to ten years.
As we seek to shift our mix to a higher percentage of owned properties on average we are achieving a spread of roughly 150 basis points between our going-in cap rates and our market cap rates whilst positioning ourselves to capture long-term residual value from ownership.
We think this is important and appropriate as a REIT as it supports such being viewed more in line with traditional REITs by the rating agencies and investors.
Importantly our debt to total market cap and our debt to EBITDA measures are in line with major REIT sector leaders [ph] and our internal storage rental revenue fared better than these sectors during the recent recession.
When we did not have a down year.
Our low volatility business is distinguished by a track record of 26 years of consecutive growth in storage rental revenue.
As we think about the opportunities to grow our storage rental business it is important not to lose sight of the durability of the business which is underpinned by roughly $1.5 billion of net operating income from our storage business alone.
This amount of NOI is comparable to that generated by leaders in both the industrial and self-storage sectors.
As we noticed in recent calls the restructure is consistent with our capital allocation goals; it does not limit our ability to fund our business plan as we become more active in buying in our properties and executing on our acquisition pipeline.
We expect to fund that incremental investment with excess cash flow or additional borrowing.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Rod.
Thanks Bill.
Our results continued to demonstrate that durability of our storage rental revenue stream and the underlying strength of our business fundamentals.
Our performance is tracking in line with our full-year expectations.
To frame my remarks I'll begin today with an overview of our second quarter and year-to-date performance including overview of results by segments.
Then I will address plans and expectations related to our transformation program and our next step to improve service gross margins.
I will briefly touch on the recall acquisition calls and also our outlook for 2015 which remains unchanged since June on the constant dollar basis.
Finally I will address other metrics through a REIT lens.
Let's turn to our worldwide financial results.
Referring now to pages eight and nine of our supplemental total reported revenue was $760 million compared with $787 million in Q2 of 2014 down by 3.5% year-over-year.
This reflects the continued strengthening of the U.S.
dollar which impacted total revenues by approximately 5.7% or $44 million.
Excluding FX and so on a constant dollar basis revenues grew by 2.2%.
Year-to-date reported revenues were $1.51 billion compared with $1.56 billion in 2014.
Again on a constant dollar basis first half total revenue growth was also 2.2%.
Worldwide revenues were driven by solid constant dollar storage rental revenue growth of 4.1% for the quarter and 4.63% year-to-date.
This was offset by service revenue declines of roughly 1% for the quarter and year-to-date.
As we did for the prior quarter we are providing bridging schedules for revenue OIBDA and earnings which explain key variances in year-on-year performance.
These were on Pages 20 to 22 supplemental.
Adjusted OIBDA for the quarter was $223 million compared with $242 million in 2014 down 7.7% on a reported basis and 3.3% on a constant dollar basis.
The constant dollar adjusted OIBDA decline was driven by investments in new product introductions for example in data management.
In addition we had a $4 million increase in bad debt expense.
As Bill mentioned during the offshoring of our billing activities our collection efforts fell behind.
However we now have a strong remediation in place.
Service margin declines were further drive on the business although these were offset by improvements in storage contribution.
Adjusted EPS for the quarter was $0.28 per diluted share compared with $0.41 in the second quarter of 2014.
The decline in adjusted EPS year-over-year is driven by 10% increase in share count related to the special distribution which we made in the fourth quarter of 2014.
In addition to the earlier OIBDA write-down adjusted EPS was also impacted by an increase in interest expense related to higher levels of debt.
As stated in our earlier calls this year-over-year increase in borrowings was driven primarily by REIT conversion related expenses such as E&amp;P purge and the depreciation amortization recapture payments.
On the subject to debt please note that it’s our instance to refinance our high coupon debt when conditions allow.
Our structural tax rate for this quarter came out to 13.9% compared with 15% in the prior quarter primarily as result of mix change in income from foreign jurisdictions.
We continue to believe that our tax rate will be approximately 15% to 16% over the long-term.
Normalized funds from operations or FFO per share $0.48 for the quarter $0.98 year-to-date while adjusted funds from operations or AFFO was $130 million for the quarter and $255 million year-to-date.
Let me now turn to Records Management volume trends on Pages 10 and 11.
As you can see we achieved positive volume growth of 1.2% in North America 3% in Western Europe and 9.7% in the other international segment delivering global records management net volume growth of 2.8%.
We continued to experience strong organic growth with second quarter total year-on-year volume growth of 1.8% excluding acquisitions.
Underlying this growth is the stable incoming volume from existing customers.
We continued to add approximately 30 million gross cubic foot of storage in the last 12 months consistent with prior periods.
Let's now turn to our financial performance by segments.
In North American records management and information or RIM internal storage rental revenue was flat for the second quarter.
Year-to-date North American RIM internal storage rental revenue grew by 0.2%.
Internal service revenue growth showed a small improvement in Q2 with a decline of 1.3% compared with decline of 1.8% in Q1.
Adjusted OIBDA margins in RIM remain solid at 39.4% for the quarter and 40.2% year-to-date.
North American Data Management delivered storage rental internal growth of 5.3% in both the second quarter and year-to-date.
However service declined by 1.7% for the quarter and 3.8% year-to-date.
As we continue to see declines in re-file and transportation activity.
During the second quarter DM adjusted OIBDA declined to 50.8% from 52.7% in Q1 as we continued to invest in new products.
The Western Europe segment generated solid results with 3.5% storage rental internal growth for the quarter and 3.6% year-to-date.
This growth was partially offset by declines in internal service revenue 4.8% for the quarter and 3.7% year-to-date.
The decline in service revenue was driven mostly by the sale of our shred business in the UK and Ireland was at the end of last year.
Adjusted OIBDA margins declined in Western Europe this quarter due to legal cost related to a customer dispute.
The other international segments which is made up of emerging markets in Australia built strong growth in both storage and service revenues.
Storage rental internal growth was 11.5% for the quarter and 11.3% year-to-date.
Service internal growth was 13.5% for the quarter and 10.2% year-to-date.
This quarter emerging market revenues represented approximately 14% of our total revenues on a constant dollar basis.
We expect adjusted OIBDA for this segment to deliver profitability on a portfolio basis in the high-teens to low 20s range.
We continue to expand our exposure in these fast growing markets.
As Bill mentioned we are leveraging our new leadership structure to focus on integrating across – cost developed markets.
Rail transformation program which was announced last month we expect to achieve approximately $100 million production in overhead expense by 2018.
Actions we have taken this month are expected to yield a full year $50 million benefits in 2016.
We will see partial benefits this year at the end of the year.
However these will be offset by severance related charges.
We are anticipating approximately $10 million of severance related expenses in the third quarter as a result of this program.
Let’s now discuss our initiative to maintain and enhance service gross margins.
As Bill outlined decline in service gross margin [indiscernible] as a drag on our performance in the last four years.
[Indiscernible] the strong returns that we’re seeing from investments in real estate and M&amp;A.
That said it should also be remember that on a constant dollar basis we have seen good improvements in overall contribution year-on-year in 2014 and we expect the same in 2015.
As discussed earlier and as you can see in the supplemental on Page 26 in the second quarter service gross margins have declined year-over-year.
The actions we are now taking are not yet reflected in our results.
In the second half of the year we expect to see an improvement in service margins that continues to targets a year end run rate of about 27%.
Let’s touch on the Recall acquisition briefly.
As Bill mentioned we’re making good progress with regulatory filings.
To prepare for closing we incurred approximately $6 million professional and advisory fees this quarter.
We expect about $10 million to $15 million of additional spend in each of the third and fourth quarters of this year.
In addition to these advisory fees we’re expecting approximately $20 million to $25 million charge in the second half of the year to prepare for integration including Recall’s reconversion.
Please note that these costs will be excluded from our adjusted OIBDA calculation as they are one-time in nature.
These costs are also included in our guidance related to the Recall acquisition when we announced the deal.
As I mentioned at the outset our outlook for 2015 remains consistent with the guidance we provided in June when we announced the definitive agreement to acquire Recall.
Please note that at this time our guidance doesn’t reflect the benefit or impact of potential Recall transaction.
We’ll provide detailed guidance for 2016 and beyond at our upcoming Investor Day in October.
For 2015 although we expect revenue to be as anticipated on a constant dollar basis for the full year given FX movements we expect reported dollar revenues to be towards the lower end of our range.
As regard to other metrics for both constant and reported dollars we expect them to be well within our ranges.
Our strong cash flow continues to support our dividend at current levels within 2015.
And we intend to maintain our dividend per share rates for the reminder of the year subject to Board approval.
Our estimate for cash available for distribution and discretionary investment for 2015 remains $470 million giving us ample dividend coverage and the ability to fund our core real estate investments or bow cracking which support approximately 2% organic growth in our adjusted OIBDA.
2016 and beyond assuming the Recall acquisition closes and with the transformation benefits we have excess cash that can support potential growth in the dividend and fund discretionary investments in real estate M&amp;A or emerging business opportunities.
These investments achieved returns of [indiscernible] and are accreted to shareholders.
To sum up we have adequate dividend coverage excess capacity and attractive investment options.
Shifting to the balance sheet at the quarter end we have liquidity of approximately $750 million.
At quarter end our lease adjusted debt ratio was 5.7 times as expected.
Turning now to REIT specific metrics.
We continue to achieve strong storage NOI approximately $28 per racked square foot worldwide which compares favorably to NOI per square foot for most property types within the REIT sector.
Our racking and building utilization rates are high at 91% and 84% respectively for the Records Management portfolio.
We believe that due to frictional vacancy our maximum racking utilization is in the mid-90%s.
When we enter a new facility we generally target to achieve stabilized utilization in about three years' time.
Investment page Page 32 the supplemental highlights our investments for racking projects in process building development and building acquisitions by major geographic region their total expected investment and anticipated NOI and returns.
Please note that these investments represent growth related investments and exclude consolidation related expense.
As you can see on this page we achieved high returns in our growth racking and building development projects.
Lastly similar to prior quarters we are providing components of value a summary of various metrics of our business to facilitate valuation.
As a reminder we present both storage NOI and service OIBDA excluding rent expense in order to present storage economics on a consistent basis whether facilities are leased or owned.
To balance that we provide total rent expense in the liabilities area.
Overall we believe this is a solid quarter and we’re pleased with the momentum we continue to see in the business.
We remain on track to deliver our guidance for 2015.
Looking ahead we continue to focus on enhancing shareholder value by extending the durability of our storage rental business improving service margins achieving overhead cost reductions through our Transformation Program and realizing the synergy benefits of the Recall acquisition.
Now that concludes my summary for the Q2 financials.
Okay thank you Rod.
Before we turn to Q&amp;A just to wrap up I just want to emphasize a few things.
That first of all we have a number of exciting developments underway.
We have already executed on half of our plan for significant cost reduction of more than a $100 million and we will see the full benefits of the first $50 million for 2016.
We have actions underway that we expect will stabilize the margins in our service business.
We are keying up to close the Recall deal early next year and are organized internally to support a smooth integration of Recall.
And our attractive emerging business pipeline is delivering interesting adjacencies that can further extend the durability of our enterprise storage business.
Finally and most importantly the strength of our business plus the transformation program support approximately 11% to 14% growth in the cash we have available already next year to grow our dividend per share over time and fund our growth investment.
This is even prior to the Recall acquisition.
With that operator we are ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question is from the line of Kevin McVeigh of Macquarie.
Great thanks.
Bill very helpful comment or there any type of goal post you can give us in terms of cadence on Recall I know there’s a process involved in any [indiscernible] so on and so forth.
But is there anything you could point to that we kind codage [ph] give us cadence as the deal progresses over the course of the year? Hi good morning Kevin thanks.
Well I think the same goal post that we set on the beginning is that we started the regulatory review process rent engaging the regulatory review process and that’s a six to 12 months process.
We feel that we should be able to do it at the lower end of that range.
So our expectation is still the first quarter for 2016 and the net – we will continue to update that changes but I think right now that’s our expectation.
I think the other goal post as we said on this call within the next few weeks both us and Recall will be issuing documents for their respective shareholders for the – get ready for the shareholder votes.
But those are probably just two goal posts that are important to highlight.
And then just the $20 million to $25 million of Recall we conversion costs is that something about right does that mean it’s a dual track in terms of you start that reconversion process now.
So when the deal occurs it was goes lot of day one? Yeah well I think that the – it’s a very good point.
Yes we will start incurring cost and Rod can give you more detail on that.
We’ll start incurring cost as we speak now in preparing for the REIT conversion because we need to convert before the close of the first quarter.
So you’ll also note us in the documentation is that we have set it up the documentation that we will close at the beginning of a quarter.
So the idea is that we will close either at the beginning of the first quarter or either – the first month of the first quarter i.e.
around the month of January or it would be beginning of the month of the second quarter again to give us time to actually execute the conversion.
But the prep for that conversion obviously starts way in advance of closing the transaction I don’t know Rod if you want to add any? Yeah I think that’s a good summary Bill.
Kevin I can’t exactly tell you when but it is by the end of the first quarter and obviously given the limited amount of time that we have it’s important we get our preparation right in advance of that.
So it’s really worth spend is primarily related to.
And you’ll see that in the documentation on the deal is that it’s very clearly set out that if we miss roughly the first say four or five weeks of a quarter then it’s been a delay for the next quarter because again we have to get the conversions done during that period.
Got it.
And then – and this will be my last question I apologize.
Would there be any incremental tax expense like [indiscernible] step up from the racking on the initial conversion or that $20 million to $25 million had primarily professional fees things like that? Yeah that relates primarily to professional fees.
Okay thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Andy Wittman of Baird.
Hi good morning guys.
Bill I had kind of a strategic question.
We’ve seen some consolidation in the shredding industry.
You guys have kind of aided that as you got all of your European shredding.
I was wondering as you look at your business today particularly as a REIT does even more disposition of the shredding assets make sense for you particularly if you could find a partner that would be able to do this with.
Let me something you’d be open to considering or our considering today.
Well I think first of all just from a general capital allocation standpoint we look at all our businesses and say we the best owner for that or is that where we should invest capital.
So we look across all our businesses.
So to say that we are open to certain segments and non-open to others would be probably a false premise.
But I mean we like you look with interest in terms of what seems to be happening in the shredding business.
We feel good in terms of what we’ve done over the last six 12 months in terms of first of all divesting those shredding operations the one in Australia the one in the UK where we didn’t think we have to scale we get the kind of returns that we expect in demand.
Well separating the U.S.
operation to be more of a standalone unit so that it has the right focus and cadence associated with it to achieve the results that we think are possible.
So I think we feel comfortable where we are but we were also very pleased in terms of the way the market seems to be valuing these assets whether we own them or we sell them.
Yeah okay good that’s helpful.
And then I guess I wanted to gain a little bit more in the transformation business.
Can you give us a little bit more detail about what some of those maybe some confidence that they are not going to affect but the customer experience and your retention rates are rather business drivers.
It’s – excellent question.
So I think first of all we need to start the top that we are starting from a base where our SG&amp;A is 28% of sales which is clearly on the upper end of what our company with our scale and scope should be able to achieve.
It should – company of our scale and scope should be in the let’s say the mid-20s I mean probably the lower side of the mid-20s in other words not – it’s probably kind of more of the 23% to 25% ranges where a company of our size and complexity should be.
So that’s the first thing to give you kind of a sense of what’s possible.
Then the thing that triggers it is this – really if you think about it there are I would say three buckets.
One is just getting efficiency through the reorganizations that when we put all the developed markets under 1% then it allows you to rationalize.
You know you have two finance groups you have two HR groups you have two commercial leadership groups you have two engineering groups et cetera.
So you’re able to actually shrink that to one to get some of the efficiencies and economics of scale that you would expect.
I think the second aspect of it is looking at what we call just general spans and layers probably it’s triggered by that move by just saying what is the right breadth of responsibility in the organization.
Do we have too many layers? And I think that’s just good housekeeping that all companies our size need to go through every so often to make sure that we don’t have what I would call organizational tree or layers building into the organization and to me that’s important not just from a cost standpoint but it also important from a dynamic standpoint I mean by dynamic is to be quicker nimble more nimble less bureaucratic.
So I think that’s a – its shows up in the cost line but we also expect that to show up in the revenue line.
And then the third aspect is it’s related a little bit to the aging of some of our aging of our receivable split which lead to a bad debt charge is that we need to look at our processes first and foremost in terms how can we make those more efficient and then where should those be done should they be done internally should they be done internally offshore or should they be done by an outside party.
And that’s the third bucket that we are going through both optimized those processes.
And then figure out where they should be done either within Iron Mountain or by an outside vendor.
And that’s kind of that the three buckets that we’re going through.
Now at last when you can imagine we are actually using also some outside help that have done this a number times.
So we feel very confident in terms of the targets and we feel very confident that we are doing this in area that doesn’t impact the customer experience and service levels and in fact I think our expectation is it should improve as we look to make the organization quicker more nimble and less bureaucratic.
Yeah I mean I’ll just add to that Bill I think if you benchmark are announced and against comparable type companies I think you can say we are behind where we should be on some of the stock.
And that gives us confidence around the program that we have.
So things like offshoring we’ve done some of that but nowhere near enough we have done some process improvement but nowhere near enough.
There has been some improvement in our SG&amp;A and as a percent of revenue over the last couple of years.
But again if you look at benchmarks if it is median benchmarks represents 25% Bill you know you compare that to where we are obviously.
And again I think that gives us additional confidence to what we’re trying to do is now rocket science it’s just what we should be doing.
Yes okay.
I’ll leave it with that.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of George Tong of Piper Jaffray.
Hi good morning.
Good morning George.
You’ve talked a bit about various puts and takes in OIBDA margin performance in the quarter and some of it appear to be transient in nature.
Can you frame up how you think about OIBDA margin on a go forward basis? And any plan in reinvestments of the benefits you expect from the transformation program? So I’ll let – George I’ll let Rod kind of go through a little bit more detail but the bridging to get at a high level and that’s one of the reasons why we provide these bridging schedules is so that you can – we’re highlighting the things that we – that in our view are one off either because of that something specifically had in the quarter or when we’re talking about the service where we think we’re going to end up at the end of the year in terms of service margins based on some of the improvements that we’re making.
So the intent of those bridging schedule is to guide you to where we think we’re moving to – where we should being on a normalized basis on an OIBDA margin basis.
But Rod may want to comment in more detail on that.
Yes maybe to answer the question in two parts.
First instances would be underlying not sure if you like – at the P&amp;L basically what we expect to see continuous improvement in performance as the year progresses.
And that is to be expected as you know that’s key volume continues to build at the decent price closer to decent margin.
So quarter after quarter after quarter we should continue to build.
Around that obviously then you have to some of these one offs in the quarter and we pulled out a couple of them one with this bad debt expense issue and Bill referencing some of the deals related to the offshoring of our drilling activities.
We also had a – an investment in the data management space around new product introduction which obviously the expectation of that is there will be returns coming from that in future.
So there were a couple of some key one-offs for the quarter.
But to underlying that that sort of [indiscernible] fundamentals of the P&amp;L this was a relentless drive upwards on the storage side.
Got it.
And can you talk about how your storage pricing strategy compares with Recall and how do you think about pricing as a contributor to storage revenue growth going forward? Well I think first of all I can’t comment in terms of compared to refocus.
We haven’t exchanged or shared any commercial information.
We have to go through the regulatory aspects.
So I can’t comment on how we compare to Recall.
But I think if you look at the results that we’re getting as you can see – I mean I think the way you look at it is couple of ways is we’re getting I would say fairly regular yet modest price increase that offsets the inflation that – the low inflation levels.
But I think as I said I think a number of times on calls there’s been low inflation environment price increases are more challenging.
I think the other thing to look at if you look with the – if you look at what’s been happening to our gross margins associated with storage you can see they actually there’s a slight uptick.
So that gives you a view that in a low inflation environment obviously we have wage inflation that is still real in terms of what we pay our folks.
But we’re able to get both productivity increases and pricing increases that allows us to either maintain or slightly enhance our gross margin.
So we feel pretty good in terms of what we’re getting in terms of pricing and something that we continue to work on I think I told you we brought somebody in about a year-ago just to our new leader for the pricing group that seems to be getting some good traction.
But I also think it’s important to understand that in the low inflation environment these are small numbers that you are dealing with you are not dealing with large order of magnitude.
But the results are good.
I mean our gross margins are stable and I would say it is slightly higher than they were a year-ago.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Andrew Steinerman of JP Morgan.
Hi Bill I just want to know if the data management new products were as planned should we expect a similar level of investment to $1.5 million in the quarter in the second half of the year.
And if you could just give us a little description or these new products in the area of capable all thing or is it something a little different with then data archiving? Hi Andrew good morning.
There is couple of aspects first of all what we have in the bridge was a very specific one-off associated with our relaunch of a product that’s associated with secured destructions.
So that was a very specific one-off re-launch of that particular product.
I think that there even if you add that back you will notice that our margins are slightly down from where they were a year ago albeit they are very good margins.
But they are slightly down.
And we didn’t bridge to that for the reason that your highlighting right now is we are – we have made a conscious decision to incur some additional OpEx which is associated with launching new products in that area.
So one of the areas I think we’ve publicized is that we have a partnership with EMC that offers both their customers and our customers a joint it’s kind of a combination of our datacenter our Cap business and EMCs data to main business which a datacenter replication hardware offering they have.
And that there is an investment associated with standing up those new products.
Our expectation the reason why we didn’t bridge that is you could say that that was a one-off for this quarter but our expectation is we will continue to make those kind of investments has we see a pipeline of further products like this one that we’ve announced publicly with EMC.
So I think that’s the way I would think about.
So what we have in the bridge was very specific to a product launch that we did this quarter that we really anticipate as a one off but we have incurred and we expect to continue to incur some OpEx investments in terms of the new product launches.
And was that always envisioned in the plan like – so that spending now doesn’t affect the guide for the year.
Yes – no that was always in the plan and that was part of separating data management under a separate leader as you know that we brought in Eileen Sweeney just a year ago specifically so that was part of the plan.
Okay.
And then if you let me one more.
The bad debt write-off the 3.8 obviously that’s a surprise.
Are you hoping some of the cost initiatives that you’re talking about could offset that? Or does that in some way kind of tilt the EBITDA guidance towards the lower end? No I think that what we’ve said in the press release as you’ve noticed that we think that on a reported dollar basis that we are still within the range of our guidance.
On a revenue basis we think we’re in the lower end of the range but on a reported dollar basis but it’s in the range that we’ve guided to.
So we still feel comfortable about maintaining our guidance that our OIBDA will be in the range as we said out at the beginning of the year.
I think the specific – think about the specific highlight that we’ve talked about on bad debt and I will ask Rod to comment further.
But its more about an ageing issue in terms of when we moved the process we didn’t optimize the process fully before we moved to offshore and we move that offshore as we slipped behind on the dating.
So we feel – we feel good over the next six months to 12 months that we are – we will be able to get that back in shape and we are well underway but you can imagine that when you slip behind on the dating it takes a while to fix that back up but I don t know Rod if you want to add? That’s right Bill in terms of the general component of our bad debt provision its driven by the aging of our receivables and as we move this offshore the aging deteriorate and a little bit and therefore that triggers an increase in the bad debts and bad debt expense by half a point.
And we are – I think we – just to make sure as clear as I we will get back to our normal range of about a half a point of revenue in terms of bad debt expense… Right.
Absolutely right and though – I don’t know we have various rigorous plans to ensure that that is the case.
And just to be absolutely clear in terms of the contribution guidance we’re in no way signaling the lower end of the ranges very well so within the range on that.
Perfect thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Dolev of Jefferies.
It’s actually Dan Dolev with Jefferies.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I’ll ask few questions.
We thought a few weeks ago Bill you did the conference call you mentioned service margins stabilizing.
I see a 330 basis points decline.
What gives you confidence that that you could actually stabilize margins in the coming quarters? Hey good morning Dan.
[Indiscernible] it’s a good question.
So if we look – obviously this quarter was below our target of getting 27% by the end of the year.
But if you actually – when we looked at the performance as part of the improvement program we looked at.
If we took the month of May May was a specifically weak month for us on this quarter in terms of our service margin and profitability.
If we took the month of May out we would have 26.1% service margin in this quarter which is still a 100 basis points but we know how to bridge that gap.
And even when we looked at May some of the things that we’re introducing we get the sprit [ph] to manage them.
So with the month of May was particularly soft really two things was one is verbalizing some of our cost quick enough associated with a normal downtick in revenue because there is some seasonality in revenue and plus it was a short month.
But in terms of the way the holiday is felt.
So those two things that – which is part of our program if you remember our three-pronged approach to this is verbalizing our cost base more which the month of May is a great example in terms of what that program is designed to offset.
The second thing is using outside parties and the third one is technology.
So again the data for the quarter looks worse than it is if you know what I mean in terms – especially if we add back some of the programs that we’ve introduced to minimize that going forward.
So we still are sticking by our guidance that we think by the end of the year will be at 27%.
hank you and two more quick questions.
On the bad debt expense I know you’ve addressed it fully so the uptick from 50 basis points to 70 basis points is that – was that a result of ageing or did I misunderstand it? Yes it’s primarily the result of ageing is the issue that we’ve referred to earlier.
Got it.
And without result in any impairment to the capitalized acquisition cost on the balance sheet or… No no not no.
Nothing okay.
And then last question when I was looking at – EPS obviously was a little slight outdated versus consensus.
If you look at both FFO and EPS it does imply a very significant acceleration in the second half of the year can you maybe talk a little bit about how your components have actually getting it.
Well I think first of all on the AFFO basis you see we’re actually been ahead of where the consensus status coming out.
So first of all from a cash standpoint we’re actually ahead.
I think the bridging schedules I think do a pretty good job in terms of what the puts and the takes were in terms of why we ended up a bit below on consensus.
But if you just look at our normal ramp in the second half of the year part of this is just in terms that we don’t give quarterly guidance we give a year guidance and part of this just a way that the [indiscernible] besides the carve out our annual guidance.
So if you just look at historical ramps in the second half you don’t find this is as surprise.
That’s why I feel very comfortable in terms of maintaining our guidance.
I mean may be just talk specific about EPS year-to-date we’re at on an adjusted basis $0.60 a share the midpoint of our guidance for the full year is $122.5 million [ph].
And so you could see we’re almost at the halfway point.
As I was saying earlier because of the dynamics of our business the storage revenue and contribution growing and quarter-after-quarter I think you can sort of see how we can reach that point.
Right I was also referring to FFO it’s a midpoint is about a – it prices about 14% acceleration? And I think what’s deciding is the same logic if you like in terms of the flow through the P&amp;L.
So we expect contributions to continue to build that actually has a disproportion of banks in sense of the flow through to the FFO.
So again we feel comfortable around that number.
Great thank you very much.
I appreciate it.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question is from the line of Shlomo Rosenbaum of Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Shlomo here.
Thank you very much for taking my questions.
Yes Bill could you go into little bit more detail what you mean about variabilizing the cost with third-party logistics vendors and we talked about working with like UPS or FedEx or something? Yeah good morning Shlomo.
Well there is two parts it is variabilizing and is using third-party so that there – and you could say that there kind of two – there is two ways of doing it.
We also look at variabilizing more of our cost under own our control and we do use temporary workers that are trained and certified and cleared by Iron Mountain it’s getting that mix right.
So first of all we do have a variabilized workforce internally and making sure that we are using more of that which is the thing that helps to offset some of these variabilization of some of the service revenue that goes through and then service revenue for us don’t forget it is more than just transport they rather bid that are contract based so that’s one aspect.
And then on the 3PL side yes it is like the – it’s the FedEx and UPSs of this world and other courier services.
We use some of them today we use them more extensively in some European countries where we – where the necessity has come even faster because of the size of some of our operations in some of the smaller countries.
And we’re using that same doll as a know-how to accelerate that in North America.
So it is anytime those logos and others.
Okay great.
Thanks for your clarification.
Then maybe this is for Rod the non-real estate investments in the maintenance CapEx at least for the first half of the year is trending well below the annual targets.
Is this expected to get a tick up in the second half of the year or for some reason where just current levels are more of a good run rate.
How should we think of that? I think there will be a tick up in the second half of the year but closer to the guidance numbers that we issued in June.
It’s just to do with the phasing at certain aspects of all activity.
Is that a – is there seasonal component to that or it just happens to be year-by-year and works in different parts of your base and what your plans are? It’s actually largely based on our own plans.
It’s an element of seasonality around some of the maintenance activity that we prefer to sort of backload as opposed to doing in the middle of winter of January February.
But it’s largely down to our own planning.
Okay and then am I understanding you correctly that while you are guiding to the low end of the guidance range because of currency for revenue you are not winning [ph] to that for – what for – am I misunderstanding that? Yeah that’s correct that’s correct.
So we are taking action on cost to ensure that we still stay towards the midpoint of our guidance right from a constant and a real dollar perspective on contribution and cash.
And is that because of this program or largely because of this program that you just announced [indiscernible] third quarter charge? No actually that’s not that specifically in fact that the transformation program for us is neutral because we incur severance charge during Q3 which will be offset by run rate savings in Q4.
This is more due to other activity that we’re taking.
Okay great.
Thanks.
There are no further questions at this time.
Okay well thank you very much everyone for joining us this morning and have a good day.
Thank you.
This does conclude today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
And welcome to the Iron Mountain Q3 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
I will now turn the conference over to Faten Freiha Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you Hula and welcome everyone to our third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
This morning I'll be filling in for Melissa Marsden who couldn't be here with us today due to a family matter.
We'll begin the call with Bill Meaney our CEO who'll discuss highlights for the quarter and progress toward our strategic initiatives followed by Rod Day CFO who will cover financial results.
After our prepared remarks we'll open up the phones for Q&amp;A.
As we've done for the last few quarters we've posted our earnings commentary and supplemental disclosure package on the Investor Relations page of our website at www.ironmountain.com under Investor Relations/Financial Information.
Referring now to page two of the supplemental today's earnings call and slide presentation will contain a number of forward-looking statements most notably our outlook for 2015 and 2016 financial performance.
All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to today's press release earnings commentary the Safe Harbor language on this slide and our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of the major risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those in our forward-looking statements.
In addition we use several non-GAAP measures when presenting our financial results.
The reconciliations to these measures as required by Reg G are included in the supplemental reporting package.
With that Bill would you please begin? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Faten and good morning everyone.
We're pleased to be report a solid third quarter results that were at the upper end of our profit expectations and underscore the durability of our core business.
It's based upon this continued demonstration of the growth and durability of our business that our Board of Directors has resumed our growth in dividends and has pull forward the dividend increase by declaring a quarterly cash dividend of $0.485 per share.
I suspect most of you on the call today either attended in person or listened to the webcast of our Investor Day about two weeks ago.
Therefore I won't go into a long discussion of our strategy goals or longer-term expectations as I believe time would be better spent on Q&amp;A.
That's said I would like to briefly reiterate a few main points from our event and relate how our Q3 results fit within that framework.
For those who haven't heard the live event or listened to the replay we laid out our vision for the year 2020 given that we are rapidly approaching the end of the three-year strategic plan that we introduced at our Investor Day in the beginning of 2014.
More specifically we described our past performance and go-forward vision for our three strategic pillars developed markets emerging markets and adjacent businesses.
In developed markets our strategic plan over the last two years has turned around these relatively flat internal growth markets and driven more than 7 million cubic feet of net new records all prior to acquisition.
In emerging markets our sales expanded from representing 10% of total revenue in 2013 to 14.3% of total revenue by the end of Q3 on a constant dollar basis.
These markets are growing 10% to 15% per year before acquisitions and our goal to reach 20% of total volume from these markets by 2020 is within our grasp.
Roughly 18% of the 20% goal will be reached by internal growth alone.
In adjacent businesses we expect revenue to represent 5% of our total worldwide revenue in 2020 up from just 2% today.
Currently our adjacent businesses are comprised of our datacenter business and our recently announced acquisition of Crozier Fine Arts Storage the leading arts storage business in the U.S.
This is a natural extension of our film and sound business.
Crozier comes with about a 0.5 million square feet of owned real estate and achieves about 10% sales growth per year before acquisitions.
We anticipate closing this deal in December.
This all adds up to a shift in mix with 25% of our revenue coming from faster growth markets and businesses by 2020.
That's up from 15% today with a majority of increase coming from internal growth.
The expected impact from this shift is that by 2020 annual internal profit will grow by roughly 5% or 7% with acquisitions versus 2% and 4% respectively today.
We also enhanced our Transformation program to deliver a total of $125 million of overhead savings up from the $100 million we announced this summer.
You can see from the bridging schedules in the supplemental that we recorded $9 million of charges in Q3 related to this program.
We expect to realize partial year benefit of the first $50 million in savings in the fourth quarter offsetting this charge.
The full $50 million annualized benefit will flow through in 2016 and beyond.
And our next set of actions to be taken in early 2016 will represent another $50 million of annualized savings in 2017.
So we're getting more from our efforts in this program and we're getting it faster than originally anticipated.
We outlined our plans to continue to increase the percentage of owned real estate over time through our programs which deliver improved operating economics with the consolidation of facilities.
Lastly we demonstrated future cash generation on a run rate basis to support growth in dividends and investment both on a standalone basis and including Recall.
On a standalone basis the continued strong and durable cash of the base business coupled with the Transformation Program will at a minimum allow us to increase the dividend per share by 15% between 2015 and 2018 whilst reducing leverage by 0.4 of a turn.
Including Recall our minimum dividend per share delivers 24% growth between 2015 and 2018 and reduces leverage by 0.7 turns.
This is all without issuing equity beyond the shares issued to purchase Recall.
Now turning to Q3 financial and operating highlights total revenue for the quarter grew by 2% on a constant dollar basis reflecting continued solid storage rental gains of 4.2%.
The impact from foreign currency on total revenues was roughly 7% reflecting the continued strong appreciation of the dollar against several of our major functional currencies.
Moreover we should note that we did not have any meaningful acquisition activity this quarter as we deferred transactions to assess how they may be affected by the Recall acquisition.
Having now fully assessed the benefit of the Recall acquisition we have resumed M&amp;A activity with an appropriately adjusted focus to account for Recall's footprint.
This quarter we continued to see good internal growth with storage rental up 2.8% for both the quarter and year-to-date reflecting continued strong growth from Data Management Other International and Western Europe.
As we look at the remainder of the year we are seeing consistent trends and are maintaining our view for internal storage rental revenue growth in the mid-2% range.
Looking at volume in Records Management we added roughly 14 million cubic feet of net storage volume worldwide on a trailing 12-month basis representing 2.7% net growth.
Globally we retained 98% of all customers.
This is in line with our second quarter and a 20% improvement from the customer turnover we experienced just two years ago.
We continue to see the same number of boxes being inbounded some 30 million cubic feet from our existing customers year after year demonstrating the durability of the storage rental business.
The durability of our business is demonstrated by solid growth in bookings we are seeing across major verticals.
In addition we encouraged by year-to-date low double-digit increase in the midmarket customer bookings as we continue to increase our focus on these small to midsize enterprises where our market share of the total market is roughly 10%.
We are pleased to report solid improvement in our service gross margins as a result of numerous initiatives.
Q3 total service gross margin was 28.5%.
However when normalizing for the reclassification between storage and service Q3 total service gross margins were approximately 26.8% and we are well on track to achieve our expected end-of-year run rate of between 27% and 27.5%.
Now let's turn to the Recall transaction.
This deal is extremely compelling in terms of strategic fit and is supported by meaningful synergies that drive significant accretion.
With the benefit from a number of months of detailed and joint integration planning with our Recall counterparts we remain comfortable with the estimated total net synergies of $155 million with $110 million of that to be achieved in 2017.
As we've noted in the past there is potential upside to these figures as we work through real estate consolidation opportunities.
We remain on track from a regulatory standpoint and we continue to target a close in early 2016.
As I've said previously our business is underpinned by roughly $1.5 billion of net operating income which is comparable to that generated by leaders in both the industrial and self storage sectors.
What distinguishes our business is its inherent durability and it is this durability that delivers consistent levels of operating performance even in the most volatile times.
With that I'd like to turn the call over now to Rod.
Thanks Bill.
We're pleased with this quarter's strong operating performance and the momentum we continue to see in our business.
Our results continue to underscore the strength and durability of our storage rental business and the incremental returns we're generating from our investments.
Similar to Bill my remarks this morning will be brief.
I'll begin with an overview of our quarterly and year-to-date performance including a review of results by segments and an update on cost related to the potential Recall transaction.
Finally I will touch briefly on our outlook for 2015 and 2016.
Let's turn to our worldwide financial results.
Referring to pages eight and nine of our supplemental total reported revenues for the quarter was $747 million compared with $783 million in the prior year.
This decline reflects the continued strengthening of the U.S.
dollar which impacted total revenues by approximately 6.6% or $50 million year-over-year.
Excluding FX on a constant dollar basis revenues grew by 2%.
Year-to-date reported revenues were $2.26 billion compared with $2.34 billion in 2014.
And again excluding FX also grew by 2% on a constant dollar basis.
Total revenues were driven by solid constant dollar storage rental revenue growth of more than 4% for the quarter and year-to-date.
This was offset by modest service revenue declines of roughly 1.3% for the quarter and 1.1% year-to-date.
The decline in our constant dollar service revenue is partially driven by the disposition of our shredding businesses in the UK and Australia.
Consistent with prior quarters we're providing bridging schedules for total revenue adjusted OIBDA and adjusted earnings per share which explain key variances in year-on-year performance.
These schedules are on pages 20 through 22 of the supplemental.
In addition this quarter we're providing a bridging schedule on page 23 to explain the change at our total service gross margin.
In this schedule we have normalized for the accounting adjustment that Bill referenced.
And our projected year-end run rate of 27% to 27.5% is consistent with that normalized basis.
Total adjusted OIBDA for the quarter was $228 million compared to $235 million in 2014.
Excluding FX adjusted OIBDA was up 2.3%.
Our adjusted OIBDA for Q3 2015 included $9 million of charges related to our Transformation program.
Excluding these costs adjusted OIBDA would have been $237 million or grown 6.5% on a normalized constant dollar basis.
Year-to-date adjusted OIBDA grew by 1.5% on a constant dollar basis.
For the fourth quarter we expect to incur very little in charges related to the Transformation product initiative.
Please note that our savings outlook for Transformation remain consistent with what we laid out on our Investor Day.
Adjusted EPS for the quarter was $0.31 per diluted share compared with $0.35 in the third quarter of 2014.
The decline in adjusted EPS year-on-year is driven by a 9% increase in share count related to the special distribution we made in Q4 2014 as well as the restructuring charges related to Transformation.
Excluding the increase in share count and the Transformation costs normalized adjusted EPS grew by 8.7% for the quarter.
Our structural tax rate for this quarter came out to 16.5% compared with 16.3% for the prior quarter and 13.9% in Q2.
The sequential increase in our structural tax rate was driven by the expenses related to the Recall acquisition and debt refinancing costs which lowered our QRS pre-tax income.
We continue to believe that our tax rate will be approximately 15% to 16% in the short-term.
Our blended rate following the close of the potential Recall acquisition will be closer to 20% as we noted when we announced the deal.
Normalized funds from operations or FFO per share was $0.55 for the quarter and $1.53 year-to-date while adjusted funds from operations or AFFO was $137 million for the quarter and $395 million year-to-date.
Let's turn to our financial performance by segments.
In North American Records and Information Management or RIM internal storage rental revenue showed a decline of 0.3% for the third quarter and is flat year-to-date.
North American RIM internal storage rental growth can vary on a quarterly basis and is often impacted by the timing of large contract renegotiations.
For the last eight quarters it has varied from 0.9% to minus 0.4%.
North American RIM internal service revenue declined this quarter due to continued decrease in retrieve/refile activity levels and the timing of non-recurring imaging projects that were in the year-ago period.
Adjusted OIBDA margins in RIM remained solid at 40% for the quarter and year-to-date.
North American Data Management or DM delivered storage rental internal growth of more than 5% in both the third quarter and year-to-date.
However internal service declined by 4.9% for the quarter and 4.1% year-to-date as we continue to see declines in tape rotation and related transportation activity in the business.
During the third quarter DM adjusted OIBDA margins remained stronger at 51.6% compared with 50.8% in Q2.
The Western Europe segment generated solid results with 1.4% storage rental internal growth for the quarter and 2.8% year-to-date.
Looking at internal service revenue declines in activity were partially offset by increases in non-recurring imaging and other projects.
Adjusted OIBDA margins remained strong in Western Europe at 31.2%.
The Other International segment which is made up primarily of emerging markets and Australia had strong growth in both storage and service revenues.
Storage rental internal growth was 11.5% for the quarter and 11.4% year-to-date.
Service internal growth was 12.3% for the quarter and 10.9% year-to-date.
We continue to expect adjusted OIBDA for this segment to deliver profitability on a portfolio basis in the high teens and low 20%s range in the short-term as we expand our exposure in these fast-growing markets.
Let's touch on the Recall acquisition briefly.
As we mentioned at our Investor Day we're making good progress with the regulatory process and we anticipate closing the deal early in 2016.
To prepare for closing this quarter we incurred approximately $15 million of professional and advisory fees including cost to prepare for Recall's REIT reconversion.
We expect about $25 million to $30 million of additional Recall cost in the fourth quarter.
Please note that these expenses are excluded from our adjusted OIBDA calculations as they are one-time in nature.
Importantly these costs were included in our guidance related to the Recall acquisition when we announced the deal.
As I mentioned at the outset our outlook for 2015 and 2016 remains consistent with the guidance we provided earlier this month at our Investor Day.
But one exception to that is that we tightened our expected real estate investment range and lowered it by roughly $30 million at the midpoint relative to the projections provided at our Investor Day due to the focus on in timing of our real estate consolidation program.
Given FX fluctuations and to provide better visibility of the underlying performance of our business we're providing constant dollar guidance figures for 2016 and our plan is to continue that practice.
Please note that our current 2016 guidance is based on 2015 constant dollar budget rates which was set in January 2015.
When we'll report full year 2015 results in February we will provide an updated 2016 guidance based on 2016 constant dollar budget rates which will be set in early January 2016.
We've got the question from some of you on R$ guidance for 2016.
Assuming constant September 30 FX rates our exit FX impact for the quarter on total revenue where approximately 40% of it denominated in non-U.S.
dollars is roughly 3.5%.
Again holding that constant for 2016 it implies a 3.5% FX impact on revenues which translates into roughly $120 million impact for the full year.
Beyond the dividend increase that Bill mentioned for the upcoming quarter we laid out at our Investor Day minimum projected dividends per share guidance through 2018 on a standalone basis and the combined basis with Recall.
Please refer to the presentation and webcast for more details.
Late in September we raised $1 billion of debt at 6% enabling us to pay off some of our very high interest legacy debt and lowering our average interest costs.
At the quarter end we had liquidity of approximately $1.7 billion.
Note that this figure is prior to the October 2015 redemption of our outstanding 6.75% euro notes and 7.75% U.S.
notes and 8.375% U.S.
notes.
Following the redemption liquidity will be approximately $900 million.
Lastly our lease adjusted debt ratio was 5.7 times as expected.
Turning now to page 34 for supplemental where we highlight our investments for racking projects in process building development and building acquisitions by major geographic region the total expected investment and anticipated NOI and returns.
Please note that these investments represent growth-related investments and exclude consolidated-related spend.
As you can see on this page we achieved high returns on our growth racking and building development projects.
So far this year our investment in M&amp;A and real estate investment activity has been lower than typical as we prepare for the potential Recall acquisition.
We are focusing future plans on the synergy potential fuelled by our real estate consolidation between the companies.
Overall we believe this was a solid quarter and we're pleased with the progress we have made so far in advancing our Transformation program and stabilizing service gross margins.
We remain on track to deliver our guidance for 2015 as well as our long-term objectives.
Looking ahead we will continue to focus on enhancing shareholder value by extending the durability of our storage rental business which drives our cash available to fund dividends and core growth investments.
And with that operator we will now take questions.
The first question comes from Andy Wittmann of Robert W.
Baird.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Andy.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you for the details.
I wanted to ask about the relationship between some of the organic volumes and the organic revenue growth rates in your two mature markets.
It looks like in North American RIM organic revenue was minus 1.2%.
The volumes were about flat; kind of a similar relationship in Western Europe where revenue was down 3.3% but – I'm sorry organic volumes were up over 3% but total revenue was just on the positive side of flat.
So is there a pricing dynamic that's in there or is there something else going on? If you can give us some color around that relationship it would be helpful.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think the – Andy I think there's two aspects.
One is the – one set of data if we look at the price changes measured in revenue in terms of constant dollar storage it's quarter-on-quarter.
And when we look at volume it's trailing 12 months.
So you can't quite put the two of them together.
But if you kind of look at North America North America is achieving similar types net volume growth organically or before acquisitions as we were last year.
So it's actually up in terms of volume.
We've had some pricing adjustments this quarter due to some renewals which I think we talked about a little bit on Investor Day.
It's not unusual during certain times of the year.
And if you go back over say the last two to three years you'll see that we have maybe two three four quarters of positive internal storage revenue growth in North America and then it's punctuated by one or two quarters generally of negative which is usually associated when we're doing renewals.
But you can't – because one set of data in terms if we look at the revenue side is quarter-by-quarter you can't link that to volume which is just on trailing 12 months.
I don't know Rod if you want to add anything to that.
No I think that's right.
It's difficult to do the comparisons on a true like-for-like basis as you said.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
That makes total sense.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> The only thing I would add Andy from a modeling standpoint it's still what we've been saying consistently is that so the volume – you can back out the volume increases that we're getting both in North America and in Europe.
So that's easy.
And then in terms of the revenue increase we still are achieving somewhere between 0.5% to 1% annual price increase in those markets.
So we're a little bit – we're starting to move a little bit more towards the upper part in that range through some of the technology we've added but it's basically in that 0.5% to 1% on top of the volume growth that we're getting.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
That's helpful.
And then Rod with – after doing the October notes refi on to the line the coordinates are a little bit tighter.
Are you looking at tapping the unsecured market to term some of that debt out or is there complications with the pending Recall deal that we have to factor into your calculus here? Some of your thoughts on the capital structure would be helpful I think.
No.
I think we're happy with the capital structure that we have at the moment particularly having paid off the very high interest notes that we had.
Effectively what we'd like to do is hold what we have see what happens through the Recall deal which is to say we anticipate it to close in early Q1 but we're still working through the regulatory process there.
It gives us some capital to assist with that on closure if you like.
But – so we're going to kind of hold what we've got and see how we get on with Recall.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
I'll leave it there.
Thank you.
Thanks.
The next question comes from Kevin McVeigh of Macquarie.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
Hey nice job.
Asking about Recall but just one more time because it'd probably be the last time before it closes.
Bill I know you're working through the regulatory is it – are there any kind of goal post or anything that we should look out or is it just something you'll update once you're through the regulatory process? Because obviously something came out of the UK last week from the authorities it looks like relatively benign.
But is there any kind of disclosures you just think we should focus on as we get closer to the close process? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Kevin.
I appreciate the question.
I think if you can imagine that the regulators like these discussions to be kept confidential as we go through them.
I think the – but I mean just to give you guidance I think it's pretty much what we said at Investor Day is we're engaged with the four regulatory authorities that have shown interest in the transaction which is the U.S.
Canada the UK as you mentioned and Australia.
We feel that we're well engaged with those authorities so on track for a Q1 close and the discussions are ongoing.
But where we sit today we feel good that it's in line with our expectations when we set out on the course.
So nothing has changed.
I mean generally these things take six months to 12 months when you go through a regulatory process in the United States for instance but we continue to guide at the lower end of that range because we feel good where we stand.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And then as you think about the progression kind of the volume growth I've always thought that you'd start to see destructions and permanent removal start to kind of trail off and then new volume growth I mean just the customers kicks up.
Does that kind of ratio still hold through as we're coming out of this kind of cycle in terms of things we look forward as a volume growth starts to reaccelerate here? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah look you're right.
I mean you've watched this for a long time.
There's ebbs and flows.
I'm not sure you can always do the cause and effect between perm-outs (29:07) and destructions but – and customer withdrawals but I think the – there is ebb and flow between the two.
And the other thing I should point out is the new sales growth is it's part art and part science because some of that new sales growth comes from existing customers.
And that split between new sales growth and what comes from "existing customers" is much to do in terms of the way we compensate our sales force.
In other words if they get something – if they get some growth out of an existing customer but we deemed it as a new area or new location or new department then we call that a new sale.
So I think there is some ebb and flow between the two.
And as you know if we look at the heavily regulated industries which we have a – which is a big part of our business is a lot of that's affected by different litigation that's going on around the world.
So I think there is some cause and effects but I wouldn't overplay it.
There's a certain amount of randomness to it.
Inc.</span></strong> Cool.
Thank you.
The next question is from George Tong of Piper Jaffray.
Hi.
This is Adrian Paz on for George Tong.
Just looking at your updated guidance it seems like there's a slightly better OIBDA margins at the midpoint versus last quarter.
Can you discuss what is making you incrementally more positive on margins? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
I'll let Rod answer that.
I think just on a high level there's a couple things.
I think one is if you even look over time we're pretty good at driving productivity out of the business.
Because when you start off what I was saying earlier is that we get – currently in this low inflation environment we get somewhere between 0.5% to 1% increase in price.
Obviously our labor cost in certain markets goes up faster than that.
So we continually drive productivity through the business.
And that's what really drives our OIBDA growth.
And then I think you can expect also when some of the transformation gets fully realized now that we're through most of the restructuring cost in this quarter you could expect that that will even pick up a little bit more.
But Rod you may want to comment further.
Yeah maybe just to build on what you're saying you're absolutely right in terms of the point that was made.
If you look at our guidance – take the C$ guidance that we updated at Investor Day in effect what we're saying is that from a revenue point of view we see ourselves at the middle of the range and contribution we see ourselves more towards the higher point of the range.
And obviously therefore the OIBDA margin goes up.
Really what's behind that is the work that we've been doing on efficiencies around service margin and also around the Transformation efforts that we've referenced.
Some of that has come through in 2015 faster than we originally anticipated when we set the guidance back in January.
And really that's what's behind the improvement we're seeing.
Got it.
Thanks.
And then can you just discuss which emerging markets are showing the strongest growth and if that growth reflects expansion in those markets or it's increasing volumes? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think on the emerging markets we're seeing it pretty much across the board but it depends on the size of the base.
So for instance I just came back from Eastern Europe and took couple of members of the board along with me so they could see up close what we're doing out there and also see some of the talent we've got.
So Eastern Europe is growing – continues to grow extremely well so does in Latin America.
I mean the challenge in Latin America Brazil which is our largest operation for instance is in terms of growth.
And if you measure it in Brazilian real it is strongly double-digit and continues to do well.
I mean the issue of course in places like Brazil is the translation of that because the real's been under pressure.
And then Asia which is a smaller portion of our portfolio but again has very strong growth rates whether you look at India or you look at places like Hong Kong Singapore and China.
The one thing I would point out though is that in markets – even in markets like Brazil where we've been under pressure from a real standpoint so when you translate that in U.S.
dollars the growth may be muted slightly is we've also been able – in some of these cases like Brazil been able to borrow locally in real which has helped to hedge some of that translation.
But I would say pretty much across the board.
We haven't seen any slowdown in the emerging markets and all the countries typically run in that low double-digit of internal growth before acquisitions.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Andrew Steinerman of JPMorgan.
Hi there.
I know there's a couple of questions already on FX but if it's possible Rod could you just give us the mix of currencies so we could those calculations ourselves the mix of currencies? Well really obviously we deal in quite a number of currencies in terms of what's impacting our numbers.
And I think in terms of the short-term impact the – where we've seen the hit is being Canadian dollar Russian ruble Aussie dollar the Brazilian real and Colombian peso.
So they've been hitting us during Q3.
If you were to take a longer term view so more looking year-on-year there sort of wider effects coming in from sterling in particular where obviously also we have quite a significant business.
Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> The only thing I'd like to add to that Andrew is that whilst you've seen the FX headwinds in revenue you'll note that it gets muted pretty quickly as we start going through the OIBDA and the EPS line.
And the – where we are at a stage is in some sense the timing is not bad for us because we are using strong U.S.
dollars to invest and build out this portfolio which is still a relatively small portion in terms of the countries where the currency is mostly impacted which is in the emerging markets.
I'm not saying that the other markets aren't a factor.
So if you say 40% of our sales are in foreign currency but the currencies that are impacted typically are in that a little less than 15% emerging market area.
And those are areas where our OIBDA margins at this point are lower because we're building scale in those markets.
So we're taking strong U.S.
dollars to build out these markets right now.
And their impact – even with the negative FX impact the impact on OIBDA in earnings is muted.
It's obviously fully affected at the revenue line but when you see what happens to earnings it's muted.
So I agree you need to model it out but the earnings is not as sensitive as you might think to the FX whereas you do see the full sensitivity on the revenue line.
That's why we feel comfortable about already starting to increase our dividend because we feel that we've got enough momentum in the business that we can continue and start back on our growth trend in terms of dividends.
That sounds natural (36:27).
I'm hoping I could ask a second question.
Could you Rod talk a little bit more about the OIBDA margin of 30.5% in the third quarter? Were there any one-off helps to that margin? And what puts and takes should we keep in mind as we compare the third quarter OIBDA margins to the implied fourth quarter margin in the guide? No nothing particularly unusual in Q3.
Obviously other than the fact we actually booked the $9 million restructuring charge which actually lowered the margin slightly.
I think as we look to Q4 again sitting here today I'm not seeing anything particularly unusual that should come through.
Obviously we won't have a repeat of the $9 million charge and there would be some benefit from that actually hitting us in Q4 as a result of the slightly lower cost base.
But other than that I think it's pretty much steady as she goes.
Okay.
Thank you so much.
The next question is from Shlomo Rosenbaum of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking my questions.
I'm just trying to compare the storage revenue that was in North American RIM that was slightly negative versus the trends that we're seeing in the charts where you have positive volume growth.
And the positive volume growth if you exclude the acquisitions has been kind of modestly creeping downwards but you still got positive growth but we're seeing kind of negative revenue on an organic basis.
Can you kind of just explain that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Shlomo let me start off and then Rod can add any color that he thinks that I missed out.
So I think first let's look at the revenue growth.
So if you go back say to Q4 2013 right and you just look at the number of quarters you'll see that North American storage rental revenue growth has gone negative 0.4% negative 0.3% plus 0.3% plus 0.4% plus 0.9% plus 0.5% and then in the last two quarters a negative 0.1% and negative 0.3%.
So you'll see first of all which I was referring to earlier you'll see that moving around and you can kind of get that – you can back into that through the supplemental.
And so on the revenue side because as you can appreciate when we renegotiate large enterprise deals that you do get – in any given quarter you can get a significant impact in terms of the revenue associated per cube.
So there's a disconnect between that volume growth.
Over a long period of time though – if you look at the trend over a long period of time we still see if you take the revenue growth and if you look on an annualized basis we're getting between 0.5% and 1% in terms of price per cube growth then you get those two bits combined and that will give you a good guide in terms of what the internal storage revenue growth is for a particular market.
So the – you're right to point out that we continue to drive significant – I'd say on a percentage basis relatively small percentage growth in North America but in terms of volume because of the size of the North American business as you know the law of large numbers we continue to deliver a significant amount of organic cube volume growth in North America.
And over a 12-month period you should think about 0.5% to 1% price growth on top of that cube growth.
But any given quarter depending on where we are in renewal cycle especially for the large contracts if you go back over the last I don't know eight quarters nine quarters 10 quarters you'll see that movement around where we'll have one or two quarters where it'll be negative two quarters or three quarters will be positive and it just kind of moves around.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> So just when I look at the trends on the volume growth so if you take the total company and then North America which probably is having the largest impact you're seeing just kind of a modest organic trend down over the last four quarters if you – I'm excluding acquired volume because I think that that's appropriate for this.
But if you look at it you're seeing the organic say going from 0.6% – in North America 0.6% 0.5% 0.4% and 0.1% and on total you're going 2% 1.9% 1.8% 1.7% is there – we had seen kind of a run up that whole organic number had been going – trending up from the middle of 2013 through basically 3Q 2014 and then we're starting to see that coming down.
Is there any color you can give to that those numbers moving in that direction? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Well look I think that it's a little bit is what I think Kevin asked earlier in terms of kind of tos-and-fros between customer cycles there's a bit of that.
I think also it's fair to say on a percentage basis it is coming down slightly because I mean partly driven by customer activity but a big part of it is just the large number.
So if you look at the constant – if you look at the volume of cubes coming in we're still seeing very consistently across the board 30 million cubes coming in on a growth level and say 40 million cubes net coming in.
I think the one of the things that we do where you'll see us try to even tap into another market which we think is quite large is what we're doing in the mid-market.
So I think if you look at where we are on the mid-market side I think I actually misquoted is we're in kind of low double-digit growth if we look at year-on-year bookings for new sales across the board.
But in the mid-market year-to-date we're up over 60% in terms of bookings in the mid-market where we only have 10% market share.
So I think there's some things where we can tap into "another large market" but I think it is fair to say that if you look at our core our normal hunting ground if you will it's the law of large numbers and there is a limit in terms of how much more we can get from those customers.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay that's fair.
And can you – Rod can you just explain that reallocation of margin between the services and the storage business what is that all about? It was actually to do with our – predominantly to do with our data center business where we had some costs that were in the service line that we really analyze where (42:53) we thought they should be in the storage line.
So that sort of artificially enhanced the service margin in Q3.
So we didn't want to give the impression that we were – the true underlying run rate was 28.5% which is what we recorded that is more like 26% 26.8%.
So that – it was just a reallocation of cost following a more detailed reviewing.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Does that support the REIT structure when those were reallocated like that? In that case it has a very very minor impact but – so it doesn't affect our assets as such (43:31) in any meaningful way.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
If I could just squeeze in one more there's a pretty large range at the end of the year right now $0.15 on EPS.
Is there any reason why it's so large or is there something that you're anticipating some investments that you're still contemplating at this point in time that can move it around? No.
And obviously we are subject to FX volatility which during Q3 moved against us.
Actually if you look during the first few weeks of October it's moved slightly back in our favor.
So that can swing the numbers around.
But in terms of the fundamentals of the business it's relatively stable.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you so much.
There are no questions in queue.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Okay.
Thank you operator.
Well thank you everyone for joining us.
I know it's a busy time for everyone but just to sum up.
We're very pleased the way the quarter came out.
It was a very good quarter driven by the strong – or continued strong operating performance I should say and has delivered profit that set the upper end of our expectations.
So we feel really good about the quarter and hence the recommencing of our dividend increases that we declared this morning.
So thank you everyone and have a good day.
Thank you.
This concludes call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the conference call.
I will turn the call over to Melissa Marsden Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Cathy.
Welcome.
Good morning everyone to our Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
This morning we'll hear first from Bill Meaney our CEO who will discuss highlights and progress toward our strategic initiative; followed by Rod Day CFO who will cover financial results and guidance.
After our prepared remarks we'll open up the phones for Q&amp;A and as we've done for the last few quarters we have posted our earnings commentary and supplemental disclosure package on the Investor Relations page of our website at ironmountain.com under Investor Relations/Financial Information.
Referring now to page two of the Supplemental today's earnings call and slides will contain a number of forward-looking statements most notably our outlook for 2016 financial and operating performance.
All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to today's Supplemental the earnings commentary the Safe Harbor language on this slide and our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of the major risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those in our forward-looking statements.
In addition we use several non-GAAP measures when presenting our financial results and the reconciliations to these measures as required by Reg G are included in this Supplemental reporting package.
With that Bill would you please begin? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Melissa and good morning everyone.
We are pleased to report strong fourth quarter and full year financial and operating results that in every respect met or exceeded our expectations in constant dollars with reported EPS for the quarter beating expectations.
Our results continued to demonstrate the durability of our core storage rental business even in these volatile times.
Total revenue in constant dollars was in line with our guidance and constant dollar adjusted OIBDA was at the upper end of our range.
We continued to achieve solid growth in storage rental revenue as well as consistent volume growth in new records from existing customers.
We also achieved service gross margins in line with our year-end exit rate goal as well as growth in adjusted OIBDA.
All of these accomplishments resulted in a very good 2015.
I believe most of you are familiar with the strategic plan we outlined at our Investor Day last fall.
To assist in tracking our progress against that plan we've modified the earnings commentary at the beginning of our supplemental disclosure to highlight key performance metrics.
You'll note that in addition to our solid financial performance in 2015 we've made good progress against our objectives in each of the three pillars and in the foundational elements that support our strategy.
As anticipated the strength of the U.S.
dollar continued to impact our reported revenue.
However when looking through to fundamental performance we've achieved a significant turnaround in the business in the last two years.
We've gone from negative internal growth in total revenue in both 2012 and 2013 to 1% positive internal growth or prior to acquisitions in 2014.
And in 2015 we achieved further improvement with 1.5% positive internal growth.
This is a testament to the hard work our organization has undertaken to first achieve net Records Management volume in all major markets enhance customer service and retention whilst attracting new customers stabilize service revenue declines in Records Management penetrate new emerging markets and advancing adjacent business opportunities.
Turning to the pillars of our strategic plan in developed markets our focus over the last two years on getting more growth from these regions has driven improved performance with positive internal storage growth stabilizing Records Management service revenues and adding roughly three million cubic feet of net new records in 2015 prior to acquisitions.
In emerging markets our revenue has grown from 10% of the total in 2013 to 14.6% of total revenue at the end of 2015 on a constant dollar basis.
We have a sizable deal pipeline and are confident we will reach our goal of 16% of total revenue from these markets by 2016 and 20% by 2020.
Importantly we're driving internal growth in these markets of roughly 10% per year so just two points of our 20% goal comes from acquisitions.
We resumed M&amp;A activity in select emerging markets in the fourth quarter closing on a transaction in India.
We have adjusted our focus to account for Recall's footprint and expect to close a few transactions in the first half of 2016 including a couple in fast-growing new emerging markets with underserved demand for records management.
As we've noted in recent calls despite the impact of the strong dollar on reported revenue we mitigate our FX exposure at the income level because our expenses are denominated in the same local currencies as our revenues and we are increasingly moving more of our debt outside the United States.
The net of this is that we exceeded earnings expectations for the fourth quarter.
Additionally using strong dollars to invest in high-growth markets outside the U.S.
gives us a lower cost basis and sets us up to realize significant value creation as the economic growth in these markets over the longer term will typically outpace that of the United States.
I should note that in our Other International segment which is emerging markets plus Australia we did see a higher level of destructions in Q4 driven by a single large customer which will carry over into Q1 of 2016.
However we do not see any other such unusual destructions on the horizon and expect that destructions for the remainder of the year will return to more typical levels.
But we do report volume change on a trailing 12-month basis and therefore this level will remain slightly elevated over the next few quarters.
We also have a goal to generate 5% of our total worldwide revenue from adjacent businesses by the end of 2020 up from just 2% at the end of 2015.
Today our adjacent businesses consist of our data center operations and our recently acquired art storage business.
We closed on Crozier Fine Arts storage in December and are pleased with how it is being integrated into our business whilst retaining the DNA and key management talent that made it the leading art storage business in the United States.
We believe the billion-dollar estimated global market is poised for the same type of consolidation opportunity we saw in the records management business years ago and we have a plan that can take it to $100 million within three years.
We had a fairly aggressive goal for 2015 to finish with an adjacent business revenue run rate of $50 million from a starting point below $20 million.
We achieved that with roughly a $20 million revenue run rate from our data center business and $30 million from art storage.
This all supports our planned shift in mix by 2020 to have 25% of our revenue coming from both emerging markets and adjacent businesses that have internal growth rates closer to 10% up from 15% of our revenue in these higher growth businesses today.
In terms of the foundational elements of our strategy we have made significant progress on our Transformation initiative effecting changes that have resulted in $50 million of net savings in 2016.
We are finalizing the next set of initiatives that will deliver an additional $50 million of savings by year end 2016.
As previously disclosed the remainder of the total $125 million of overhead savings will be actioned in 2017 and the full amount for the Transformation program will be reflected in our 2018 adjusted OIBDA.
Importantly the cost to achieve these savings in each year is offset by the savings.
As a reminder we don't exclude the Transformation costs from our adjusted financial measures but we do detail the amounts in the bridging schedules in the supplemental.
Rod will have more on the timing of expected Transformation related costs to 2016 in a few minutes.
We continue to work toward closing of the Recall transaction and related integration planning.
As outlined at our Investor Day we have detailed workstreams for virtually every functional area of the combined companies and I am pleased with what I am seeing in the way our teams are working together on integration planning to create a dynamic combined entity and facilitate a smooth transition.
Obviously this transaction is compelling in terms of strategic fit and is supported by meaningful synergies that drive accretion.
As we work through the regulatory process we will refine our views based upon a clear understanding of the outcome.
We are constructively engaged with the four principal regulators and are working hard towards closing the transaction in a timely manner.
As you know it is necessary for us to close early in a given quarter in order to convert Recall's operations in certain countries into our REIT structure.
We will provide updates with respect to the timetable when we have substantially completed the regulatory review process.
But at this time we cannot answer any questions about regulatory outcomes on today's call beyond what we have already said.
In addition we view real estate as a foundation to our strategy.
During the year we invested roughly $171 million in real estate.
We remain keenly focused on our capital allocation opportunity and think about real estate investment in four major buckets.
Our first priority is to invest in growth racking to accommodate net new volume growth we achieve annually.
This investment yields average IRRs in the high teens.
Our next priority is real estate consolidation which may include both buildings and racking to improve real estate and operating efficiency and enhance utilization.
This is characterized by mid-teens IRRs.
Third we plan to continue to invest in data center in a success-based manner driven by customer commitments.
We continue to see good opportunity here with low double-digit IRRs and stabilized mid-teens return on invested capital.
Fourth we also look to complete select opportunistic lease buy-ins where we can acquire buildings at attractive valuations relative to market pricing or where it is strategically important to own.
Rod will have more on how we view our real estate investment opportunities for the coming year.
Now touching on some key financial and operating achievements before turning it over to Rod.
On a constant dollar basis we grew total revenue in 2015 by 2% reflecting continued storage rental gains of 4%.
This was driven primarily by storage rental internal growth of 2.7% for the year reflecting continued strong growth from Data Management Other International and Western Europe.
As we look out into 2016 we are seeing consistent trends and maintaining our view for internal storage rental revenue growth in the mid-2% range.
Service revenue growth for the year was negative 0.4% and we delivered positive at 0.3% internal service growth revenue for the quarter.
We made good progress on our service margin initiative exiting the year at 27.2% right in the middle of our range.
There will be ups and downs as the mix shifts to more non-recurring projects and there will be a downtick in service margin early in the year but we expect it to ramp up again throughout the year and to result in a similar average margin for the full year.
Also as previously mentioned in 2016 we will also focus on growing overall service gross profit as we move forward and our service mix evolves.
Although some of our new offerings have lower margins than our core activity base services such as transportation and handling they are also less capital intensive so they have very similar returns.
Storage volume growth is another important indicator in our business.
During the year we once again grew net worldwide storage volume by 8 million cubic feet or 2.3% net growth and 1.6% prior to acquisitions and gross volume of records from new and existing customers was roughly 42 million cubic feet over the trailing 12 months.
Our customer retention remains strong at 98% underscoring the stability of our customer base in supporting the durability of the storage revenue stream.
This level has been stable over the past six quarters and represents an appropriate level in our business.
Lastly and most importantly our cash generation is an important metric as it supports growth in dividends and investment.
In recent presentations we laid out our expectations for cash available to support the dividend both on a standalone basis and including Recall.
We expect to fund additional growth through debt in amounts that allow us to continue to delever the business on a debt-to-EBITDA basis.
On a standalone basis the continued strong and durable cash of the base business coupled with the Transformation program will at a minimum allow us to increase the dividend per share by 15% between 2015 and 2018 whilst reducing leverage by 0.4 of a turn.
Even with an increased dividend in Q4 we improved our year-end 2015 payout as a percentage of our AFFO from 82% at Investor Day to 78% at year end.
Including Recall our minimum dividend per share delivers 24% growth between 2015 and 2018.
This is all without issuing equity beyond the shares issued to purchase Recall.
Looking ahead all of these drivers support our updated constant dollar guidance for 2016.
On a like-for-like basis or comparing our 2016 constant dollar guidance with our 2015 results using 2016 FX budget rates you can see our growth expectations are very consistent with what we showed at Investor Day.
We expect 3% to 6% constant dollar growth in revenue 6% to 8% growth in adjusted OIBDA and 6% to 13% growth in adjusted EPS.
This growth is underpinned by nearly $1.5 billion of storage net operating income which is comparable to that generated by leaders in both the industrial and self-storage sectors.
What distinguishes our business is its inherent durability and it is this durability that delivers consistent levels of operating performance in good and bad times.
With that I'd like to turn the call over now to Rod.
Thanks Bill.
I'll begin today with an overview of our 2015 performance including a review of results by segment and updates on our service gross margin initiative as well as our Transformation program.
Finally I will address our outlook for 2016 including a review of our capital allocation plans.
Let's turn to our worldwide financial results.
For the full year reported revenues were $3.01 billion compared with $3.12 billion in 2014.
Excluding the full year FX impact of 6% or $171 million year-over-year on a constant dollar basis revenues grew by 2.1%.
Consistent with the full-year picture revenues for the fourth quarter also grew by 2.1% on a constant dollar basis.
As Bill noted we did not have any meaningful acquisition activity for most of 2015 so our revenues for the year had a very limited contribution from external growth.
Total revenues were driven by good constant dollar storage rental revenue growth of more than 3% for the quarter and 4% for the year.
Service revenues were flat for the quarter and down 1% for the year.
The decline in our constant dollar service revenue for the year was driven by the disposition of our shredding businesses in the U.K.
and Australia in late 2014.
Consistent with prior quarters we have provided bridging schedules for total revenue adjusted OIBDA and adjusted earnings per share which explain key variances in year-on-year performance for the quarter and the full year.
These schedules are on pages 22 through 26 of the Supplemental.
Similar to last quarter we have also provided a bridging schedule on page 27 to explain the sequential movement in our total service business gross margins.
For our focused initiative we're continuing to align service costs with activity levels and revenue mix.
Looking ahead we expect modest reductions in our service gross profits during Q1 reflecting one-off severance costs and the timing of costs related to our growing mix of special projects.
However we expect service margins will recover to current levels throughout the year.
Total adjusted OIBDA for the quarter was $238 million compared with $220 million in 2014.
Despite FX headwinds we grew adjusted OIBDA by 8% and excluding FX by 14%.
For the full year adjusted OIBDA grew by 4.4% on a constant dollar basis.
As Bill noted our Transformation program continues in 2016.
In the first quarter of 2016 we expect to incur roughly $7 million of net charges related to this initiative.
During Q2 and Q3 we expect the Transformation program to be $1 million to $2 million net negative to adjusted OIBDA with in-quarter costs slightly offsetting benefits.
In Q4 we expect net upside of up to around $10 million so providing a strong run rate platform for year-on-year benefits in 2017.
As Bill noted we continue to expect run rate savings of $50 million to flow through to 2017.
Our overall savings outlook for Transformation remains consistent with what we laid out on our Investor Day in October with $125 million of cumulative savings by 2018.
Looking at the overall phasing of contribution for 2016 we expect this to ramp up during the year for two reasons.
Firstly as I just discussed the costs associated with our Transformation program are front loaded with offsetting net benefits coming later in the year.
Secondly our storage volumes and revenues will grow through the year as they typically do.
As such excluding any extraordinary events we believe that Q1 adjusted OIBDA will represent roughly 21% to 23% total adjusted OIBDA factored in 2016.
Furthermore Q2 and Q3 will make up roughly 24% to 26% each and Q4 will represent roughly 26% to 28%.
Adjusted EPS for the quarter was $0.33 compared with $0.25 in the fourth quarter of 2014.
For the full year adjusted EPS was $1.21 compared with $1.36 for 2014.
The decline in adjusted EPS year-on-year is driven by an 8% increase in share count related to the special distribution we made in Q4 2014 following our REIT conversion charges related to Transformation and a high structural tax rate for the year.
Including the increase in share count and restructuring costs in both periods as well as holding the tax rate constant normalized adjusted EPS grew by $0.02 for the year.
Our structural tax rate for this quarter came out as 16.8% compared with 14.4% in the prior year and 16.5% in Q3 of 2015.
The year-over-year increase in our structural tax rate was primarily driven by higher income from foreign jurisdictions.
We continue to believe that our tax rate will be approximately 15% to 17% in the short-term.
Normalized funds from operations or FFO per share was $0.57 for the quarter compared with $0.52 in the year ago period driven by improved performance.
For the full year FFO per share was $2.10 per share compared with $2.28 in 2014.
The decline was driven by FX headwinds the increase in share count as well as restructuring charges related to our Transformation program.
Including share count increases FX and restructuring charges in both periods FFO per share grew by 3%.
Adjusted funds from operations or AFFO was $125 million for the fourth quarter compared with $112 million in the year-ago period.
For the full year AFFO was $522 million compared with $527 million in 2014.
If we adjust for FX in the items mentioned earlier that impacted FFO except for share counts then AFFO grew by 3% year-on-year.
On page 21 of the Supplemental we're now providing a reconciliation between AFFO and cash flow from operations as presented in our GAAP cash flow statements so you can more readily see the cash items that are not of a typical recurring nature.
Let's turn to our financial performance by segment.
In North American Records and Information Management or RIM internal storage rental revenue was up 0.2% for the fourth quarter and 0.1% for the full year.
North American RIM internal service revenue declined this quarter due to the continued decrease in transportation retrieve and re-file activity levels.
In addition we saw more of a precipitous decline in average price of recycled sorted office paper towards the end of the year leading to a decline of over 19% quarter-over-quarter in average pricing.
This impacted the paper revenue in our shred business and will have a follow-on impact into 2016.
Adjusted OIBDA margins in RIM remain solid at 41% for the quarter and 40% for the year up from 39% in 2014.
The year-over-year improvement in North American RIM adjusted OIBDA margins is driven by the service gross margin actions and better operational performance.
North American Data Management or DM delivered storage rental internal growth of 1.0% for the fourth quarter and 4.2% for the year.
The growth in DM storage rental internal growth for the quarter was lower than recent periods due to a strong comparator from Q4 last year.
Looking forward we expect DM internal storage growth to be in line with the growth in total company storage internal growth around 2.5%.
Internal service revenue in DM declined by 8% in the fourth quarter and 5.1% for the year as we continued to see declines in the frequency of tape rotation and related transportation activity in the business.
During the fourth quarter DM adjusted OIBDA margins remained strong at 53.7% compared to 51.6% in Q3.
For the full year DM adjusted OIBDA margins are 52.2%.
We expect DM adjusted OIBDA margins will remain in the low to mid-50% range as we continue to invest in new service offerings.
Margins on new services although high at 35% to 40% are lower than core storage margins of approximately 75%.
The Western Europe segment generated solid results with 2.4% internal storage rental growth for the quarter and 2.7% for the year.
Looking at internal service revenue declines in activity were partially offset by increases in nonrecurring imaging and other projects.
Adjusted OIBDA margins remain solid in Western Europe at 33.1% for the quarter and 34.4% for the year.
The Other International segment which is made up primarily of emerging markets and Australia showed strong growth in both storage and service revenues.
Storage rental internal growth was 9.6% for the quarter and 10.8% for the year.
Service internal growth was 8.4% for the quarter and 9.0% for the year.
Other International adjusted OIBDA margins were 23% for the quarter and 21% for the year.
We expect to see adjusted OIBDA from this segment to deliver profitability on a portfolio basis in a low 20s% range in the short-term as we continue to expand our exposure in these fast-growing markets.
Let's touch on the Recall acquisition briefly.
To prepare for integration in 2015 we incurred approximately $25 million of deal close costs and $22 million to prepare for integration which brings total Recall related costs in 2015 to $47 million.
For the first quarter of 2016 we expect $5 million to $8 million of deal close costs and $8 million to $12 million of integration related costs bringing the total costs in Q1 to roughly $15 million to $20 million.
Please note these expenses are excluded from our adjusted OIBDA calculation as they are one time in nature.
Importantly these costs were outlined in our guidance related to the Recall acquisition when we announced the deal.
Let's turn to our outlook for 2016 on page 13 of the Supplemental.
Business trends and fundamentals remain consistent and operationally we remain on track to achieve our long-term financial objectives given the durability and strong fundamentals of our business.
Please note I'm referring to the corrected version of the Supplemental that was posted just prior to the call.
Our guidance for 2016 growth on a constant dollar basis remains fairly consistent with the preliminary guidance we provided during our Q3 earnings call.
We made two changes.
Firstly we updated our outlook to reflect the new constant dollar budget foreign exchange rates which was set in January 2016.
Note that at this point that our 2016 constant dollar budget rate is now equivalent to an R (sic) [reported] dollar rate since it was just set last month.
Secondly we have reduced revenue and adjusted OIBDA by approximately $10 million at the midpoint as a result of the decline in the shred recycled paper prices that I noted earlier.
Revenue from paper recycling is almost all margin and so the vast majority flows through to adjusted OIBDA.
To provide further clarity I'd now like to share with you additional detail of how FX has impacted 2016 guidance and walk you through the components of our expected 2016 adjusted OIBDA growth on a constant dollar basis.
The FX headwind was primarily driven by significant declines against U.S.
dollar in the following five currencies: Australian dollar Brazilian real British pound sterling Canadian dollar and the euro.
These represent about 28% of our total revenue.
As a reminder approximately 40% of our total revenues are denominated in non-U.S.
dollars.
Assuming our 2016 FX rates remain constant throughout the year our guidance reflects a 5% decline in revenues from FX.
In our Investor Day we had anticipated a decline of 3.5% based on rates at that time.
Given continuing strengthening of the U.S.
dollar our outlook represents an additional decline by the end of the year of 1.5%.
This total decline translate into roughly $165 million for the year on the top line.
As we move down the P&amp;L FX headwinds continue to impact our guidance albeit at a lower dollar amount.
The FX headwinds impacting the top line translates into approximately $50 million on adjusted OIBDA for 2016.
As you can see on page 12 of the Supplemental we reported constant dollar 2015 adjusted OIBDA of $940 million at 2015 constant dollar budget rates set in January 2015.
When our 2015 numbers are translated into 2016 budget rates adjusted OIBDA would've been $900 million.
However we're also expecting an additional impact related to FX of roughly $10 million as a result of a change in our contribution mix.
As we noted earlier we are also expecting a $10 million constant dollar impact from paper price declines.
On a more positive note we can add a $50 million benefit from Transformation.
Adding all that up we get to adjusted OIBDA for 2016 based on January 2016 rates of roughly $930 million.
Adding onto that our expectation of roughly 2% to 4% constant dollar growth will get you the $950 million to $970 million which is our 2016 guidance range.
Lastly moving to our expected cash available for distributions and investments for 2016 we expect it to be roughly $495 million at the midpoint for 2016.
This continues to provide ample dividend coverage and funds for our core gross racking investment.
Let's turn to our capital deployment plans.
We expect our capital expenditures which include maintenance and non real estate investment to be in line with the ranges we provided at our Investor Day.
Real estate investment spend is expected to be about $265 million driven by growth racking spend of about $60 million data center investment of $35 million.
We also plan on investing $170 million in real estate consolidation and lease conversions.
For M&amp;A our plan is roughly $100 million in emerging markets and $50 million in the developed markets.
Our dividend expectation also remains consistent with the guidance we laid out on our Investor Day.
As you saw last week we announced our first quarter dividend of $0.485 per share which is consistent with the $1.94 per share run rate from Q4 last year when we increased the quarterly rate by $0.01 per share.
In addition the $1.94 per share is the minimum projected dividend for 2016 in a combined basis with Recall.
Importantly we ended the year with a dividend payout ratio as a percent of AFFO of 78% which underscores the strength of our dividend coverage.
Shifting briefly to the balance sheet at the year-end we had liquidity of approximately $1.7 billion and a lease adjusted debt ratio of 5.6 times as expected.
Before concluding I'd like to point out that we are updating our shelf registration statement with the SEC.
You will likely see this filing next week.
Please note that this update is part of our regular cycle.
As we've said in the past at this time we don't plan on issuing equity to fund investments outside the potential Recall acquisition.
Overall we've delivered good results for the year supported by continued execution on our strategic plan progress we've made in our Transformation initiative as well as the stabilization of our service gross margins.
Looking ahead we're well positioned to deliver on our short and long-term goals.
We remain focused on creating shareholder value by extending the durability of our storage rental business which drives growth and cash available to fund dividends in core growth investments.
And with that I'll hand back to Bill to sum up.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Okay.
Thank you Rod.
Before going over to questions just to sum up by utilizing the levers available to us in this highly durable and cash generative business we've been able to deliver a good year which is distinguished by first demonstrating growth in the business both with and without acquisitions; additionally by generating cash which allows us to grow dividend whilst at the same time establishing a debt-to-EBITDA glide path which delevers over time; and finally by investing in our core business whilst building adjacencies which support the business well into the future.
With that I'd like to open it up to questions.
Your first question comes from Andrew Steinerman with JPMorgan.
Just to say it very clearly the only change in the 2016 guidance relative to the last time we spoke was FX and paper prices right? Yep.
That's right.
Okay.
I wanted to dive a little bit into tape services decline.
I know this is not a new thing in terms of frequency of rotation.
But the decline this is North American tape was larger this time.
What's your anticipation in sort of getting to that bottom of that cycle in terms of frequency? And how do you think the service side of tape will do this year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Andrew and good morning.
No I think it's pretty much the same as we said I think on the last call.
I think it's bouncing between kind of the high-single-digit to low-double-digit declines in terms of what I would say our core service revenue associated with the transport of the tapes.
And I think as we called out the last few quarters is that where we were on the paper record side of the business maybe two or three years ago we're still watching that till it starts flattening out or we see the inflection point.
And we don't see that inflection point right now but at the same time we don't see it getting worse than what it is.
I think what you'll see is you'll see some bouncing around in terms of the net service revenue on the data management.
I mean quite frankly I think we've done a pretty good job on building up some of these new service lines that in the tape management which includes the secured IT asset destruction business for instance and also the restoration assurance business just to call out two.
So on the transportation side again which is our highest margin in that type of business we don't see a slowdown in that decline but we don't see an acceleration either.
But I think what we're -we're making some good progress in some of these new services which generally have lower margins than transport but at the same time they have much less invested capital associated with it so we're getting similar returns.
So when those – I wouldn't expect this year that these new services are going to overtake the decline that we're seeing in the transportation but we're making good progress.
Right.
And then if you don't mind I'm just going to ask about Western Europe.
Service has really popped up in the quarter.
Is there something there that really is unusual for the quarter? And how do you feel like we're entering the year on service side of Western Europe? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I think it's a good call-out Andrew.
I think one of the things you probably caught in my remarks and a little bit in Rod's is that as we're shifting from the core transportation services that are associated with the ins and outs in our storage business to some of the new service areas a lot of these new service areas are project based which is also the reason why we said we expect kind of a downtick in Q1 in some of our service revenue as those projects have a lead time in terms of the sell and onboarding those cycles.
And then they come through it in the next quarter or quarters and that's what you've seen actually in Western Europe.
What you will have seen is there was an investment earlier in the year and then that project revenue kind of flows through.
So that's part of the new services.
It's less smooth than say the transportation side of the business so you have these ups and downs.
So what we tend to do is we look at it over the course of the year and it just so happened that in Western Europe you saw that spike as part of that normal cyclicality of these projects.
All right.
And if you'll let me sneak just one last in so when you think about service side total for 2016 do you feel like it's going to solidify it more like we saw in the fourth quarter? Would that be the right word solidifying services revenue? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think what we said is that we expect looking at the pipeline that we will have a similar margin by the end of the year as we achieved in 2015.
So that's correct.
And what you'll see is that we were in Q4 we had positive service revenue growth overall in the year slightly negative.
So what we expect is service revenue to be basically flat and the margin to be in line maybe slightly ahead but it's going to be basically in line with what we achieved at the end of 2015.
I think that's right.
It might move around a little bit by a quarter but I think that's actually right Bill for the full year.
It's a good summary.
Okay.
Thank you.
Appreciate it.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Andrew.
Your next question comes from George Tong with Piper Jaffray.
Morning.
I'd like to go a little bit into the services business as well.
Can you elaborate on the timing of internal initiatives that you think can drive upside or improvement in services' internal growth in 2016 versus 2015? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay so good morning George.
So I think there's kind of a couple aspects.
There's some that – there's a number of things that you're touching upon or referring to that Patrick Keddy went through on Investor Day things that we're doing just to get more margin out of some of our existing core service areas which have seen a drop in activity so that's really around the transportation side.
And I think we feel pretty good where that's coming out.
I think you'll continue to see some improvement during the course of the year but a lot of that is in flight.
I think the bigger part of it is how we bring on some of the new service areas which are less smooth but on a year basis these are project-driven.
So you can think of it as like a defense contractor: there's a certain amount of prospecting and then there's a certain amount of reaping or harvesting.
So you'll see on a quarter-by-quarter basis you'll see some movement around that but we have good visibility over the course of the year to be able to predict where the year will end up.
So I think what you can expect as we go through the course of the year is we think that we will have similar slight uptick in terms of where we came in for the year in 2015 so slight improvement but kind of in the same postal code for 2016 in service.
But you will see as we shift away from the volume coming from almost exclusively the transportation side of the business to some of these new services that are more project based you will see more ups and downs on a quarter-by-quarter basis just like Andrew called out for the uptick in Western Europe in Q4.
And we're saying that Q1 you'll see a downtick in some of those services but we have very good visibility over the course of the year where we'll come out.
Got it.
Thanks.
And looking at C$ revenue growth for the quarter and year it came in a little bit below target because of lower M&amp;A activity given your focus on Recall.
You talked a little bit about your expected M&amp;A activity in the first quarter.
But with Recall still in progress can you update us on how you're approaching your tuck-in M&amp;A strategy for the full year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So there's kind of two dimensions to that right George.
So one is now that we've gone through quite a bit of the integration process not on the commercial side but we kind of know the people and the overall volumes that we're getting in different geographies we have a pretty high confidence level of where it makes sense for us to continue to bolster our presence internationally.
So that's kind of one dimension.
So you saw for instance our acquisition the last quarter of last year in India.
And there's a couple more in flight that are in as we called out in the emerging markets right.
The other aspect of that of course is you won't see us doing any M&amp;A activity in the four regulatory jurisdictions that we're working with right now to close the Recall transaction because we don't want any delay in those discussions with the regulators right.
Because if you start doing acquisitions at the same time you're having discussions it's just going to delay it.
So we have pretty good visibility now where it makes sense.
And that's why we've restarted the engine.
I think that's right Bill.
I think George that was in the nature of deals particularly internationally it can be a bit lumpy in terms of when they land.
It was relatively quiet last year as you rightly pointed out.
But I can see a reasonable amount of activity in Q1 actually with some well I think pretty exciting deals.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Kevin McVeigh with Macquarie.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Did we lose you Kevin? Kevin your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Can you hear me now? Can you hear me now? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah we got you Kevin.
Yep.
Inc.</span></strong> I apologize.
Sorry about that I was on mute.
Apologize.
Hey so in terms of any updated timing on Recall? Do you still see it as Q2 type event? Or does that get pushed out a little bit based on – just any updates on that if you can to the extent you can provide further clarity on discussions with the regulators before? Just any thoughts around that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Kevin I think you were covering us during the PLR no? Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So I think you probably know how I'm going to answer this one.
As I said in my notes it's not much that I can say beyond – or anything I can say beyond in my remarks.
So I think you could probably appreciate that...
Inc.</span></strong> Sure.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> But we remain excited about the deal.
As I said on my prepared remarks is that we're engaged constructively with the four key regulators and we're working hard to drive this to a close.
But I can't – I think you could probably appreciate I can't say much more.
Inc.</span></strong> I figured I'd try Bill.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I knew someone was going to try; I just didn't know who it was.
Inc.</span></strong> Would you give updates based on country? Or would it be when it's all done? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Look right now I think all four are – we're engaged in all four so I think our expectation is it'll probably be coming together pretty much at the same time.
I mean I wouldn't rule out a country-by-country update but I think right now my expectation is it's going to be fairly closely aligned.
Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful.
And then just – it looks like you tightened up the range a little bit on the on the internal growth for 2016.
You took the low end up 50 bps the high end down 50 bps am I reading that right in terms of the notes? And then if that is right what drove king of the tightening of that range? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Rod do you want to...
I don't think we've mentioned change in internal growth.
This may be in total growth.
And so the internal – it's only if we start with internal storage growth we've always been sort of in the 2.5% to 3% range and obviously that's the key metric for us.
On the total revenue outlook you're right.
I think we've sort of pulled it in slightly as a result of just having a better understanding of how things might pan out.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Awesome.
And then are you at the point now where the sorted office – is the pricing still decremental? Or is it a point where it's stabilized the sorted office paper? It looks like it could've stabilized but we've seen that before.
So effectively what we've done in terms of our projection we've taken the paper price out of that January.
It could continue to move up or down and we'll obviously keep updating on that but where we did see the drop was really in the last couple of months of last year.
Inc.</span></strong> Awesome.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you for taking my questions.
Could you just give us a little bit of color as to some of the service projects the nature of those projects that are causing things to kind of go up and down become a little bit more lumpy? Just a practical on the ground what exactly are you guys doing? And then afterwards can you just give us an update on the EMC partnership announcement last April and how that's moving? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Morning Shlomo.
I'll just give you kind of a couple examples that give you an idea.
Some of them are large scanning projects so there's some that are in flight with government contracts for instance and they have a certain – that's why I kind of alluded to kind of like defense contracts those things have a kind of a tilling fertilizing seeding process and then a harvesting side.
And those are typically very large scanning projects that are associated with storage.
So we're not going in to compete with an ACS or a Xerox per se.
I mean they may be competing but we're going after contracts where we think we really have a strong skill set that's associated with just not the scanning but also the classification of the records and in many if not most cases the actual storing of those records.
But those are long lead time projects that come through at different times and hence you see the kind of spike that we saw in Western Europe when those things come through.
Others are again what I would call kind of BPM-type projects that are associated with storage.
So right now we have in sight a large project which is associated with mortgage servicing or helping mortgage originator to process and manage a lot of their documentation and processes associated with mortgages.
Again there's a big upfront piece and we have the relationship with that customer because we do if not all most of their storage.
So those are kind of two different projects.
One which I would typically call BPM and the other one I would call scanning but we come at it and we've been asked to come in and provide these services because of our expertise around records management and record storage.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And the EMC...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Oh I'm sorry.
Yeah.
On the EMC so the EMC we're still very excited.
We're making good steady progress and the great thing about it is there's still a high level of engagement even though you can probably imagine that EMC is going through their own changes right now with the Dell acquisition.
But even with all that and through that process both pre and post announcement we've had a high level of engagement and both teams are working well.
I mean it's starting on a small base but we're very excited about that combination because to us this is kind of like the Reese's Peanut Butter Cup right.
It's putting – I don't know if you could say who has the peanut butter and who has the chocolate but putting those two things together and combining it with our raised floor platform using the data center is just a – it's a really unique platform that we could offer to our customers which it's very difficult for any competitors to do because we're allowing customers to remove both the OpEx and CapEx associated with their tape drives in their premises and using EMC's market-leading technology or data domain technology.
We can replicate their data center on our raised floor using our data center technology and then deliver tapes off the back of that and store it in our vault which is a perfect cyber-security play because I think what people have learned is that you're not secure around cyber-security unless you unplug it completely from any network so that's where tape comes in.
But at the same time people can get rid of a lot of the OpEx and CapEx costs associated with cutting the tapes themselves and you reduce the need to transport these things over the road and many cases these tapes aren't encrypted.
So that adds a much more secure environment.
And then the other service of course we apply to that is we tell the customer independent of any change in generational tape drives we give them guaranteed assurance that we will restore that data whenever they need it in whatever format they need.
So if you kind of look at some of the things that are in the core DNA of Iron Mountain together with our growing data center business and the core DNA of EMC it is the Reese's Peanut Butter Cup.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Are there any marquee clients yet that you guys are willing to name or you're allowed to name or that you obtained but you can't name? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No at this point you could imagine because this really goes to the IT security of most of our customers none of them – I mean we keep working on that and when we can we'll highlight them.
I think I should highlight it's still a relatively small portion of our revenue.
But we're really excited about these types of programs because it really resonates with our customers.
But I think you can imagine most of our customers are pretty secretive about the way that they manage their IT assets or IT information.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
For Rod given the movements in currency and everything are you able to maybe just give us a little guidance on the certain base rate percentage move in each of the currency that you highlighted what that impact would be to both revenue and OIBDA up and down? So strengthening a certain – 1% against the dollar impacts revenue by X and impacts OIBDA by X just so that from a technical modeling perspective we can get that rate? Yeah and probably the easiest thing to do if you take it as 40% of our revenue as outside of the U.S.
and so therefore if you kind of take a 1% delta on the dollar against the basket of currencies that would impact our revenue by 0.4%.
And then you can flow that down to OIBDA.
I think the way to think about that is if the FX movement is against markets where our businesses are more mature so I could say for example Canada and the UK there obviously we earn higher margins.
And so it has a sort of disproportionate effect on OIBDA.
If the FX movement is against some of our businesses in emerging markets it tends to be more dampened at the OIBDA level because obviously they're at earlier stages and so the contribution margin percent is lower.
Don't know if that helps.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean percentage of revenue helps more than that but as much as you can give us we'll take.
I think that's probably what I can give you.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Ellman with Mayo Capital Partners.
Thanks for taking the question.
I was hoping you could just offer me a bit of clarification about the guidance summary on page 13 of the document.
I'm not sure that I understood all of Rod's remarks.
Do I understand that your guidance for adjusted OIBDA for 2016 is the $950 million to $970 million range that I see in the second column from the right? Yes.
Yeah that's exactly right.
So page 13 it's the second last column on the right is our 2016 guidance based at January 2016 FX rates.
So...
January 2016 FX rates? Yeah exactly.
So that's...
Okay.
...our best view of guidance as we sit here...
All right.
So just sort of taking the midpoint of that range that would be $960 million and then you present your estimated capital allocation at $555 million to $595 million? Yep.
Okay.
And your dividend obligation is currently about $412 million at the $1.94 rate? Right.
Okay.
So the dividend obligation plus the midpoint of the capital allocation guidance would be $987 million? Right.
Okay.
And so in your guidance for adjusted OIBDA you've obviously excluded the anticipated going forward expenses for the Recall consolidation which you've estimated at $15 million to $20 million? Yep.
And so are there any other foreseeable expenses that being one-time in nature you're also excluding from your estimate of adjusted OIBDA? No.
No.
So we have restructuring costs but they're actually included within adjusted OIBDA but they have a phasing impact as I referred to earlier.
Okay.
All right I guess that would be it.
Could you possibly clarify in your capital allocation estimate of business and customer acquisitions of $140 million to $180 million how much is acquisitions of business and how much is the money that you invest when you establish a new contract with customers? That's really our M&amp;A spend so that's – we refer to business customer acquisitions but it's really the M&amp;A spend.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I think the way you should think about it is that – I think I understand where you're kind of going with it is that if you're trying to bring it down to cash available for distribution and investment is that...
That would be fair.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Okay.
So that's what I figured you were trying to get to.
So if you look at 2016 and you take the midpoint of the guidance you should get to $495 million and then you had $412 million for the dividend I mean it's $411 million $412 million.
So you subtract that out and then there's about $65 million for growth racking but that is actually for growth.
So actually if you think about it it's the $495 million less the $411 million and then that gives you a number that's available for growth basically for investment and growth.
And so the first call in that cash available is $65 million which is for the organic growth that we get from our customers every year.
So even if you take out and that's for 2017 revenue if you know what I mean right because you're putting the racking investment in 2016 so that when the growth hits you in 2017 you can actually put those boxes on the shelf.
So then even after you take the growth racking which gives you the mid-2% range that we highlighted in terms of internal growth in terms of our storage business that leaves you about $19 million for cash available for discretionary investment.
Now that's versus 2015 actuals of about $3 million left over after you paid for racking.
So we've actually – even with the further FX headwinds coming into the 2016 based on January rates you see the improvement from $3 million to $19 million but again that's also already including $65 million for growth so that 2.5% organic storage volume growth that's coming in.
Now when you come down and you're trying to – to your point about M&amp;A is – so you say: well how are we able to delever and still be able to do M&amp;A? Because of course when we're doing the M&amp;A we're buying EBITDA as well associated with that.
So we're – so that's how the whole thing works.
So we are issuing debt to do the M&amp;A because obviously $19 million doesn't fuel our whole M&amp;A program.
But between the $19 million that we have for beyond internal growth of storage we also borrow but on a net-net basis in terms of what it does is debt-to-EBITDA you see a deleveraging as well.
So that...
Is there a debt-to-EBITDA target that you have say for the end of 2016? I think you said you were at 5.6 times currently? 5.6 I think and we aim to hold it around that level it would be 5.5 times to 5.6 times by the end of the year.
And over the next three years it will come down to 5.2 excluding the Recall deal.
If we did the Recall deal actually allows us to delever faster than that.
Okay.
Very good.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And the only thing I would do is just one last thing Michael is if you go to our Investor Day deck it lays it out quite well because it shows you what happens to – we do it both on a standalone and with Recall but it shows you how we grow dividends during that period of time how we grow the M&amp;A and how we delever during the period of time.
And you'll see the cash available or the CAD in the appendix of that deck.
Okay thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> All right.
At this time there are no further questions.
Do we have any closing remarks? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> No I think that's it operator.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.