Thank you and welcome to the ITW First Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I'd like to go ahead and turn the call to your host for today to Mr.
John Brooklier Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning everyone and welcome to all who've joined us for our first quarter 2011 conference call.
Please note that our new 9 a.m Central call time represents a permanent starting time for future conference calls.
Joining me this morning is our CEO David Speer; and our CFO Ron Kropp.
We are all eager to discuss our very very strong first quarter financial results.
David Speer will now make some introductory remarks.
David? Thank you John.
I'm pleased to report that our 2011 first quarter reached its double-digit organic growth solid end market demand strong EPS growth and substantial margin improvement.
Here are some of the highlights.
Total company organic revenues grew a strong 11.7% in the first quarter.
While ITW's organic growth was broad based in the quarter we especially saw strong growth emanating from our Welding Transportation OEM Industrial Packaging PC Board Fabrication and Test &amp; Measurement businesses.
It's clear to us that most of our global end markets continue to improve and that market penetration opportunities remain plentiful.
Excluding the one-time tax benefit associated with an Australian tax case earnings of $0.91 per share were 30% higher than the adjusted year ago quarter.
Q1 total company operating margins of 15.6% were 110 basis points higher than the year ago period.
Notably our base businesses accounted for 90 basis points of that margin improvement.
We had a good acquisition quarter completing 6 transactions representing nearly $330 million of annualized revenues.
Year-to-date we have completed 9 transactions for $435 million of annualized acquired revenues.
Finally in recognition of what we believe will continue to be a positive macro environment we raised our full-year earnings guidance to a range of $4.16 to $4.34.
While the new full-year EPS range includes the previously mentioned one-time tax gain it also represents $0.20 per share of additional operating earnings compared to our initial earnings forecast guidance earlier in January.
Now let me turn the call back over to John.
Thank you David.
Here is the agenda for today's call.
Ron will join us shortly to talk about the Q1 financial highlights.
I will then cover Q1 operating highlights for our 8 reporting segments.
Ron will then come back and detail our 2011 forecast.
And then finally we'll open your call for questions.
And as always we ask for your cooperation for our 1 question 1 follow-up question policy.
First let's cover the traditional housekeeping items.
This conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including without limitation statements regarding operating performance revenue growth diluted net income per share restructuring expenses acquisition activity tax rates end market conditions and the company's related 2011 earnings forecast.
Finally the telephone replay for this conference call is (402)220-6528.
The replay is available through midnight of May 10 2011 and no passcode is necessary to access the replay.
Now here's our CFO Ron Kropp who will comment on our very strong 2011 first quarter results.
Ron? Thanks John.
Good morning everybody.
Before I run through the financial results I'd like to remind you that as we announced back in January this is the first quarter that reflects the elimination of the one-month reporting lag for our international businesses.
All of 2010 and 2011 data that we present here reflect as new reporting calendar.
Now here are the highlights for the first quarter.
First of all revenues increased 17% primarily due to higher base revenues and acquisitions.
Operating income was $683 million which was higher than last year by $141 million.
Margins of 15.6% were higher by 110 basis points.
Diluted earnings per share was $1.24 which was higher than last year by $0.58.
However as previously mentioned this quarter's results reflect a one-time tax benefit of $0.33 per share related to a favorable judgment in an Australian tax case.
Excluding this tax benefit diluted income per share would've been $0.91 or 30% higher than adjusted EPS a year ago.
Reported EPS of $1.24 is above the previously provided range of $1.14 to $1.20 primarily due to stronger base business performance and favorable currency translation.
Finally free operating cash flow is $56 million which was lower than normal due to higher working capital related to seasonality and the timing of payroll funding and higher tax payments.
Now let's go to the components of our operating results.
Our 17.4% revenue increase was primarily due to 3 factors: First base revenues were up 11.7% with North American base revenues increasing 12.2% and international base revenue is up 11.0%.
As David mentioned we have continued to see solid revenue gains worldwide led by the Transportation Welding PC Board Fabrication Industrial Packaging and Test &amp; Measurement businesses.
Next currency translation increased revenues by 1.6%.
Lastly acquisitions net of divestitures added 4.2% to revenue growth.
Operating margins for the first quarter of 15.6% were higher than last year by 110 basis points.
The base business margins were higher by 90 basis points due to the favorable impact of the higher sales volume partially offset by the negative impact of non-volume items.
Non-volume items reduced margins by 200 basis points.
Included in the non-volume impact for the first quarter were the unfavorable impact of price versus cost which reduced margins by 100 basis points unfavorable inventory related adjustments of 35 basis points and unfavorable corporate adjustments which lowered margins by 20 basis points.
In addition margins were higher by 40 basis points due to higher restructuring expenses last year and the dilutive impact of acquisitions reduced margins by 40 basis points.
When I turn it back over to John he will provide more details on the operating results as he discusses the individual segments.
In the non-operating area other non-operating income expense was favorable by about $1 million versus last year and interest was flat.
The first quarter effective tax rate was 3.3% as a result of the one-time tax benefit of $166 million related to the favorable Australian tax case.
Excluding the impact of this one-time benefit the tax rate for Q1 would've been 29%.
The forecasted tax rate for 2011 is between 28.5% and 29.5% excluding the first quarter one-time tax benefit.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Total invested capital increased $1.4 billion from the fourth quarter primarily due to higher working capital currency translation and acquisitions.
Accounts receivable DSO increased to 61.2 days versus 57.9 at the end of the fourth quarter primarily due to seasonality currency translation and acquisitions.
Inventory month on hand was 1.9 at the end of the quarter versus 1.8 last quarter.
For the first quarter capital expenditures were $88 million and depreciation was $83 million.
ROIC for the first quarter increased to 16.2% versus 14.7% last year excluding the impact of discrete tax benefits and adjustments from both years.
On the financing side our debt level increased approximately $480 million from the fourth quarter due to higher commercial paper borrowings and currency translation.
Our debt-to-capital percentage increased to 24% from 23% last quarter.
Turning to cash flow our cash position decreased $102 million in the first quarter as our free operating cash flow of $56 million and additional borrowings of $418 million were utilized for acquisitions of $543 million and dividends of $169 million.
Our free cash flow is lower than normal due to several factors: first of all receivables were higher due to seasonality and acquisitions.
In addition higher-than-normal payments for taxes higher CapEx and a timing of payroll funding at the end of March also reduced cash flow.
For acquisitions during the first quarter we acquired 6  companies which have annual revenues of $329 million.
The biggest acquisition of the quarter was SOPUS a leading automotive aftermarket business with approximately $300 million in annual revenue.
For the full year we are forecasting acquired revenues between $800 million and $1 billion.
I will now turn it back over to John who'll provide more details on the first quarter operating results.
Thank you Ron.
Starting with our Transportation segment.
Q1 '11 organic revenues grew an impressive 15.1% compared to Q1 2010.
Operating margins of 15.9% were 80 basis points higher than the year ago period.
The organic revenue increase in Q1 was mostly driven by our Automotive OEM businesses which continue to benefit from strong auto builds as well as ongoing product penetration.
Our North American organic revenues grew 18.1% in Q1 versus the North American auto build increase of 16% in the quarter.
More impressively our international organic revenues grew 13.7% in Q1 versus our European auto build increase of 8% in the quarter.
Looking ahead we believe there will be disruption to Japan-related auto production in Q2 but our best information at this time is whatever auto build declines we see in Q2 will be made up in the second half of the year.
Our full year projections for auto builds essentially mirror what we're seeing from CSM at this point in time.
North America auto build to be in the range of 13 million to 13.2 million units and Europe to be in the range of 19.3 million to 19.5 million units.
If those build projections hold they represent year-over-year increases of 10% and 3% respectively.
In our Auto Aftermarket business organic revenues showed an improvement in the quarter.
Our base revenues increased 6.2% in Q1 '11 versus the prior year period due to improved auto-return activity as well as better consumer demand for retail auto maintenance and appearance products including the Permatex brand.
Auto aftermarket demand could be constrained in Q2 as higher gas prices reduce miles driven and associated auto aftermarket spending by consumers.
Moving to the next segment Industrial Packaging's organic revenue growth of 14.2% in Q1 versus the year ago period continue to mirror solid underlying industrial fundamentals around the world.
Segment operating margins of 10.5% were 10 basis points lower than year ago period mainly as a result of timing around raw materials and price cost issues.
As you know these consumable equipment businesses remain one of our best coincidental indicators of currency economy.
In Q1 our total North American Industrial Packaging units increased organic revenues 10.2% while total international Industrial Packaging organic revenues grew 17%.
Our North American and international Plastic and Steel Consumable and Equipment businesses grew revenues 13.6% and 15.4% respectively.
In addition our projected Packaging business grew organic revenue of 6.7% in Q1.
Moving to the next slide.
Similar to 2012 the Power Systems and Electronics segment strong organic growth rate of 16.4% in Q1 versus the year ago period was directly tied to the Welding and PC Board Fabrication businesses.
Segment operating margins of 21% were 150 basis points higher than Q1 '10.
Our North American Welding organic revenues grew 27.4% due to strong demand from heavy equipment OEMs and the improving manufacturing environment.
Our International Welding organic revenues increased 12.7% in Q1 with both Europe and Asia-Pacific seeing growth.
Even with difficult comparisons from Q1 '10 the PC Board Fabrication business has produced very good organic growth of 16% in Q1.
You may remember a year ago their numbers were up roughly 80% to 90%.
This growth was driven by continuing strong demand for consumer electronics product.
Our Other Electronics businesses grew organic revenues 5.3% in Q1.
In the Food Equipment segment they continue to see customer demand improvement in Q1 with organic revenues growing 6.4% in Q1 versus the year ago period.
Segment operating margins of 14.3% in the quarter were 130 basis points higher than the year ago period.
The Q1 story was simple.
Equipment sales improved both in North America and internationally.
Organic revenues for equipment grew 9.6% in North America and 9.3% internationally with our warewash and refrigeration products posting double-digit revenue increases in the quarter.
From an end market standpoint chain restaurants and healthcare showed strong growth in the quarter.
On the service side of the business organic revenues increased to healthy 2.7% internationally and 0.5% in North America.
In the Construction Products segment organic revenues grew 8.4% in Q1 versus the year ago period.
Segment operating margins of 9.9% were 150 basis points higher than Q1 '10.
Internationally organic revenues grew 8.9% with Europe leading the way with a very strong organic growth rate of 18.4% as in the past Germany and France were both key geographic growth areas in the quarter.
In North America organic revenues increased 7.2% with Commercial Construction Renovation Construction and Residential Construction segments all contributed to growth most notably.
Commercial Construction organic revenues grew 9.6% in Q1.
Renovation Construction organic revenues increased 9.3% and even our Residential Construction organic revenues grew a 3.1% despite ongoing weakness in housing starts which I would note were at 564 000 units in Q1.
In the Polymers &amp; Fluids segment organic revenues grew 5.2% in Q1 versus the year ago period and segment operating margins of 14.7% were 200 basis points lower than the year ago period.
We think this is largely due to timing issues related to cost recovery around raw materials especially in some of our international businesses.
The growth in first quarter organic revenues was tied to improvement worldwide industrial demand for both Polymers &amp; Fluids products.
For polymers international base revenues grew 6.6% in Q1 due to strength in Latin America especially Brazil and in Asia-Pacific.
For fluids North American organic revenues grew a robust 18% in Q1 thanks to better MRO activity.
Our decorative services organic revenues increased 7.4% in Q1 versus the year ago period and segment operating margins of 12.7% were 160 basis points higher than the year earlier period.
In line with modest improvement in North American Commercial Construction activity the Wilsonart North American high-pressure Laminate business grew organic revenues 3.5% in Q1.
They were also helped by new product introductions in the quarter.
Internationally results were even better as organic revenues increased 12.4% in Q1 and this growth was largely tied to increased Commercial Construction activity in Asia-Pacific especially China and in parts of Europe.
And finally our famous All Other segment.
Organic revenues grew 11.5% in Q1 versus the year ago period and segment margins up 19.4% or 240 basis points higher than first quarter.
Organic growth was largely tied to the 3 major business groups in the segment: Test &amp; Measurement Consumer Packaging and Industrial Appliance.
For Test &amp; Measurement organic revenues increased a very strong 19.2% in Q1 as equipment orders continue to improve particularly in Asia-Pacific including China and Europe.
For Consumer Packaging organic revenues grew 7.2% in Q1 due to strength in both the Decorating and Consumer Packaging businesses which included both Hi-Cone and Zip-Pak.
And finally Industrial Appliance increased organic revenues 5.1% in Q1 on the heels of strong demand on the industrial side of the demand business.
This concludes my segment-related remarks.
I'll now turn the call over to Ron who will cover our 2011 forecast and related assumptions.
Ron? For the second quarter of 2011 we are forecasting diluted income per share from continuing operations to be within a range of $0.99 to $1.05.
The low end of this range assumes a 17% increase in total revenues versus 2010 and the high end of the range assumes a 20% increase.
The midpoint of the EPS range would be 26% higher than last year.
For the full year 2011 our forecasted EPS range is $4.16 to $4.34 based on a total revenue increase of 16% to 18%.
The midpoint of $4.25 is $0.20 higher than the midpoint of our previously provided range of $3.93 to $4.17.
This new midpoint would be 42% higher than 2010.
Other assumptions included in this forecast are exchange rates wholly at current levels acquired revenues between $800 million and $1 billion restructuring cost of $30 million to $40 million for the full year and a tax rate range between 28.5% and 29.5% for the second quarter and the full year excluding the impact of the first quarter favorable tax case.
In addition the forecast does not include any potential impact related to the pending divestiture of the Finishing business.
I'll now turn it back over to John for the Q&amp;A.
Thank you Ron.
We'll now open the call to your questions.
Once again we are asking people to honor our 1 question 1 follow-up question request.
And we'll start to open up the call to questions now.
José? [Operator Instructions]  The first question does come from Deane Dray with Citigroup.
What I wanted to talk about was Construction.
So a lot of optimistic data points in there on the organic revenues especially Europe and if you could just take us through the dynamics there? But also within North America both Renovation and Commercial upticking nicely and what does that say about where we are in the cycle? Deane as it relates to European and in Asian numbers those have shown consistent growth over the last 3 or 4 quarters in that range.
So we're continuing to see good results.
As John highlighted in his comments particularly in Germany and France and Europe during the quarter and we continue to see good results in our Asia-Pacific businesses as well.
As it relates to the North American Construction businesses if you look at any of the data John noted in his comments about residential that the annualized rate at the end of Q1 is 564 000 housing starts.
Obviously that is a weak number.
In fact it's lower than the number was this time last year.
So our 3% gain in Residential during the quarter was really based on some significant improvement in market penetration.
Certainly no market recovery.
I suspect that at the levels that we're at today we're probably going to finish the year on a start standpoint of residential maybe in the 640 to 650 range well below what we had originally projected in the 675 range.
So I think housing remains weak.
We continue to perform well in that market given the conditions.
The commercial market year-to-date down just about 10% in square footage on the Dodge contracts awarded at Dodge data on new contracts awarded.
So while we're seeing the rate of decline slowing it's still negative.
And there's some hope that that number will bottom out perhaps in Q3 or Q4.
But I don't think we'll see any significant recovery and start activity in the Commercial this year perhaps early next year.
The Renovation side Renovations spend has continued to trend up modestly.
And we would expect that the rehab renovation market for us which is primarily residential renovation to probably show market growth in the 4% to 5% range for the year.
Thank you.
Just a quick follow-up for me on guidance could you provide color as to the base business growth rates for both the second quarter and for the full year and your guidance please? Base business for Q2 is about 8%.
And for the year Ron do you have that number for the year? 8% to 9% for the full year the comps get a little bit more difficult in Q2 based on the year ago.
The next question comes from Jamie Cook with Crédit Suisse.
It's actually Peter Chang in for Jamie.
My question was on if you guys can provide updated thoughts on what material cost headwinds will be for the remainder of the year? Should we still expect a 30 to 50 basis points headwinds? It looks like Q1 was sort of at the high-end of guidance.
And what Q2 material price impact would be? Well clearly we continue to see the impact of higher input cost in the first quarter.
Most of our input costs were up in the double digit range.
And as we look at what the impact was on margins overall for the whole company we had about a negative 100 basis point impact in the first quarter on margins.
It would definitely have less of an impact.
We have put price increases in place to cover the raw material cost.
As you know even if you recover the dollars you don't always recover the margin.
We're continuing to see more price increases go into play.
So the difference between where margins in the first quarter and the second quarter we should still see a little bit of a negative impact of about 30 basis points from first quarter to second quarter related to price cost year-on-year closer to 80 to 90 basis points.
And for the full year should we expect it to be higher to that 50 basis point headwinds? Well I think we'll start anniversary-ing some of the cost increases we saw at the end of last year and prices seem to have stabilized a bit where they were up 15% 20% 25% in some places.
We're expecting more moderate 3% to 4% input cost increases for both steel and resin in the second quarter and really stabilizing after that.
As a follow-up it looks like your first quarter North America base organic growth was actually a lot higher than forecasted at 12.2%.
Should we anticipate -- are you guys expecting that to be the case for the remainder of the year? No.
I mean I think what I said in my earlier answer to Deane's question is we expect the base organic growth in Q2 to be close to 8%.
Obviously North America we're up 12% in Q1 so it wouldn't be as great.
Also as John pointed out the comparables in Q2 were significantly higher than they are in Q1.
So that explains certainly a portion of it.
And for the year probably close to 9% organic.
So the year as the year progresses from Q2 to Q4 the comparables get significantly more challenging.
So I don't expect to see in our guidance double-digit organic growth for the next 3 quarters.
But certainly very strong high single-digit growth.
I'm sorry I actually meant compared to International.
Stronger than International I think that's probably likely so modestly so.
As we saw in the first quarter International was up a little over 11%.
So I would expect it will be modestly stronger than International.
The next question comes from Ann Duignan with JPMC.
It's actually Ingrid Aja standing in for Ann.
I was wondering if we could go back to kind of the raw material headwinds.
Does that change your expectation for incremental margins on the base business? Is 35% still the right number you've spoken about before? Yes I think the 30% to 35% range is what we've talked about.
Obviously in the front end of that is we received the increases and in any particular quarter if there's a lag in getting full price recovery it tends to push incrementals to the lower end of that range.
But I think as Ron pointed out as recovery occurs and as we expect to see that happen through Q2 we expect those ranges to narrow.
So 30% to 35% is still a good range to use.
As things stabilize it will be closer to 35%.
Built into our forecast here for the full year base business incrementals in that 35-plus range.
The next couple quarters will be closer to 30% to 35%.
But it'll get better towards the back half of the year.
And then I was wondering if you could just talk about your auto outlook I guess with auto reduction being pushed out from Q2 to Q3 and Q4 given the events in Japan.
Has that been reflected in your outlook? Or are you not seeing that maybe you can give a little more color on that? No it's reflected in our outlook.
I think what John pointed out in his comments earlier we expect the Q2 auto build in North America to be around 3 million units.
That's down about 11% from what it was in Q1.
Some of that would be impacted as John pointed out by revision to the Q2 data as a result of the anticipated parts shortages primarily with Japanese components for the Japanese production here in the U.S.
But for the year the build is somewhere in the 13% to 13.2% range for the U.S.
which will be up from last year's build numbers which were just under 12 million.
So even with the disruption in the supply line as John pointed out it looks like the schedules in Q3 and Q4 will pick up that modest decline in Q2.
In Europe we expect the auto builds in Europe to be somewhere in the 19.5 million range for the year.
Q2 will go down.
Some of that is the natural trends in the build data and some of that is impacted also by some of the parts shortages.
But overall we expect that the markets for the year will be up and there'll be some displacement from Q2 to Q3 and Q4.
But we expect an auto build globally of about 75 million units for the year.
The Japanese market is the only one that we expect to see a significant impact where the build in Japan that is for vehicles sold in Japan will in fact be down as a result of the recent prices.
Ingrid to add on to that the good news is if you look at sales rates sales rates remain strong.
People are buying cars so to the extent the production declines it's going to bring inventories down.
So this we think ultimately will get rebalanced as we move through the year but the underlying fundamental of strong demand is still there.
The next question comes from John Inch with Bank of America.
Just based on the reclass can we get the 2010 quarterly base business numbers just for comparison purposes? Ron do you have that? We've provided the restated 2010 numbers.
We have not provided the 2009 restatements yet.
So we're still working on that.
So until we do 2009 we won't be able to restate the base business.
That's funny.
So you don't have the base business for quarterly for 2010? Right.
Because we haven't done 2009.
We don't know where to compare to it John.
Well how would you know what your base business is going to be up then based on your sequential guide? Like do you know what the base business was a year ago for instance in the first quarter and then for the second quarter? Yes we do.
Yes we do.
In dollars yes.
We don't have the growth rates.
We don't have the year-on-year growth rates from '09 to 10 which I think is what...
We obviously have the 2010 data and that's the comparables we're providing here based on 2011 compared to 2010.
But as Ron points out we won't have the data for 2009 to do the 2010 comparables.
I don't know when will that data be available Ron.
In a few months.
I mean it's not due until next February but we'll have it before that obviously.
Okay.
So your base business estimate for the second quarter is sort of like through the range wrapped around that.
Is that kind of the point? No.
Because we know base business dollars in '10.
We may [indiscernible] for '11 we can't compute the '10 to '11.
Okay I see.
You just don't know the comparers precisely? Right.
Okay that much I understand.
Can you talk a little bit about Asia-Pac what you saw there say China specifically and maybe in the other emerging market that might have been noteworthy? And just overall what actually to get to the $0.20 in your guidance what actually strengthened versus your expectations? Maybe is there 1 or 2 things or is it broad just a little more color.
So let me cover that last question first.
So our original guidance midpoint back in January was $3.72.
However we had the tax benefit of 33%.
So that was a new midpoint of $4.05.
It's now $4.25.
So it is $0.20 from that.
$0.07 of it is from the first quarter results versus the midpoint.
The other $0.13 is the rest of the year.
$0.11 is translation; base business is around $0.03 lower tax rate is $0.02 and everything else is a negative $0.03.
Regarding the geographic Q1 data John China was up nearly 20%; Latin America was up about 12%; Europe 12%; and the Australia New Zealand region was up about 6%.
And how would that have trended through the quarter just kind of sequentially? I mean was there any -- obviously these are very good numbers was there any noticeable or discernible change anywhere? No no.
That's you mean throughout the quarter? No.
Yes and even versus kind of what the trend had been.
No I wouldn't say there was any I mean obviously what we've seen in I think what John highlighted in his comments the auto build came in stronger than the original forecast for the quarter.
Clearly the activity in the Welding and the Electronic segments were quite strong stronger than the initial estimates we had in our Q1 data.
So those are probably be the ones I would highlight as being significantly stronger and on the Construction side the construction market data was weaker than what we had anticipated.
So that's sort of the puts and takes.
One last one just David other than translation do you think the weak dollar is having a some sort of a business impact on ITW anywhere? No nothing significant.
The next question comes from Nigel Coe with Deutsche Bank.
I just want to go back to the comment about the trends in the quarter because you did I think 9% organic in the two months ended February and you did 11.7% for the quarter.
So that implies that March was probably at 14%.
Is that right? Yes.
March also was a 23-day month.
So it was significantly a bigger month in terms of days than the other 2 months.
Yes but if I could go back to last year I mean it would have been the same days in March wouldn't it? I couldn't tell you that without looking at the calendar it might have been.
Nigel I was talking about relative to January and February if I misunderstood your question.
March was clearly overall stronger than January and February.
If you look at it on a daily average basis it was only modestly better than February.
Okay I understand that.
Switching gears to the sale of the Finishing business.
Does this signal I mean I understand that that might be the best situation.
But does this signal a bit more of an active management of the portfolio? And secondarily on top of that going back to kind of the Services that business that you would put to sale back in 2008 I mean is that back on the cards like the 12 months or so? Well I think what we've said Nigel that we've been looking at and continue to look at our portfolio of businesses as part of our strategic planning process.
The Finishing businesses we have had that platform if you will around now since about 20-plus years now.
It was a question in those particular groups of businesses as to whether we could grow significantly out of the base businesses that we had and make it to a much larger platform than that.
And to do that we would really needed to have expanded significantly into the liquid pump category.
And after looking at that over a number of period of time it became apparent with the large players that were in that market space that that probably is not likely.
And we obviously were approached and held discussions about a business that while it had good returns didn't have strong growth characteristics in and of itself.
It wasn't going to offer us the opportunity to significantly scale that platform.
So I think that's a pretty good model as to how we would look at looking at various parts of our portfolio and I think that this one obviously led to significant transaction that will occur some time either late Q2 or Q3.
And then on the price rules I mean you're looking to really catch up in the second half of the year.
It looks like Construction Products Industrial products and polymers were the 3 most impacted.
Can you maybe just talk about some of the pricing actions you take in this businesses and how the materials kind of comp year-over-year in those 3 businesses? I think in the 3 you said were Construction Industrial Packaging? Industrial Packaging and Polymers.
In Construction I think it's simply a question of lag.
The biggest input cost in Construction that drives that is steel and we had significant increases in late Q4 and in the mid-Q1.
The increase has slowed during the latter part of the quarter but significant recovery is already underway and expect to see the impact of that during Q2.
Similarly on the Industrial Packaging side largely driven by steel and to a lesser extent by plastic prices.
Those are the 2 key inputs for them the steel strapping and plastic strapping.
And a similar sort of answer there in that price recovery price actions have been taken we'd expect to see the benefit of that occur during Q2 as well.
On the Polymers &amp; Fluids it's basically chemicals and resin cost that have increased significantly.
And much of that occurred during the quarter.
So significant increases that were not fully recovered during the quarter we'd expect to see significant change in that during Q2 as the pricing actions take hold.
And we begin to recover from some fairly dramatic cost increases.
Some of the cost increases in terms of our input chemicals were up in the 30-plus percent range during the quarter.
So a pretty dramatic increase but I think with the pricing actions in place we'll see significant improvement during Q2.
Are these first round price increases or are these second or third round? Most are second and third round.
The next question comes from Ajay Kejriwal with FBR.
So to me the comments on the outlook sound a lot more confident and obviously raised your guidance.
So I imagine some of that relates to your CapEx related businesses that are coming back.
So maybe talk a little bit about that and where those businesses are versus previous peak? Yes If you look at Ajay the businesses that have really shown strength in Q1 coming off of some probably weaker growth numbers in the second half of last year certainly in the Welding space strong growth in Q1.
We had good growth in Q3 and Q4 so those businesses clearly have solid traction now.
Test &amp; Measurement showed good numbers good improvement in Q4 and a nice quarter in Q1.
So obviously those businesses have traction both of them obviously fall into that Capital Equipment category.
And then finally the Food Equipment group which we saw some strong equipment numbers during in Q1 as John pointed out in his comments 9% overall our organic growth rate in the equipment businesses in Q1.
That's really the first strong quarter we've seen in the Food Equipment group.
So the later cycle Equipment businesses have clearly shown some good strength during Q1 building on what had been some earlier good quarters with 2 of the 3 but with the Food Equipment group really the first strong quarter we've seen in some time.
In terms of relationship to peak I wouldn't have the exact data.
But based on their participation in this recovery we wouldn't be any more than perhaps 50% recovered in the Welding space and probably close to that in Test &amp; Measurement but well below that in the Food Equipment space.
Dave one more question if I could on the capital allocation.
So very solid and undelivered balance sheet on many metrics and given that the macro environment is stabilizing I would submit you have capacity to do both acquisitions and a sizable share buyback and the stock obviously having a nice run today but very cheap at least in my book.
So maybe share your thoughts on a sizable buyback what would be the reasons not to do that? Well I think as we've said all along it's not either or.
It's a we have the opportunity to do both.
We announced when we announced the transaction of the Finishing businesses that we intended to use all of those proceeds for share repurchase.
So we certainly would expect it to be doing that.
And we also have said independent of that that looking at our acquisition profile for the year and we do that during the Q2 time period that we would expect to see where we think the year will trend.
We did not change the guidance on the acquisition profile for the year.
But I would expect that based on where we are today that we will certainly be active in doing share repurchase.
The next question comes from Terry Darling with Goldman Sachs.
Just a couple of clarification questions.
First Ron on the material headwind discussion I got confused between a 30 basis point number you threw out and an 80 to 90 basis point number you threw out.
I just wonder if you can clarify the 80 to 90 the 2Q year-over-year? Yes.
The 80 to 90 2Q year-over-year 30 is from the first quarter of '11 to second quarter of '11.
Okay so sequentially.
And then back to this comp issue.
I think what I'm just trying to understand is what's really changed with regard to your organic growth outlook for the year? And I guess the question simply is is it symmetrical with where the outperformance was in the first quarter which to me looked largely in the Power Systems area or have you changed your forecast in some other areas as well? We certainly changed in other areas.
You're right in pointing out that we had a very strong quarter in Power Systems but we also had very strong quarters in several other businesses.
As John highlighted in the Transportation segment Industrial Packaging Test &amp; Measurement the Food Equipment groups.
So clearly the profile of what we have seen in the change in the organic numbers is based not solely on what we've seen in Welding but fairly broadly across the board.
If you look at the overall number at 9% roughly for the year that's about 1.5% higher than the original forecast we provided in January.
So we expect the continued strong performance in organic to be above our original guidance.
David on the 8% for the second quarter I was wondering what you're assuming for seasonal inventory builds in Construction which last year I think drove stronger organic than we all thought.
Maybe that came back in in the back half.
What are you seeing so far in April second half of March there? It sounds like you are indicating that was a little weaker than you thought but maybe if you can just take us through what you're also assuming for the second quarter there? In Construction North America? In Construction yes.
I don't anticipate a significant uptick in Construction in North America and anything related to inventory.
I think at the current levels both in Housing and in Commercial that we're not going to see any significant uptick in my mind.
The market is weaker today in Housing as it was this time last year so there's no reason for anybody to consider building any significant inventory levels.
And the weakness in starts on commercial projects would indicate a similar trend there.
So I don't expect we'll see any significant change in inventory profile during the quarter.
Just lastly David I wonder if you can comment on where you think market shares are moving either up or down across the portfolio? In Construction again? Just across the portfolio now.
That's a pretty broad question.
I mean...
Tough one I know with all the businesses you have but an important one too right? I think if you look at the growth rates across the portfolio compared to the market growth rates think with almost no exceptions the growth rates for us have been higher than the growth rates in the underlying markets which would indicate at least some level of market penetration gain.
Share numbers in markets across our businesses obviously vary widely but I would suggest that we clearly have seen penetration gains in nearly every segment.
Probably strongest in construction in North America because the market is weak and we continue to show signs of growth.
But we also saw it obviously in the numbers that we showed in Transportation.
In some of the other markets it's harder to get a precise sort of measure if you will of share but relative to market growth rates I think overall we probably comped growth rates that are probably 1 in the quarter to 1.5x the market growth rates.
Next question comes from Mark Koznarek from Cleveland Research.
Question for Ron.
On Slide 6 there is the VM &amp; OH cost and that's where the raw material price versus cost bucket is is that correct? Yes.
That is the changes in margins and revenue related to non-volume items.
So that would include higher or lower overhead changes in variable margin benefits of restructuring that kind of stuff.
You said in the quarter that raw material price cost was 100.
So there's 100 of something else going on here as well.
Is there a budget that you have for that overall category for the year? Do you expect it to -- are you going to be able to work that thing down as we go through the year? I think you've already commented on the price cost with raw materials but what about the other piece here? But it's not really a budget.
But clearly we expect the impact to mitigate as we move throughout the year partly as we start to anniversary some of the cost increases that we saw towards the end of last year.
Mark I would just add that obviously this includes overhead cost and clearly we did budget increasing overheads.
So we would expect these are again year-on-year comparables.
So we would expect based on our budgets that we're going to see continued negative numbers on a comparable basis as overhead cost having budgeted higher.
I think the half of this that is related to raw material what I think what Ron was trying to put in perspective is we'd expect that headwind for the year to be probably 50 basis points not the 100 that we saw for the quarter.
So that's going to be the only drop out of that particular line item there's nothing else that you're working on sort of behind the scenes? No but obviously the change in overhead cost are already built into our margin forecast for the year.
So these year-on-year comparables to the extent we add overhead you'll obviously see a negative number in that line.
In the fourth quarter last year we had some also some one-off corporate adjustments that don't necessarily repeat and could go the other way.
The next question I have here was the acquisitions that you did in the quarter.
The price is a lot higher than what you're averaging for 2010.
It's that 1.7x sales rather than 1.0 and hopefully that means it's some more profitable businesses that you're buying.
So I guess that's question number one are you just outright paying more or are you -- this the same kind of hurdle rates are being achieved just you're buying more input profitability? Yes it's all of the above Mark.
Clearly you're right.
For the quarter the comparison of revenues acquired to purchase price is higher.
We also bought businesses notably SOPUS which come with much stronger growth.
Organic growth in that business in the 8% range and much higher margin profile.
So if you look at it on an EBITDA basis I think year-to-date we're probably slightly north of 8x EBITDA on what we've purchased.
So from an earnings standpoint higher growth businesses with stronger earnings characteristics obviously lead to a higher revenue to acquisition price relationship but I think it's better to look at it on a return basis.
So the answer to your question is the return profiles are very similar but the growth rates and the margin profile particularly of several of the acquisitions were definitely different.
Well if that's the case then David if you're starting out at a higher margin it seems like there's less opportunity to work the 80-20 magic and discover additional savings and opportunities as there would be when you're buying your standard kind of single-digit margin stuff.
So is it going to be longer before we see a return flow through in the income statement for these businesses? No.
I think the formula for getting there is different.
We don't expect to see the typical doubling plus of margins in the business that already comes with high margins.
We'll see some improvement.
80-20 will in fact yield some improvements in those margins.
But obviously it's more based on strong growth with higher margin businesses.
And yes we would fully expect to see those returns beginning to come through in the latter half of the year.
You may recall that obviously the first year of any acquisition we don't get a lot of -- you don't get a lot of earnings impact in year 1 because of all the amortization step up and inventories and so forth.
But we fully would expect to see the profile in those businesses to yield very strong results in 2012 and ahead.
Mark remember we've done 9 deals thus far the SOPUS deal being the biggest which we paid more for but I think if you look at the other deals they are that more traditional ITW what we pay levels.
The next question comes from Robert McCarthy with Robert W.
Baird.
I wanted to follow up on the Food Equipment group.
There are a couple data points in there that I wonder if we can get a little bit color on.
The lack of any growth in the North American Service business is that just say an odd comp or something seasonal? Or does it reflect something going on in end market activity? And this is the one segment where your variable margin overhead cost contribution impact was negligible and I wondered if that means that cost versus materials is actually under much better control there or if that is just simply a function of some unusual adjustments that offset the drag from materials headwind? I think on the latter their primary input materials are stainless steel.
And while they have risen they haven't risen nearly as much as what we've seen with the carbon steel materials.
So you're clearly you're seeing a much more modest impact on their input cost as a result.
Their price increase plans covered what they have seen thus far in raw material increases.
So we haven't seen much of a headwind price cost in that group for our businesses.
Regarding the service yes I don't draw a whole lot of conclusions from that modest 0.5% growth in North America.
We'll see as the year unfolds.
But typically in this business as we expect to see organic growth in this business is somewhere in the 2% to 4% range in a sort of a normal environment.
Last year clearly higher as people were servicing equipment and not buying new equipments.
So we'll probably see some trends unfold here as the year progresses but I don't expect that's going to be radically different from what we had budgeted.
And then I wanted to ask about on any impact that you've seen or more worried that you will see as knock-on effect from Japan outside of the auto industry more specifically in Electronics and realizing that you don't do a lot of business there I'm probing for knock-on concerns.
Yes we've done a pretty good look at our supply chain.
We're not done with it as you might imagine it's fairly dynamic.
The areas of highlight for us in terms of the supply-chain impact outside of the auto industry as you pointed out because we covered that already clearly the Electronics category that has more of an impact on our customers.
It's not a significant supply lines or supply-chain issue for us but it is for a number of our customers particularly with some of the higher-end performance products that Japan is still a significant producer of silicon wafers and so forth.
We expect there'll be some knock-on impact there as things flow through the supply chain hard to predict right now.
We haven't seen any significant change in the demand profile but we expect as we hear more about customers there'll be some impact in our Electronics businesses.
We have some modest impact on availability of some raw materials.
Some of the high-performance printed papers that we use in the Decorative Surfaces category are sourced from a number of Japanese suppliers and there has been some modest disruption in the supply chain there.
We carry a fairly hefty amount of inventory in those products so we don't expect that there would be any significant impact.
But we are clearly looking at the supply chain across our businesses.
And I expect that what we've seen so far is probably more of an impact on our customers and our direct supply chains and probably at this point I would say primarily in the Electronics weighted category.
David just to confirm the obvious that you've factored some kind of a haircut into your forecast for that.
Yes we have.
And we do about $200 million a year in Japan in revenues and we've obviously factored the haircut into that as well.
The next question comes from Bill Tiss with Buckingham Research Group.
Inc.</strong> It's Alex in for Joel.
Can you just talk about on the sequential improvement in Power Systems how sustainable is that what the largest drivers are? Well obviously we saw strong performance as John pointed out in his comments particularly in the Welding portion of Power Systems.
And the other big one obviously is Electronics.
As John noted the Consumer Electronics category was up about 16% during Q1.
That's coming off of a very strong comparable to last year.
I expect we'll see that comparable dampen down because we also saw strong growth in Q2 and Q3 last year in the Electronics segments.
So I don't expect it to maintain mid-teen growth going forward.
The Welding segment very strong performance in North America driven by heavy equipment in the manufacturing environment.
And I expect that we'll continue to see improvements there.
But as John also pointed out the comps as the year unfolds get more difficult particularly the latter half of the year.
In the second half of the year we saw some reasonable increase in the Welding equipment space in 2010.
So those comps clearly won't continue at the 20-plus percent numbers that John was talking about.
Inc.</strong> Right.
And on the margin improvement side? Margin improvement side I expect to continue to see strong margin as we begin to see the incrementals unfold on those businesses based on some pretty strong demand against a fixed cost base that will not increase nearly as rapidly.
So I expect we'll continue to see strong margins there.
The Welding business margin peak just to put that in perspective is close to 28%.
So we're not close to that number yet but we'll continue to see I think margin improve there as well as the Electronics segment.
There are actually no other questions in the queue at this time.
Well then we won't take the question.
Thank you very much.
Thanks to everybody who joined us and we look forward to talking to you again.
Thank you José.
This does concludes today's conference call.
You may go ahead and disconnect at this time.
Welcome to the ITW Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would like to introduce your host John Brooklier Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please begin.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to all who've joined us for ITW's Second Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
As usual joining me this morning is our CEO David Speer; and our CFO Ron Kropp to discuss our second quarter financial results.
David Speer will now make some introductory remarks.
David? Thank you John.
Our second quarter revenues finished slightly lower than our original forecast as we experienced some modest slowing in industrial markets.
We had good activity in the acquisition front and we also repurchased shares during the quarter.
Here are the highlights.
Our total revenues grew 17.5% in the quarter with contributions from organic revenues acquired revenues and currency translation.
However our total revenue growth was 100 basis points lower than what we originally forecasted in April.
Organic revenues increased 6.3% versus the year-ago period but underperformed our original forecast to 7.5%.
A combination of modest slowing in industrial production metrics in both Europe and the U.S.
along with the Japanese crisis translated into a bit slower growth in the second quarter.
However it's important to note that we firmly believe our overall end markets will continue to be in a long-term recovery mode.
Acquisitions net of divestitures added 4.8% and currency translation contributed 6.3% to total revenue growth.
While operating margins of 15.4% decreased 50 basis points base operating margins increased 30 basis points acquisitions and restructuring negatively impacted operating margins during the quarter by 90 basis points.
I remind everyone our net income per share was $0.99 before considering the $0.03 per share impact of discontinued operations that we highlighted in our June release.
During the quarter we also repurchased stock of $550 million or approximately 9.7 million shares.
Finally we acquired 7 companies in the second quarter bringing our first half 2011 acquired revenues total to an annualized revenue of $485 million.
When you add the 3 additional companies we acquired thus far in July including our acquisition of Despatch Industries that we announced yesterday our current total of acquired revenues exceeds more than $700 million year-to-date.
Remember we had set an acquired revenue range for the year originally of $800 million to $1 billion earlier in our guidance.
We believe the acquisition environment continues to be promising and we look forward to more results in the second half.
Now let me turn it back over to John.
Thank you David.
Here is the agenda for today's call Ron will join us shortly to discuss Q2 financial highlights.
I will then cover Q2 operating highlights for our 8 reporting segments.
Ron will then return to detail 2011 third quarter and full year forecast.
Finally we'll open the call to your questions.
As always we ask your cooperation for our one question one follow-up question policy.
We're targeting a completion time of one hour for today's call.
Moving along let's cover the traditional housekeeping items.
This conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including without limitation statements regarding operating performance revenue growth diluted income per share from continuing operations diluted net income per share restructuring expenses acquisition activity tax rates end market conditions and the company's related 2011 earnings forecast.
Finally the telephone replay for this conference call is (402) 220-9704.
No passcode is necessary.
The replay is available through midnight of August 9 2011.
Now let's move along and have Ron Kropp discuss our second quarter 2011 results.
Ron? Thanks John.
Good morning everyone.
Before I run through the financial results for the second quarter I'd like to remind you that as we announced in late June we have reclassified certain businesses as discontinued operations.
All 2010 and 2011 data presented including forecasts reflect this reclassification.
As part of this I'd also like to remind you that we had revised our forecast range in our June release from $0.99 to $1.05 to $0.95 to $1.01.
Now here are the highlights for the second quarter.
Revenues increased 18% primarily due to higher base revenues acquisitions and translation.
Operating income was $711 million which was higher than last year by $85 million.
Operating margins of 15.4% were lower than last year by 50 basis points.
Diluted income per share for continuing operations was $0.96 which was higher than last year by $0.17.
This EPS of $0.96 compares with our forecast range of $0.95 to $1.01.
Finally free operating cash flow is $225 million.
Now let's go to the components of our operating results.
Our 17.5% revenue increase was primarily due to 3 factors.
First base revenues were up 6.3% with North American base revenues increasing 7.4% and international base revenues up 5.1%.
Next currency translation increased revenues by 6.3%.
Lastly acquisition net of divestitures added 4.8% to revenue growth.
Operating margins for the second quarter of 15.4% were lower than last year by 50 basis points.
The base business margins were higher by 30 basis points primarily due to the favorable impact of the higher sales volume partially offset by the negative impact of non-volume items.
Non-volume items reduced base margins by 120 basis points.
Included in the non-volume impact for the second quarter were the unfavorable impact of price costs which reduced margins by 80 basis and a one-time gain related to a licensing settlement last year which had an unfavorable margin impact of 30 basis points this year.
In addition margins were lower by 30 basis points due to higher restructuring expenses and the dilutive impact of acquisitions reduced margins by 60 basis points.
When I turn it back over to John he'll provide more details on the operating results as he discusses the individual segments.
In the non-operating area other income expense was favorable by $30 million due to higher interest income and higher investment income.
The second quarter effective tax rate of 29.0% was lower than last year's rate of 31.7%.
Excluding the one-time benefit in the first quarter related to the Australian tax case the forecasted tax rate for the rest -- for the full year 2011 is between 28.5% and 29.5%.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Total invested capital increased $622 million from the first quarter primarily due to higher working capital and currency translation.
Accounts receivable DSO was 61.4 days versus 61.1 at the end of the first quarter.
Inventory months on hand of 1.9 was consistent with last quarter.
For the second quarter capital expenditures were $88 million and depreciation was $84 million.
Return on invested capital for the second quarter was 15.6% versus 16.3% in the second quarter last year.
On a financing side our debt level increased approximately $725 million from the first quarter due to higher commercial paper borrowings and currency translation.
Our debt-to-capital ratio increased to 28% from 24% last quarter.
Our cash position increased $146 million in the second quarter as our free operating cash flow of $225 million in addition of borrowings of $695 million were utilized for share repurchases of $550 million acquisitions of $205 million and dividends of $170 million.
During the second quarter we acquired 7 companies which have annual revenues of $156 million.
As a result for the first half of 2011 we have acquired 13 companies representing annualized revenues of $485 million.
For the full year we are forecasting acquired revenues between $800 million and $1 billion.
I'll now turn it back over to John who'll provide more details on our second quarter operating results.
Thank you Ron.
Starting with our Transportation segment our 2011 Q2 organic revenues grew 7.4% compared to the year-earlier period.
Segment operating margins of 14.9% were 90 basis points lower than the year-ago period mainly due to a large acquisition we closed in the second quarter in the auto aftermarket space.
The organic revenue growth in Q2 was mostly attributable to our automotive OEM businesses.
While our worldwide automotive OEM business produced organic growth of 7.5% versus the year-ago period there was clearly a production impact from the Japan disaster.
Case in point North America auto builds increased only 1% in Q2 due to production decreases from the new domestic OEMs.
But while North American production lagged our base revenue growth of 6.6% in Q2 underscored our ongoing product platform penetration gains.
In Europe we had similar penetration success.
While Q2 European auto production grew 4% our base revenues increased 8.2% for the same time period.
All in all we had solid automotive results in the quarter even with the production and component problems stemming from Japan.
For the full year 2011 we believe North American auto builds will be in a range of 12.9 million to 13.1 million units and European auto builds will be in a range of 19.8 million to 20.20 million units.
These auto build projections represent year-over-year increases of 9% and 6% respectively.
Finally in our auto aftermarket businesses we had modest Q2 organic growth of 1.3% mainly due to elevated gas prices and the resulting lower miles driven by consumers.
Moving to the Industrial Packaging segment Q2 organic revenue growth of 9.6% versus year-ago period continue to reflect reasonable industrial production fundamentals around the world with North America leading the way.
Segment operating margins of 10.9% were 20 basis points higher than Q2 '10.
And in the most recent Q2 our total North American Industrial Packaging units increased organic revenues 11.2% while total international Industrial Packaging organic revenues grew 7.6%.
Breaking down the underlying numbers from those numbers North America strap and related equipment organic revenues grew 8.8% with North America increasing 12.9% and international growing 6.2%.
For both geographies the equipment portion of the strapping business produced double-digit growth in the quarter.
Another area of strength for us was the protective packaging units which produced organic revenue growth of 11.3% in the second quarter.
Moving to Power Systems and Electronics the segment had another quarter of strong organic growth.
Segment organic revenues grew 11.9% versus the year-ago period due to strong contributions from both the welding and segments of the electronics businesses.
Segment operating margins of 20.6% were 50 basis points higher than Q2 '10.
Notably our worldwide welding organic revenues grew 18.2% in Q2 due to strong demand from heavy equipment OEMs and industrial manufacturers.
Specifically in North America our welding organic revenues grew a robust 19.9%.
And nearly as impressive our international organic revenues increased 14.1% with Europe and Asia-Pacific both contributing to top line growth.
In Electronics this category grew 4.1% in Q2 and the growth was mainly attributable to our PC board specialty equipment businesses that increased organic revenues double-digit in Q2.
Organic growth as in the past was directly tied to consistent demand for consumer electronic products such as PDAs smartphones and iPads.
Moving to the Food Equipment segment.
Saw summary retrenchment in the international demand and as a result organic revenues grew approximately 2% in Q2 versus the year-ago period.
As a result segment operating margins of 13.6% were 20 basis points lower than Q2 '10.
The Q2 story was simple.
Equipment sales going internationally were relatively strong in North America.
Internationally organic revenues declined 0.4% in Q2 with equipment base revenues decreasing 2.8%.
Our French cooking business was impacted by lower government spending levels than originally anticipated.
And elsewhere in Europe we also exited some revenues associated with lower-growth lower-margin customers.
The better news was that international service base revenues grew 2.1% in the quarter.
Moving to North America organic revenues grew 4.2% with equipment base revenues increasing 6.2%.
From an end market standpoint chain restaurants and healthcare continue to show growth in the second quarter.
In the service side of the business organic revenues grew 3% in North America.
Moving to the Construction Products segment organic revenues declined 2.2% in Q2 versus the year-ago period as demand moderated in Europe and our Asia-Pacific businesses dealt with pricing issues.
In addition North American markets remained very weak as characterized by low housing start numbers and what I would describe as troughed commercial construction activity.
Segment operating margins of 12.4% were 210 basis points lower than the prior-year quarter.
Geographically on the international side organic revenues grew 2.1% in the quarter with European organic revenues increasing 6.1%.
By comparison European organic revenues grew 18.4% in Q1.
In Asia-Pacific pricing pressure from major customers in Australia contributed to base revenues declining 2.8% in the quarter.
In North America total construction base revenues declined 10.7% in Q2 with residential construction and renovation construction base revenues decreasing 8.1% and 3.1% respectively.
Commercial Construction reported a base revenue decrease of 24% in Q2.
But when you exclude a one-time revenue gain in Q2 '10 Commercial Construction base revenues only declined 5.3%.
Moving to the next segment Polymers &amp; Fluids organic revenues grew 1.5% in Q2 versus the year-ago period and segment operating margins of 16.8% were 330 basis points lower than Q2 '10.
Similar to last quarter the margin decline was due to timing related to cost recovery around raw materials especially in some of our international businesses.
The modest growth in base revenues in the quarter reflected moderated demand for polymer products in both North America and international niche end markets.
Worldwide polymer organic revenues were flat in Q2.
And while a much smaller revenue category the story in the fluids side of the business was much more positive.
Worldwide fluids organic revenues grew 5.6% in Q2 with North America accounting for the majority of the growth.
Moving to the Decorative Surfaces segment.
Organic revenues increased to surprisingly strong 6.5% in Q2 versus the year-earlier period.
But segment operating margins of 12.5% were 170 basis points lower than the year-ago period mainly due to higher raw material costs.
As noted the segment's organic revenue story was a positive surprise and reflected Wilsonart's nearly 5% growth in North American base revenues.
This growth was due to ongoing product innovation by Wilsonart and good penetration and what I earlier described as troughing commercial construction environment.
Internationally the news was equally good with organic revenues growing 8.3% in Q2 and the components of that organic revenue growth include Asia-Pacific increasing 6% China growing 22% and Europe increasing 7% in the quarter.
Finally in our final segment All Other organic revenue grew 8.1% in Q2 versus the year-ago period.
Segment operating margins of 18.4% were 80 basis points higher than the year-earlier period.
Organic growth was directly tied to 2 major business groups: test and measurement and consumer packaging.
For test and measurement organic revenues increased a very strong 17% as increased capital spending growth of equipment orders to double-digit growth levels in virtually all geographies.
For example our businesses in China produced organic revenue growth of 23% in Q2 in the test and measurement category.
For consumer packaging organic revenues grew 5% 5.7% excuse me due to strength in the decorating and consumer packaging businesses.
Finally our base revenues for industrial/appliance businesses decreased 0.5% in Q2 as demand from appliance OEMs weakened in the quarter.
This concludes my segment-related remarks.
I will now turn the call over to Ron who will cover our 2011 forecast and related assumptions.
Ron? For the third quarter of 2011 we are forecasting diluted income per share from continuing operations to be within the range of $0.95 to $1.03.
The low end of this range assumes a 15% increase in total revenues versus 2010 and the high end of the range assumes an 18% increase.
The midpoint of the EPS range would be 24% higher than last year.
For the full year 2011 our forecasted EPS range for continuing operations is now $4.05 to $4.21 based on a total revenue increase of 16% to 18%.
The midpoint of $4.13 would be 43% higher than 2010.
This full year range compares to our previous forecast range of $4.08 to $4.26.
Other assumptions included in this forecast are exchange rates holding at current levels acquired revenues between $800 million and $1 billion restructuring cost of $40 million to $50 million for the year and a tax rate range between 28.5% and 29.5% for both the third quarter and full year excluding the impact of the first quarter favorable Australian tax case.
I'll now turn it back over to John for the Q&amp;A.
Thank you Ron.
We'll now open the call to your questions.
Once again we're asking people to honor our one question one follow-up question request.
Ready to take our first question.
[Operator Instructions]  Our first question is from John Inch with Merrill Lynch.
A couple of sort of M&amp;A-related questions.
But first the higher investment income Ron could we give them more color? Was that from realizing a gain from say selling an asset or assets? Or what was the delta there? The biggest piece -- I mean part of it was higher interest income.
We have a lot of cash on the balance sheet invested overseas.
But we also have in our investment portfolio a ventured capital investment that we mark-to-market.
So we had some mark-to-market gains in the quarter.
And how much was that Ron? A couple of million dollars above what we expected.
Okay.
Want to ask about Despatch.
The reason I'm asking this is you've seen -- because I think of some subsidy curtailment in Europe and perhaps elsewhere the outlook for the solar industry has actually in a short-term basis come under a little bit of pressure.
What is it about their mix that maybe makes them somewhat immune to that? And maybe you could just sort of talk through sort of the thought process about getting into that space? Well solar John is only one element of their business.
It represents maybe 20% of their overall business.
So they have a broad array of end-markets solar clearly being one of them.
The carbon fiber business being another and general industrial process environment process controls a lot of which is related to electronics the production of electronic wafers semiconductors and so forth.
So pretty broad array of end-markets.
Generally was some very strong long-term growth profiles.
That's helpful.
One last one.
David and John there's just perpetual speculation that you're a potential bidder for Charter.
I understand there's mixed differences in terms of they're a little bit more commodity if you will on the welding side.
I mean is there some obvious reasons though that -- I mean I realized it's a big company $3 billion of revenues.
Is there some obvious reasons why it would or potentially not fit strategically with what you're looking at perhaps say historical desire to sort of stick to bolt-ons? I don't know maybe is there anything you could say to that issue? Well John we don't comment on speculations around acquisitions.
So I won't comment specifically about Charter.
I will say that we continue to be interested in growing in the welding space.
And we look at many different opportunities.
Certainly primarily in Europe and in Asia.
So as we continue to look at those opportunities I think you'll see our focus in that space will remain strong.
But certainly no comment specifically about any target company especially a public company.
No I understand.
But your strategy to stick to smaller deals really hasn't -- has your thought process changed? Did the environments change for M&amp;A David? Well I think if you're talking about M&amp;A in general you'll see that we've done a couple of larger deals already this year SOPUS and the recent now with Despatch deal.
I think obviously we're looking hard in spaces that we think have long-term growth characteristics.
And for assets that we think have the right mix of allowing us to leverage growth in those categories.
Size is one element obviously and the ability to do some large-sized deals in those spaces is certainly attractive to us.
But that said we're comfortable doing the smaller deals in those spaces if they make sense as well.
But we have done 2 larger deals as you noted this year and I think we continue to focus on what we think is a sweet spot of assets in the sort of $100 million to $500 million size.
Our next question is from Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
It's actually Ingrid Aja standing in for Ann.
If we could circle back to kind of the acquisition environment you noted it seems like that it's improving and that you're likely to come into the higher end of your range given where you stand today.
Can you just talk a little bit more about the environment? Well I think clearly the environment as we have seen it and we've been talking about this throughout the year has been improving.
I think in terms of our own pipeline certainly the activity levels overall and the M&amp;A market are in fact up.
But there are plenty of bidders out there for assets so it's still a reasonably competitive market.
I can tell you that our activity levels in terms of pre-pipeline are significant and continue to be.
And we're pleased with what we've been able to transact thus far.
But as we know the acquisition businesses cyclical it's opportunistic.
So while I'm encouraged with what we've been able to accomplish so far and I think the environment remains a favorable one.
We haven't chosen to make any adjustment in our range just yet.
And we'll continue to look at that as our pipeline activities build.
That's helpful.
And then I guess following the recent reclassification of some of your businesses can you just discuss a little bit more about what your plans for selling businesses in the future are? Well we've disclosed obviously what we have in the pipeline at the moment in discontinued operations as we restated at the end of June.
But I think that contains one large asset which really drove the decision to put that into discontinued operations those our finishing system businesses.
There's certainly nothing in the near term of that size but we continue to look at our portfolio and we'll continue to look at divestitures and appropriate alternatives for some of those assets.
We have averaged over the last several years 8 to 10 divestitures a year.
This certainly the finishing business would be the largest asset single asset in that range.
But we'll continue to look at divestitures as we analyze our portfolio and you can expect to continue to see some level of activity.
We always report on those as you might imagine when they become material and when they're generally after-the-fact.
Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
It's actually Peter Chang in for Jamie.
My first question was on the implied incremental margins for the back half of the year.
It looks like they're expected to increase meaningfully from the first half.
But more specifically I wanted to get into why it seems like Q3 implied incrementals are significantly lower than in 4Q? Is that because of price recovery in the fourth quarter? Or is there going to be greater restructuring charges taken in the third quarter? Could you elaborate on that please? Yes sure.
The incrementals in the third quarter we are still working through price costs.
They will get better.
But it will still be negative 40 to 50 basis points year-on-year for price costs versus the third quarter of 2010 although it's positive 20 basis points versus the second quarter of 2011.
Also contributing to the better incrementals in the fourth quarter is we had a very low margin fourth quarter last year especially the month of December for our international businesses.
So our overall margin at a restated basis last year in the fourth quarter was 12.3%.
So we're getting some incremental bump in the fourth quarter based on a weaker comparable.
Got you.
And my follow-up is on the Transportation segment.
Compared to our model revs were a little bit lighter than our forecast.
Was that -- I know you talked about the impact from Japan can you quantify that? Or was there maybe a greater focus on integrating SOPUS versus focus on sales? As we went into the quarter we had anticipated the revenue decline associated with Japan on auto OEM of about $25 million to $30 million.
And it turned out to be approximately around $30 million.
Okay.
So it was on the high-end then? It was on the higher end of what we had part coming into the quarter.
Deane Dray with Citi Investment Research.
David I was hoping you could comment on the operating environment in June with a little more color? Certainly it caught you by surprise.
Now no sense of a disaster just under 6% of base.
But still it was a change of the margin.
So if you could just kind of from your perspective both your geographic customer activity quote activity pushback on pricing just take us through what was -- where was the surprise and where do we go from here? Yes well I think obviously the June numbers overall base growth of 5.7%.
That was clearly weaker than what we had in our original forecast.
March numbers it fell off and the 3 months rolling numbers were 11 plus percent so significantly different.
June the profile in April and May April was a little over 4% and May was just about 9%.
So pretty mixed baggage if you look at it by month.
But clearly the trend in June was slower than what we had anticipated.
And that really I think in the end is the story why we were 100 basis points lower than our original base revenue forecast.
If I look at it geographically North America was 7.4%.
So a little bit lighter than our base forecast originally which is a little bit north of 8%.
Europe was at 4.6% that was clearly the weakest link.
The overall Asia-Pacific region was just under 6% China at 18%.
So I think clearly the big drivers were weaker industrial numbers in both Europe and North America and primarily in June.
How about just on the construction side? You called out the pricing on the Asia-Pacific.
Was that just one business Australia-related? And they take us through the commercial residential renovation color at the margin? Yes.
Well the continued construction markets here or the 80 of the story if you will that's the majority of the issue in construction.
Housing starts are well below what our original forecast was and frankly below what we thought was going to happen in Q2.
The numbers now are in the 570 range for housing starts.
We started the year at a range of about 670 which was actually lower than most of the estimates that are out there from NAHB and others.
So the housing market has continued to be extremely weak and that obviously underperformed what we thought was only a modest expectation in Q2.
The commercial numbers that John pointed out down 9% for the quarter that's the start data or the contracts awarded data.
Still weak but we think getting close to the trough.
So that end market was obviously weak as well in North America.
The European numbers came in as John pointed out was 6%.
So pretty much in line with what our expectations were.
In Australia we have some price-related issues but also some business that we shifted away from and some lower margin categories that drew the negative comparable there in terms of base revenue growth.
But I'd say again the majority of the story is what happened in construction in North America.
And was the deck surfaces uptick more product line specific? Or was it a readthrough in terms of commercial activity? Yes there's a -- it was based on 2 things.
One is product innovation new designs they've introduced in their high definition category which has driven significant market penetration in several commercial categories including the case goods area and office furniture.
Robert McCarthy with Robert W.
Baird your line is open.
The mismatch between price costs in the quarter is particularly severe in both Construction and Decorative Surfaces.
We've been talking about that.
But also in Industrial Packaging and Polymers &amp; Fluids could you talk about the latter 2? Why such a severe effect particularly in Industrial Packaging? And how you see those trending through the balance of the year? Yes Industrial Packaging the overall non-volume impact on margins is 230 basis points.
Of that 110 was price cost.
Now that's better than the negative 200 that it was last quarter.
This segment has the most sensitivity to raw material price increases but also how has the best ability to get price.
For example when the price of steel goes up they're buying from the steel makers and selling back steel strap to them.
So it's much more transparent than most of our other businesses.
So it does go up and down quite a bit.
So it's gotten better we've continued to get price.
We are recovering margin dollars.
But given the extent of the price and the cost dollars still has a negative impact on margins.
Extension Ron you're saying that you expect it to moderate.
Does it turn positive by the end of the year? Yes by the fourth quarter if price stays where it's at and costs stay where they're at it will be positive.
Okay.
So the price increases that are out there that they put in place we haven't seen the full impact of.
We also saw some modest drop in some of the strapping volumes which we didn't get leverage on some of the growth and revenue there that we wouldn't have expected.
On the Polymers &amp; Fluids side the price cost impact was negative 180 basis points which is similar to what it was last quarter.
Here the primary raw material is chemicals and we have a basket of chemicals that we kind of track the market prices.
And those chemical prices were up about 25% for this quarter versus last year.
So while steel and plastic prices have stabilized a bit and in some cases gone down we have not yet seen that in the mechanical business.
And we do have price increases in place.
We're continuing to put them in place.
And have less of an impact if everything stays the same.
In the third quarter they'll still be negative but have less of an impact.
Is it the only segment where you expect to still be running negative by the time you get to the fourth quarter? The third quarter we're looking at still negative year-on-year 40 to 50 basis points.
So in the third quarter there'll be other segments that have a negative impact.
For the most part as we start to anniversary some of these cost increases and price increases stick we should be generally positive slightly in the fourth quarter.
I think the only other one where it might be modestly negative Robert will be Decorative Surfaces where we've got significant increases in phenol and resins that are again oil-drive products that we haven't seen yet bottom out in terms of cost.
If I might add I'd also like to ask about specifically John when you were going through the Industrial Packaging fundamentals you mentioned specifically that international equipment sales in the strapping-related businesses were up double digit but actually in North America -- And North America too.
So the implication then would be that strapping volume growth was nominal or even negative yet you're taking price increases.
So can you talk a little bit about what you saw in the quarter? And whether we have some kind of a leading indicator of something here? Well we did see strapping volumes moderate.
I'd say nominal is probably a good word to use.
What we saw in the quarter it's a mixed bag again between steel and plastic and in general it is probably related to what we've seen happen in some of their core end markets moderating activities.
So I'm not sure that based on what we saw in the quarter that it would be drawing any huge conclusions about early indicators as it relates to strap volume.
Year-to-date they performed much better in the quarter particularly in the latter part of the quarter.
June and probably the latter half of May were weaker in volume that some of the metals categories in particular and in the construction materials categories as well.
Other than that they were pretty much in line with what we would have expected.
But you wouldn't point to China as the source of the significantly slower volume trend? No we don't have enough penetration in China with strapping for that to be a consideration.
Certainly the equipment side one of the reasons that strengthen the equipment side to focus on that is clearly the underspend that took place from a capital standpoint over the last several years and now we're starting to see that break loose with some larger system orders that I think loom well in the future for strapping volumes over with it.
But certainly the recovery and equipment businesses was expected perhaps a little bit stronger in the quarter than what we have thought but largely in line with what we would expect at this point in the recovery.
Our next question is from Ajay Kejriwal with FBR.
Just on capital allocation.
So on acquisitions you're trending well.
You're more than halfway done on your full year goals.
And buybacks you did buy back fine $50 million.
But there's a substantial amount of authorization left.
And it looks like balance sheet is still very underlevered lot of cash in the balance sheet.
So maybe any color on how we should be thinking about buybacks from here? Clearly second quarter very decent run rate but part of that's to offset the dilution from the discount.
But any color there will be helpful.
So a couple of comments.
First of all although we do have cash on the balance sheet essentially all of that is overseas.
So it's not readily available for dividends and share repurchase et cetera.
We do use it for acquisitions However to the extent we have international acquisitions.
Our debt-to-cap is currently at 28%.
Our target range in a normal acquisition period is 20% to 30% absent any significant large acquisition would obviously go above 30%.
So we're at the higher end of the range.
But that's with a strong acquisition year stronger than last year.
And some amount of buybacks are ready in the first half of the year.
The way to think of share repurchases now this is a bit different than it was a couple of years ago when we were underneath our range.
We were in the teens and we had to do a significant amount of buybacks even to get into our target range.
The way to think about it now is we will have a normal level of share repurchases to the extent we have a normal level of acquisition activity.
We much prefer to use our capital for acquisitions.
So if we continue to see acquisition activity go up and we end up above our range you'll see less share repurchases.
If acquisition activity is lighter you'll see more share repurchases.
Good color there.
And then just on your full year guidance the top end of taken it down by I think $0.05.
So I imagine part of that is the quarter but maybe talk about the acquisition impact? Historically acquisitions have been dilutive in the first year.
So is it possible to quantify what's the impact from acquisitions? Well first of all the range decreased by $0.04 $0.02 for Q2 and $0.02 for the balance of the year not $0.05.
In terms of acquisitions as you accurately note they are dilutive in the first year.
We get down with amortizations and step ups.
I think Ron got some flavor he can add to that.
But clearly given the activity levels we had in the first half of the year we've not a significant amount of earnings impact yet which is normal.
And what our expectation would be is I think Ron pointed out one of the reasons for the margins for the quarter being lower is in fact the acquisition activity and the lower margins associated with those after amortization and step ups.
So Ron if you want to add some flavor to that? Yes so typically we're buying companies that have margins in the 10% range before amortization.
Once you factor in amortization especially in the first year which was the higher amortization rate it's more like 4% to 5% incremental margins.
So say if you take about a acquired of revenues and you don't acquire them all at the beginning of the year and it's only a partial year and you take 4% to 5% of that that's about what the acquisition impact would be.
And that will have a dilutive margin impact on the total company in the 40 to 50 basis point range.
Thanks for the clarification.
My comment on the guidance was just on the top end but yes it's $0.04 at the midpoint.
Our next question is from Walt Liptak with Barrington.
Inc.</strong> I wanted to ask about the Transportation segment and just the operating leverage.
And if you can run through and talk about whatever impacted profits maybe Japan had a bigger impact on the operating profits or price costs and where we stand through the rest of the year? Do you have anything on [indiscernible] So on the margin side margins were down 90 basis points.
The non-volume piece of that was 110.
And of that price cost was negative 90 basis points.
Slightly better than last quarter when it was negative 100 basis points.
That's the segment where it takes us a little longer to recover price.
We have price plans in place price increase plans in place now.
But as Ron pointed out we'd expect that GAAP to close somewhat in Q3 and be neutral or potentially positive for Q4.
Well if I would add one other thing to your question on volumes.
If you look at the second half of the year particularly in North America the production decrease we saw in Q2 should largely would be made up in the second half.
Joel Tiss with Buckingham Research Group.
Inc.</strong> I just wondered if your drop in guidance a little bit for the full year means that the slowdown in June is continuing into July? I don't have enough on July numbers Joe to give you that reflection.
But largely what we have projected in organic growth for the balance of the year is between 6.5% to 7%.
So lower than what we would have originally forecast by probably 100 basis points.
So it's -- I think what I would suggest is that it looks more like what we saw in Q2 not what we saw in June.
June was under 6%.
But yes moderating demand in some of these markets that have been under recovery now for in some cases 8 to 10 quarters.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And I wonder if you can sort of tie together the shape of the economic recovery and how you're seeing it unfold to the more of the medium-term margin potential? So you know what I mean like it's a tough environment price cost is a little bit negative it's been kind of an issue for a little while.
Is this going to be the -- or is this feeling like the kind of recovery where operating margins a couple of years down the road get back to historic peak levels or don't because of more acquisition activity or just sluggishness? You know what I'm trying to say? Just any sort of color you can give me around about that.
I think from a base standpoint Joel I think yes absolutely.
I think margin recovery or margin rates a couple of years down the road clearly back to historic peak kind of levels.
I fully expect that.
I think the major factor if you're looking out a couple of years is more about the dilutive impact of acquisitions than anything else.
What we're seeing right now is clearly one of those spots in the middle of an economic recovery where you've got costs going up relatively faster faster than anybody had anticipated for this part of the recovery.
And that's led to some short-term disruption to price and cost but nothing fundamentally I think that alters the margin outlook long term.
Inc.</strong> And the customers aren't pushing back on price increases harder than before? Well of course they are.
But that's all part of the process.
Nobody is asking for price increases.
But the reality is that these -- they've not been modest increases that we're talking about and they've been multiple increases.
With that said I think as Ron pointed out earlier we have seen in some cost categories some moderation in cost increases certainly on the steel side and certainly more recently as Ron pointed out on the plastic side.
So it's the normal sort of environment that you have to fight through with probably more volatility and raw material input costs than what we would've expected heading into the year.
[Operator Instructions] Henry Kirn with UBS..
Wondering if you could talk a little bit about where the base business expectations for the second half of the year might have become a little more robust than they would have been a few months ago? I'm sorry those are that more? Yes where might things have actually gotten a little bit better? Well certainly the test and measurement has shown particular strength.
And some of that obviously is projected in what we see going forward in the second half of the year.
And as John pointed out in his earlier comments the welding segment those are probably 2 of the more notable areas where we've seen strength beyond what our original estimates were.
And with reasonable momentum we expect to continue through the second half of the year.
So those are probably the 2 most notable ones that I would highlight.
John also pointed out the comparables in transportation.
The auto build in the second half of the year is going to be much better than it was in the first half as the expectation particularly in the U.S.
is that a lot of the volume that lost in the second quarter due to the Japanese crisis and parts is going to be made up in the second half of the year.
And that certainly would bode well for us.
You saw our penetration gains in the first -- or in the second quarter in both Europe and the U.S.
were nearly 5 points of penetration gains.
So you put a little bit more volume on that and we're going to see a lot stronger performance in that category as well.
And then in the M&amp;A market could you talk about where -- whether seller expectations are higher or lower now than they were earlier in the year? And the likelihood that acquisitions could be higher in the second half in 2012 than you're currently begin? You talk about second half of 2011 I think right? Yes second half of 2011 and into 2012? Yes.
Certainly we've done as John pointed out a little over $700 million in acquired revenues through this stage in July.
I would say that the pipeline and the buyer and seller expectations I wouldn't note any particular change in that.
I think the expectations are about similar to what they would've been a quarter ago.
I think the opportunity for us to have a stronger strong second half is there.
And as you know we'll revise our range as we see the pipeline activity grow.
And it may will be that sort of the run rate we're at right now which suggest that we could see a stronger than the current forecast in acquisitions and that may well be the case.
But we need a little bit more data before we'll adjust our range.
But I described the market activity is very similar to what we've seen over the last couple of quarters.
So definitely improved from what we saw this time last year no questions.
Our next question is from Holden Lewis BB&amp;T.
Sort of back on that acquisition question.
In terms of the numbers of acquisitions it seems like the numbers that you've been closing each quarter is kind of stabilized in sort of this mid to high single-digit number.
Based on sort of how you're seeing the pipeline I mean would you expect that the numbers of deals that you can do would continue to go up? Or is there sort of a limit to the number just in terms of resources.
And if that's the case I mean are you just seeing that the average revenues that you're looking at is going up? How do you sort of grow from the current rates or extend the sort of buy end from the current rates? Well obviously the metrics that we look at are based on the individual assets that we're looking at.
So we don't have a number of deals if you will that we're trying to close.
It's more a question of looking at the underlying assets and how they fit with our strategies for growth.
So the numbers can vary obviously from quarter-to-quarter.
Obviously larger size assets have a bigger impact in terms of the overall revenue numbers and certainly the activity levels.
But we continue to do smaller acquisitions that we think are well suited to bolting on to existing platforms.
So I'm not sure I can give you any flavor.
There's not a metric that says we're going to do a lot more smaller deals.
I can tell you that we have spent a fair amount of time consciously looking at larger deals and spaces that we think have got good long-term growth characteristics.
And I think you're starting to see some of that pay off with some of the larger transactions that we closed thus far this year.
But those are not at the exclusion of looking at smaller deals that make sense particularly in markets spaces that we've highlighted that we think have good long-term growth characteristics.
I'm just sort of wondering in the past I think in '06 or '08 you're kind of in that $1.6 billion $1.7 million in acquired revenues.
I mean are you -- I'm just trying to get a sense of it.
If you look out beyond 2012 into the pipeline do you think that whatever the number is this year that you achieve I mean can you build on top of that? Or is there something different about the environment where the '11 levels kind of look stable and we're not going to go back to sort of the high ones towards 2 type of level of M&amp;A activity? Well I fully expect that as the M&amp;A environment continues to improve as the markets continue to improve we're going to see higher acquisition levels.
As you accurately noted we closed deals during that '06 '08 time frame.
Each of those years was north of $1 billion.
I think we did $4.2 billion for those 3 years so the average was like $1.4 billion.
I fully expect that we'll see those opportunities.
I think the difference this time Holden is that we have definitely seen the ability to close several larger deals this year and last year and I think we're purposely focused on deals of that size.
So it may be that we get to those numbers with fewer deals.
But I think the opportunities from an acquisition standpoint turns overall impact.
They're still in that 5% to 7% annualized revenue range that we've been talking about that we've done historically.
And that I think we're comfortable we'll be -- a good look of the future as well.
Holden if you look from a capacity standpoint look historically in that '06 to '08 time frame we were doing 45 to 50 deals per year.
So I don't think we're constrained by the number of deals.
I think that David's point it's really a question of the combination of bigger and smaller deals.
Okay.
And then just lastly if you can comment the implied sort of margin on your acquired revenue this quarter was especially low and lower than we've seen in quite some time I think.
You're sort of building up the pipeline.
And at what point would you expect that these numbers remain low or at some point to get better? Is there something about the acquisitions in this quarter that was notable? It really comes down to how much amortization you have for the deals so it's fairly deal specific.
You go through a process of identifying step ups and intangibles and each deal is different.
So it is in on the lower end this time from where it would normally be.
I think it was about 3% 3.5% incremental margin typically it's more like 4% to 5%.
And for these deals as they anniversary their first year and the next year these deals will become part of base.
And some of that amortization goes down.
So you'll see a bump up for these deals but you won't necessarily see it in the reported numbers because we'll have new acquisitions that have new amortization.
So typically our general margin profile is we're buying things that are in the 9% to 10% range and we want to get those to the overall company margins within a 3- to 5-year time frame.
And I think that's still true.
For Q2 Holden it's no question that the higher-margin profile particularly of the acquisition we did late Q1 of SOPUS had a dramatic impact on the amortization for Q2 which is as Ron points out as that anniversaries and we get into a more normal operating environment that's the high margin business with good returns.
And so we'll see a different profile as we look at these numbers a year from now.
So it doesn't reflect more competitive bidding or easing up on some of the expectations of acquired deals? No.
No.
Our next question comes from Mark Koznarek with Cleveland Research.
Nobody beat up on Food Equipment yet I don't think.
And so I was just wondering what kind of visibility do you have with regard to shipments in the second half? And if you could also address the really lackluster service revenue growth that really surprising to see kind of flattish service activity of you guys having such a well-regarded service organization? I'm wondering what is going on with the market? Or is there a competitive dynamic unfolding there? Well first of all the historic growth rates in the service business which is a high margin business is in that 2% to 3% range.
So that's pretty normal pretty typically.
Perhaps you would have expected that to be a little higher in the basis of where we are in the recovery but not significantly.
I think the big challenge for us in the Q2 numbers Food Equipment were as John pointed out earlier the international numbers particularly in Europe on the equipment side were negative due to us exiting a couple of categories of lower performance businesses that we consciously get out of.
And as he pointed out some pullback and institutional spending particularly that supported by government spending in our French market businesses.
So I think I would characterize that as what I would view as not a normalized expectation going forward.
We don't have a lot of visibility.
There's not big backlogs in these businesses.
However for the institutional categories there's a fair amount of planning and project activity before the order arrives.
That activity clearly has increased which bodes well for continued improvement of equipment revenues in those categories.
But not a great deal of visibility long-term in terms of backlog.
Okay.
But that international comment if you're exiting just you're exiting customers not divesting? That's correct.
But if you're pulling back from customers that's going to sort of a weak -- some pressure on the growth until we anniversary that a year from now right? Correct.
That's built into our expectations here forward.
So we expect that and we factored that into our overall guidance.
Okay.
And then just one final clarification on the repurchases.
Forgive me if I should know this but I don't -- has finishing closed yet? Number one has the finishing deal closed? No it has not closed yet.
As you might have noted there was an announcement made I think a week and a half ago by Graco that the FTC has done a second request.
So they're looking for more data in their analysis of the transaction before they provide HSR approval.
No it has not closed yet.
And based on the timeline that we're on it probably would not close until probably late this quarter at best.
Okay.
And those proceeds are still slated towards our repurchases.
Is that right? Yes correct.
Thank you.
Thanks everybody for joining us on today's call.
We will look forward to talking to everybody again.
And I'll be talking to a number of people later this morning and this afternoon.
Thank you very much.
Have a good day.
Thank you for your participation.
Today's call has concluded.
Please disconnect at this time.
Welcome and thank you for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I'd now like to turn the call over to John Brooklier Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you Dory.
Good morning everyone and welcome to all who've joined us for ITW's Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
As usual our CEO David Speer; and our CFO Ron Kropp have joined us to discuss our third quarter financial results.
Here is the agenda for today's call.
David will join us shortly to focus on many of our third quarter highlights.
Ron will then take you through our Q3 financial results.
I will then cover our third quarter operating highlights for our reporting segments and Ron will then detail our 2011 fourth quarter and full year forecasts.
Finally we will open the call to your questions.
And as always we ask for your cooperation for our "one question one follow-up question" policy.
We are targeting a one-hour completion time for today's call.
Please let me remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including without limitation statements regarding operating performance revenue growth diluted income per share from continuing ops diluted net income per share restructuring expenses free operating cash flow acquisition activity tax rates end market conditions and the company's related 2011 earnings forecast.
Please refer to our 2010 Form 10-K for more details on our forward-looking statements.
One other housekeeping item: The telephone replay for this conference call is (203) 369-0637.
No passcode is necessary.
And the replay is available through midnight of February -- I'm sorry of November 8 2011.
Now here's David Speer to talk about our third quarter highlights.
David? Thank you John.
We are very pleased with our third quarter operating performance on a number of fronts.
Both our total revenues and organic revenues were solid coming in only modestly below our original expectations for the quarter.
Total revenues grew 16.2% and organic revenues increased 6.2%.
The vast majority of our diversified worldwide end markets were in reasonable shape.
Ron will detail our full quarter 3 financial results in just a few moments but it's noteworthy to highlight that our diluted EPS grew 25% in the quarter.
We were especially happy to see the improvement in our free operating cash flow in the quarter.
We generated more than $700 million of free operating cash in quarter 3.
This represents a conversion ratio of 139% versus net income and gets us back on track to more traditional free cash flow generation metrics.
In terms of how we utilize our free cash we continue to implement a well balanced approach that target dividends acquisitions and share buybacks.
Here's what we accomplished in these targeted categories in the third quarter.
First we raised our annual dividend payout 6% in August 2011.
We acquired annualized revenues of nearly $300 million during the quarter and year-to-date we've acquired annualized revenues of approximately $800 million.
And we executed $400 million of share repurchases in quarter 3.
And notably year-to-date we have now repurchased over 18 million shares for just under $1 billion.
Finally we took advantage of our strong financial profile and we issued $1 billion of long-term debt at very attractive rates.
All in all it was a very busy but a very productive quarter for ITW.
Now let me turn the call over to Ron for the financial details.
Thanks David.
Good morning everyone.
Here are the highlights for the third quarter.
Revenues increased 16% primarily due to higher base revenues acquisition and translation.
Operating income was $714 million which was higher than last year by $95 million.
Operating margins of 15.6% were lower by 10 basis points versus last year.
Diluted income per share from continuing operations was $1 which was higher than last year by $0.20 and was on the higher end of our forecast range of $0.95 to $1.03.
Finally free operating cash flow is very strong at $704 million or 139% of net income.
Now let's go to the components of our operating results.
Our 16.2% revenue increase was primarily due to 3 factors.
First base revenues were up 6.2% with North American base revenues increasing 7.8% and international base revenues up 4.2%.
Next currency translation increased revenues by 4.7%.
Lastly acquisitions net of divestitures added 5.3% to revenue growth.
Operating margins for the third quarter of 15.6% were lower than last year by 10 basis points but higher than last quarter by 20 basis points.
The base business margins were higher by 30 basis points versus last year primarily due to the favorable impact of the higher sales volume partially offset by the negative impact of non-volume items.
Non-volume items reduced base margins by 120 basis points.
Included in the non-volume impact for the third quarter was the unfavorable impact of price/cost which reduced margins by 50 basis points.
In addition margins were lower by 20 basis points due to higher restructuring expenses and the dilutive impact of acquisitions reduced margins by 30 basis points.
The net margins from acquisitions including the amortization of intangibles and step-ups were 9.1% for the quarter.
Excluding this amortization acquisition margins were 18.6%.
When I turn it back over to John he will provide more details on the operating results as he discusses the individual segments.
In the non-operating area interest expense was higher by $5 million primarily due to the new long-term debt issued in August.
And other income expense was favorable by $24 million mainly due to higher interest income and translation gains this year versus losses last year.
The third quarter effective tax rate of 29% was lower than last year's rate of 30.2%.
Excluding the onetime benefit in the first quarter related to the Australian tax case the forecasted tax rate for the fourth quarter and full year 2011 is between 28.5% and 29.5%.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Total invested capital decreased $169 million from the second quarter primarily due to lower working capital and currency translation.
Accounts receivable DSO was 58.7 days versus 61.4 at the end of the second quarter.
Inventory months on hand of 1.8 was lower than the 1.9 last quarter.
For the third quarter capital expenditures were $83 million and depreciation was $86 million.
ROIC for the third quarter was 15.4% which was lower than last year by 70 basis points primarily due to acquisitions.
On the financing side our debt level increased approximately $490 million from the second quarter due to the new long-term bonds we issued in August partially offset by lower commercial paper borrowings and currency translation.
Our debt-to-capital ratio increased to 32% from 28% last quarter.
We issued long-term debt in August to take advantage of historically low long-term rates.
Of the $1 billion in bonds we issued $650 million were 30 years at 4.875% and $350 million were 10 years at 3.375%.
We had cash on the balance sheet of $1.3 billion as of September 30 almost all of which is held overseas.
Our cash position increased $88 million in the third quarter as our free operating cash flow of $704 million and additional net borrowings of $578 million were utilized for share repurchases of $400 million acquisitions of $451 million and dividends of $167 million.
Year-to-date we have returned almost $1.5 billion to shareholders via dividends and share repurchases as well as investing $1.2 billion in acquisitions.
During the third quarter we acquired 8 companies which have annual revenues of $296 million.
As a result through 9 months of 2011 we have acquired 21 companies representing annualized revenues of $781 million.
For the full year we are forecasting acquired revenues between $800 million and $1 billion.
I will now turn it back over to John who will provide more details on our third quarter operating results.
Thank you Ron.
Starting with our Transportation segment.
Our Q3 organic revenues grew 9.5% compared to the prior-year quarter.
As usual the segment's Q3 organic revenue growth was led by our auto OEM and tier businesses.
Our auto businesses produced worldwide organic revenues of 9.2% versus a worldwide car build increase of 5%.
That represents more than 4 points of penetration directly tied to new product innovation.
Put another way that's more ITW products on a growing number of auto platforms.
In North America our organic revenues totaled 6.9% as the new domestic producers including Japanese OEMs such as Toyota Honda and Nissan produced approximately 150 000 more automobiles in Q3 versus Q2.
Clearly the Japan crisis of Q2 saw a favorable recovery in Q3.
Internationally our automatic -- automotive organic revenues increased 11.3% as Europe produced nearly 200 000 more cars in Q3 compared to Q2.
Notably our organic revenues in Asia grew nearly 27% in Q3.
Both China and India helped drive top line growth in the quarter.
For full year 2011 we are expecting auto builds in North America and Europe to be modestly lower than what we saw coming into the third quarter but still at very healthy levels.
In our auto aftermarket business Q3 organic revenues grew 5.4%.
The majority of growth came from the North American side of the business and 2 developments helped our North American auto aftermarket business in the quarter.
We saw a notable increase in the collision repair business and lower gas prices translated into more discretionary income to buy our maintenance and appearance products so good news on that front.
Finally our truck remanufacturing business grew organic revenues 17.7% in the third quarter due to strong customer activity associated with oil and gas field exploration in the Western United States as well as Canada.
Moving to Industrial Packaging.
Segment's Q3 organic revenue grew 6.3% versus the year-ago period reflecting stable industrial production fundamentals around the world.
However it's clear that the North American end markets were in fundamentally better shape than Europe.
To illustrate the point total North American Industrial Packaging grew organic revenues 8.1% while total international Industrial Packaging increased revenues a more modest 4.2%.
In the strapping and equipment category our North American Signode businesses grew organic revenues 12% while International organic revenues increased 3.7%.
And similar to last quarter the equipment portion of the business was growing at a faster rate than the consumable portion.
On a worldwide basis our stretch packaging equipment and consumables businesses grew organic revenues 10.3% while our protective packaging units increased organic revenues 4.7%.
Moving to Power Systems and Electronics.
Similar to what we saw in Q1 and Q2 this segment produced very strong organic growth in Q3 versus the year-ago period.
Segment organic revenues grew 11.7% in the quarter led once again by our welding business.
Our worldwide welding organic revenues grew 20.2% in Q3 with North American welding organic revenues increasing a very robust 26.1%.
The strong growth in North America was largely driven by high levels of activity associated with the oil and gas as well as heavy equipment end markets.
On the international side organic revenues grew 6.3% in the quarter with China producing nearly 20% growth.
Moving to the electronics side of the segment.
This category grew a modest 1.7% in the quarter but it was really a tale of 2 different parts of the business.
Our PC board business grew organic revenues 9.1% as consumer demand for electronic products remained relatively strong.
And please remember that the PC board organic growth was accomplished even with very difficult comparisons from Q3 '10.
The other portion of our electronics business experienced more difficult conditions and produced an organic revenue decline of 2.6% in the quarter.
In the Food Equipment segment organic revenues declined 0.5% in the quarter versus the year-ago period as weak demand for institutional equipment was evident in both North America and internationally.
In North America overall organic revenues fell 0.8% in the quarter as equipment organic revenues declined 3.2%.
Institutional demand for products has been muted by tighter CapEx spending for the private sector and tighter budgets for government entities.
The good news was that the performance of the North American service business --  it produced organic revenue growth of 3.3% in the quarter.
And this story of slower equipment purchasing was also evident internationally with equipment organic revenues declining 1.9% due to tightening related to institutional spending.
Like North America we were pleased with our international service organic growth of 4% in the quarter.
In Construction Products segment organic revenues increased a modest 2.9% versus Q3 '10 due to positive growth contributions from North America and Europe.
In North America organic revenues grew a surprisingly strong 7.4% as all sectors of the businesses demonstrated product penetration gains and fundamentally trough end markets.
In the residential business organic revenues grew 6.8% even as housing starts averaged modestly above 600 000 units in Q3.
In our commercial construction and renovation construction categories organic revenues increased 5% and 9.5% respectively.
Internationally European Construction organic revenues grew 3.3% in part due to the ratcheting down of government spending.
And in Asia Pacific Construction produced an Q3 organic revenue decline of 1.7% due in part to housing softness in Australia and New Zealand.
In the Polymers and Fluids segment organic revenues showed improvement from earlier 2011 quarters as organic revenues totaled 8.2% in Q3 versus the year-ago period.
Growth was driven from both the larger polymers sets of businesses and the smaller fluid portion of the segment.
Worldwide polymer organic revenues grew 9% due to reasonable worldwide industrial production metrics and further penetration to the various niche markets we serve.
International polymers grew organic revenues 10.2% while North American polymers grew organic revenues 6.2%.
In the fluids businesses total organic revenues grew 5.7% with both North America and the rest of the world contributing to growth.
In the Decorative Surfaces segment organic revenues delivered another quarter of better-than-expected organic revenue growth with segment organic revenues increasing a healthy 8.7% versus the year-ago period.
Growth was led by contributions from both our North American and international business units.
In North America organic revenues increased 7% thanks to the consistent launch of premium laminate products especially those in the high definition category.
These products have a similar look to natural stone but are at lower price points.
The North American high-pressure laminate business also benefited from growth in the office furniture category which is largely being driven by commercial construction renovation activities.
Internationally organic revenues grew 10.5% due to strong performance from a number of European and Asian businesses including those in the U.K.
China and Thailand.
And finally in our last segment of the All Other segment organic revenues grew 3.1% in the quarter versus the year-ago period.
Organic revenue growth was directly the result of our Test and Measurement business.
For this business organic revenues increased a strong 11.2% as capital spending in their end markets helped drive equipment orders to healthy levels in a variety of geography.
Notably organic revenues in China grew 22% in the quarter and Test and Measurements' organic revenues totaled 6.2% in Europe.
The story unfortunately was not as favorable for our consumer packaging and industrial/appliance businesses.
In Q3 consumer packaging's organic revenues were flat as strength in the decorating business was offset by slowdown in demand for beverage packaging products.
And not surprisingly our industrial/appliance businesses saw organic revenues decline 4.9% in Q3.
And this concludes my segment remarks.
I'll now turn the call over to Ron who will cover our 2011 forecast.
Ron? For the fourth quarter of 2011 we are forecasting diluted income per share from continuing operations to be within a range of $0.86 to $0.94.
The low end of this range assumes a 9.5% increase in total revenues versus 2010 and the high end of the range assumes a 12.5% increase.
The midpoint of the EPS range would be 36% higher than last year.
For the full year 2011 we have moved our forecasted EPS range for continuing operations to $4.04 to $4.12.
This new range essentially encompasses the low end of our previous range.
This range assumes a total revenue increase of 15.1% to 15.9%.
The new midpoint of $4.08 would be 42% higher than 2010 and is $0.05 lower than our previous midpoint of $4.13.
This $0.05 decrease in the midpoint is comprised of a positive Q3 of $0.01 offset by fourth quarter decreases of $0.03 related to currency translation $0.02 related to lower revenues and $0.01 due to higher restructuring costs.
Other assumptions included in this forecast are: exchange rates holding at current levels; acquired revenues between $800 million and $1 billion; restructuring costs of $50 million to $60 million for the year which is $10 million higher than the previous assumption; and a tax rate range between 28.5% and 29.5% for the fourth quarter and full year excluding the impact of the first quarter favorable Australian tax case.
I will now turn it back over to John for the Q&amp;A.
Thank you Ron.
We'll now open the call to your questions.
As I said earlier we ask that you honor our "one question one follow-up question." We'll start with the questions now.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Amy -- excuse me Ann Duignan with JPMC.
Research Division</strong> It's Ingrid Aja standing for Ann.
Can you talk a little bit more about what you're seeing in Europe? Is it across all businesses or is it more concentrated in certain segments? What we've seen in Europe? Well in Q3 the overall European numbers came in in the 3.8% range in terms of total organic growth so a reasonably good quarter.
We saw -- I wouldn't say we've seen any disparity in any particular segments there.
I mean the appliance segment is probably the only segment of great note this week but the auto segment's been good the Construction segment's been reasonable there.
Our Test and Measurement businesses have done well there.
So I'd say it's pretty evenly spread in terms of what we saw in performance during the quarter.
Research Division</strong> But looking forward to your Q4 you had noted that softer trends in Europe.
So I was just wondering which segments specifically? Well I think as you've looked at the -- some of the industrial production numbers have softened a bit there.
And I think going forward we'd expect to see -- some of these trends we've seen come down from Q2 to Q3.
We came down in growth rates in Europe and we're expecting that we'll see some modest slowing in Q4 in our numbers as well.
So I wouldn't call it anything dramatic or any particular single market that we're looking at.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then you noted $300 million in acquired revenues in the quarter.
I was just wondering if given the macro economic environment and the dislocation we've seen in the market has there been any change in the acquisition environment? Any change in multiples? Are targets more anxious to sell? I would say that there's not been a lot of change since last quarter.
It still remains a market that I think there are opportunities out there but valuations still from historical standards remain relatively high.
And so we've kept our discipline in our pricing on acquisitions.
But I think the pipeline at the moment is reasonable.
But it's the -- we're heading towards the end of the year so it's always variable as to what we think we have in the pipeline that might actually close.
But I would characterize the environment as largely similar some uncertainty in the acquisition environment related to economic trends.
It always cast a bit of a pall over it.
But on the other hand plenty of liquidity which is keeping valuations in many segments at pretty high historic levels.
Our next question comes from Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> So you saw a large reversal in your construction base revenue between 2Q and 3Q.
What do you think it says about the overall markets? I know you talked about penetration.
But also your dec surfaces business has been doing well too regarding commercial Construction.
So how do we characterize commercial and even residential which showed some growth? Well I -- one month isn't a trend in residential.
I mean we've seen some nice turnaround in some numbers here recently but we're still at historically low levels.
So while we're happy with the performance given the trough scenario that John described earlier I would hardly say that we're seeing a -- the end of the tunnel here yet.
But clearly we're pleased with what we saw during the quarter.
I think the way that I would describe it is residential has been bouncing along at this bottom between 500 000 and 600 000 housing starts on an annualized basis changing monthly over the last almost 1.5 years now.
So it's clear that I think a bottom has formed at that level but how we're going to accelerate from that bottom is going to depend I think largely on what happens on a number of fronts.
Certainly the mortgage market some of this refinancing that's being talked about.
But people aren't going to be building new homes in significantly higher volumes until we start to see the housing market begin to function again which means some stabilization in housing prices and working out some of the mortgage issues that still remain: foreclosures mortgage rates et cetera.
So while we've been able to take advantage of some of this short-term in terms of penetration gains I think we're still fundamentally at almost a record-low level here in terms of housing activity here.
The Decorative Surfaces market our end markets that business is a business that is about 2/3 commercial now in North America so it relies more on commercial.
And a lot of the commercial markets they rely on our renovation-related -- retail outlets as an example office refurbishments things like that that have in fact improved somewhat over the course of the year.
So we're happy to see those improvements as well.
On a square footage basis the Dodge Construction data in August showed that the year-over-year comparisons are down now only 6% compared to last year.
So we're probably seeing the bottom in the equivalent of construction start activities on the commercial side with even some categories having actually shown some positive comps year-over-year during the quarter like commercial construction showing 4% improvement warehouses are up 15%.
And still some negative numbers in there as well: Education and healthcare are the ones that are the biggest negatives at the moment.
So I think we're seeing a similar floor sort of form in commercial in terms of start activity but again at some pretty low levels historically.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
The other big topic I think that people ask about is China.
You showed good organic growth in the quarter but a lot of moving pieces.
It seemed like a lot of the commentary was actual improvement in China.
So maybe you could just comment on overall what you're seeing and what businesses maybe are strong and maybe some that are not as strong? Well I think John highlighted some of those in his comments.
I'll try to recap a few of them.
I mean the auto business has been quite strong for us in China as John highlighted in his comments earlier.
The segment revenue data in China was up -- or I should say between China and India it was up in the mid-20s for the quarter.
Our Test and Measurement business has done well in China mid-teen growth rates there in those businesses.
So I think it's spread across a number of different end markets.
And I think our China business overall with the exception of those that are concentrated on the consumer electronics categories where we've seen more weakness lately I think most of the China businesses have been performing in modestly double digits up to the mid-20 kind of double-digit organic growth rates.
So we're not seeing any significant change other than electronics.
Research Division</strong> Okay so it's fair to say you're not seeing significant slowing in the business it's still performing pretty well overall? Yes.
Our next question comes from Jamie Cook with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Peter Chang for Jamie.
So the price/cost relationship as you guys alluded to during the last call was negative for the third quarter.
How should we be thinking about that going into Q4? I know you guys had talked about your price increases would start impacting that.
And then I wanted to kind of dovetail that into -- your incremental margins are going to be pretty strong in Q4 albeit against an easy comp.
Where should we be thinking about those in 2012 in sort of a slow-growth environment? I mean are we talking mid-teens here or sort of in the low 20% range? So on price/cost as we've talked about all year we've been battling cost increases all year.
The costs have stabilized in the third quarter in some cases have gone down in certain categories.
So our price/cost overall for the quarter for the total company is negative 50 basis points.
We expect that to be flat year-on-year in the fourth quarter but an improvement sequentially from the third quarter of this year to the fourth quarter of about 20 basis points.
So we have been putting a lot of price increases in place throughout the year.
Costs have stabilized so that'll be less of an issue as we move forward here.
Regarding margins we do expect margins to be significantly higher than last year.
Last year we had relatively low margins in the fourth quarter in the 12.5% range.
We had a very tough December internationally due to weather and some other issues so we do have an easy comparable.
We expect margins to be in the 14.5% to 15.5% range in the fourth quarter.
We won't -- we can't really comment on margins for the full year at this point.
We typically don't look forward to 2012 at this point in the year.
Research Division</strong> That's fair I thought I'd give it a shot.
One more if I may.
The $1.3 billion in cash most of it's held overseas.
Do you guys have a breakdown of that geographically? I don't have it off-hand.
But generally there's a fair amount in Europe there's a fair amount in Asia and Australia.
So typical where we earn the revenues that's where the cash is.
And we hold that overseas and try to reinvest it in the business as well as make overseas acquisitions.
Certainly there's a tax cost of bringing it back to the U.S.
and that's why we haven't brought it back.
Our next question comes from John Inch with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Did you see any weather-related benefits to your Construction businesses in North America? 3M called out a strong roofing granule business because of the hurricane.
I'm just wondering if you had any associated benefit that you could perhaps tell? We have John we have a modest presence in the residential roofing market but I wouldn't have any data that would at the moment suggest that we saw any improvement there.
And we do also have a modest amount of revenue in the commercial roofing segment.
And I know from having visited a couple of our businesses in that segment during the quarter that they've in fact saw some improvement in their demand based on some retrofitting and reroofing jobs that were weather-related.
But none of those would be significant enough to have provided any commentary in our call today.
Research Division</strong> Yes I know.
And even I wasn't just thinking roofing but just in general because of weather.
I don't know I was just speculating.
We did pick up a little bit of incremental growth in the welding area around the power systems associated with the hurricane.
So typically what happened: power goes out we and other companies ship in generators things of that sort.
So it helped a little bit in the Q3 for our welding business in North America in particular.
Research Division</strong> Okay well that makes sense.
I want to square up your commentary around consumer electronics demand being relatively solid.
I mean 3M missed numbers on the back of consumer electronics weakness and whether it be Philips or other companies and just some of the macro data suggesting that there's a material softening underway.
Why is your business different? Is it -- do you think it's a mix issue a channel the way you kind of go to market issue? Maybe just help us on that kind of square those 2 dynamics.
Well first of all I don't think we said our consumer electronics business was strong.
If we did I think -- I don't think that statement was what we intended to say if it came out that way.
I think what we said was the demand for some of our consumer electronic products remained strong mainly in the smartphone market not -- and somewhat reasonable still in some of the computer-related markets but we're not really into electronics on a broad-category basis in terms of display systems and things like that if that's what you're referencing.
So I would say what we've seen on the demand side has been more related to some of the smartphone markets and some of the higher-end chip markets where we have reasonable penetration.
But in terms of actual consumer end products beyond those our products end up in a lot of different industrial electronic applications as well.
Research Division</strong> Yes I know.
The scripts says "our PC board business" as it pertains to "consumer demand for electronic products remained relatively strong." So is that mix tied to what you just described David smartphones and tablets...
Yes it does John.
I apologize.
Yes that's exactly what it's tied to.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
So overall how would you just characterize kind of your consumer electronics exposure and the position? Do you expect it to kind of hold? Or I mean obviously you can see the data points like everyone else.
Do you expect it to sort of hold or soften a little bit or what? I would expect based on the trajectories we've seen in those segments that we would expect some softening in Q4.
And we've built that into our guidance already yes.
Remember also John that our PC board business is about 70% equipment 30% consumable.
So we still see the front end of the equipment particularly as they launch some of these newer products the equipment sales are still relatively strong because many of these newer products that are being launched require new equipment configurations.
Research Division</strong> No that's helpful.
Just lastly would you be considering any kind of cash repatriation given that -- your commentary that the bulk of your cash is resident overseas? But clearly you still want to do deals in North America.
Certainly it's something we look at all the time.
There is a tax cost to bring it back.
And the economics around it is what's the tax burn versus the investment et cetera? We've been lucky to have enough capital and enough debt capacity in the U.S.
to fund all our U.S.
investments.
And we are making a lot of investments overseas both from a merging market perspective as well as acquisitions.
So we do look at it on a continuous basis to the extent that if there was any kind of tax law change with the repatriation holiday we would certainly take advantage of that.
Our next question comes from Deane Dray with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> For the fourth quarter guidance I know you gave the total revenues within the range.
Do you bracket what the base revenue assumption is for the fourth quarter? The base is in the 5.5% to 6.5% range.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then a question on restructuring.
And this is a question that would suggest going beyond just the incremental restructuring that you're looking to do in the fourth quarter and is already in your guidance.
But it sounds like ITW is in the preliminary stages of what could be a significant portfolio restructuring or simplification.
So I recognize that this is real early and you're probably going to want to talk more about this in December but perhaps you could just frame for us today what that scope might be potential timing and just to clarify what you're thinking about along those lines? Well Dean I think what I would say is that the restructuring that we've indicated in the Q4 numbers are obviously a result of 2 things.
One is we do see some slowing in some end markets that would require some level of restructuring already which we're focused on and the increased activity level in acquisitions over the 1.5 years which also feeds restructuring projects.
Those are probably the 2 primary reasons for the higher fourth quarter level.
In terms of what we would expect to see in terms of restructuring in 2012 and ahead.
Obviously we haven't cast any of those numbers yet but as we look at what we would expect to see from an economic standpoint next year it may well lead to us looking at further restructuring to size our businesses according to what we might see the economic activity levels to look like.
But it'd be premature to talk about that at this stage since we haven't really gone through all of that analyses yet.
But in terms of our continuing business simplification efforts those remain underway and have always been integrated in our restructuring plans and programs along the way.
So there's nothing at the moment that we would highlight as it relates to 2012 or any of that activity.
But certainly as our plans for 2012 begin to firm up and as we begin to look ahead to what the economic scenarios look like we'll certainly share more of that at our Investor Day in December.
But we really don't have anything that at the moment I would flag.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one for me.
On Automotive Aftermarket just if you could update for us the expectations for that business in terms of where you grow from here.
It looks like there's further investments to be made.
And just remind us it doesn't look like there's much in the way of synergies with your OEM side and perhaps that's the attraction.
There is not any significant synergy between the Automotive Aftermarket business and our OEM business.
The OEM business is selling really product into the OEMs as vehicle parts and components.
The aftermarket business is really broken into several categories: maintenance products repair products and then the appearance product categories.
So those are all unique products that don't cross over at all with our OEM business.
The Automotive Aftermarket has obviously some different growth trends: Miles driven are an important factor and age of vehicles.
It's a particularly attractive market overseas in the maintenance and repair categories.
And here -- in the repair category and the appearance categories are probably of higher growth and higher interest.
So they operate differently globally the end markets in Automotive Aftermarket.
But it's an that we've been flagging for the last 3 or 4 years as we have acquired several businesses in that space.
And we like the underlying dynamics of the space.
We think it's got a nice growth characteristic and we like the margin profile of the businesses that we've been able to put together in our portfolio in the Automotive Aftermarket category.
And you may recall we highlighted that as one of our future growth platforms last year.
And I think we will continue to focus on that as we see the opportunities.
Our next question comes from Mark Koznarek with Cleveland Research.
The non-volume hit your margins of 120 basis points.
You called out 50 impact from price/cost.
What is the other? The biggest piece of the other relates to a variety of corporate adjustments the biggest being a mark-to-market on our value of our life insurance policies which cost us about 50 basis points.
Okay.
I'll ask you about that one offline that's a new one on me.
Okay.
Then given -- there's -- you've talked about kind of slowing activity in a variety of areas and a little more cautious here in the fourth quarter.
But you just in your answer to a previous question pointed out that the 4Q base is looking like 6% at the midpoint which is on top of the 3Q level.
I know that we're talking about an easier comparison but that doesn't look like a particularly dramatic slowdown.
Can you kind of square up the caution with the actual numerical guidance that's still pretty reasonable? We had built in 7% in organic growth when we did our forecast last quarter.
Yes our original forecast so it's modestly down from what our forecast had been originally for Q4.
But as you point out very much in line with what we actually saw in Q3.
So I think what we've seen is at least some moderation and slowdown.
You may recall that our original forecast for Q3 was also closer to 7% and we came in at 6.2% so we've seen some modest level of slowing.
I think that's what we would anticipate as we look ahead to Q4 a similar range but not anything dramatic.
Okay.
Final clarification on your acquired revenue outlook.
We're almost at the lower end of your range and you've been clicking off 200-plus per quarter.
Is it -- are you signaling that suddenly there's been a pretty big gap that's emerged between the buyers and the sellers attitude towards valuations? Or are you just being cautious? Well there's a lot of variables that go into citing that number.
Obviously it's based on what we see in the pipeline at the moment and what transactions we think could likely close during the quarter and I think it's based on that.
I think I commented earlier about the environment.
I think the environment from a valuation standpoint still remains in my view challenging.
There's still a lot of expectations of higher valuations that we're not comfortable with.
That has some impact on how we would look at the success rate if you will on closing some of the things that are in the pipeline.
So I think it's probably a twofold question.
One is we're close to the end of the year and there's always things that move around in the pipeline and so trying to predict accurately what the exact number will be for Q4 and therefore for the year is a little more challenging.
And secondly the things in the pipeline that the valuations could change in the last 30 days and we may elect not to be in.
So it is a more volatile environment in that regard.
So it -- a little more caution in our look at the pipeline as we provide these sort of updates on what we see happening is probably reasonable given the environment.
And Mark also the fourth quarter tends to be a slower quarter for acquisition activity generally anyway because of the holidays.
So if you don't have the deal all ready to go before the Christmas season it tends to fall into the next year.
Okay.
And Ron what was the pipeline? I think I missed that earlier.
The range is $800 million to $1 billion.
No the size of the pipeline at present? I don't think we disclosed that.
The pending deal portfolio the pipeline that you guys often mention? Mark we don't have that number with us here but we'll see if we can find that.
But it's probably somewhere in the $500 million to $700 million range.
Our next question comes from Eddie Szeto with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So just looking at your capital allocation policy.
It looks like you guys just did $400 million of buyback this quarter -- $400 million this quarter $550 million last quarter.
Any change in kind of the buyback attitude or preferences for free cash? No real change.
We've always wanted to have a balanced capital allocation and certainly depending on the environment the mix of the different components changes.
We -- as we talked about year-to-date we've returned to shareholders almost $1.5 billion in dividends and share repurchases and we've spent $1.2 billion on acquisitions.
So we've been able to remain relatively balanced.
We are slightly above the high end of our target debt-to-cap range of 20% to 30% but we've always said that's a guideline and we're willing to go above that for the right kind of investments.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just on the repurchase for 3Q could you give us some sense of the balance of that over the 3 months? Was it more September-weighted? Or anything that would be helpful.
Yes we don't typically disclose that.
We were active throughout the quarter let's just put it that way.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And then do you guys have any updates on the finishing business the divestiture there? That would be helpful.
We continue to work with Graco and the FTC to gain the FTC approval.
I think as was noted in our last call there was a second request made by the FTC for additional information which we and Graco have provided.
And we're working through the remaining questions the FTC has with the hopes of getting their approval and clearance sometime in the next 60 days or so.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just last question for me.
It looks like you guys have a $24 million $25 million other income item this quarter.
Just anything there would be helpful.
The biggest component in there we had translation gains that were favorable versus last year by about $10 million.
These are assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency.
In this case U.S.
dollars held by international operations.
And as you know the dollar strengthened significantly especially in the month of September.
Next question? [Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Ajay Kejriwal.
Research Division</strong> So just first on Industrial Packaging and I apologize if you already answered this question.
I jumped on late.
Looks like North America base revenues came in very nice 8.1%.
Maybe any color by what you saw sequentially? And then any early read into October? Well I don't have the sequential data for the quarter if that's what you mean.
But I think what I would say is that we have seen as I think John pointed out in his earlier commentary the equipment businesses have remained stronger than the consumable businesses equipment businesses still in -- modestly in the double digits and the consumable businesses in the lower-single digits.
So we're seeing they're pretty much in line with the activity levels that we would've expected at this stage in those businesses.
I don't really give you a read on Q4 that's much different than what we saw in Q3.
The early look at our Q4 numbers would suggest sort of in line with what we saw overall growth to be on a comparable basis probably up in the mid-single digits for the category as we head into Q4.
But not a lot more flavor than that at this stage Ajay.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a follow-up on that pricing discussion.
It sounds like you expect pricing materials to be a positive in the fourth quarter.
Any early thoughts into expectations for next year assuming materials remain where they are? Would you expect to keep pricing? Or could you give back some pricing as materials ease? Ajay so first of all to clarify the price/cost fourth quarter '11 expected versus fourth quarter '10 we expect to be flat year-on-year -- Research Division</strong> But I thought you said sequentially that's a positive? Sequentially it's positive because what we do -- yes as we put price increases in place we expect to hold those even as costs moderate a bit.
So that's what we would expect going forward here.
Assuming that raw material costs stay where they're at that should be some benefit into '12.
So on a relatively stable environment Ajay what we would normally see is that the prices will generally hold.
In some cases we have to provide some price relief if the commodity costs go down but we generally are able to protect margins better in a declining commodity environment than obviously we are in a rising one.
Our view at the moment for 2012 on most of these commodities is we'd expect to see a relatively stable environment entering the year which means that when we do develop our final numbers for 2012 we'd expect to probably see some positive price comp -- price/cost comps for the year.
At this time we have no additional question.
Okay.
Thanks everybody.
We appreciate you participating in the call and we'll be talking to many of you later.
Thank you very much.
Have a good day.
Thank you for joining today's conference.
That does conclude the call at this time.
All participants may disconnect.
Welcome and thank you for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is also being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I'd now like to turn the meeting over to Mr.
John Brooklier.
Thank you.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and welcome to ITW's Fourth Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
As is our normal practice our CEO David Speer; and our CFO Ron Kropp had joined me to discuss our solid fourth quarter financial results as well as our 2012 earnings forecast.
Here's the agenda for today's conference call.
David will provide brief commentary on our fourth quarter highlights.
Ron will then cover our Q4 financial results in more detail.
I will then talk about our fourth quarter operating highlights based on our reporting segments and then Ron will come back to talk about our full year '12 and Q1 forecast.
Finally we'll open the last 30 40 minutes of the call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] A couple of housekeeping items.
Please let me remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including without limitation statements regarding operating performance revenue growth diluted income per share from continuing ops diluted net income per share restructuring expenses free operating cash flow acquisition activity tax rates end market conditions and the company's related forecast.
Please refer to our 2010 [ph] Form 10-K for more details on our forward-looking statement.
One other note.
The telephone replay for this conference call is (800) 704-0516.
No passcode is necessarily.
The playback number will be available until 12 midnight on February 14.
Now let me introduce David Speer who will highlight our Q4 accomplishments.
David? Thank you John.
We're pleased with both our fourth quarter and full year operating results.
Beginning with the 2011 fourth quarter we had a solid total revenue and organic growth of approximately 10% and 6% respectively.
Our North American and Chinese businesses led the way with organic revenue growing approximately 9% and 10% respectively.
While European demand slowed we still produced organic growth of nearly 3% in that geography.
We delivered strong diluted EPS growth of 36%.
We produced operating margins of 15%.
That was substantially higher than the year-ago period.
7 of 8 reporting segments reported operating margin improvement in Q4.
We generated robust strong free operating cash flow of $617 million representing a strong free cash to net income conversion rate of 140%.
It also represented a second consecutive quarter where our free cash flow conversion was well over 100%.
For the full year 2011 we delivered record revenues of $17.8 billion with our organic revenues growing 7.5%.
We generated $2 billion of income which was a record from continuing operations.
This represented a strong operating EPS growth of 41%.
And we produced operating margins of 15.4% which was 80 basis points higher than the full year 2010.
All in all it was a very strong fourth quarter and 2011 for ITW.
These results placed us at a solid starting point for 2012.
Now let me turn the call back to Ronald Kropp who will give you a more detailed analysis of our Q4 operating performance.
Thanks David.
Good morning everyone.
Here are the highlights for the fourth quarter.
Revenues increased 10% primarily due to higher base revenues and acquisitions.
Operating income was $647 million which was higher than last year by $165 million.
Operating margins of 15% were higher by 270 basis points.
Diluted income per share from continuing operations was $0.90 which was higher than last year by $0.24 and was in the middle of our forecast range of $0.86 to $0.94.
Finally free operating cash flow is very strong at $617 million or 140% of net income.
Now let's go to the components of our operating results.
Our 10.4% revenue increase was primarily due to the following factors: First base revenues were up 5.9% with North American base revenues increasing 8.7% and international base revenues up 3.0%.
Within international Europe was up 2.6% China was up 9.8% and Australia and New Zealand was down 2.1%.
Next acquisitions net of divestitures added 4.7% to revenue growth.
Finally currency translation decreased revenues by 0.4%.
Operating margins for the fourth quarter of 15% were higher than last year by 270 basis points.
The base business margins were higher by 330 basis points with the higher sales volume contributing 160 basis points and the positive impact of non-volume items increasing base margins by 170 basis points.
The increase in base margins from non-volume items was due to better variable margins lower overhead costs and favorable corporate adjustments.
Unlike the prior quarters of 2011 price cost had only a minimal margin effect of negative 10 basis points.
In addition the overall margins were lower by 30 basis points due to higher restructuring expenses and the dilutive impact of acquisitions reduced margins by 20 basis points.
The net margins from acquisitions including amortization of intangibles from step ups were 10%.
Excluding amortization acquisition margins were 21.2%.
When I turn it back over to John he'll provide more details on the operating results as he discusses the individual segments.
In the non-operating area interest expense was higher by $10 million primarily due to the new long-term debt issued in August and other income and expense was favorable by $5 million.
The fourth quarter effective tax rate of 27.2% was higher than last year's rate of 25.6% but was lower than the forecasted rate of 29% which added $0.02 per share to earnings.
The full year 2011 tax rate was 22.2% or 28.6% excluding the one-time benefit in the first quarter related to the Australian tax case.
Our cash position decreased $141 million in the fourth quarter as our free operating cash flow of $617 million was utilized for acquisitions of $110 million dividends of $174 million and debt repayments of $544 million.
For the full year revenues were up 15.4% and margins were higher by 80 basis points.
Excluding the $0.33 favorable impact of the Australian tax case full year EPS from continuing operations was $3.75 or 30% higher than 2010.
Our total revenue increase for the full year of 15.4% consisted of a base revenue increase of 7.5% acquisition impact of 4.8% and favorable translation of 3.1%.
The higher full year base business margins of 120 basis points were partially offset by the dilutive impact of acquisitions of 40 basis points.
For the full year we generated $1.6 billion of free operating cash flow a $400 million increase from 2010.
This free cash flow plus debt increases of $1.1 billion were utilized for dividends of $680 million share repurchases of $950 million and acquisitions of $1.3 billion.
For 2012 we expect to generate more than $2 billion of free operating cash flow.
Approximately $700 million is expected to be used to pay dividends with the remainder allocated to acquisitions and share repurchases as appropriate.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Total invested capital decreased $250 million from the third quarter primarily due to lower working capital and currency translation.
Accounts receivable DSO and inventory months on hand were the same as of third quarter levels at 58.7 days and 1.8 months respectively.
For the fourth quarter capital expenditures were $94 million and depreciation was $83 million.
ROIC for the fourth quarter was 14.5% which was higher than Q4 last year by 120 basis points primarily due to the stronger operating results.
On the financing side our debt level decreased $573 million from the third quarter due to lower Commercial paper borrowings and currency translation.
Our debt-to-capital ratio decreased to 28% from 32% last quarter.
We had cash on the balance sheet of $1.2 billion as of December 31 almost all of which is held overseas.
During the fourth quarter we acquired 7 companies which have annual revenues of $86 million.
As a result for the full year 2011 we've acquired 28 company's representing annualized revenues of $867 million.
81% of our acquired revenues in 2011 were focused on our emerging market and platform growth initiatives.
Although we paid a higher overall revenue multiple for the 2011 deals we acquired higher growth higher-margin businesses in 2011.
Acquisition margins excluding amortization were 16.2% for full year 2011.
In January 2012 we closed on the Brooks Instrument acquisition.
Brooks has annual revenues of $210 million and will become part of our growing Test &amp; Measurement platform.
Serving end markets such as mobile computing microelectronics LED energy and life sciences Brooks manufactures devices that measure and control the flow of gases and fluids in applications where gas and fluid must be regulated with ultra-precision accuracy as part of the manufacturing process.
I will now turn it back over to John who will provide more details on our fourth quarter operating results.
Thanks Ron.
Let's begin with our Transportation segment where Q4 '11 organic revenues grew 8.7% compared to the year-ago period.
As usual the segment's Q4 organic revenue growth was led by our auto OEM businesses.
These units produced worldwide organic growth of nearly 8% a notable achievement when you consider that worldwide auto builds only grew 1% in the quarter.
It's clear that our product penetration that's our ability to put additional value-adding products on car platforms continues to be a real differentiator for the ITW auto businesses.
Taking a closer look at our organic revenues our Q4 North American and European base organic revenues increased 8% and 7.7% respectively.
Notably our Asia-Pacific auto OEM businesses produced an organic revenue increase of more than 23% in the quarter with substantial growth coming from our Chinese auto businesses.
In the other pieces that relate to this segment our auto aftermarket businesses Q4 organic revenues increased 5.6% and growth emanated both from our transportation materials as well as our consumer-based businesses.
Finally our truck remanufacturing and parts and service business grew organic revenues nearly 20% largely due to continuing strength associated with Oil &amp; Gas field exploration in the Western United States and Canada a good strong performance from our overall Transportation segment.
Moving to our Power Systems &amp; Electronics segment.
Once again they produced double-digit organic growth in Q4 versus the year-ago period.
Total segment organic revenues grew more than 10% in Q4 and once again was led by our Welding businesses.
Our worldwide Welding organic revenues increased nearly 23% in the quarter with North America and international Welding revenues growing roughly 25% and 16% respectively.
These strong growth metrics worldwide were tied to high levels of project activities associated with Oil &amp; Gas heavy equipment and infrastructure.
Please note that both our European and Chinese Welding businesses grew organic revenues substantially in the quarter.
It was a different story in our electronics category where weakening end market and softer consumer demand resulted in less impressive results.
Our total electronic businesses produced an organic revenue decline of 7.7% in the quarter and both our PC board fabrication and our other electronic businesses both generated negative organic growth in the quarter.
Moving to industrial packaging.
Q4 organic revenues grew roughly 4% versus the year-ago earlier period and this was largely a tale of 2 geographies.
In our total North American industrial packaging businesses organic growth was 7.3% in the quarter with our strapping and equipment units posting organic growth of nearly 11%.
It was a different story internationally.
Our total international industrial packaging units generated organic growth of only 1% in the quarter with international strapping and equipment organic revenues growing about [ph] 1.5%.
In addition our worldwide protective packaging business grew organic revenues nearly 6% while our worldwide stretch packaging units generated a revenue decline of approximately 3%.
Moving to food equipment.
Segment organic revenues grew 3.9% in the quarter versus the year-ago period and that was directly related to better-than-expected equipment sales in North America and improving organic revenues for our worldwide service businesses.
Remember service represents roughly 1/3 of the overall segment activity.
In North America total food equipment organic revenues increased 6.1% with equipment sales growing 7.5% and service sales growing 4.1%.
North American equipment sales were boosted by an improving CapEx spend by customers in areas such as restaurants supermarkets as well as some colleges and universities.
Internationally equipment sales increased only about 0.5% as CapEx spending lagged in Europe.
The better news was that our international organic revenues for our services businesses grew roughly 4.5% in the quarter.
Let's move on to our construction product segment where our organic revenues grew 2.6% in Q4 compared to the year-ago period.
Probably not a big surprise that the biggest contributor to organic growth was due to better construction demand in North America especially in the United States.
In North America organic revenues grew a surprisingly strong 9.1% as all construction categories produced increases in the quarter.
Notably in the residential businesses organic revenues grew more than 12% as U.S.
housing starts continue to show modest signs of improvement.
And in our commercial construction and renovation categories organic revenues increased 7.5% and 7.7% respectively.
Not surprisingly the news was less favorable on the international side.
Total international construction organic revenues were essentially flat in Q4 with Asia-Pacific declining more than 2%.
That's largely because the Australian and New Zealand businesses were negatively impacted by disappointing housing starts in the quarter.
The better news was that our European construction businesses produced organic growth of roughly 3% in the quarter.
Thanks in large part to reasonable end-market demand in countries such as France Germany and the U.K.
In our Polymers &amp; Fluids segment organic revenues grew a little more than 3% in the quarter versus the year-ago period.
Q4 organic revenues reflected some modest pullback in demand in a handful of the worldwide industrial base niche markets particularly in Europe and parts of Asia.
In Q4 worldwide polymer organic revenues grew 3.2% as top line contributions from our international and North American businesses were roughly equal.
We did experience however a loss on an international polymers contract that accounted for the -- for most of the segment's year-over-year margin decline.
The smaller worldwide fluids portion of the segment produced organic revenues of 3.2% with nearly all of this growth coming from international businesses and associated end markets.
By specific geography North American and Asia-Pacific led the total segment's organic revenue growth increasing 6% and roughly 5% respectively in the quarter.
And European organic revenues were essentially flat in Q4.
Moving to our other construction-related segment decorative surfaces.
Organic revenues grew 3.5% in the quarter versus a year-ago period and organic revenues were largely tied to contributions from the North American businesses where organic revenues increased more than 5% in the quarter.
North American organic revenues were driven by Wilsonart's premium product positioning in the high pressure laminate category as well as increased demand from the office furniture category.
The modest improvement in the major construction categories especially Commercial sector which is a big component of the segment also contributed to organic growth.
Internationally organic revenues grew a little bit more than 1% as stronger growth in Asia was mitigated by slower growth in Europe particularly in France and the U.K.
And finally on our All Other segment.
Organic revenues grew 6.5% in the quarter versus a year-ago period much like what we saw in earlier quarters.
Revenue growth was largely driven by the Test &amp; Measurement businesses where organic revenues increased 15.6% in the quarter.
That's largely due to increased CapEx spending across a broad set of end markets and geographies.
Notably Test &amp; Measurements organic revenues grew 18% in North America and 13% in Europe in the quarter.
In our other businesses consumer packaging we saw organic revenues increase roughly 4% as our beverage packaging foils and decorating businesses all contributed to organic growth.
Finally our industrial/appliance businesses produced an organic revenue decline of a little bit more than 2% in the quarter due to ongoing weakness in demand in the worldwide appliance sector.
This concludes my segment remarks.
I'll now turn the call back over to Ron who will cover our 2012 forecast.
Ron? Thanks John.
For the first quarter of 2012 we are forecasting diluted income per share from continuing operations to be within a range of $0.89 to $0.97.
The low end of this range assumes a 6% increase in total revenues versus 2011 and the high end of the range assumes a 9% increase.
The midpoint of the diluted EPS range would be 6% higher than last year excluding the first quarter 2011 impact of the Australian tax case.
For the full year 2012 our forecasted EPS range for continuing operations is $4.02 to $4.26.
This range assumes a total revenue increase of 5% to 8%.
The EPS midpoint of $4.14 would be 10% higher than 2011 excluding the impact of the Australian tax case.
Other assumptions included in this forecast are exchange rates holding at current levels restructuring costs of $70 million to $80 million for the year and a tax rate range between 28.5% and 29.5% for the first quarter and full year.
Note that beginning in 2012 we are discontinuing the monthly release of rolling 3 month revenue data.
We believe that providing this data monthly has resulted in a disproportionate amount of focus on short-term revenue data versus long-term operating performance.
We will continue to provide detailed revenue data each quarter by segment as part of our normal quarterly earnings release.
I'll now turn it back over to John for the Q&amp;A.
Thank you Ron.
We'll now open the call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] First question please.
Our first question comes from John Inch.
Research Division</strong> This seems to be going around this morning this perspective that somehow you've lowered your guidance.
I don't see any sort of a tie into the 3% to 5% organic but maybe you could just walk us through that.
Is that true? Have you lowered your guidance in some manner versus the December analyst meeting? No actually.
So in the December analyst meeting what we had talked about explicitly was only base.
And we said base for the full year was 3% to 5%.
We did talk about translation being negative although we weren't specific around a number and certainly that's moved down a bit since December.
And then acquisitions again we weren't explicit.
We have some long-range goals around that but we weren't explicit around the 2012 guidance.
So kind of the way it shakes out is base 3% to 5%; acquisitions 4% to 6% probably in the lower end of that; and translation based on current rates about a negative 2% which gets you to the 6.5%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you are reiterating the 3% to 5% base is that correct? Yes that's correct.
Absolutely yes.
Research Division</strong> While we're on the subject of maybe sort of -- just sort of dotting Is and crossing Ts translation of down to -- what would that equate to in terms of EPS? I think there's a perspective that somehow translation is a massive headwind for you guys this year.
It's about $0.07 year-on-year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly the Brooks deal what kind of a multiple did you pay for it? And are there sort of other similar types of bolt-ons that you're going to build out as part of that? I think it was owned by Emerson before.
Was it not? Yes.
Some time ago yes.
Research Division</strong> Yes it was some time ago yes.
The multiple we paid there yes we don't give specifically purchase price numbers.
But it's in the normal range of what we paid historically between 7 and 8x.
EBITDA.
EBITDA.
Research Division</strong> 7 8x EBITDA.
And that's a multiple of revenues like 1 to 2? Yes it's probably closer to 2 than 1.
Next question from Jamie Cook.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
Just one what are your assumptions for a price cost in 2012? And then my other question is on the construction side of the business.
It sounded like you guys were a little more up [ph] -- I mean in your revenue numbers show that -- and a bunch of other companies have been a little bit more positive on U.S.
construction whether it's housing  starting to improve or Commercial.
So how you're sort of feeling about that business and has your assumptions on the -- I mean do you think you're -- I think you guided 3% to 5% construction at the analyst day.
I mean is there any room for upside there or just how you're feeling about that business in the U.S.
specifically? Okay I'll ask Ron to talk about the price cost first Jamie and then I'll talk about construction.
So on the price cost as you probably have seen it's gotten better as we’ve moved through 2011.
So the beginning of last year I think it was negative 100 basis points then it was 80 then what's it was 50.
And this quarter it was 10.
What we've seen is especially in the fourth quarter plastic and steel really going down but have stabilized in the first quarter.
So we'll have some carryover benefit from some of the price increases we've put in place especially in the back half of the year.
So overall in the first quarter we're looking at between 10 and 20 basis points favorable margin impact.
And for the full year something like 30 to 40.
Research Division</strong> Positive.
Positive.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then yes David just your thoughts on have we finally hit the inflection point? Finally hit the inflection point.
Well let me put it this way Jamie.
We have changed our view since December on residential housing in the U.S.
In December we were less bullish.
We were more looking at a housing start number for the year that was close to 600.
And I think our view now based on some activity levels we've seen over the last several months we feel more comfortable with the numbers likely to be more like 650 to 670 for 2012 which would be a nice improvement over where we started.
So yes we do expect some upside.
And while we've seen some early indications of that as you know this is early in the year and too hard to pencil that in as a straight line but we do see signs that suggest that we should finally see some reasonable improvements in 2012 in the residential housing numbers here in the U.S.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what about your commercial construction your thoughts? Well commercial construction is made up of so many different categories.
We've got some categories that are moving up and some that are still moving down.
So all in I think it will be slightly positive year for commercial construction here.
But I don't think it'll be a strong overall year.
We still got some of those categories that are large that are still on a square footage awarded basis comping negative numbers.
But there are categories like healthcare and some education categories where we're seeing stronger positive comps.
So I think it's going to be a mixed bag depending on project type.
But it would show us some signs that I think as the year progresses we should see better numbers coming out of Commercial.
Next question from Andy Kaplowitz.
Research Division</strong> David if we look at the global M&amp;A markets we had a strong maybe first 3 quarters for you guys last year and then maybe slowed down a little bit and then you just did Brooks in January.
And I think Ron had talked about 4% growth from acquisitions which roughly equates to $700 million.
But is there -- is that conservative? Is it possible that activity can pick up here? Are you seeing any signs of that? It's certainly possible activity could pick up.
I mean as we went into last year we talked about the acquisition of [indiscernible] a lot and it changed a lot during the year because of the market conditions.
And so we've been really trying to focus on those handful of deals that we think makes sense and that are robust enough to stay in the pipeline and actually offer opportunity.
So I would say to the pipeline opportunities are there.
The question is to whether they'll actually end up in transaction.
So we clearly given the nature of the deals we did last year we were able to close several larger deals which was part of our focus in some platforms that we really think have good long-term growth.
Test &amp; Measurement being one of those and Brooks being a fit there.
And certainly the automotive aftermarket being another one and a large deal we did with SOPUS early in 2011 being another one there.
So we continue to remain optimistic.
But frankly the M&amp;A environment is still challenging in terms of finding the right kinds of opportunities and fits at reasonable valuations.
But I expect that we'll continue to be successful in finding those types of deals as we're diligently looking for those fits.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Ron if I could ask you maybe I'm confused but if I look at the 1Q guidance I see relatively decent revenue and maybe slightly lower than I expected incremental margins.
And you just told us the price cost will be positive in 1Q.
So if I look in maybe the restructuring you're doing for the year is it more front-end loaded or is this something else going on in 1Q or am I just confused? It is more front-end loaded.
Our overall estimate for the year is $70 million to $80 million.
$25 million to $30 million of that we've got in the forecast for the first quarter.
So that's having about a 50 basis point negative impact year-on-year in first quarter margins.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so that's the big difference in the thinking? Yes.
Also acquisitions are having a greater impact in the first quarter than they had in the fourth quarter.
Partly due to some of the stronger margin acquisitions like SOPUS falling off and some of the other carryover acquisitions having lower margins.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
But no change in other things no change in the core business correct Ron? No no.
No.
But it should be noted that the restructuring expenses as we see them for 2012 will be much more directed towards international and in particular Europe as we get our businesses right sized from what we expect will be a very slow growth economic environment in Europe.
We also had a very strong first quarter last year so the comp is a bit difficult as well.
Next question from Ann Duignan.
Research Division</strong> Can you guys talk a little bit just following on what you said about expectations for Europe can you talk a little bit about how the quarter progressed? And we always use your industrial packaging business as kind of the leading indicator.
Maybe you could tell us what you're seeing by country and by end market in the region? Well Europe as you saw from the fourth quarter numbers that I think John talked to industrial packaging the numbers there are relatively weak.
And that's the second quarter in the row we've seen that.
So we are seeing a pretty broad weakness across Europe.
I mean the stronger numbers are coming out of Germany but even the strength in Germany is lower than it was 2 quarters ago.
So we're clearly seeing slowing across the European industrial markets in what we're seeing and which is reflective in our 2012 forecast.
And overall we see Europe as a flat market by and large for us for 2012.
There will be some pockets where we'll see stronger growth.
But industrial packaging we expect will be one of those markets that we'll be seeing growth that will be in the low-single digits.
Research Division</strong> But flat overall isn't -- that's not that bad.
No.
No.
Remember that when we talked -- when we're in New York we were talking about our expectations for Europe for the year.
And our expectations were basically sort of flattish with more -- be more problematic in the first part of the year.
And things getting a little bit better as the years progress.
I don't think there's anything we've seen in our numbers that are -- that have been terribly surprising in any of our segments as it specifically relates to Europe.
And as I said in my comments earlier we've had some better than we expected in Welding even parts of food equipment on the service side were a little better than we expected.
But if you look at to David's point if you look at industrial packaging which is the reasonable barometer some of the industrial production activity there right now is reflective of sort of flat demand.
But even with that know that we said that in Q4 we had some reasonable increase in equipment sales in Europe in the industrial packaging area.
So there are clearly signs that things are moving but I'd say at a cautious and somewhat slow pace.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's exactly what I was looking for was just some color around how the quarter ended or progressed versus what you told us in December.
Maybe you could tell -- speak a little bit to the same around the food service sales in North America.
They were -- the equipment sales were much stronger.
Do think that that might have been driven somewhat by pull forward for 100% depreciation? Well there's always -- in food equipment North America there's always some pull forward in the dealer network as they look at stocking incentives and things like that that drive their behaviors.
And that's a year-end phenomenon that we typically see.
So clearly some of that but also clearly some pickup in demand in some categories where orders had been out there if you will and finally placed for deliveries.
So I think we can see it’s some of both.
Some of it's the normal year-end phenomenon of stocking the shelf heading into a new year and picking up on rebates and some of it’s actual project activity that's been released.
But I think as we've highlighted for 2012 we don't expect the equipment side to be a huge step up in terms of increased activity.
It's going to be largely dependent on CapEx and some new store formats but we do expect to see continued improvement in the service business which was up nicely on the quarter.
And then I think the fourth quarter typical pickup had very little to do with the tax incentives.
It's really tied more to rebates and annual rebates.
Our next question is from Deane Dray.
Research Division</strong> First question is a bit controversial but we need to get it aired out.
And maybe you can share for us about this activist involvement and specifically does it change any of the scope and time frame that you all talked about your own internal simplification initiative? You're referring to the relational? Research Division</strong> That would be the one.
Yes.
Well obviously relational like many of our stockholders have perspectives on our business and we're pleased to engage them in understanding what their views are which is what we did during the year.
As it turns out in our discussions with them over several different time periods much of what relational was highlighting is things that we were already focused on.
Some we had been more public in discussing and some we had not been.
So clearly there is -- there are some ideas they have that are much aligned with what we were already working on.
So I think there's been a very productive dialogue and discussion with them.
As it relates to some of the initiatives that we've been working on as you know we've been talking for a while about driving more simplification.
In our business we've talked in the past about some of the things that we do on a centralized basis to do that.
It's clear that as we look across our portfolio of businesses today and particularly in the last 3 or 4 years where we've acquired hundreds of businesses and several billion dollars of additional revenue it is time for us to go back and take a look further at those strategic sourcing opportunities for sure and also some of those structural opportunities that exist inside the business segments as we're grown in these segments now in some new areas that offer the opportunity for probably some more thoughtful level of consolidation and increased focus.
All things we can do without destroying the decentralized approach to end customer access end customer intimacy.
So yes I think to say that the production or the dialogue has been productive I would say yes.
It's largely been in line with things that we were already focused on and it will clearly I think that those dialogues will clearly help I think accelerate our progress in those areas as we move forward because we are committed and we remain focused on long-term shareholder value creation.
And there's no question that hitting some of these complexities and simplicities will drive better returns in the long run but without taking apart the successful model that the company has been built on and it is our 100th year anniversary.
Research Division</strong> Is there anything in your guidance this year that's baking in either some special restructuring charges or actions on this simplification initiative? And how might we see this manifest during the course of 2012? There are no specifics built in around that because we are still developing the parameters for what our expectations are.
But it's clear that as we formulate specific plans that as they become apparent and as we've begin to implement that those metrics will become clear and I expect will have some impact in 2012.
But I would expect the larger impacts to come in 2013 and ahead as these plans you might imagine would take somewhat longer time to put in place and realize the significant benefits that could be available.
Research Division</strong> And just last one for me related to this.
Any update on the sale of the finishing business? And if you -- if this ends up being blocked if that comes back into operating results isn't that an accretive event? Let me answer about the process.
I'll ask Ron to answer about the last part of the question.
As you know in April we entered into a purchase agreement with Graco to sell the operations of our finishing business for $650 million in cash.
Our goal all along has been to work with Graco and the FTC to get that completed.
The FTC has raised a number of objections which Graco is now in the process of addressing.
And our hope is that in the coming weeks that Graco will be able to get the FTC's clearance to move forward with the transaction in which case we hope to be able to close that transaction in the coming months.
But obviously FTC approval is paramount to making that happen or a consent order with some remedies that the FTC will find acceptable to make that happen.
So that has not yet happened.
And there's no clear timeline for that happening although our lawyers tell us they would suspect that the FTC would reach some kind of a decision over the next 2 to 3 months.
So that's where the process stands.
I'll let Ron answer the second half of your question.
So Deane if for some reason as we work through this process it ends up being blocked certainly we would want to explore other alternatives for this business including do we want to have a broader sale process? So I wouldn't assume that it would necessarily come back into continuing operations immediately.
But certainly if it did it would have some accretive impact.
But I would not assume that.
Our next question comes from Eli Lustgarten.
Let's just follow-up one final point.
Is there a reasonable expectation that we can see an accelerated divestiture program from ITW? I mean that's the part that keeps coming up when I talk to clients all the time as part of this agreement with the activists.
So is that a reasonable expectation that maybe we'll see some more puts and takes? The acquisition program is well-developed but the divestiture is sort of been viewed as few and far between.
Let me say this Eli we have ramped up our divestiture activities over the last 3 years.
And certainly we continue to look at the portfolio in that regard and certainly the finishing business sale is a clear example of that.
So yes we're spending more time on that.
And we have in fact more businesses right now in the queue for divesture potential divestures than we have in certainly in my tenure at the company.
So over the last I think 10 years we've divested nearly 100 businesses.
So while most of them have been smaller there have been some that have been larger.
So yes I would say that divestiture is something that clearly part of our ongoing look at our portfolio of businesses.
And based on our current strategies and trajectory I would expect that we would see more divestitures going forward.
And Eli we can't really comment publicly around any specifics around potential changes in the portfolio in advance of any [indiscernible].
Yes just following on that.
You indicated 81% of your acquisitions were in emerging markets this year which is probably a very strong statement for the company.
But in the last 6 to 12 months we're looking at emerging markets that are quite muted as far as growth rates and likely to stay that way at least with the first part of 2012.
Is there -- have you -- can you talk about the impact of the weaker emerging market economies on these acquisitions as they come into ITW? Is this causing a little more dilution than you expected? Are you handling this? Are you not seeing this weakness that we're hearing across the board and from a lot of countries? Can you give us some color on what's going on as we went through these 81% acquisitions? So first of all Eli the 81% of the acquired revenues relates to both emerging market growth initiatives as well as new platform opportunities.
So that's not all emerging markets.
Certainly we did a number of deals in emerging markets those tend to be the smaller bolt-on deals.
I think we did 9 emerging market deals in 2011.
And as we model out these acquisitions especially given the high growth rates we've seen historically we do build in some mitigation of that going forward.
Obviously places like China can't grow at 15% to 20% forever.
So while certainly it will have impact on our results it won’t have an overall impact on our investment returns or anything like that.
And while emerging markets are muted they're muted from high double-digit increases.
So even next year we're looking at high-single digits to low double-digit increases for Asia Pacific for instance.
Next question from Andy Casey.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a lot of questions have been answered but a question on the quarter.
Can you give a little more detail on the food equipment operating margin specifically the non-volume and overhead piece? Those kind have been bouncing around year-over-year each quarter this year and yet a pretty big improvement 480 basis points in Q4.
Can you give us a little more color behind that? Yes sure.
So price costs was basically flat in that segment year-on-year.
We had overall lower overhead cost that contributed about 110 basis points.
We had some inventory-related adjustments pickups in inventory reserves change in inventory standard cost.
This segment is also on LIFO and there's some positive LIFO adjustments that had an impact.
And then we had some overall improvements in variable margin rate that added 120 basis points.
For a variety of reasons mix is one.
We also had some unfavorable issues in our service business last year in the fourth quarter.
So all that together added up to positive 480 basis points.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Ron on the price cost should that improve as we go through 2012? Well definitely I think the second quarter will be the strongest.
And then if you remember we started getting more and more price increases put in place in the back half of the year.
So the impact of those will mitigate.
So 10 basis point 10 to 20 basis points in the first quarter; second quarter stronger than that.
Overall for the year 30 to 40 positive.
And at the moment we're seeing fairly stable prices for most of the major commodities.
So lacking any further upward movement I think Ron's point of view is that the trajectory should be reasonable going forward.
But we have to wait and see.
Steel and plastics have certainly leveled off at the moment but they were fairly volatile mid-last year.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then one last one just kind of a clarification I think of an answer that you gave to Eli's question about the divestitures and you answered I believe something to the effect of it's one of largest chunks of revenue that's been up for divestiture.
Are you including the finishing business in that comment? Well the finishing business is obviously up for divestiture it's in discontinued operations at the moment and we're readily trying to sell it.
So yes I would be including finishing in that comment.
Next question from Stephen Volkmann.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Wondering if you can just help me think about the incremental margin for 2012.
It looks like if I'm calculating it right it's kind of low 20s is the way you've given your guidance at the midpoint.
I guess I felt like price cost probably is a slight positive for you in 2012.
And obviously you had some restructuring.
I think we talked briefly about it in the analyst day which should have some benefit as well and then I think you had a couple of fairly high margin acquisitions last year.
So the step up accounting the short-term step up on that was probably a little higher than usual.
So I felt like there were a few tailwinds going into 2012 and so I guess I was a little surprised that the incremental wouldn't be a little higher.
So I guess what am I missing with the offset or are we just being a little conservative? So what you're looking at is the total company incremental which  includes restructuring and acquisitions.
The base is substantially higher than that more typical in our 35% to 40% range for the year.
So certainly restructuring higher restructurings mitigating the overall company incrementals as well as acquisitions.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess that does it.
And then just a quick one.
Ron I think you mentioned that you'd have a fair amount of cash left over for purchases and repurchases of stock.
It looks like you have enough to do both your acquisitions and some repurchases.
But then you said most of your cash is in Europe.
Does that have any implication vis-à-vis repurchasing? Well certainly to the extent we have cash overseas that's not just in Europe but overseas generally that makes it more difficult to use that for U.S.
investments of which share repurchases is one.
What we do is we tend to keep our cash overseas for overseas investments.
So to the extent we're buying companies overseas we use that cash.
We also are using our overseas cash for emerging market investments Greenfield investments putting up plants in China for instance.
We could bring it back.
There would be a tax cost to that and if we ever needed the cash we would do that.
But we're perfectly happy leaving it there for our overseas investment opportunities.
And easier on a short term.
Credit facilities is necessary yes sure.
Yes.
We have plenty of credit facility available and plenty of free operating cash flow in the U.S.
in '11 and '12 to use for share repurchases or U.S.
acquisitions.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Excellent.
And I guess I would assume on the divestiture commentary that that might be a little more skewed toward North America? Not necessarily.
I think the current pipeline with finishing in it would describe it as such but I wouldn't put that down as a thesis no.
The next question from Henry Kirn.
Research Division</strong> The Welding business was really strong.
Was there stronger-than-normal year end activity or any changes to competitive dynamics from the recent sale of one of the key competitors? I think the Welding business is just clearly continue to power along on a strength of a couple of really hot end markets.
Oil &amp; Gas and heavy equipment have been very very strong and the demand and needs for equipment and consume [ph] is in those categories continue to strengthen.
So those are the primary drivers in our view as to what's really driving that organization at the moment.
Yes.
I would echo David's comments.
If you look at it and you talk about it by geography I mean North America very strong.
But even the international side diluted to some of the growth coming out of Europe and China I mean double-digit growth in both cases.
Significant growth coming out of Europe surprisingly strong growth.
So I think it's a function of -- in a reasonable -- very very strong demand good positioning in terms of our products good technology.
This is a very very strong business for us and we remain optimistic about its prospects for 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the decision to stop providing the monthly revenue updates could you talk a little bit more about what went behind that and do you intend to update guidance less frequently as well? Well I think to Ron's point when he at least introduced the subject that we were going to eliminate it is that our belief is that over the last number of years it's caused people to take a very very short-term focus around not only revenues but organic revenues.
And while we certainly note that organic revenues are important we'll continue to report those out on the quarter.
We'll give you all the components of organic revenue as we've always done.
So I think our view is that on a quarterly basis you're going to get more -- you'll get more trend data from us as it relates to all the different metrics.
And so we don't think it's a big take away and it allows us to really focus on all the metrics that are important to ITW not only revenues but margins Return on Invested Capital things that are very very important to the ITW story.
So we think it's a more balanced approach on a go-forward basis.
Much more reflective of the way we report our results internally and manage the business.
Yes.
I would say -- around the topic of forecasting updating around forecasting we clearly have the ability to -- in public forums as we're attending different conferences.
We have the ability to give people trend data during the quarter.
So our plan is to try to keep people abreast of the recent developments in the quarter and I think directionally you'll be able to get a sense from us as what we're seeing in the quarters.
Next question from Rob Wertheimer.
I just had one sort of bigger-picture question.
Out of curiosity it seemed as though at the investor day you've talked and you've been talking today about some simplifications some consolidation within units and maybe some 80-20 of the acquisition process itself resulting in higher quality or higher growth deals maybe fewer of them.
How has that impacted your business unit managers? The idea that you can sort of come and grow and add businesses below you and grow your way up the chain.
Is that a cultural and philosophical shift? And are you doing anything proactively to do deal with it or is it maybe not that big a deal? I'm just curious what's bubbling up from the ranks.
No it is the shift for sure.
But we've been building momentum on that now for several years talking about scale does matter on these acquisitions even at those levels.
But first of all strategy managers.
So strategy is about how do these acquisitions fit with the long-term strategy and growth prospects of that segment? And so I think the process over the last several years has been moving the focus on acquisitions to really strong strategic fit with the segment that we're trying to grow and looking more at our business as a series of platforms.
And where does that potential acquisition fit within that platform structure? How will it accelerate our growth in attractive markets? What kind of technology is it going to bring us? And how will that leverage longer-term profitable growth that we would find attractive as opposed to it's a deal in an adjacent space that we might be able to do something more with.
So much more strategic and I think a much more thought through in terms of long-term impact which means that it can still be a bolt-on acquisition but the fit has got to be a lot stronger and a lot better vetted with I think more people than perhaps in the past.
That’s helpful David.
And just one quick follow-up.
Have you had any increased turnover at the business unit manager level? Are you able to retain the top-quality managers you've got in the same way? No not to my knowledge we haven't had any significant turnover.
I haven't looked specifically at numbers at that level.
But no we have not had any significant turnover as a result of what I just described.
It clearly is a shift in terms of the way we ask them to think and operate but it's also still utilizing their skills of understanding their local markets and the opportunities and how to better leverage those against a larger platform view of how we strengthen our market positions on a global basis which is what our customers in our markets expect today.
Not just being strong in one geographic market in one country.
Our major customers want us to be able to offer those opportunities on a global basis.
And it's hard to do that if you're just looking at a one-off opportunity.
Our last question comes from Ajay Kejriwal.
Research Division</strong> Just one clarification if I could on the divestiture comment Dave.
I thought I heard you say you have more in the pipeline compared to what you've done in the last 10 years.
And you've done about 100 divestitures.
So was your comment more in terms of numbers are just the quantum? Just the quantum.
I mean it was really about -- I didn't mean to suggest we have more 100 in the pipeline.
What I meant is that any moment in time we would typically have 4 or 5 in the pipeline.
And now we have somewhat more than that.
And the process is more active as a result of our strategic planning process.
We've done a portfolio review of our businesses within each platform and have identified those that could be likely divestiture candidates.
So we have a much more robust process for dealing with that which I think will lead to a more reasoned approach to how we manage the actual divestiture of businesses going forward.
Research Division</strong> Good clarification.
And then on Brooks looks like a nice add to the T&amp;M platform.
Maybe if you can talk about the opportunity to build that platform out further? And then just on Brooks any color on margins and the synergy opportunities? Well Brooks is as was pointed out is a solid Test &amp; Measurement business that comes with high margins and great growth prospects well-positioned in some nice end markets that we think will bring some good long-term growth opportunities.
A number of Brooks’ customers are also customers of others in our Test &amp; Measurement group.
As you can see from the slide that we presented in the package today well-spread revenues with about half the revenues coming from Asia Europe and the Middle East and about half coming from North America very much precision equipment that measures and controls the flow of gasses and fluids through electronic interfaces.
So very precise use in the production of high-quality products mobile computing microchips microelectronics LED life sciences.
So some very interesting high-growth markets that we think will be good solid markets for us to continue to grow in.
And you might notice some of these end markets are markets we've talked about in some of the other Test &amp; Measurement acquisitions that we've done are also important like some of the acquisitions in the Instron area and with the Speedline electronics and others.
So we think a very solid piece in a number of high-growing market spaces globally.
And this is a market-leading position with good margins.
So we think this is definitely something we can leverage into an even bigger business globally.
Thanks to all who have joined us on the call today.
We will talk to you later and have a good day.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And this does conclude the conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome and I would like to thank you all for holding.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect.
I'd now like to turn with John Brooklier.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Ed.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our first quarter 2012 conference call.
As is our normal practice our CEO David Speer; and CFO Ron Kropp have joined me to discuss our first quarter financial results as well as our 2012 earnings forecast.
Here's the agenda for today's call.
David will provide some brief commentary on 3 important long-term initiatives we have launched in the company as well as discuss some first quarter highlights.
Ron will then cover our Q1 financial results in much more detail.
I'll come back and talk about our first quarter geographic and segment results and then Ron will cover our 2012 Q2 and full year forecast.
Finally we will open the call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We've scheduled one hour for today's call.
A couple of housekeeping items first.
This presentation contains our financial forecast for 2012 second quarter and full year as well as other forward-looking statements identified on Slide 2.
We refer you to the company's 10-K for 2011 for more detail about the important risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.
Also this presentation uses certain non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures is contained in the Appendix and also on our website at www.itw.com.
Finally telephone replay for this conference call is (866) 365-2451.
No pass code is necessary.
Playback number will be available until 12 midnight on May 8 2012.
Now let me introduce David Speer.
David? Thank you John.
Before we address our first quarter results let me make some brief comments on 3 very important long-term company initiatives that we've recently undertaken.
We've received a number of investor questions on these topics over the past few months and we want to share with you what we can at this point.
The 3 areas of focus include: our business structure simplification initiative our strategic sourcing initiative and our portfolio management initiative.
First of all our business structure simplification initiative will essentially result in generally larger-scale businesses within our decentralized operating structure.
These are businesses in most cases with similar customers markets and products where we can improve focus while driving better operating efficiencies and lowering overhead costs.
As this process unfolds you should expect to see larger ITW businesses of roughly $100 million annual revenues.
Internally we're referring to this as our own 80/20 review of our business structure.
We're excited about its long-term benefits for ITW but we'll move cautiously to ensure we maintain our strong customer and market interfaces that have been a hallmark of our success.
Secondly we have hired an experienced consultant to help us develop approaches to better leverage our opportunities for strategic sourcing initiatives across the company.
We're in the later stages of gathering data but we believe this ongoing initiative will add significant value in terms of how we purchase key raw materials such as steel resins and chemicals as well as services such as energy transportation and logistics and other major cost categories.
Finally our portfolio management initiative is built around our long-term strategy to divest assets that we no longer consider core and will allow us to focus on key core business opportunities with strong growth and returns that will help us maximize our long-term returns.
The April sale of our $375 million finishing businesses to Graco is the most recent example of our commitment to proactive portfolio management.
I would like to add that our management team and company are fully committed to all of these initiatives.
These are multi-year programs that will enhance our decentralized operating structure.
We expect the associated strategic benefits and savings from these initiatives will be significant and we anticipate communicating some reasonable details around these initiatives before the end of 2012.
Now moving on to the first quarter.
We believe we delivered very solid results especially in light of the uneven macro environment.
As you will see our North American businesses produced strong results while international businesses reflected slower market conditions primarily in Europe and Asia.
It's worth noting that Europe end-market conditions have met our expectations for the first quarter.
It's also notable that both our EPS performance and operating margins exceeded our expectations.
Congratulations to our people for a job well done in the quarter.
Now let me turn it over to Ronald Kropp who will discuss the recent quarter in greater detail.
Ron? Thank you David.
Good morning everyone.
Here are the highlights for the first quarter.
Revenues increased 6.4% due to higher base revenues and acquisitions.
Operating income was $705 million which was higher than last year at $46 million representing growth of 7%.
Operating margins of 15.5% were 10 basis points higher compared to last year.
Diluted income per share from continuing operations was $0.97 which was at the high end of our forecast range of $0.89 to $0.97.
On a GAAP basis diluted earnings per share were $0.24 lower than last year which included a onetime tax benefit of $0.33 related to a Q1 2001 Australian tax case.
Excluding last year's tax benefit Q1's earnings per share were higher than last year by $0.09 or 10.2%.
Finally free operating cash flow was $239 million for the quarter.
Now let's go to the components of our operating results.
Our 6.4% revenue increase was primarily due to the following factors: base revenues were up 3.2% with North American base revenues increasing 6.6% and mixed international base revenues that were essentially flat overall.
John will discuss the geographic mix in more detail later in the call.
Acquisitions net of divestitures added 4.4% to revenue growth and currency translation decreased revenues by 1.3%.
Operating margins for the first quarter of 15.5% were 10 basis points higher than Q1 2001 -- 2011.
Base business margins increased 120 basis points with higher sales volume contributing 80 basis points.
The positive impact of non-volume items increased base margins by 40 basis points versus last year primarily due to price cost favorability.
In addition margins were lower by 60 basis points due to higher restructuring expenses versus last year and the dilutive impact of acquisitions reduced margins by 50 basis points.
The net margins from acquisitions excluding amortization and other acquisition accounting were 14.5%.
Looking at working capital and cash flow accounts receivable DSO of 62 days was slightly higher than last year and inventory months on hand was flat at 1.9 months.
ROIC for the first quarter was 15.1% which was 60 basis points lower than Q1 last year.
Our ROIC continues to run at our 15% to 17% target range which is significantly above our cost of capital of 9% to 10%.
For the first quarter cash provided from operating activities was $323 million with capital expenditures of $84 million resulting in free operating cash flow of $239 million.
This was $183 million better than Q1 of the prior year.
As discussed in our January earnings call we expect to generate more than $2 billion of free operating cash flow for 2012.
I would now like to make a few comments regarding our capital structure.
First of all our capital allocation priorities are as follows: our first priority for capital continues to be organic investments especially related to our key growth platforms in emerging markets.
Examples of organic investments include R&amp;D spending new CapEx projects such as additional manufacturing capacity in emerging markets and restructuring projects which have long-term margin benefits.
Our next capital priority is dividends.
We have a dividend policy of 30% to 45% of the trailing 2 years free operating cash flow.
During the quarter we paid dividends of $174 million.
Any excess capital after organic investments and dividends are used for external investments either share repurchases or acquisitions.
We evaluate the allocation between these investments based on the best risk-adjusted returns.
During Q1 we spent $474 million to repurchase 8.5 million shares.
In addition we utilized $481 million for acquisitions led by the Brooks Instrument business and the test and measurement growth platform.
Brooks has annualized revenues of $210 million.
Overall during Q1 we returned over $600 million to our shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
As of the end of Q1 we have approximately $3.4 billion of authorized repurchases remaining under our buyback program.
Our debt levels increased $775 million during the quarter with our debt-to-capital ratio at 32% and our debt-to-EBITDA at 1.4x.
We have overseas cash of $1.3 billion and plenty of debt capacity to make additional investments.
We were pleased to complete the sale of our industrial finishing businesses to Graco on April 2 in a $650-million cash transaction.
We estimate the pretax gain on the sale to be approximately $450 million which we will record in the second quarter as part of discontinued operations.
The finishing equipment businesses consist of paint spray systems and technologies for a variety of industrial end markets and applications around the world.
As we have said before acquisitions will remain a key part of our growth strategy but we will continue to selectively divest businesses that no longer fit our core platforms or our long-term growth and return objectives.
I will now turn it back over to John who'll provide more details on the operating results as he discusses the results by geography and individual segment.
Thank you Ron.
Before I get to the actual segment highlights let me take a moment to review our Q1 geographic trends.
There was a not-so-surprising theme that emerged from our Q1 results.
It's clear our North American businesses were the outperformers in the quarter producing organic revenue growth of 7%.
I should note that Q1 industrial production levels in the United States were at mid-single digit levels during the quarter.
Given the mix of macro data we have seen from Europe and Asia Pacific in Q1 it's not surprising that our international organic revenues were essentially flat in the quarter.
Organic revenues in Asia Pacific increased 3% while Europe and South America showed modest declines in organic revenues.
As David noted earlier while European organic revenues were modestly negative in Q1 our businesses in Europe largely performed at forecasted levels.
Now let me move to the segment data.
As you'll note from our new slide presentation deck accompanying the conference call we have all of our segment data essentially contained on one slide now so my comments will relate to this particular slide.
In Transportation this segment largely consists of our auto OEM businesses with smaller revenue contributions from our auto aftermarket and truck remanufacturing business.
Segment organic revenues grew 5.1% in Q1.
For the biggest piece of the business auto OEM auto builds continue to be a key driver of revenue growth.
While worldwide auto builds grew 5% in the quarter versus a year-ago period our worldwide auto businesses produced organic revenues of approximately 7% growth.
We also delivered positive organic revenue growth for all 3 major regions: North America Europe and Asia.
And notably even though European auto builds declined 4% in Q1 our organic revenues grew 6%.
So while some of this outsized performance was due to favorable customer mix it also exemplifies the strong product penetration we have contained within the auto OEM business.
In auto aftermarket our worldwide organic revenues declined about 50 basis points in Q1 as warm weather impacted windshield wiper blades or our Rain-X brand.
Now we encourage people to go out and buy as many windshield wiper blades as possible.
In our truck remanufacturing business our organic revenues grew 7.4% thanks to strong energy development activity in Canada and Western United States.
Moving to our Power Systems and Electronics segment we continue to see very strong demand from our welding customers while our electronics businesses experienced the reverse.
Segment organic revenues grew roughly 7% in the quarter.
Covering welding first our worldwide organic revenues grew a very strong 18.6% with North American organic revenues increasing 19.9% and international organic revenues growing 15%.
As in past quarters strong demand from global heavy equipment manufacturers such as Caterpillar and John Deere as well as energy projects continue to drive welding's double-digit organic growth performance.
They continue to have very very good performance.
In electronics the story was far less positive.
Total electronic organic revenues declined roughly 10% as our businesses were hampered by weak worldwide consumer demand for products as well as some destocking related to these products.
The better news is that we continue to be involved in major capital equipment projects with Apple.
This will help our financial results for our electronics businesses as the year progresses.
Moving to Industrial Packaging.
Our businesses largely reflected industrial production trends in the major geographies.
Put simply North America was stronger and the rest of the world was weaker.
Segment organic revenues grew approximately 2% in the quarter.
In aggregate our total North American Industrial Packaging organic revenues grew 8.4% while our total international Industrial Packaging organic revenues declined 2.4%.
In our Signode steel and plastic strapping equipment businesses worldwide organic revenues declined 60 basis points in the quarter.
And by geography international organic revenues fell 3.6% while North American organic revenues increased 4.8%.
The better news was in our Protective and Stretch Packaging businesses which grew organic revenues 9.5% and 6.1% respectively.
Moving to Food Equipment.
Equipment sales were strong in North America and weaker in Europe and the rest of the world.
In total segment organic revenues grew 1.6% in the quarter.
Moving to the North American part of Food Equipment organic revenues grew roughly 7% in Q1 as equipment sales increased 6.9% and service sales grew 6.5%.
Warewash and food machines for casual dining restaurants and supermarkets performed very well in the quarter.
And the growth in service is largely attributable to productivity enhancements from our field technicians.
Once again it was a different story internationally where total organic revenues declined 3.8% in the quarter.
International equipment sales declined 5.6% largely due to weakness in cooking products for institutional customers in both France and Italy.
Underlying this were project deferrals and lack of government spending which impact the revenues.
On a related note international service organic revenues were essentially flat in the quarter.
Moving to our Construction segment it was once again a tale of 2 geographies.
Our Construction results were positive in North America and declined in Europe and the rest of the world.
Please remember though that because our segment revenues are more weighted to international construction markets segment revenues only grew roughly 1 point in the first quarter.
Total North American Construction organic revenues increased 8.4% in Q1 with the renovation and commercial categories growing 12% and 7.3% respectively.
For the residential category our organic revenues grew 7% in Q1 and we continue to believe that 2012 housing starts will average approximately 700 000 units for the year and represent a firmer foundation for improved housing builds on a multi-year go-forward basis.
Moving to international organic revenues declined 2.5% in the quarter with European organic revenues decreasing 1.4% and Asia-Pacific declining almost 4%.
Once again while Europe grabs all the headlines a bigger issue in Q1 international construction was the weakening economic construction environment in Australia and New Zealand.
In our Polymers and Fluids segment organic growth in polymers and hygiene was positive while organic growth for fluids was negative.
As a result segment organic revenues grew approximately 2% in the quarter.
Very quickly in polymers and hygiene organic revenues were up 3.3% due to increased worldwide demand in both categories.
Polymer organic revenues grew 4% and hygiene organic revenues increased roughly 3%.
In fluids organic revenues declined 1.4% in the quarter largely due to reduced sales for some of our MRO-related products and the impact of recession in Spain.
Moving to our other construction-related segment Decorative Surfaces we generated reasonably strong organic revenue performance from our businesses in an assortment of geographies.
Segment organic revenues grew 4.3% in the quarter.
In North America our Wilsonart high-pressure laminate business produced solid organic revenue growth of 4.4% thanks to innovation and new product designs and ongoing penetration in commercial categories such as office furniture and retail outlets.
Internationally our Decorative Surface business generated organic revenue growth of 4.3%.
In Europe our businesses in France and Germany contributed to organic growth.
And in Asia Pacific our Decorative Surfaces business in Thailand and China produced strong organic revenue increase.
So as you can see from this particular segment just saying Europe's down on a more macro basis doesn't account for some of the activity we have in businesses where we can actually get good results in Europe.
And I'll point you back to what we did on the auto area where our European auto business actually outperformed build metrics there.
Finally in our All Other segment we had varying levels of contributions from our test and measurement appliance and consumer packaging businesses.
Segment organic revenues grew roughly 1% in the quarter.
In test and measurement organic revenues were up 5% as CapEx spend for structural testing equipment cooled a bit in the quarter especially on the international side.
In appliance organic revenues increased 7.1% due to better consumer demand in the North American appliance sector.
We also increased our penetration with some of Whirlpool's top-load high-efficiency washer products.
And finally in the consumer packaging area organic revenues declined 1.6% due to flat performance from our multi-pack businesses and a decline in our decorating businesses.
So at this point I'll conclude my remarks and I'll turn the call over to Ron who will cover our 2012 forecast.
Ron? Thanks John.
For the second quarter of 2012 we are forecasting diluted income per share from continuing operations to be within a range of $1.08 to $1.16.
This range assumes an increase in total revenues of 3.5% to 6%.
The midpoint of the Q2 diluted EPS range of $1.12 would represent a growth of 16% versus last year.
For the full year 2012 our forecasted EPS range for continuing operations is now $4.14 to $4.38.
This range assumes a total revenue increase of 5% to 7%.
The EPS midpoint of $4.26 would be 13% higher than 2011 excluding the Q1 2011 tax benefit of $0.33.
This EPS midpoint is $0.12 higher than our previous forecast from January and is driven by the first quarter $0.04 outperformance plus an $0.08 benefit from completed and forecasted share repurchases.
In addition the benefit of $0.03 from better-than-originally-expected base business performance is offset by higher projected restructuring costs which took away $0.03.
I will now turn it back over to John for the Q&amp;A.
Thanks Ron.
Now we'll open the call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll start the questioning now.
[Operator Instructions] And our first one comes from Andy Kaplowitz.
Research Division</strong> It's Alan Fleming standing in for Andy this morning.
I wanted to ask you about your 2012 revenue outlook.
It seems like you brought -- you did bring the top end of the range down a little bit.
Wanted to see if that's more conservative kind of given the uneven macro environment? Or are you seeing particular softness in some markets if you could comment on that? Well I think our comment would be -- what we've seen in the first quarter was clearly softer markets in Asia and I think that's what we're really as we look forward are projecting forward.
As John said earlier the European performance was largely in line with what we expected.
But I think the big delta from a geographic standpoint in our revised guidance is more about what we see happening in Asia which has proven to be somewhat weaker in the beginning of the year than what we had anticipated.
And at this time we don't really see any catalyst that suggests it's going to get significantly stronger during the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Wanted to ask one follow-up.
What are you seeing in terms of price cost? Is there any change in your outlook from last quarter throughout the balance of the year? Are you seeing improved price costs? Do you still expect next quarter to be kind of the best quarter for price cost? So as we talked about when we put our guidance at the beginning of the year we expected to have favorable price cost this year assuming that raw materials kind of stayed where they were at.
So in the first quarter it was a little bit better than we expected.
That's 40 basis points positive.
And we're looking as we look out at the rest of the year that the full year would be a similar amount 30% to 40% -- 30 to 40 basis points positive.
From a raw materials side it's a bit of a mixed bag.
Resin has been up significantly especially PET and polypropylene.
Steel has been pretty stable.
Stable -- flat to down in the quarter but pretty stable from an outlook perspective as well.
And chemicals has been up 3% to 5%.
Our next question comes from Rob Wertheimer.
It's Vertical Research Partners.
Just a couple of quick questions.
Is there any issue at all from the Evonik the CDT resin either directly in your products or just indirectly on auto build that you've heard about yet? I'll take the question Rob.
We've checked with our auto people and what they're telling us right now is that there's no impact on our business.
We have very little to do with the actual nylon 12 that's actually part of I think principally brake linings.
So very little to do with us directly.
Clearly we would be more interested in what's going to happen in a non-direct way with OEMs and what it does to overall production.
What we're hearing and what we're seeing currently is that the OEMs are getting together and they're trying to get additional information trying to source additional materials and doesn't seem to be any immediate impact.
We believe there's enough inventory in the channel right now to handle this.
But we'll keep you posted if we hear anything differently.
Really about what happens to them and their production.
Is not a material that we're using directly.
But obviously their extent to build vehicles will impact us if the shortage ends up cutting their production.
For sure.
Okay.
And then just a quick one on food service.
I had the impression you'd lost a little bit of share maybe falsely but just confirm what we heard in the channel in the U.S.
over the past year or 2.
Have you -- are you gaining share? Or are you sort of up in line with the industry you think this quarter? Well I think it depends on the segment.
I mean if you're looking at the institutional segment which is a big segment for us there's no question that it's been an uneven environment for the last several years because a lot of those projects are funded by government sources and the government funding has been uneven at best.
So that's a category that's been quite volatile if you will from an equipment spend situation.
I would say in the casual dining category I would not characterize what we've done or what our performance has been as a loss of any share.
But I can tell you that as that category looks at equipment replacements and menu changes and so forth it does impact how equipment rolls out in those categories.
So it's not an even process.
But I would say overall right now I don't think I would characterize us having lost any significant share positions.
Rob I would point you back to the numbers I gave earlier when you talk about North America.
Our North America organic revenues grew approximately 7% in the quarter and both equipment and sales were up roughly 7%.
So I think that...
Which would have been our strongest quarter in some time.
Yes one of our better quarters.
So I think that that -- I think that our Food Equipment people are encouraged by what they see in Q1 and they're going to try to build on that.
Our next question will come from Jamie Cook.
Research Division</strong> Crédit Suisse.
Two questions.
One on the lower slightly lower sales forecast.
Can you just talk about whether there's any change in your incremental margin assumptions with and without restructuring and acquisitions? And then I just guess my second point just in term -- questions longer term in terms of your longer-term initiatives that you talked about in the beginning of the quarter and we're hearing more and more about.
Can you just talk about sort of the latest and what you're thinking about potential divestitures? Are you willing to put a new number out there now that the finishing business is officially gone? I mean a percent of assets at this point that you think you would potentially divest or are looking at for divestiture? Jamie let me let Ron answer the beginning of your question and I'll take the latter part.
So the question on margins incremental margins.
So as you saw we've taken down the overall revenue guidance a bit but we've taken the overall earnings up in -- from a base business performance perspective it's adding $0.03 per share.
So we are getting some incremental margin benefit from the core businesses.
The incrementals in the first quarter for the base businesses were 53%.
So we had a very strong margin performance quarter from our base businesses.
We expect to see very strong incrementals continue throughout the year.
Overall for the year probably in the -- close to 40% for the full year in base business incremental.
So that's certainly helpful.
Offsetting that is obviously the increased restructuring.
We've bumped that up a little bit which took $0.03 out of the guidance.
Research Division</strong> And then just because I think last time you were guiding more to like a 35% incremental versus the 40% on the base business what's changed it? Is it the price feeling more comfortable with the price cost? Is it mix with more North America? I just want to make sure I understand the puts and takes.
It's probably a little bit of price cost but it's really just better performance.
Better efficiencies better cost reduction benefits et cetera.
Research Division</strong> And then I'm sorry the last question just on divestitures? Yes on portfolio management Jamie what I would say is that as we've said over the last probably 1.5 to 2 years now we're taking a lot more aggressive look at our own portfolio of businesses and being more proactive in looking at things that we consider to be core or non-core pieces long term.
And as you pointed out the finishing businesses that we sold to Graco in the first quarter -- or I should say in early April were an indication of a set of businesses that we consider no longer core.
And so we move forward to find the appropriate divestiture strategy for those.
There are other businesses like that that is part of our proactive portfolio management we'll consider.
And undoubtedly there'll be more activity.
But at this stage I wouldn't want to be in a position to quantify it because we're not far enough along to be able to talk about those things publicly.
But we have an active program under way and you can expect that there'll be other divestitures as you'll see come forward over the coming months and year.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask the question slightly differently then relative to -- when we were talking about this perhaps at the Analyst Day in December or even 6 months ago is the amount of businesses potentially up for divestiture larger while you don't want to put a percentage up? Or is it about the same? Well if you look at the pattern here I mean the divestiture of the finishing business was truly a larger divestiture than the ones we had done prior.
So there's no size range that was off limits if you will.
And I would say that based on what we've been looking at the size range is probably somewhat larger than what we had seen in the past.
In the past if you go back I think the time period from '06 to 2010 the average divestiture was more in the $50 million to $60 million range.
And clearly this was a $375 million divestiture.
So I would say that the size of a potential divestiture will likely be somewhat larger going forward than what our past track record has been.
Our next question comes from John Inch.
Research Division</strong> Bank of America.
First on Construction.
Now I think John Brooklier you called out a softer construction Australia New Zealand? Didn't that part of the world have some weather issues though? Yes there's been some weather issues but we think it's a little bit more economically sensitive than that.
And if you really look at what's going on in Australia the economy is slowing.
Some of the mineral-related exporting going on to China slowed a little bit as China slowed a little bit.
So I would say the service side of the economy in Eastern Australia is certainly a lot slower as is the Western side where it's really more natural resources.
That has slowed a bit too.
Overall that's added up to a slower economy which has impacted their housing market.
I think housing -- it's probably one of the big key areas for them right now.
That's somewhat way different.
Research Division</strong> So then if we back up of the Construction lens if you will and look at North America you obviously when you gave us the results right in the first quarter how did that play out as the quarter progressed? And the question really comes down to did you see or do you think you saw a bit of a pull forward because of the warm winter that we had say into December January February and -- I mean the obvious question is was March much softer? Or has the trend still been pretty consistent? I think John what we've seen -- I mean there's no question the warm months of January through March pull some things forward.
And I don't think it's going to change the trajectory of housing starts for the year.
I think it gives a temporary sort of blip forward.
The overall underlying dynamics still remain with the inventory levels and housing prices the way they are.
So while I think we saw some nice short-term momentum I don't think that's something we expect to see sustained.
There are some markets where the residential builds will begin to actually go up because of the local market conditions.
Lack of available inventory or price points have actually started to rise.
But I think it's still -- 2012 I think is still a year to sort out for housing starts overall.
But if you look at the overall numbers we're expecting housing starts for the year to be closer to 700 000 which would be about a gain for the year in the mid-teens in housing starts.
So it would be a nice welcome view to see that kind of a turn.
But I wouldn't view the first quarter as a first data point that we could draw a line from and expect that rise to continue.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
No that makes sense.
I think -- well if your mid-teens growth rate holds right I think you did up 7% in resi in North America.
That should actually get better as the year then progresses? Correct.
Research Division</strong> One last question on the simplification scaling up.
You did David raise your guidance.
You didn't just tighten the low end of the range.
I'd always sort of been under the impression these initiatives were perhaps going to require a little bit of cost on ITW's part to -- for what -- for a variety of different potential things.
Is that true? And is that in your numbers? Or is that -- a lot of this is still kind of in the fact-finding stage and the more cost saves coupled with the cost spending or so forth is really about '13 versus '12.
Well I would say John it's both.
But primarily the costs that would be associated with some of these larger initiatives have not been fully represented in the guidance because we don't have all the data yet.
Some of it is represented in some of the restructuring that we've obviously put forward which is higher than what we originally anticipated.
But I think the best way to look at this is that we're still gathering the data and there will be some investment involved in achieving some of what we think will be some significant savings along the way.
And I expect that towards the latter part of the year we'll have enough data to be comfortable giving some reasonable direction as to the size and significance of what we think will be happening.
But it's a longer term sort of a process.
So we're talking about things that would happen in 2013 largely and beyond with I think some reasonable quantification towards the end of this year.
Our next question will come from Ann Duignan.
Research Division</strong> It's Ann Duignan JPMorgan.
Just on the back of John's question.
When I look at initiatives like strategic sourcing I can't help but think that down the road the consulting firm comes back and says "Gee now you need an ERP system.
You need people analyzing data." How do you balance David investing in some of these initiatives in the near term versus kind of SG&amp;A creep and centralization over the long term? Well I think it's like any major initiative.
You evaluate what you think the benefits are and obviously benefits of significance across the enterprise will require some level of investment and talent and resource.
But we'll have to balance that in terms of what we think makes sense where we think the biggest payoffs are and the ones that we think will drive the greatest benefits in the organization.
So as we assess those we have to determine what investments will be required to achieve what we think will be reasonable and significant savings.
So hard to answer the question till we have more data.
But clearly we'll be in a position to be making more investment around that.
And from a centralization standpoint there's no question.
We'll want to do more coordination around some of these larger areas of spend where we can be certain that we're taking advantage of our scale opportunities in a much more formal way than we'd done in the past.
And I will add that yes we are -- we do feel the decentralized business model is the right model for us and we're not changing that because of strategic sourcing.
So the focus of the study has been how do we do a better job of approaching sourcing throughout the company in our decentralized operating model? Research Division</strong> So we shouldn't be concerned that down the road you'd be building a new corporate headquarters somewhere? You've seen our old one Ann.
We might paint the existing one.
Research Division</strong> That's one of the things we love about you so we don't want to -- that to change.
But just on -- building on that a little bit I know you said that you will communicate the cost and the benefits of all of these changes late in 2012.
Can you just talk about -- I mean that's a year of data analysis.
Can you just talk about why it will take you till late 2012 to assess the opportunities and the costs? Well because I think first of all if we're going to give you any indications with numbers you're going to want those numbers to be reasonably solid.
And those numbers are going to involve as you accurately pointed out in the beginning of your questions some investment in both people and systems and so we want to be certain that before we started signaling what we think some of the potential savings are here that we're pretty solid on what the approach is going to be and the time frame associated with that.
So I don't think we're -- I don't think we're trying to hedge our bets.
What we're trying to do is be thoughtful about what we communicate and what we think is realistic.
And I think for us to digest that is going to take that kind of time.
And also as David said these are multi-year long-term initiatives.
So as we figure out how to approach these major initiatives within the company we want to make sure we do it the right way and make sure we -- at the same time we're doing all of this continue to deliver on our results that you'd expect.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well I wish you guys luck because I know it's kind of a cultural change.
So we'll check in at the end of the year I guess.
Well it is somewhat of a cultural change.
But Ann as you know you followed us a long time we've been through several cultural nuance changes that have been successful and I'm quite confident that we will be with this as well.
Our next question will come from Deane Dray.
Research Division</strong> It's Deane Dray with Citi.
David I'd be interested in hearing more about your thoughts.
We've discussed what are you thinking residential plays up but how about the non-res cycle? Just in terms of the indicators that you think are important to ITW? What kind of visibility and how you think it plays out the balance of the year? You're talking about non-res here in the U.S.? Research Division</strong> Yes first.
Well the data certainly from a start standpoint for commercial has finally begun to show some improvement numbers.
Year-to-date the commercial construction square footage boards is up 7% with some notable categories up that have been down for a while.
Retail is up 28%; warehouses are up 20% -- 80%.
So I think we're beginning to see the turn.
However it is still regional.
There are some markets where we still have a lot of overbuilt and vacant space.
The 2 big exceptions to improvement in commercial remain offices and education.
So I'm of a view that we've begun to turn the corner but I don't think we're going to see a breakout in commercial construction until probably sometime in 2013.
But it would appear based on the data the numbers and the activity in some of the major markets that we're quite close.
Research Division</strong> And then how about outside the U.S.? Sorry? Research Division</strong> Outside the U.S.? Outside the U.S.? Well that's a mixed bag.
Europe reasonable numbers in the north of Europe in Germany and in France.
A lot of the European commercial construction as you know still has government financing tied to it.
So some of this is going to play out based on what happens with their budgets and how they view deficit spending.
But Europe for us in the first quarter proved to be fairly good in commercial.
So hard to get a long-term read based on what's going to happen with their budgets longer term.
Clearly the south of Europe is going to be troubled for some time.
Spain and Italy and the public spending there around construction that's going to be troubling for some time to come.
The Asian construction numbers remain reasonable and I think we'll continue to see some boost there more around commercial than around residential.
Research Division</strong> And then just on -- a business update on welding and -- we're back into some eye-popping numbers there.
How much of that is true end-market demand? Or might there be some restocking going on? Well there's probably some restocking going on.
But frankly the end-market demand in heavy equipment and the energy-related sectors oil and gas has been robust.
And I mean I can tell you that in some of our channels particularly in North America there's not a lot of stock in the channel.
So it really is -- these are markets that are performing well and have what looks like a reasonable runway at least for the next couple of quarters.
The oil and gas the energy-related infrastructure will probably be longer than that.
So I think we're still pretty -- we were obviously surprised by the strength overall of what we saw in Q1.
But if you go back and look at Q3 and Q4 of last year we were also surprised by the strength there.
So I think these trends are trends that have some reasonably good legs to them for at least the next couple of quarters.
Our next question will come from Henry Kirn.
Research Division</strong> It's UBS.
Sorry to beat the initiative horse again but what drove the decision to go forward today? What's different now versus 5 years ago or 2 years ago? Well let's see.
What's different now than 5 years ago about $5 billion of acquisitions and a whole host of businesses that had really not participated in some of these larger-scale opportunities to see what kind of benefits might be available.
It had been probably 8 to possibly 10 years since we had done something similar on a sourcing level.
And most of that had been around 3 or 4 significant raw material categories.
And as we begin to look across the total spend it became apparent that there was more out there than just what we had looked at in the past and that the size and scale of the company had changed enough that this really required a fresh look.
I mean an $18 billion company looking at this as opposed to an $11 billion company I mean obviously there's some significantly different scale opportunities.
So we thought it was time for a fresh look.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then on electronics how much did the destocking hurt the segment results? And how much more is left on destocking? Oh that's a hard one because a lot of the electronics is related to consumer products and it's hard to get a read on how much of it is channel destocking.
But certainly a significant portion of that has been.
This has been a volatile market for some time up and down.
I mean we were talking about that as being a tough market for us in 2010.
And in the first quarter of 2011 we were comping things that were above 50%.
So hard to say with that market.
It is clearly a volatile market and -- we're talking about cell phones PDAs computers so you've got a mix of different products.
Flat-screen TVS.
I mean you've got a lot of different consumer products in there with different demand cycles right now.
So we expect that that's going to still be volatile for a while.
Henry I think we believe that the larger level of destocking took place in Q4 or later last year.
And there was some element of destocking into Q1.
But again to David's point it's very hard to get precision around those numbers.
But I think on a -- conceptually we think more of the destocking has probably taken place.
Our next question will come from Andy Casey.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions a lot has been covered.
What was the end-of-quarter share count? I'm not sure I have that handy.
40-something.
40...
45 I think is what comes to mind.
But we can follow up with you later on that number.
We'll look at that number for you Andy.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then I guess I'm searching for a little bit more granularity on the international construction markets.
Was there any heartbeat as the quarter progressed in those markets Europe and Australia specifically? Well Europe performed actually reasonably well.
But as I said earlier it's a tale of 2 stories the northern part of Europe versus the southern.
I think the one that was the weakest that probably told the story for us was Australia.
And I think John talked about that earlier some of the economic issues there the housing market has slowed significantly.
The economy there is slowing significantly.
And they have some currency translation issues down there as well as they're buying a lot of their imported goods in U.S.
dollars.
So that's probably the one that -- Australia is probably the one that caught us with the biggest surprise.
And in the retail segment down there where we have reasonable presence this is where we expect to see some pretty good retail activity.
And that just hasn't picked up at this stage.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just one last one a question on the strategy.
When other companies have talked about starting transformations strategic pricing is typically discussed.
I wouldn't imagine that you're a multiple-of-cost-type business but is that part of what you're investigating? Or is it all strategic sourcing? Let me understand the question.
Strategic pricing versus? LLC Research Division</strong> No.
When you go after the strategic sourcing and try to leverage what you have just steps that are taken to make sure that you don't have any price leakage? Oh yes.
That is definitely part of what we're talking about yes.
And that is linked to some of the work that we're doing on the commercial side that we're able to bring back together on the sourcing side.
So yes I would expect that we're going to see some changes coming out of that as well.
As you know we have a number of global platforms where we already do a fair amount of strategic pricing across the platforms.
Automotive is certainly an example of that as is appliance and certainly across some of our welding markets as well.
But yes that's clearly something that has opportunity with it.
And also a benefit of the business simplification initiative when we have scaled up businesses that are larger we have a better opportunity for coordinated pricing across bigger businesses.
Our next question comes from Ajay Kejriwal.
Research Division</strong> Ajay FBR Capital Markets.
Thanks for providing the color on longer-term initiatives.
And maybe just to follow up on the scale up of businesses could you maybe talk about what that could mean in terms of combining businesses? I thought I heard $100 million average revenues.
Does that mean the number of subsidiaries get cut in half? Is that something that could happen over the next couple of years? Clearly it means that the number of business units will be fewer.
And as I said in my comments in the beginning the ones that would be consolidated are largely ones where they have similar customers markets and products already.
But it would -- yes it would result in fewer business units and obviously better operating efficiencies inside those business units and lower overhead costs.
So hard to predict exactly how many business units how many fewer business units but it would be a significant number.
If you look at the average business units that we had in average business unit size that we had in 2010 it would have been closer to $30 million.
So if you just take that math and look at a $100 million it would suggest perhaps 2/3 less business units.
And we're not far enough along to predict that because we're not doing it just as a math exercise but there will be a significant reduction in individual business units as we've called them.
And a lot of those services and approaches will be consolidated under one umbrella in those cases.
Research Division</strong> Good that's helpful.
And then on strategic sourcing I thought you mentioned steel resin chemicals a couple other items.
Maybe if you can talk about the total buy or the spend that you're looking to target? And any sense on the size of the opportunity there? I know it's very very early but...
Yes.
I think certainly as we've said when we raise a -- start getting into some specifics around numbers and benefits towards the end of the year that will be part of what we talk about.
Not ready to get into that at this point.
But as you can imagine I mean the size is significant in terms of the spend in these categories.
But as Ron says until we've got better data we really don't want to get too far ahead of ourselves and communicate data here that is premature.
But it's -- these numbers are big obviously.
Research Division</strong> And you're looking at the total spend across these broad categories you've mentioned? Yes.
We're looking at total spend.
Our next question will come from Nigel Coe.
Research Division</strong> Yes Nigel Coe from Morgan Stanley.
Just wanted to kind of dig into what you're just talking about.
Taking down the number of business units by let say 2/3 can you just maybe remind us what level of G&amp;A overhead you have in each of these operating companies be it finance HR et cetera? And then maybe if you could then talk about as you go through this process where you see the opportunities in terms of gross margin versus SG&amp;A overhead? On the first question the typical business unit is run as a stand-alone business which means it has a general manager a controller typically HR support and any -- the other functional disciplines you would need to run a business.
They typically would have a stand-alone system although in some cases we do have business units that shares systems across multiple business units especially when they're located in the same general area.
So that's the kind of the SG&amp;A profile of a business.
We have generally been pretty efficient at running so these are pretty lean overhead structures.
If you look at our overall overhead levels versus our peers we certainly compare favorably.
But as we scale up there certainly will be some opportunities to leverage some of these overhead functions across a bigger business unit and therefore result in some cost reductions.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I mean I look at your SG&amp;A as a portion of sales it's about 18% or thereabouts.
It's pretty -- compares very favorably to your peers.
But I'm wondering as you drive joint procurements do you think it's more of an opportunity on procurement versus G&amp;A? Or do you think the 2 are pretty even? Yes.
Again it's hard to say.
I mean I think there's big opportunities in both.
And certainly as we move through this and figure out how to approach this in detail and we'll be ready to share that with you towards the end of the year.
I think we'll clearly see significant opportunities in both.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's clear.
And then just quickly on the -- coming back to the portfolio.
I mean I don't know.
I mean -- that there are obviously some numbers out there in the market in terms of what you could do in terms of proportion of sales.
But how do you feel about reallocating the capital? Because let's say you've realized $3 billion to $4 billion of proceeds from this process I mean do you wish to replace that with more of an emphasis in acquisitions versus buybacks? Or is that to be decided? Well certainly to be decided right? I mean we haven't -- we don't have that kind of capital to put to use right now.
And as -- if we did we'd have to go through our capital allocation strategy and figure out how we utilize that.
So we've I think clearly laid out our capital allocation priorities.
In fact we've got a slide in the deck today that lays that out.
Organic investments is our first priority then dividends and then external investments.
And external investments share repurchase versus acquisitions is really based on the specific opportunities at a point in time and which of those has the best risk-adjusted return.
So for instance in the finishing sale we have some proceeds from the finishing divestiture we intend to use those to repurchase shares.
That's one of the reasons that our share repurchase forecast went up for the year.
I think we will end it there with that question and answer.
We want to thank everybody for joining us on today's call and we look forward to speaking to you at some future point in time.
Thank you very much.
At this time that will conclude today's conference.
You may disconnect and thank you for your attendance.
Good morning and thank you for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to John Brooklier.
You may begin.
Thank you Kathy.
Good morning everyone and welcome to ITW's second quarter 2012 conference call.
As is our normal practice our CEO David Speer; and CFO Ron Kropp have joined me to discuss our Q2 financial results as well as update us on our longer-term strategic initiatives.
Here's a quick agenda for today's call.
David will shortly provide a brief update on our ongoing long-term initiatives as well as second quarter highlights and commentary on our second half forecast.
Ron will cover our Q2 financial results in more detail.
I will then talk about our Q2 geographic performance and segment results.
Ron will then come back and provide a detailed update on our Q3 and full year forecast.
Finally we will open the call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] As normal we have scheduled 1 hour for today's call.
This presentation contains our financial forecast for the 2012 third quarter and full year as well as other forward-looking statements identified on this slide.
We refer you to the company's 10-K for 2011 for more detail about important risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's expectations.
Moving to next slide.
Let me remind everybody that our telephone replay for this conference call is (888) 566-0396.
The playback number will be available through midnight of August 7.
Now let me turn the call over to David who has some brief introductory comments.
David? Thank you John.
Before I comment on our strong second quarter results let me update you on our 3 long-term initiatives that we introduced to you all last quarter.
To remind you our 3 key areas of focus going forward are: business structure simplification strategic sourcing and portfolio management.
We continue to make good progress in all 3 categories.
For business simplification we've been actively developing and communicating our plans to key internal and external constituents.
Internally a host of our businesses have reviewed and are in the midst of announcing organizational changes to support our larger revenue base businesses consolidated organizational structure where appropriate and focused on similar customers and end markets while maintaining the intimate customer market interfaces critical to our innovation initiatives and business agility.
In strategic sourcing we have made key decisions regarding the sourcing approach in organization as well as identified the first and second phase of direct and indirect sourcing activities.
As to portfolio management part of our strategic planning process is the identification of noncore businesses that no longer fit our long-range plans a number of which could likely be divested in the future as we have done been recently with the finishing businesses and 2 consumer packaging businesses.
We will continue to develop and implement these plans as we move forward.
As promised we intend to provide some enterprise-wide data by December that will begin to quantify the financial impact of these initiatives over the next several years.
Now let's move to our second quarter results.
We were very pleased with our strong second quarter operating performance despite end markets slowing in a variety of international end markets and the significant currency headwinds we faced in the quarter.
Thanks our differentiated 80/20 operational focus our business has produced very strong operating margin improvement in the second quarter due to excellent management of input and overhead costs.
We also continued to return significant levels of cash to our shareholders through our share repurchase program as well as our strong dividend payout.
Looking ahead to the second half 2012.
We lowered our EPS forecast range given the ongoing negative impact of currency translation and the expected continuing sluggish demand in the international end markets as well as additional restructuring expenditures that will now total over $100 million for the year.
Ron will cover our forecast in more detail later in the call.
Now let me hand it over to Ron who will talk about the strong second quarter performance.
Ron? Thank you David and good morning everyone.
Here are the highlights for the second quarter.
Revenues increased 0.9% due to higher base and acquisition revenues offset by the unfavorable impact from currency.
Operating income was $770 million which was higher than last year by $59 million representing income growth of 8%.
Operating margins of 16.5% were 110 basis points higher compared to last year.
Diluted income per share from continuing operations was $1.11 which was close to the midpoint of our range.
Finally free operating cash flow was $409 million for the quarter.
Now let's go to the components of our operating results.
Our 0.9% revenue increase was primarily due to the following factors.
Base revenues were up 2.3% with North American base revenues increasing 5.3% and mixed international base revenues that overall were down slightly year-over-year.
John will discuss the geographic mix in more detail later in the call.
Acquisitions net of divestitures added 3% to revenue growth and currency translation decreased revenues by 4.5% largely due to a weaker euro.
Operating margins for the first quarter of 16.5% were 110 basis points higher than Q2 2011.
Base margins increased 150 basis points with higher sales volume contributing 60 basis points.
The positive impact of non-volume items increased base margins by 90 basis points versus last year primarily due to 60 basis points of price cost favorability.
In addition margins were lower by 40 basis points due to the dilutive impact of acquisitions.
The net operating margins from acquisitions excluding amortization and other acquisition accounting were 14.4% for the quarter.
Overall despite uneven market demand we had a strong second quarter earnings performance reflecting our decentralized operating model which allowed us to react quickly to market conditions as well as our established 80/20 operating discipline.
Looking at working capital and cash flow.
Accounts receivable DSO of 61 days was lower than last year and inventory months on hand declined to 1.8 months.
ROIC for the second quarter was 16.3% which was 70 basis points higher than Q2 of last year.
Our ROIC continues to run at our 15% to 17% target range which is significantly above our cost of capital.
The second quarter cash provided from operating activities was $509 million with capital expenditures of $100 million resulting in free operating cash flow of $409 million which was $184 million better than Q2 of the prior year.
On a year-to-date basis we have generated $648 million in free operating cash flow and we expect to generate close to $2 billion in free operating cash flow for full year 2012.
Turning to capital structure.
Our capital allocation priorities continue to be as follows.
Our first priority is organic investments especially related to our key growth platforms and emerging markets.
Examples of organic investments include R&amp;D spending for new product innovation additional investments in manufacturing capacity and restructuring projects which have long-term margin benefits.
Our next capital priority is dividends.
During the quarter we paid dividends of $172 million and our current dividend yield is almost 3%.
Any excess capital after organic investments and dividends are used for external investments either share repurchases or acquisitions.
We evaluate allocation between these external investments based on the best risk-adjusted returns.
During Q2 we continued our robust share buyback activity with $526 million in repurchases which brings us to $1 billion in share repurchases through first half of 2012.
As of the end of Q2 we have approximately $2.9 billion of authorized repurchases remaining under our buyback program.
In the first half of 2012 we returned over $1.3 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
In addition during the quarter we utilized $106 million for acquisitions over 80% of which continues to focus on our growth platforms and emerging markets.
Our debt levels increased $141 million during the quarter with our debt-to-capital ratio at 33% and our debt-to-EBITDA remaining at 1.4x.
Our cash balance overseas is $1.7 billion and we have plenty of debt capacity to make additional investments.
I will now turn it back over to John who will provide more details on the operating results.
Thank you Ron.
Before I get to the actual segment results let me take just a moment to review our Q2 geographic trends.
Our total revenue growth excluding currency impact was 5% in Q2 with organic revenues growing approximately 2% versus the year-ago period.
And our Q2 results were similar geographically to Q1.
North America businesses delivered relatively strong performance in Q2 producing organic revenue growth of 5%.
Overall international organic revenues were down modestly in the quarter.
Europe's organic revenues declined roughly 2% and Asia Pacific's organic revenue growth of 2% while it grew 2% it still lagged our expectations.
And that's mainly due to China's flat organic revenue performance in Q2.
Moving to South America organic revenue declined 4% and that was largely driven by softness in the Brazilian economy.
Now let's move to our segment results.
And as previously noted total company organic revenues increased roughly 2% in the quarter.
The biggest organic growth contributors were produced by our Power Systems and Electronics Transportation and businesses in our All Other segment.
Nearly all of our segments contributed to operating margin improvement of the 110 basis points Ron talked about earlier.
And notably we saw the most operating margin improvements in our Food Equipment Decorative Surfaces and Industrial Packaging segments.
Now move to the next slide.
And let's do a -- let's drill down deeper into our segments.
Please remember that our Transportation segment largely consists of our auto OEM businesses with smaller revenue contributions from our auto aftermarket and truck remanufacturing businesses.
Total segment revenue -- organic revenues grew 3.4% in the quarter versus the year-ago period.
In our flagship auto OEM business again that was a key contributor to organic growth with worldwide organic revenues increasing 6%.
Notably our North American organic revenues increased 8% and Asia Pacific grew 24% thanks to our growing presence with Chinese auto OEMs.
Our most notable example of strong product penetration was in Europe where organic revenues grew 1% even as auto builds declined 7% in Q2 on a year-over-year basis.
Moving to auto aftermarket organic revenues fell 2% as consumer spending slowed in Europe and China which resulted in negative organic revenue performance in those areas.
In North America the auto aftermarket business produced modest organic revenue growth as discretionary consumer spending continued to be soft.
And finally in our truck remanufacturing business organic revenues grew 4% largely due to strong energy development activity in Canada and Western United States and the need for our retrofitted specialty trucks.
In our Power Systems and Electronics segment we continue to see very strong demand from our welding customers while our electronics businesses saw real improvement in the equipment and assembly side of the business.
Total segment organic revenues increased 5.2% versus the year-ago period.
In welding our worldwide organic revenues grew 9% with North America organic revenues increasing 11% and international organic revenues growing 2%.
While our Q2 organic numbers were down from our -- what I'll call our red-hot and unsustainable Q1 performance levels they still represent very solid growth metrics.
We continue to see relatively strong demand from global equipment manufacturers who serve end markets such as oil and gas mining and agriculture.
In electronics the story was one of improvement as noted earlier.
Worldwide organic revenues for electronics increased 2% in the quarter with electronics equipment assembly growing 14% due to strong order rates from key electronics customers.
Organic revenues for our other component businesses what we'll call all other in the electronics piece declined 5% as consumer demand for basic cell phones and computers was weaker.
Let's move to our Industrial Packaging segment.
Our businesses once again essentially reflected industrial production trends in the major geographies.
Our North American performance was stronger and the rest of the world was weaker.
Segment organic revenues were essentially flat in the quarter.
In aggregate our total North American Industrial Packaging organic revenues grew 4% while our total international Industrial Packaging organic revenues declined 2%.
In our bellwether Signode steel and plastic strap and equipment businesses that provide end-of-the-line packaging for finished goods worldwide organic revenues declined 1% in Q2.
And by geography international organic revenues declined 4% while North American organic revenues grew 3%.
And finally in our stretch packaging business trends were better.
Worldwide organic revenues grew 3% in Q2 largely based on better equipment sales.
Moving to Food Equipment.
It was once again a tale of 2 geographies with North America outperforming the international businesses.
Segment organic revenues increased a little bit over 1% in the quarter.
In North America organic revenues were up 3% with equipment sales increasing at a similar level.
Equipment sales benefited from an uptick in demand for cooking and slicing products to private sector accounts including casual dining restaurants and supermarkets.
Institutional accounts such as government schools and hospitals continue to be constrained by limited budgets.
On the service side organic revenues grew 2% as the service organization continued to focus on key customers.
Internationally total organic revenues were flat in Q2 as strength in sales to Asian-based customers in Japan China and Thailand was offset by the weakness in France and Italy.
In particular businesses associated with cooking products for both institutional and government-related customers remained weak in the quarter.
Moving to our Construction segment the decline in demand in Europe and Asia Pacific was enough to offset the better end-market metrics associated with the North American recovery in the residential and renovation construction categories.
As a result segment organic revenues declined about 0.5% in the quarter.
Internationally organic revenues declined 4% in the quarter as Europe and Asia Pacific organic revenues fell 6% and 1% respectively.
In Europe which was the hardest hit Construction end markets were hit by a lack of spending by both private and public sector customers especially in the commercial construction category.
For example accordingly to EUROCONSTRUCT commercial starts declined 23% in Q2.
In Asia Pacific Australia and New Zealand experienced modest improvement in the residential construction category compared to prior quarters.
Now the better news was in North America as organic revenues increased 8% as the residential commercial and renovation categories were all positive in the quarter.
Residential construction organic revenues grew 13% while both commercial and renovation construction organic revenues increased 5%.
For residential construction we continue to be more optimistic about additional recovery in housing starts in 2013 and beyond based on the most recent NAHB housing start numbers of 760 000 units.
Moving to our Polymers and Fluids segment organic revenues were essentially flat as North America produced positive organic revenue growth while internationally our European Asia Pacific and Latin American businesses all experienced and had to deal with slowing end-market demand.
In our polymers and hygiene category organic revenues were flat in the quarter.
And that's due to positive organic revenues resulting from China transportation and appliance market as well as the North American military industrial and MRO markets were offset by slowing market activity in Europe and Brazil.
In our fluids category organic revenues declined roughly 1%.
And this again was due to Europe offsetting revenue gains from our businesses in North America Russia and India.
In our Decorative Surfaces segment we generated very strong organic revenue performance from businesses in a variety of geographies.
Segment organic revenues grew approximately 5% in the quarter.
In North America our Wilsonart high-pressure laminate business produced very solid organic revenue growth of 6% due to ongoing product innovations largely targeted to commercial construction-related customers.
Notably Wilsonart continues to be an industry leader through its premium high-definition higher-price-point product that simulates natural stone.
And internationally our Decorative Surfaces businesses generated organic revenue growth of 4%.
In Europe both our U.K.
and French business contributed to organic growth.
And in Asia Pacific China grew organic revenues mid-single-digits.
So all in all very good performance by the segment.
Finally in our All Other segment we had positive organic revenue growth contributions from both our test and measurement as well as our appliance businesses.
Segment organic revenues grew 2.6% in the quarter.
As noted test and measurement organic revenues grew a strong 8% in Q2 due to still reasonable CapEx spending for structural testing equipment in North America Europe and China.
Instron's ElectroPuls environmentally-friendly equipment continued to have strong market acceptance in the quarter.
In the appliance category organic revenues grew 3% mainly due to key energy efficiency programs with major North American customers such as Whirlpool.
The only downside on the major categories in this segment was in consumer packaging where organic revenues declined 1%.
And that was largely due to ongoing softness from key multipack beverage customers in North America and Europe.
Our decorating businesses produced strong organic revenue growth in Q2.
So this concludes my remarks on the segments.
And I'll now turn the call over to Ron who'll talk about the 2012 forecast.
Ron? Thanks John.
The third quarter of 2012 we are forecasting diluted income per share and continuing operations to be within the range of $1.03 to $1.11.
This range assumes total revenue growth of negative 1% to plus 1% largely related to currency as well as softening international end-market conditions.
The midpoint of Q2 diluted EPS range would represent a growth of 7% versus last year.
For the full year 2012 our forecasted total revenue growth is now between 1% to 3% which is lower than our April forecasted midpoint by 400 basis points.
Our forecasted EPS range for continuing operations is now $4.03 to $4.19.
The EPS midpoint of $4.11 would be 10% higher than 2011 excluding the Q1 2011 tax benefit related to the Australian tax matter.
This EPS benefit is $0.15 lower than our forecast from April and is driven by an $0.08 reduction from lower base business revenues largely due to slower international end-market demand as well as a 7% impact due to expected declines from weaker foreign currencies.
An increase in expected restructuring costs took away $0.02 but was more than offset by a $0.04 benefit from year-to-date and forecasted share repurchases.
I will now turn it back over to John for the Q&amp;A.
Thanks Ron.
We'll now open the call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We're now ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Stephen Volkmann from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you could comment please on the acquisition pipeline given what's going on in the global economy here.
Is it sort of less likely that we're going to get things over the goal line over the next few quarters and whatever other commentary you might have in that regard? Well Steve I think I would characterize the acquisition activity as -- from our standpoint entering the year we viewed this as a year that we're going to be challenged from a valuation metric standpoint.
And that certainly has been the case.
Those properties that are out there that we're interested in have had fairly high expectations in terms of valuation.
That hasn't stopped us from continuing our work in those categories.
But I would say the way I would describe the acquisition environment for us right now is it's modest.
We have included through Q2 I believe about $500 million in acquired revenues and don't expect the second half to be significantly more boisterous if you will than what we've seen because I think valuations are the primary concern.
In terms of getting things done I think the early -- any of those that have significant European or Asia Pacific concentration require a fair amount of due diligence at the moment to really determine their go-forward positions in those geographies and obviously factoring in the weakness that those geographies have seen this year.
But I don't think it will have a major impact on us closing deals that we have agreed upon.
But I do think the market environment for us will remain challenging from a valuation metric standpoint.
And that's probably our primary issue rather than being able to look at specific geographic concerns.
And I will add that we are targeting our strategic growth areas for acquisitions.
As an example we talked about last quarter we acquired in the first quarter Brooks Instrument in our test and measurement segment which is $200-million-plus in acquired revenues.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
But David just to clarify do you think you can get to anything like $500 million done in the second half? That sounds like a stretch to me.
Oh no I'm sorry.
I didn't mean that no.
No I wouldn't be able to predict the second half number at the moment.
I mean just looking at the pipeline there's a lot of what ifs in that pipeline that are not fully qualified at the moment.
So no I would not suggest we could do $500 million in the second half.
I mean it's not impossible but certainly not what I would call likely at the moment based on what we see in the pipeline.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's what I thought.
And then just on the other side of this as a follow-up quickly I mean the dec surfaces business has been for sale at some point.
Other people think maybe it's on the shortlist now.
But boy a strong performance from that business.
And I'm wondering if that sort of changed your view of how that fits into the portfolio.
From a strategic standpoint we've maintained our position on dec surfaces since 2008 when we had made the decision then that we didn't think long-term it would fit our portfolio in terms of long-term growth opportunities.
But I would tell you that they have performed very well in terms of operating characteristics along the way.
They did better during the 2008 2009 downturn than most businesses and they clearly are doing quite well this year.
But strategically it hasn't changed my view of the long-term fit of that business in our portfolio.
Our next question comes from Ann Duignan from JPMC.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us a little bit more color on the restructuring charges on the $100 million? To the best of your ability at this point where might that spend be most used? Is it on the strategic sourcing? Is it in one particular business? Just a little bit of color on where that money is going be spent.
Well I'll give you high-level flavor and then Ron may have more detail to add.
But I would say that the bulk of this is based on additional restructuring based on the weakness we've seen more internationally and more European as a result.
There is some of that that is based on a view of our business simplification but not a lot.
Most of it so far is based on reacting to the slower market conditions internationally particularly in Europe.
So it's obviously a step-up and a way of us getting ahead of what we think are some continuing weakening conditions that we want to be able to address.
And Ann as you know the ability to do that in some of the international markets has much more -- much longer impact to get the result particularly in Europe.
So we've tried to stay on top of these things and push them forward as we look at the weakness or the underlying performance in some of these market segments.
But I would say that using that wonderful 80/20 term we like to use 80% of this is focused on existing businesses and maybe 20% is focused on the combination of looking at what structural changes we're looking at making along with some of the strategic sourcing initiatives.
The segments that have a bigger restructuring spend this year in the first half of the year has been Construction especially in Europe.
In the second half of the year the Polymers and Fluids segment will have a bigger restructuring spend.
You mentioned strategic sourcing.
That -- any costs additional costs or investments there to do the sourcing initiatives is not part of restructuring.
That would just be additional headcount or consulting costs et cetera.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's great color.
And actually that leads me to my follow-up question which I think David you probably just answered.
And that is given how well the Construction business has held up in Europe despite the starts that you talked about and the Industrial Packaging business are you seeing further weakness in those businesses as we speak? Is that what's led to the restructuring? And should we anticipate an accelerated decline in those businesses in the back half? No.
I think as I tried to point out it takes longer to initiate these.
So there's a lot more planning that goes into the implementation of those.
So many of these restructuring projects have been in the planning stages for several quarters and are just at the front end of implementation.
So it's really a question of trying to stay on top of what we see as longer-term trends there.
So I think we've done a good job of managing the cost portfolio there.
But at some point when you look at the market conditions and you project forward you begin to get into the tougher longer-term issues that restructuring brings which is a lot of headcount and some cases facilities.
So those take longer to implement.
So it's more a question of timing I would say Ann than any difference of view of how we see those markets at the moment.
I do expect European construction as John pointed out in his comments that it's going to remain a tough environment for some time.
A lot of it is based on government spending.
And as we know what's going on in Europe there's a lot of rationalization of where the government is going to spend their money.
And I think Construction will continue to have a cloud over in Europe for some time until it becomes more clear.
Our next question comes from Rob Wertheimer from Vertical Research Partners.
Just a general question on sentiment as you continue to work through the process of identifying where you can streamline cost save et cetera.
How are your managers dealing with it? Have you had any employee turnover start ahead of it? And I mean your margins are pretty good.
I don't know whether this is getting people to be more engaged.
So if you could just comment David on how the organization is adapting to the process.
Sure.
Well let me separate that into 2 pieces and I'll actually answer your second piece first.
I think the margin performance is really not due to any advance move if you will on some of that.
I think the margin performance -- as we recognized going into the year this is going to be a challenging environment and as we didn't see the kind of revenue growth that we'd expected that we were going to have some ability to react.
And so we put in place I think some strong cost control programs at the beginning of the year and we also counted on some significant improvement in our price cost which we have been chasing as you may recall Rob for a couple of years.
And we were able to achieve that as well.
So the strong operating margins I think are a result of the detailed planning controls that we put in place at the end of the year which allowed us in the quarter to get a 16.5% return and some great incrementals as we experienced much weaker revenue performance than we thought headwinds in currency and so forth.
So that was independent of any of the work we've done in business simplification.
I would say in the business simplification area anytime you talk about consolidation you talk about a change in structure you get people concerned.
At this stage we really have not lost any significant number of people.
And I think people have embraced the fact that this starts with looking at the strategic approach and looking at how we streamline our structure to be reflective of where we see our growth opportunities.
And we're doing this in a rational fashion and the operating managers are heavily participating in every step of this along the way.
So we're not dictating from the corporate office that these 5 units should be combined into 1.
These are the operating people.
They're looking at what makes sense given the new economic environment given the global nature of a number of our end markets and customers and let's march through this in a logical fashion.
And we're not going to make wholesale decisions that would impact their ability to serve their customers and markets.
So I think given the level of change which always brings with it some level of angst we've done a good job of managing that and involving our key managers.
And so I would say that as we approach the end of the year we'll be in a better position to quantify some of what that will mean and we'll be able to give some examples.
And you'll see I think the levels of involvement and participation will help us ultimately come up with the right solution and with the right metrics that we can maintain going forward.
Your next question comes from Jamie Cook from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One in terms of price cost you called out what it was in the quarter.
I just want to get a sense of the benefit that you're assuming in the back half of the year and whether you're seeing any pricing pressure from your customers.
And then my second question just to follow-up on I guess M&amp;A and divestitures.
One do you anticipate -- if the macro continues to decline and valuations come in as we look out to 2013 I mean is there a chance that you shift your focus more towards trying to do some bigger deals to take advantage of the market? And then I guess my other question is I guess I'd be concerned how easy it will be to get divestitures done in this market given the performance of your businesses and just prices people are willing to pay.
I'll let Ron talk to price cost and then I'll come back and talk a little bit about acquisition and divestitures.
So as I said earlier we had a pickup in margins of 60 basis points from price cost.
That was better than the first quarter which was 40.
And really that was driven mostly by raw material cost going down as opposed to prices going up.
We've still been able to hold on to price increases that we put in place towards the end of last year in response to cost increases in most of our segments.
But costs have come down significantly especially in the resin area which has been bouncing all around during the year.
For instance recycled PET was down 37% in the quarter but it was up 48% last quarter.
Steel was also down but to less of an extreme.
So we see raw material cost continue to go down a little bit as we move through the rest of the year.
So we'll continue to see a benefit price/cost probably a little bit higher in the third quarter than it was this quarter but about 60 basis points for the whole year if things hold where we expect.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's versus the 30 to 40 you were expecting before right I think.
Yes yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Sorry.
And then sorry David on the acquisitions and divestitures? Yes.
Let me comment on acquisitions first.
As I commented earlier I think the environment has been one where valuations frankly in the first half of the year have been more challenging than I would've thought given the market conditions.
So I don't see that really changing.
We have a number of nice target opportunities that we think fit strategically.
The question will be do they fit with us from a valuation standpoint? It's too early to answer some of that but...
Research Division</strong> But if you did see the valuations more compelling would you be more aggressive again on the M&amp;A front? Absolutely.
Absolutely.
In fact there are several assets that we're looking at that given the right circumstances we will clearly be more aggressive.
No question.
Especially in those areas that we've identified as strategic growth areas or emerging markets.
Yes.
So I -- it's hard to predict as you know acquisition activity because these are competitive processes.
They involve buyers whose expectations change during the process.
So part of our caution in not putting numbers out as we may have in the past is that the environment has changed a lot.
It's hard to predict.
Our hit rate in our pipeline used to be 60% to 70%.
And for the last 2 years it's been well under 50% so hard to predict.
It could be in the pipeline but for me to be able to predict whether we can actually close it is a lot more difficult than it used be.
Research Division</strong> But are you -- on the divestiture front are you concerned you're not going to get the price I mean that you should given the performance of your businesses in this type of market? No.
I'm not concerned at all because we aren't going to sell if we don't get the right price.
Because most of these are businesses that make good margins and make contributions the company so there's no point in rushing to a sale.
These are not fire sales.
So if the metrics work properly for us in terms of what we think are reasonable prices then we'll transact.
If they don't we won't.
And we've walked away from proposals in the past we've had on assets that have been held for sale that we haven't transacted.
And some of them have come back one of them being a consumer packaging business that we sold earlier in the second quarter.
So if the price isn't right there's no reason for us to transact.
I mean that's part of our evaluation process is really what are the minimum price that we should be targeting? And what given the market conditions is the ideal price? And we generally end up somewhere in between those 2 but rarely would we be in a fire sale situation where we have to transact.
As you know from our balance sheet we've got strong operating cash flow.
We don't need the cash at any particular moment in time as a result of divesting something so we could be patient.
And we've seen it's a pretty reasonable market for divestitures.
Strategics are still looking for acquisitions and private equity has a lot of capital that they're looking to put to work as well.
Our next question comes from Andy Kaplowitz from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about the visibility you have into your welding business? It's obviously been the highlight of your global business I think for the last couple of quarters.
What are the major OEMs telling you? Sometimes we get questions about how long can construction and ag with the drought hold up and mining.
What are you guys seeing? Well we don't have lots of visibility.
Our typical visibility is for the order book that we get from those types of customers which is not a lengthy order book.
On the equipment side our order book runs in the 2- to 4-week category not 3 or 4 months so we don't have great forward visibility.
The consumable side is probably even a little bit less than that so I can't say we've got great visibility.
But when we talk to those customers particularly in the mining category oil and gas and even the ag category we continue to get reasonable forecasts in terms of forward demand.
And as I think Ron pointed out or John in his comments earlier we had a barn burning first quarter.
We had a very good second quarter but not nearly as good as the first quarter.
And we could not have predicted either one of those in advance of what we actually achieved because the increase in demand from our customers occurred during the quarter not before.
So we're well positioned with those customers but I can't say we've got any particularly good forward visibility.
Yes.
I would just add Andy that if you remember to David's point that first quarter our organic revenue for welding was in the high-teens.
This quarter it was more like 9%.
But I think we're looking on a go-forward basis at numbers that are high single-digits as opposed to something that's double-digit.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful John.
Just looking at global construction there's obviously a lot of moving pieces here.
I mean we understand the European weakness.
It was interesting your comments on Asia maybe getting a little bit better.
You've talked about Australia in the past.
I guess my question is how much can U.S.
residential improvement help offset European weakness? And how do we look at this? I know it's a balanced business.
So how do we look at the balancing act that's going on here between improvement in North America maybe Australia stabilizing and Europe getting a little bit weaker? How do you look at it? Well first of all let's look at the statistics.
We've been on a 5-year dramatic decline in North America to the point where 70% of our revenues in Construction now are international.
So there's not enough size in the market no matter what the housing start numbers look like in the near-term or project activity [ph] on commercial in North America to offset major declines in Europe where -- Europe represents 50% of the business today.
So I think unlikely we're going to see that offset.
I would say long-term that what we see emerging here in the U.S.
will be very favorable obviously to our Construction business.
We're not as wrapped up here in government financing in construction as they are in Europe and even in obviously Asia Pacific particularly in China.
So how these governments decide to finance construction going forward as part of their overall rationalization of their fiscal policies is going be an important determinant in how those markets recover.
But the U.S.
markets aren't big enough to cover for any significant decline in the European or Asia Pacific markets.
Research Division</strong> That's fair.
But have you seen stabilization in Asia Pacific? I think you kind of alluded to it earlier.
How is that region for you? I think John's comments were Asia Pacific but largely in Australia which represents about 70% of our Asia Pacific Construction business.
So China I would say continues to -- it's going to depend on in my view in China more what they determine they're going to do with the infrastructure spending there over the course of the next several years as to how that plays out.
They have been aggressive in the past.
The question is how aggressive they're going be in the future.
But as you know most of the major construction activity in China is financed by the government.
Your next question comes from Deane Dray from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Some questions on base business.
Can you comment on the progression in the quarter versus expectations? It looks like overall you came in below the low end of your range.
But how did the months play out? There was no particular trend.
I think if you look at things on an equalized day basis and you look at things on a seasonality basis no particular...
It's very uneven.
It was -- June was stronger than May.
April was stronger than May.
May was weaker.
We clearly didn't see any deceleration -- big deceleration in June Deane which probably I think a lot of people would've expected.
So I think the numbers to David and Ron's point the numbers are very very uneven.
And we're heading into a quarter right now into the third quarter where numbers coming out of Europe are going to be not only what's going on with end-market demand but they're always typically all over the place in the summer.
The seasonality in Europe in third quarter is obviously a wildcard on top of what already is a weak market so -- but no I wouldn't say we saw any particular trends in Q2 that we could highlight.
Research Division</strong> And then how about what's embedded on base business for third quarter for the range as well as for the year? Third quarter range is revenue -- base revenue growth of minus 1% to plus 1%.
Research Division</strong> So that's total revenue.
That's total yes.
Research Division</strong> But what's the base? The base is in the 2.5% to 3% range.
Research Division</strong> Positive? Yes.
So obviously the big vertical...
There's a plus in front of that number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just checking.
And then how about for the year? The big variable in Q3 will be again currency.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then for the base business for the year the updated guidance? 2% to 3%.
Research Division</strong> Good.
And just -- and then last one for me other income came in higher as a benefit.
Was there any one-timer in there any adjustment? And can you just flesh that out please? We had a few one-timers the biggest one being a sale of a building.
Research Division</strong> And so how much -- so were there other gains in there? Yes.
There was a gain of about $6 million.
That was the biggest item.
Our next question comes from Walt Liptak from Barrington Research.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I just wanted a quick follow-on to Deane's question about -- I wondered what your Europe assumptions were for the third quarter and for the full year.
It's down 1% -- 1.5% organic.
It's obviously negative but not as bad as I would've thought.
Yes.
What we're seeing by region is pretty similar to what we saw in the second quarter where North America is going be stronger; Europe is going to be down 1% to 2%; Asia Pacific flat to plus 1%.
So pretty similar demand rates from a base side from what we saw in the second quarter.
We don't really have a catalyst Walt that's going to change the profile of what we saw in Q2 in Q3 or for that fact -- for that matter going forward for the balance of the year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I wonder if you could just talk a little bit about what you're seeing in Europe specifically in the welding business demand trends pricing profitability.
Welding Europe let's see.
We have...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Organic internationally you said was up 2%.
But I presume that Europe was probably down.
No.
So Europe was up.
Europe was up 3% I think.
No Europe was up more than that.
It was more Asia Pacific that was down in international.
Now remember while we have -- we have a smaller European presence so our Europe numbers were actually growing at a rate of double-digit at least for the month of June.
Yes.
For the whole quarter it was up 3.7% welding Europe.
Our next question comes from Henry Kim from UBS.
If our math is correct the midpoint of total revenue guidance for the full year and using midpoint at the third quarter implies fourth quarter revenues up 4% year-on-year.
Is it possible to discuss factors that could drive sequential acceleration from the third quarter to the fourth quarter? Yes.
That's not what we have so I'm not sure how you backed into that.
But we're looking at the third quarter overall revenues being basically flat driven by currency.
But from a base side as I said we're up where we've got 2.5% to 3% up.
And it's a little bit weaker in the fourth quarter partly due to the comps.
So we don't have the granular details of the fourth quarter here to talk about obviously.
But I would say from a global perspective we don't see any significant change from Q3 to Q4 in market or demand activities.
So there may be some nuances based on comparables as Ron pointed out but no significant acceleration if you will in demand is part of our current full year outlook for Q4.
Currency is a little bit less of a factor in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
That's fair.
As a follow-up is it possible to talk about how customer and channel inventory levels look right now and any stocking or destocking embedded in your updated guidance in front of 2013? No.
None that is worthy of any note for sure.
We would've expected to have our original demand forecast materialize to see some of that occurring in Q2 which obviously did not happen.
And given the current demand forecast that we see across these markets we don't see any real stocking; restocking; or for that matter any significant destocking at this stage.
We haven't experienced it and we haven't heard a lot about it.
Let's put it that way.
Our next question comes from Robert McCarthy of R.W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> John before I ask my question would you mind repeating what the gross figure was for North American Construction sales into residential? Was that a double-digit number? Yes 13%.
Research Division</strong> 13%.
My first question has to do with share purchases.
Can you tell us how many shares you've repurchased either year-to-date or in the second quarter? And could you comment on full year -- in the past you've commonly talked about a range for targeted spending on repurchases.
I wondered where you're at.
So as I said earlier -- and I don't have the exact share number.
But for the first half we spent about $1 billion and embedded in the forecast which is included in the $0.04 EPS benefit that we bridged on the slide -- embedded in the forecast is a total year spend of $1.3 billion.
So you can back into the shares based on the share price over the year but I want to say it's something like close to 20 million.
I think it's 18 million somewhere in the 18-million to 20-million range.
Research Division</strong> For the full year.
No.
No that's the year to date.
So far year-to-date...
So far yes.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And you commented John when you were talking about Industrial Packaging that in the stretch business equipment sales led the growth.
Does that mean consumables was down? And can you talk about what Signode saw in consumables versus equipment comparison the stretch consumables? Stretch consumables were -- stretch consumables would have been lower.
It was growing at a lower rate than the equipment.
But clearly the equipment was much stronger on the stretch side.
I think you've seen the same dynamics on the Signode side too were...
Research Division</strong> So I'm guessing then the implication would be that the weakness in response to macro fundamentals hasn't shown up as much in the equipment business yet maybe because of order backlog.
And then that is what we should expect for the second half.
Well I think -- again I think it's really more geographical Rob.
I think North America we're seeing trends that are more consistent with consumable and equipment sales.
We were up 3% to 4% North America and we were down at a rate of about 4-ish on the European side.
So I think it really has more to do with more macro trends in the geographies we're seeing as opposed to the specific categories.
Rob the other thing I would note is about 80% of our equipment sales are replacement.
So I think it's probably an indication that people reached a point at which some of these pieces of equipment needed to be replaced or upgraded for productivity reasons or cost reasons.
And the fact that they haven't canceled orders or delayed orders is an indication that there's a reasonable long-term view of the need for this type of equipment.
And normally the equipment would precede a big increase in consumable volumes.
So it's a typical pattern that we see equipment rise and then consumables rise secondly.
And it's the same picture on the way down: equipment drops off first and consumables afterwards.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And lastly in the Power Systems and Electronics segment John you talked about high single-digit expectations for the welding business in the second half.
Second quarter electronics was up double-digits.
Is that something that you expect to be sustained in the second half? Well we know that in our electronics assembly segment of total electronics that we have orders in place that are significant with a key customer.
So we have a relatively high level of confidence now.
But I think the other -- what I call the other electronics category which is more legacy more component-related that will continue to be under pressure.
Yes.
I would say that yes we have a nice Q3 runway in that category.
But beyond that it's hard to see.
And as John pointed out it's based on some significant orders with a handful of key accounts.
But the general electronics category particularly that based on computers is really challenged.
Our next question comes from Nigel Coe Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
So we've covered a lot of ground already.
Can I just clarify Ron -- I think you mentioned overseas cash balance was $1.7 billion.
Is that right? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> So all your cash is overseas right now.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just wondering how does that play into your repurchase plans for the second half of the year? I mean you got above $1 billion this year.
You've done $1 billion so far.
Do you plan to do more? Or do you plan to rebuild that U.S.
cash balance? Well the way our capital structure works like most U.S.
companies is we have to do share repurchases and dividends out of the U.S.
So when we put together our plans for dividends and share repurchases we do that based on where we expect to generate the cash and how much U.S.
cash we expect to have and what the appropriate debt level that we want to maintain in the U.S.
is.
So the $1.3 billion in share repurchases that I talked about which is the current full year forecast that's a reflection of all those inputs.
It does not consider that we would repatriate any of that $1.7 billion at this point.
We certainly could if we needed to but there would be a tax cost to that at the time we did it.
So that assumes that we continue to reinvest that cash overseas in emerging markets and other ways but not bring it back to the U.S.
And obviously the other thing that it looks at as Ron said where is the cash coming from? And from our forecast you could tell we're talking about stronger performance in the U.S.
than we are in international markets.
So all these things are factored into how we look at the overall capital allocation.
But with a $2-billion expectation of free cash flow for the year as I've indicated obviously the second half of the year cash flow is much stronger than the first half which we would expect.
We wouldn't expect to see any significant change in our U.S.
debt levels as a result of this.
And certainly as Ron pointed out no plans to do any significant repatriation.
And I will point out as we've had divestitures for instance the finishing business to the extent we get net cash proceeds after tax in the U.S.
we're redeploying that and buying back shares to offset some of the EPS.
Research Division</strong> I mean U.S.
cash generation is not a problem at all.
But I'm just wondering the surplus cash you generated in the second half of the year you seemed to have a bit more of a cautious tone on M&amp;A.
Do we use that surplus cash to repurchase shares? Or do we rebuild U.S.
cash balances? Well we typically would not run U.S.
cash balances.
We're going to be stoking that fire [ph] overseas.
Research Division</strong> That's good.
And then just a quick one.
What euro rates are you using for the second half of the year? We are using $1.23.
Our next question comes from Eli Lustgarten from Longbow Securities.
Just one clarification.
The actual shares outstanding at the end of the second quarter is something like 468 million or 470 million or something like that if you average it.
I'm not sure have that handy.
We'll get back to you.
Okay.
And can we talk a little bit -- 2 questions.
One is for your guidance that we talked about relatively flattish sales.
And you just gave us a little bit gain on -- in base offset by currency.
Could you see anything that's changing the profitability that we saw in the second quarter at this point? In other words with all the changes going on will you be able to -- you expect to be able to hold most of the profitability in the second quarter at this point? Yes.
As we talked about we had very strong operating performance in the second quarter.
Our base incrementals were significantly higher than even 50% typically run 35% range.
And as we look out the rest of the year we expect to continue to perform north of 50%.
So nowhere in any business -- everything looks like it's holding together.
And can you talk specifically in the transportation sector where with the decline in European auto and probably not going to get better are you seeing any changes in demand? I mean is the U.S.
market able to sustain itself in this crazy environment through the second half of the year and you're seeing greater weakness in Europe? Or is it continuing in any change in China? I think that as we reported in Q2 we saw good performance in North America.
Asia Pacific continues to be strong.
China is still good.
India is still relatively good.
You're right Eli.
The major weakness is in Europe.
I don't think our auto people are expecting significant deterioration beyond the numbers they're seeing right now.
I mean it could go down a couple more points in Europe.
Maybe 7 turns into 8 or 9 on a decrease on builds.
But I think the biggest story for us Eli in Europe has been penetration gains.
John had pointed out in the quarter Q2 the European build was down in the 8% range.
We were up 1%.
So we have had significant penetration gain.
And obviously as those platforms continue to roll out we'll enjoy a penetration gain in subsequent quarters as well.
China is an organic growth story.
We've been aligned with more of the domestic manufacturers now so we have more content there.
So that's really new growth for us if you will to a large extent in China.
And here in North America we have continued the normal penetration process and it pays off obviously.
And North America car business in terms of sales and production has been clearly more robust than what we thought it was going to be entering the year.
So I think the transportation outlook for us is reasonably solid going forward on the OEM basis.
Do you have a forecast for builds in North America and Europe at this point what has changed [ph]? The latest forecast we have is Europe is roughly the same and North America is still growing at high double -- high-teen numbers.
We're going to get end it there.
We're at the top of the hour.
We thank everybody for participating in the call and I look forward to talking to a number of you later today.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good day everyone.
Welcome to the ITW Third Quarter Earnings Release Teleconference.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If there are any objections please disconnect at this time.
I'd now like to turn the meeting over to your host John Brooklier.
Thank you Dory.
Good morning everyone and welcome to ITW's Third Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Joining me on today's call is our President and acting CEO Scott Santi; and our CFO Ron Kropp.
Scott Ron and I will discuss our strong Q3 financial results our updated 2012 forecast as well as our long-term strategic initiatives.
And as always we will take your questions.
Before I review today's agenda let me make a few comments about our succession planning announcement from last week.
Our Board of Directors named Scott Santi to the role of President and Chief Operating Officer as part of our normal succession planning process.
In addition Scott was also appointed acting Chief Executive Officer following the decision by David Speer Chairman and CEO to take a leave of absence in order to fully focus on his health.
On behalf of everyone at ITW Scott Ron and I send along our very best wishes to David.
David we're thinking of you and all your friends at ITW say get well.
Now here's the agenda for today's call.
Scott will highlight our Q3 financial results as well as talk about our early [Audio Gap] stage progress we've made on our long-term initiatives that we publicly introduced earlier this year.
Ron will then cover our Q3 financial results in more detail.
I will then talk about our Q3 geographic performance in detail segment results.
Finally Ron will update you on our Q4 and full year forecast.
Finally we will open the call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We have scheduled 1 hour for today's call.
Moving to the next slides very quickly  [audio gap] the presentation contains our financial forecast for the 2012 fourth quarter and full year as well as other forward-looking statements identified on this slide.
We refer you to the company's 10-K for 2011 for more details about important risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's expectations.
Also this presentation uses certain non-GAAP measures and a reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures is contained in the appendix of this presentation and also on our website at www.itw.com.
Finally the telephone replay for this conference call is (888) 566-0396.
No passcode is necessary to access the replay and the replay will be available through midnight November 6 2012.
Now let me turn it over to Scott.
Scott? Thank you John.
Good morning everyone.
I also want to begin by sending along my personal best wishes to David Speer who has been a leader a mentor and a friend to me throughout much of my career at ITW.
In the meantime I want to assure everyone that it's business as usual here at the company.
As noted in our announcement from last week I've spent my entire 30-year career at ITW and over the course of that time have had management experience and leadership responsibility in every one of our operating segments.
We also have a very deep and talented management team who average more than 20 years of experience with the company and I can assure you as that as a management team we remain focused on our 2 major objectives: Delivering solid earnings on a quarterly basis; and successfully implementing our enterprise initiatives to make ITW an even better company in the years ahead.
As to our third quarter results I was very pleased with our ability to enhance our profitability [audio gap] even as we dealt with revenue headwinds in geographies such as [audio gap] in China.
Our double-digit earnings per share growth and strong operating margin improvement in the third quarter clearly reflects our focus on our differentiated 80/20 operating model.
I'll also note that we continue to return significant levels of cash to our shareholders.
Through the third quarter we have returned more than $1.9 billion of cash via dividends in our share repurchase program.
Finally some updates on our 3 enterprise initiatives: Business structure simplification; strategic sourcing; and portfolio management.
We remain fully committed to these initiatives and implementation plans around each are well underway.
Our divestiture activity thus far in 2012 including our Industrial Finishing group and pending Decorative Surfaces transactions underscore our commitment to reposition our business portfolio to focus the company on our best long-term growth return and margin opportunities.
We also continued to make solid real-time progress on our business structure simplification and strategic sourcing initiatives and we look forward to sharing additional details and operating metrics around the enterprise performance benefits we expect to generate from all 3 of these initiatives at our December 14 investor meeting in New York.
Now let me turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Scott and good morning everyone.
Here are the highlights for the third quarter.
Revenues decreased 1.7% due to unfavorable impact from currency partially offset by higher organic and acquisition revenues.
Operating income was $763 million which was higher than last year by $49 million representing income growth of 6.8%.
Operating margins of 16.9% were 130 basis points higher compared to last year.
Diluted income per share from continuing operations was $1.12 which included $0.03 of after-tax gains on divestitures.
Excluding the divestiture after-tax gains we finished at $1.09 which was at the upper end of our forecasted EPS range of $1.03 to $1.11.
While international demand continued to slow we were pleased by the continued positive levels of North American demand.
Overall we had a strong third quarter earnings performance reflecting our established 80/20 operating discipline and continued overhead management cost.
Now let's go to the components of our operating results.
Our 1.7% revenue decline was primarily due to the following factors: Based revenues were up 0.9% with North American-based revenues increasing 3.9% and mixed international-based revenues that overall were down nearly 3% year-over-year.
John will discuss the geographic mix in more detail later in the call.
Acquisitions net of divestitures added 1.4% to revenue growth and currency translation decreased revenues by 4.1% largely due to a weaker Euro.
Operating margins for the third quarter of 16.9% were 130 basis points higher than Q3 2011.
Based business margins increased 200 basis points with higher sales volume contributing 20 basis points.
The positive impact of non-volume items increased based margins by 180 basis points versus last year primarily due to 80 basis points of price cost favorability as well as strong management of overhead cost.
In addition total operating margins were lower by 30 basis points due to the dilutive impact of acquisitions.
The net operating margins from acquisitions excluding amortization and other acquisition accounting items were 11.7%.
Margins were also lower by 30 basis points due to higher restructuring expenses versus the comparable period last year.
Looking at working capital and cash flow accounts receivable DSO of 61 days was about 2 days higher than last year mainly due to the impact of currency and inventory months on hand remained consistent at 1.8 months.
ROIC for the third quarter was 16.3% which was 90 basis points higher than Q3 of last year.
Our ROIC continues to run at our 15% to 17% target range as a -- and is significantly above our cost of capital.
For the third quarter net cash provided from operating activities was $635 million with capital expenditures of $90 million resulting in free operating cash flow of $545 million which was 104% conversion to net income.
On a year-to-date basis we have generated cash flow of nearly $1.2 billion which was approximately $200 million better than the same year-to-date period last year.
We expect to end the year with close to 100% conversion rate of cash flow to income from continuing operations.
Turning to capital structure our capital allocation priorities continued to be as follows: Our first priority continues to be organic investments especially focused on our key growth platforms in emerging markets.
Examples of organic investments include R&amp;D spending for new product innovation additional investments in manufacturing capacity and restructuring projects which have long-term margin benefits.
Our next capital priority is dividends.
During the quarter we paid dividends of $169 [ph] million and our current dividend yield is about 2.5%.
Any excess capital after organic investments and dividends are used for external investments either share repurchases or acquisitions.
We evaluate allocation between these investments based on the best risk-adjusted returns.
During Q3 we continued to be active with our buyback program and repurchased $416 million of shares which brings us to $1.4 billion in share repurchases through the third quarter of this year.
As of the end of Q3 we have approximately $2.5 billion of authorized repurchases remaining under our buyback program.
Through the third quarter of 2012 we have returned over $1.9 billion to our shareholders through share repurchases and dividends which was 75% of our available capital.
In addition we utilized $62 million for acquisitions in Q3 the majority of which continue to be focused on our growth platforms in emerging markets.
Also during the quarter we took advantage of the fair book credit markets and issued $1.1 billion in 30-year bonds at an interest rate of 3.9%.
Both our debt-to-capital ratio and debt-to-EBITDA remained consistent with last quarter at 33% and 1.4x respectively.
Our cash balance overseas is nearly $2.1 billion and we have plenty of debt capacity to make additional [audio gap] investments.
Now I want to spend a few minutes updating you on the status of the Decorative Surfaces transaction.
In August we announced that we entered into a definitive agreement to divest a 51% interest in our Decorative Surfaces segment to CD&amp;R a private equity firm.
Between CD&amp;R's equity investment and third-party financing by the new entity we will receive approximately $1.05 billion at closing which we expect to occur within the next few weeks.
We will record a significant after-tax gain on the transaction upon closing.
Going forward we will deconsolidate this business from our operating results and record 49% of the ongoing net income of the entity.
Due to the entity's interest and amortization expense we expect our 49% share of these results to have a minimal ongoing P&amp;L impact.
Because we had retained a 49% interest the gain on the transaction and ongoing equity income will be reported as current income from continuing operations not discontinued operations and prior-period results will not be restated.
As Scott mentioned this divestiture aligns with our portfolio management initiative where we will continue to selectively divest businesses that no longer fit our core platforms or our long-term performance objectives.
I will now turn it back over to John who will provide more details on the operating results as he discusses the results by geography and individual segments.
Thank you Ron.
Let me take a few moments to review our Q3 geographic revenue trends most of which will come as no surprise to any of you.
Excluding the impact of currency our total revenue growth totaled roughly 2% in Q3 with organic revenues accounting for approximately 1% of that growth.
Similar to earlier quarters of 2012 our North American businesses delivered the strongest organic growth in Q3 with North American organic revenues increasing 4% in the recent quarter.
It's clear that North American end market demand largely led by the U.S.
economy remains in reasonably good shape.
Once again total international organic revenues were weaker declining a total of 3% in the quarter and key geographic breakouts include European and Asian Pacific organic revenues decreasing 4% and 1% respectively.
The only glimmer of better international revenue news came from South America where our organic revenues increased 3% in the quarter.
Most notably Brazil's organic revenues grew 2% in the third quarter.
Now moving to our Q3 segment table of results total company organic revenues increased approximately 1% with contributions led by our Power Systems and Electronics segment which grew organic revenues 4.5% and our All Other segment which grew organic revenues a similar 4.5%.
Notably all of our segments produced operating margin improvement in the quarter thanks to favorable price cost dynamics and the strength of our 80/20 business process focus.
We produced operating margin improvement of 260 basis points from both our Food Equipment and Industrial Packaging segments.
And in addition our operating margins for Power Systems and Electronics improved 220 basis points.
As Ron noted earlier total company operating margins hit 16.9% in Q3 130 basis points better than we did a year ago.
Now let's take a closer look at our reporting segments beginning with our Transportation segment.
Organic revenues grew 1.4% in Q3 versus the year-ago period.
Once again our Auto OEM business was a key contributor to organic growth with worldwide organic revenues increasing a robust 9%.
Both our North American and International Auto businesses produced organic growth of 9% in the quarter.
Notably our European Auto business produced organic growth of 4% representing the third straight quarter where our strong European product penetration and positive customer mix more than offset a negative car build which actually declined 6% in the quarter.
That's the continuation of great results from our Europe Auto team.
Congratulations to them.
One other note our European -- I should say our Asia Pacific Auto OEM business largely led by our China businesses grew organic revenues more than 20% in Q3.
In our 2 other businesses in this segment organic revenues for our Auto Aftermarket business declined 8% in the quarter and that reflects weaker consumer demand in a variety of global end markets.
Our Truck Remanufacturing business produced organic revenue growth of 2% and that's based on ongoing demand for our specialty trucks and related service from customers in Canada Western United States and that's associated with energy development projects there.
In our Power Systems and Electronic segment we benefited from strong demand from our electronics customers and moderating but still positive North American welding trends.
Total segment organic revenues increased 4.5% in the quarter.
In Electronics our worldwide organic revenues grew a strong 11% in the quarter.
Our Electronics Assembly business increased organic revenues almost 30% due to strong order rates from a key electronic customer with new product launches.
On the other side of the business organic revenues for our Component businesses were not nearly as good in the quarter.
Organic revenues declined 4% as key customers were negatively impacted by weak consumer demand for more basic products such as cell phones and computers.
In our welding category it was clearly a tale of 2 geographies in the quarter while our total organic revenues grew only 2% our North American organic revenues grew at a more solid rate of 5%.
North America oil &amp; gas as well as heavy equipment OEM customers continued to have reasonable demand for our welding equipment and specialty consumable products.
Led by weakness in China shipbuilding our international organic revenues declined 6% in the quarter.
I might point out however that if you take a look at our Welding business in Europe we actually produced flat organic revenues in the quarter.
In our industrial packaging segment our business continue to generally reflect industrial production trends in the major geographies.
In aggregate segment organic revenues grew very modestly in the quarter versus the year-ago period.
Our total North American Industrial Packaging organic revenues grew 2% while our total International Industrial Packaging organic revenues declined 1%.
More specifically in our Signode Steel and Plastic Strapping Equipment businesses that provide end of the line packaging of finished goods across a very broad set of markets worldwide organic revenues declined 3% with International North American organic revenues decreasing at similar rates.
The best news in this segment continued to be our Stretch Packaging business.
Worldwide organic revenues grew 10% based on contributions coming from increases in North American film volume and new business with customers in the beverage and food segments.
And similar to last quarter silage and agricultural-related demand also drove organic growth in the quarter.
In our Food Equipment segment North America continued to outperform the international side.
Our total segment organic revenues increased a very modest 30 basis points in Q3.
In North America organic revenues grew 5% with equipment sales increasing a very encouraging 6%.
The equipment category was led by sale gains from our baking slicing and cooking businesses.
Meanwhile our North American service business has increased organic revenues 2%.
Internationally organic revenues fell 4% as end market weakness with institutional customers persisted in countries such as Italy and France for our Food Equipment products.
As a result equipment sales declined a total of 8% in the quarter.
And the only bit of good international news was our Service business which grew organic revenues a very strong 6% in the quarter.
Moving to our construction segment ongoing weakness in Europe and Asia Pacific offset our positive performance in North America.
And as a result segment organic revenues declined 2.8% in the quarter versus the year-ago period.
On the international side organic revenues declined 6% as Europe and Asia Pacific revenues fell 8% and 3% respectively.
In Europe construction in markets continued to be hampered by both public and private spending particularly in the commercial construction category.
The European retail segment also showed signs of further weakening in Q3.
In Asia Pacific organic revenues declined largely due to weak commercial tool sales in Australia and New Zealand.
Not surprisingly it was a better story for us in North America driven by improving residential fundamentals around housing starts and new housing permits our Residential Construction businesses grew organic [audio gap] 7% in the quarter.
And while we haven't yet seen a major inflection point in the new housing market we fundamentally believe much better days are ahead for our Residential-related Construction businesses.
Both our Commercial and our Renovation Construction businesses produced organic revenue -- organic growth rates I should say of 1% in the quarter.
In our Polymers and Fluids segment organic revenues were negatively impacted by weak European end market conditions in the Polymers and Hygiene sector as well as low-margin business we exited in the quarter.
Segment organic revenues declined 6.7% in Q3 versus the year-ago period.
In our worldwide Polymers and Hygiene category organic revenues fell 9% as sales declined in Spain England France and Germany.
Our worldwide Fluids organic revenues declined only 2% as the MRO-oriented basis of this sector was more in line with industrial production trends in various worldwide geographies.
A couple of notes on our soon-to-be divested Decorative Surfaces segment organic revenues modestly declined in Q3 due to weakness in international end markets.
Accordingly organic revenues decreased 1.7% in Q3.
In North America organic revenues grew only 1% in the quarter in part due to a decrease in product demand associated with lower inventory levels in some of the major big-box stores in the United States.
And internationally organic revenues declined 6% due to slower end market demand in key geographies such as U.K.
Germany and China.
Finally in our final segment All Other.
The key contributor to the segment was once again our Test and Measurement business.
Organic revenues for this business grew 12% in Q3 based on ongoing CapEx spending for value-added structural testing equipment in North America Europe and China.
Tests and Measurement was also helped in the quarter by a onetime sale of equipment to a key consumer electronic customer.
Our other major business in this segment Consumer Packaging produced flat organic revenues in Q3 as mid-single digit organic growth from our global Packaging Solutions businesses was offset by organic revenue declines in the worldwide Graphics and Decorating businesses.
This concludes my remarks about the segments.
And I'll turn the call over to Ron who will cover our 2012 forecast.
Ron? Thanks John.
Before I provide the details of our forecast note that both our fourth quarter and full year 2012 forecast now exclude operating results from Decorative Surfaces after the expected closing date as well as the expected after-tax gain on the Decorative Surfaces transaction and any related transaction expenses.
The forecast also excludes any ongoing P&amp;L impact from our 49% equity interest in the new entity.
Before our year-end earnings release we will provide you an updated forecast that incorporates all of these impacts from the Decorative Surfaces transaction.
For the fourth quarter of 2012 we are forecasting diluted income per share from continuing operations to be within a range of $0.86 to $0.94 which assumes a total revenue decline of 1% to 4%.
This forecast includes only one month of Decorative Surfaces results in the fourth quarter which reduced our fourth quarter revenue growth by nearly 4% and our fourth quarter EPS range by $0.03.
This forecast also assumes continued softness in end markets particularly internationally.
The midpoint of the Q4 diluted EPS range of $0.90 would be flat versus the prior year.
For the full year 2012 our forecasted total revenue growth is now between 0% and plus 1% versus our prior revenue range of plus 1% to plus 3%.
Our forecasted EPS range for continuing operations is now $4.06 to $4.14.
The new EPS midpoint of $4.10 is $0.01 lower than our forecast from July and is driven by a $0.03 reduction from having only one month of Decorative Surfaces in the fourth quarter and a $0.05 reduction from base businesses and acquisitions.
This is partially offset by a $0.03 increase from the Q3 divestiture gains that we've previously discussed.
A $0.03 improvement due to stronger currency rates versus July and a $0.01 benefit from higher share repurchases.
The EPS midpoint of $4.10 would be 9% higher than 2011 excluding the Q1 2011 tax benefit related to the Australian tax matter.
I will now turn it back over to John for the Q&amp;A.
John? Thank you Ron.
We will now open the call to your questions [Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us a little bit more color on your Industrial Packaging business what you saw going on throughout the quarter as we progressed into the quarter both in North America and internationally it being so coincident with economic activity? Yes Ann this is Scott.
I would say that the results were fairly steady throughout the quarter.
In North America running flat to down a couple of hundred basis points throughout the quarter and in Europe down 3 to 4.
But no big trends one way or the other as we move through the quarter.
Yes we had a nice quarter from stretch packaging in that segment.
Overall they were up 10% and some of that was related to film volume in North America related to food and beverage.
Research Division</strong> And as you said silage I didn't realize you were exposed to silage so that's the good news something that I've heard this year.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And my follow-up question is just a little bit more color on the restructuring efforts and the spend in the quarter how things are progressing.
Just a little bit more deep dive on all of the transformation programs please.
Well so as we disclosed in our forecast our overall restructuring spend for the year is expected to be between $100 million and $110 million which is about $30 million to $40 million higher than kind of a normal run rate that we would have.
Year-to-date we've spent $76 million so we're looking at about $30 million spend in the fourth quarter which is similar to what it was in the third quarter and a lot of that incremental spend at both Q3 and Q4 is related to us working through our business simplification initiative and starting to take some actions around the management organization as we move to put the appropriate leaders in place at the divisions and starting to make some changes there.
Certainly more to come as we move through that initiative in 2013 but we're starting to see -- we're starting to take action here starting to see some of the cost related to that.
Our next question comes from Rob Wertheimer with Vertical Research.
I wonder if you could give any detail around the price cost benefit that you saw.
I don't know whether that's [indiscernible] Resins or whether it's more broad-based than that start there.
We continue to see a significant price cost benefit in the third quarter.
We also had a pickup in the fourth.
Overall it was 80 basis points across the company but we really saw it in every segment.
So it's pretty broad-based.
We did see a pickup in Resin towards the end of the quarter but we think that's going to stabilize and perhaps go down in the fourth quarter.
The biggest segments where we had impacts Polymers and Fluids was positive 130 basis points in price cost; Industrial Packaging 100; Power Systems Electronics 100.
Okay.
And then just generally speaking the margins in food were really quite good obviously on -- not so much on revenue.
So was that anything in particular in restructuring? Is that your competitive environment getting better? Maybe if you could just sort of comment on the trend line there.
Sure.
The primary drivers are really a focus that we've had in that business for the last 18 months so really around reapplying 80/20 in a fairly aggressive and focused way and we're starting to see the benefits of that come through.
Certainly some help on the price cost side but largely looking at the fundamental operating structure and taking some nice actions around 80/20 and as Ron alluded to before on our business structure simplification initiative as well.
Our next question comes from Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Can you guys talk about your ability to continue to outperform in that European transportation market? I mean it has been pretty impressive over the last few quarters.
Maybe talk about the mix in the business and the ability to continue to penetrate and outperform as you have.
Andy I think it's a function of we always talk about product capability having the right set of products new introductions so on and so forth.
But I think more specific to Europe is this whole issue of mix and where we really have strong mix is on the German OEM side which -- clearly the best performing part of the European autobuild story.
So I'd say we have the right set of customers at this point in time.
And I think we're going to continue to -- I think Germany will continue to outperform the rest of Europe as it relates to autobuilds.
Having said that I would expect continued outperformance but we certainly can't give you the guarantees we've seen over the last 3 quarters.
But I think directionally Europe's on the right path both from a product development standpoint and from a mix standpoint.
And I would add to that I think from the standpoint of -- pipeline of new penetration gains both in Europe and really around the world in our Auto OEM business I think we've probably got as good a pipeline going forward there as we've had in a long time.
Research Division</strong> Okay great that's helpful guys.
If I focus back on North America the sustainability of the U.S.
growth going forward I mean it's been obviously quite good versus the rest of your business but it's been concentrated in Power Systems and Electronics.
I mean I know it's also in Test and Measurement and if you look at it Welding has been strong but some of your OEMs have started to sort of change their production.
So -- and I know you've talked about limited visibility in that business so I'm just trying to figure out sort of how you guys look at it going forward from here in North America? Well I think it's obviously an environment that's pretty dynamic at the moment.
I think one of the things that's been interesting for us throughout the year is the fact that sort of the stronger ends of our -- the stronger components of our overall portfolio from a growth standpoint have been the more capital goods-intense events which is again in this environment probably a little bit counterintuitive but what it says is that customer base the customer base that we have is certainly willing to spend money invest in new equipment that helps improve their productivity or their performance.
So if you look at the Welding business Test and Measurement the stronger ends of our sort of overall organic growth from the standpoint of the North American market have really been in these CapEx categories.
We certainly can't sit here and -- with any great assurance say that that will continue but I think it is indicative of the fact that our customer base are still looking to make investment in new products and new capabilities that help drive better productivity better performance for them.
Research Division</strong> And Scott you haven't seen any change in behavior though to date from those customers.
Not anything meaningful no.
Our next question comes from Jamie Cook with Crédit Suisse.
This is actually Andrew Buscaglia on behalf of Jamie Cook.
Yes so actually I have a quick question on sorry just on your orders going through if you could -- if you guys could track them or just tell us how they've been tracking on a monthly basis specifically into the month of October.
Well we don't -- as you know we don't give out monthly data anymore.
I think what we can tell you though is that if you look at the sort of activity levels through the months in the quarter the third quarter I don't think on an adjusted basis there was any real big difference between July August and September.
So once again we're not seeing any kind of outperformance early and things softening.
I think it's more or less a story of the geographies we've talked about.
Europe and Asia Pacific continue to be a little weaker and they have been persistently weaker.
North America U.S.-led continues to be a number that's reliably in sort of a 3% to 4% growth rate.
So I don't think we've seen anything on a month-to-month basis that point to anything changing in any material way.
Okay.
And then sort of along those lines can you comment on what your visibility is like right now into Q4 and then potentially maybe into '13? Well I think Q4 visibility is what we've baked into the forecast.
So we're expecting that overall base revenue growth to be in the plus 0.5% to 0.7% range.
North America continued to be solid maybe a tad weaker in the 3% or 4% range.
International still negative but a little bit less negative than we've been.
And we generally what I would add is and we've said this before but we generally don't fill big backlogs in terms of the way we execute on our customers' demand.
We're typically shipping today what our customers ordered yesterday.
So from a standpoint of overall revenue rates we're seeing on the ground today essentially a very similar flavor to what we saw in the third quarter.
Andrew one other thing as it relates to 2013 in New York in December as we typically do we'll give you a look at what we think third -- full year '13 will look like from an organic revenue standpoint.
But that won't be until the middle of December.
Our next question comes from Stephen Volkmann with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'm wondering sort of a big picture question granted we're all waiting for December for the details but I'm wondering as we get past your sort of new plans and consolidation and so forth is there any reason to think that your priorities for use of cash would change as we move forward? Well I think certainly we've always been in this position where we have a lot of free cash flow to generate from operations to deploy.
On top of that as we do more divestitures we'll have some additional cash to utilize.
And what we've said on the divestiture cash is to the extent we have after-tax cash in the U.S.
we would use that for share repurchases to offset earnings dilution and so we've been doing that.
We closed on a Finishing Systems deal earlier in the year.
We're about to close on this Decorative Surfaces deal.
So one of the reasons if you look at our share repurchases for the year and our allocation to that that's higher than it would normally be because of these noted divestitures.
I think going forward historically we've returned about 60% of capital to shareholders via dividends or share repurchases.
Given that we're bit more focused around strategic acquisitions we might allocate a bit more to return to shareholders versus acquisitions say 1/3 to acquisitions and 2/3 to shareholders after considering divestitures.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great that's very helpful.
And then what's the ultimate resolution for the Decorative Surfaces business? I mean I'm sure you don't want to sort of keep it this way for too long or maybe you do what are your comments there? Well yes this transaction it may seem a little bit complicated.
I mean it'll certainly in the P&amp;L have some puts and takes as we continue to own a share of this.
But it's a good transaction for us.
It allows us to get $1 billion out of the business right now which we can redeploy.
So what will happen is it's part of this joint venture and the joint venture will manage it.
And ultimately to the extent the joint venture ends up selling the business on to somebody else we will participate in that.
So the way I would think about it from an ongoing impact on us we'll have some amount of P&amp;L our 49% interest but that will be pretty minimal.
The joint venture will have a lot of additional cost beyond operating income related to interest expense amortization expense et cetera.
So we'll probably have very little in the way of P&amp;L pickup for our 49%.
But ultimately when this business gets sold on we will get 49% of the proceeds and 49% of the gain at that point.
Our next question comes from Eli Lustgarten with Longbow Research.
One just qualification the $0.03 gain from the sale in the quarter is it reported in other income? That's it.
Yes it is.
It's in other non-operating income.
Yes I just wanted to make sure of that.
Can you talk about seasonality in the fourth quarter? I mean your comps are a little surprising because we've had lots of companies report that September's gotten a lot of weaker so it's good to hear that somebody's who's -- somebody's getting the business but is there anything seasonally in the fourth quarter that's -- in the operating divisions that's weaker than what we -- than normal on a seasonal basis? Is there anything that's showing any softness and the same thing when we talk about profitability as we go into the fourth quarter the ability to sustain the third quarter profitability adjusted probably to some volume differences? So overall from a total company perspective our fourth quarter tends to be our weakest quarter from a revenue and margin perspective.
Yes part of that is the month of December especially now that we've moved off to one-month lag for international December also falls in the fourth quarter.
So it tends to be our weakest revenue quarter our weakest margin quarter.
Most of our businesses aren't overly seasonal beyond the impact of the holidays.
Maybe a couple of exceptions the Construction business is a little bit seasonal as well as some of our Consumer Packaging businesses that serve the beverage markets.
But generally from a seasonality perspective we don't have a ton of seasonality beyond the holiday impact.
I guess my question is is there anything that appears to be any weaker than we would normally expect because of -- adjusted for this? No no.
Everything else is good.
And a follow-up question can we talk a bit about acquisitions? I guess you only made $52 million I think is what you said in the quarter.
Where is that year-to-date because you didn't have a chart in here? And where were you hoping to be this year? I mean how full is the acquisition pipeline at this point? Restructuring permits.
So during the quarter we acquired 5 companies and paid about $69 million for the year.
We have 19 acquisitions for about $400 million paid about $659 million.
And so generally we're seeing a reasonable level of acquisition activity.
We're certainly focused on growth platforms in emerging markets when we look at acquisitions.
So we're doing fewer deals but the average size is bigger.
So we feel reasonably good about the acquisition pipeline.
It's not great but it hasn't dried up either and we're looking at a fair number of deals.
Yes but you talked something about this year in the 500 to 750 kind of range so expected something like that.
Well yes we're already at 400 so certainly a bit more than that in the fourth quarter although fourth quarter is always a little bit iffy and things that are expected to close at the end of the year sometimes fall into the next year.
Our next question comes from David Raso with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> On the fourth quarter I apologize if I missed it what is the base revenue growth assumption? Base is plus 0.5 to plus 0.7.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So to my question in the fourth quarter the implied operating margins are essentially flattish year-over-year so you have base business up you have 2 of your higher margin businesses' core growth driving the growth right Power and All Other.
Price cost I would think would still be positive.
So I'm trying to understand why the margins would be roughly flattish and it would be helping me out would be if you have a share count assumption for the fourth quarter? But if you can square up why the margins wouldn't be improving? I mean they just went up 140 basis points this quarter and your base growth assumption for fourth quarter is similar to the third quarter.
Yes.
So overall we're looking at margins to be up a tad 10 to 20 basis points and the base part of that is about 30 to 40.
So that does include continued favorably priced cost of 60 to 80 basis points so not quite as strong as third quarter but still pretty favorable.
We do have some headwinds on the corporate side so we had some corporate gains last year for reserves and cash for undervalue life insurance and those kinds of things.
So that's going to be a drag of about 40 basis points.
The other thing that's up year-on-year and I talked about it earlier is restructuring so that will cost us 40 basis points or so as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it basically comes down to leverage say the price cost is negated roughly slightly more than negated by corporate expense and restructuring.
It basically comes down to operating leverage on that core business growth.
Yes yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
I have one quick one sorry.
2013 for dec surfaces for trying to model it.
You're saying the net P&amp;L impact for your 49% stake is neutral but just for pure modeling I mean you're going to show other income showing the JV some 49% but then there's cost above the EBIT line? I get -- I'm just trying to see how to model it.
So as I said earlier it will be -- continue to be included in continuing operations because we retain a 49% interest.
So what we will show going forward is first of all we will have a gain in the fourth quarter that will be considered non-operating.
And on an ongoing basis we will have 49% of the income but as I said the income should be fairly minimal.
So using a flat expectation over the long-term is probably appropriate.
There may be some one-time amortization charges in the fourth quarter that could make that negative but over time it should be basically flat.
That will also be reported outside of operating income.
But it's still included in continuing apps.
Research Division</strong> So the cost related to it plus the income related to it will all be below the… It'll be netted into one line so we will not show revenues operating income margins et cetera and it will no longer be a separate segment.
Our next question comes from Henry Kirn with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Could you walk through some of the key factors that would take you to the high end versus the low end of the sales forecast for the fourth quarter? Well certainly if the economic environment gets better that will help our base earnings and we'll get a lot of leverage from that.
Yes we don't think that's -- this could get substantially better but there could be a lot of upticks potentially in Asia Pacific and China.
Right now we have that continuing to be negative but that can move fairly quickly quarter-to-quarter.
On the cost side certainly we could do better on the margin.
We may be able to get better price cost in the higher end of that range.
We're continuing to see overhead benefits and we've got a lot of that built in but sometimes we can outperform that.
From a business perspective we've seen strong performance in certain segments and we're modeling some of that to come down but that could continue to be favorable on the upside in things like Welding and on Automotive.
But Henry if you think of our forecast I think if you look at the last couple of quarters I think our forecast really underlies the notion it's more of the same.
You have North America a little bit better; Europe Asia Pacific a little negative.
So I -- we're not seeing anything right now that gives us a high degree of confidence that those trends are going to change per those geographies.
In either direction.
In either direction right.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And I guess as a follow-up could you talk about with all the headlines on the elections and the fiscal cliff are any of your North American customers playing wait-and-see until they get behind us before coming back and ordering again? I don't -- I mean I don't think so.
I mean Scott your observation? I would say the same.
We're not seeing any evidence of that.
I think to Scott's earlier point Henry think about the amount of activity around our CapEx-related businesses.
Again seems counterintuitive it seems like something that wouldn't happen if people were worried about these type of issues and we're not seeing that.
I think businesses really do what's in their best interest over a shorter period of time and they tend to get less worried about policy.
Our next question comes from Deane Dray with Citi.
Research Division</strong> On the Test and Measurement side that was a standout performer in the quarter.
If I got it correctly 12% organic but you also called out there was an impact from 1 particular customer big shipment.
So was that in the number? And can you size us -- that for us please? I think the big shipment was related to the Electronics sector not Test and Measurement.
Research Division</strong> So that was a pure 12% core? Yes I think it was really more representative of what we saw in the various geographies.
Although we did pick up some business from -- a little bit of business from a key customer in Test and Measurement but to Scott's point it had -- there was a bigger variation or a bigger contributor coming on the Electronic side from us from a key customer.
Research Division</strong> And then just within the business mix within Test and Measurement obviously this is more on the industrial side it's CapEx sensitive but if you just gave us a quick 80/20 of what are the key drivers there in terms of the products is it all Instron? And are there any particular end markets that are seeing that type of growth? Well I think Instron continues to be the flagship business of Test and Measurement.
I think the drivers of growth again are related to sort of to your point on CapEx needs and I think that the global trend if you asked our Test and Measurement people the thing they point to all the time is sort of standardization around the globe and whether it's in China whether it's U.S.
whether it's Europe people are looking at standardization and it requires our form of technology as it relates to our Test and Measurement equipment both equipment and the software that goes with it.
So we like this whole notion of standardization globalization.
We think it'll be the long-term good trend for the Test and Measurement category.
Research Division</strong> How meaningful might Test and Measurement be in your potential acquisition candidates? Well very meaningful.
I mean over the last 5 or 6 years we really started this segment from scratch with the acquisition of Instron in 2005 and that continues to be a key focus of our acquisition targeting.
Our next question comes from Ajay Kejriwal with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Scott I know you said you're going to provide more details on the long-term initiatives December 14 but maybe a clarification on the slide deck here where you're saying you have the strategic leaders on place for the GM roles.
So do you have all the GMs identified? Are they -- do they have their teams in place? Any color there would be helpful.
Well I think largely we have the leaders in place.
What we're really talking about is building bigger scale into our divisional structure so the sort of before-and-after on that is moving from roughly 600-plus operating divisions down to a number around 150 to 175 or so when we're done.
The planning around that is -- has been done it's been ongoing throughout this year.
I'd say we're largely through the -- sort of define the game plan we're in the sort of early stages of the execution around that starting with the leadership questions related to those 150-plus divisions and I would [indiscernible] I can't tell you that 100% of those are done but I -- the number's probably well north of 90%.
Research Division</strong> Got it that's helpful.
And then on the EPS walk Slide 13 2 items on -- dec surfaces that $0.03 is that inclusive of the offset from share buyback that you've been doing? And then on acquisitions the $0.02 is that just from acquisitions that you've done last quarter? Is that all one time? Does it go away? So the $0.03 for dec surfaces is simply the operating results related to dec surfaces.
We've also included a $0.01 benefit from higher share repurchases.
That's really related to the use of proceeds from the dec surfaces transaction.
So from a net perspective that's about -- that's a $0.02 decline if you netted the shares in there.
The acquisition number is really 2 components of that.
One that's a function of the cash distribution from the acquisitions we've already completed.
In the early part of the year we had a couple of larger ones that as things have weakened especially internationally the results have come down a little bit.
Secondly we had included some amount of acquisitions in the forecast that we expected to complete and some of that's gotten pushed off.
So we've taken the number down a little bit there as well.
Our next question comes from John Inch with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask about restructuring.
Now some other companies given the environment have sort of taken the opportunity to up their restructuring spend.
You guys have outperformed in terms of your results versus them.
But I'm just curious is there a reason why perhaps you didn't opportunistically try to dial in a little bit more restructuring just as a hedge given the macro and could you just as a follow-up to that could you just talk about the mix in your restructuring spend that maybe is focused on Europe and then focused on some of the simplification initiatives? So as I talked about earlier our restructuring spend for the year is already above what we would normally spend.
So certainly part of that is what I talked about earlier business simplification.
And part of that is Europe and other places where things are weak and really as we work through this business simplification exercise it's all related.
As we look at simplifying the European business we're also factoring in what we think the results are.
So it's hard to split up exactly what would be business simplification versus economic related but we certainly have increased the overall spend accordingly and really set it at the beginning of the year.
And all I would add to that is the business simplification initiatives certainly they're the kind of head-start we've had given that initiative and its sort of central point in the company's operating approach over last year's is in a lot of ways sort of prepared us for this environment and so it's really about implementing that plan and executing to that plan.
Not a lot of deltas around -- we knew going into this year it was not going to be a great environment economically anyway so from a standpoint of incremental and restructuring we just don't see the need at this point but there's plenty of that activity going on and has been throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> That was [indiscernible] to my question.
The question was why didn't you was there some obvious reasons why you didn't take -- I realize the simplification in the added year-over-year.
I'm talking about sort of what you saw in the third quarter.
Your plans are in line I'm just saying other companies are taking up their restructuring.
You were just saying that you had set it at an appropriate level but… And ours was pretty higher.
Yes John remember we increased our restructuring spend last quarter by $15 million to $20 million.
So I think there that -- I think that was a realization that there was more to come as the year progressed.
The other thing I'd point out and as I said earlier as we continue to work through business simplification we'll have a higher spend than normal next year as well and certainly some of that will be related to places where the top line's challenged.
Research Division</strong> You mean higher versus trajectory? You don't mean higher versus this year right? Well I'm not going to quantify exactly but certainly higher than our normal level of spend.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's fine so it's probably close to this year.
What kind of a payback do you guys expect on this restructuring? At least help some sort of cushioning tailwinds into next year.
I mean typically overall across the company we get about a one-to-one payback in North America.
It's lower than that and in places like Europe it's higher.
Because it's higher more expensive but overall on average it's about one-to-one.
Research Division</strong> Can I just ask as a final point here? The process of simplification you guys I realize have been collecting an awful lot of data that will go into the framework.
Where are you in that process? Meaning are you still waiting for say a bunch of little projects to be completed to give you information that's coming through in November or something to then in turn provide the output framework for how you're thinking about future cost savings? Or is a lot of that kind of -- is a lot of that sort of in place and really then you're just sort of dotting Is and crossing Ts in terms of sort of how this is actually going to progress in the time frame? And maybe just so I'm not asking for the numbers I'm asking more for just the process and kind of your confidence as you've sort of gone through this process.
Yes.
What I would say is we are well through the planning process and are in the active execution mode.
Research Division</strong> And you're feeling good? Yes.
Don't we sound like we feel good? All right we have time for one more question.
Our final question comes from Andy Casey with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess a few questions to wrap it up.
First if you can give any quantification on the estimated tax impact for the $1.05 billion divestiture cash proceeds.
I can't give that at this point.
You can assume our typical effective tax rate on that maybe a little bit higher because it's more North American-based so say between 30% and 35% from an effective tax rate perspective.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay thanks.
And then on the business trends that you're seeing particularly Signode North America I think it grew year-over-year in the first half and then in this quarter if I heard right you called out a decline year-over-year.
First is that right? And then second if it is can you please remind me when that business last flipped to a decline from growth? It was -- North America if you're talking about Signode specifically the number was minus 2 to minus 3 in the quarter and this would have been the first quarter where we saw negative activity.
We're also down 1 shipping day in the quarter.
And right we all -- we did lose a shipping day in the quarter.
So I'd say on a real-time basis the business has probably slowed a little bit but probably not as much as that number.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay thanks.
And then lastly across your businesses are you seeing any evidence of inventory destocking? And if so could you point out where? I would say not.
I think generally customers have been pretty tight in that regard all year in terms of overall cautious posture but I don't think we're seeing anything significant in terms of change around that of late.
Thank you everybody.
We appreciate you joining us today on our conference call and we look forward to talking to you again.
Have a good day.
Thank you for joining today's conference.
That does conclude the call at this time.
All participants may disconnect.
Welcome and thank you for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
And I will turn over the meeting to Mr.
John Brooklier Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Kelly.
Good morning everyone and welcome to ITW's Fourth Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Joining me on today's call is our President and CEO Scott Santi; and our CFO Ron Kropp.
Scott Ron and I will discuss our Q4 financial results our long-term strategic initiatives and our 2013 full year forecast.
As always we will take your questions.
Now here's the agenda for today's call.
Scott will make a few comments on our operating results as well as discuss the enterprise strategy and long-term initiatives we talked about last month in New York City.
Ron will cover our Q4 and full year financial results in more detail.
I will then come back and talk about our geographic revenue performance and detail our segment results.
Ron will then update you on our 2013 full year and Q1 forecast.
And finally we will open the call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] As always we've scheduled 1 hour for today's call.
Moving to the next slide.
You can see the forward-looking statement.
The presentation contains our financial forecast for full year 2013 and 2013 first quarter as well as other forward-looking statements identified on the slide.
I'd ask you to read the rest of the slide particularly as it relates to the appendix where we have a whole host of non-GAAP and comparable GAAP measures.
Couple of other housekeeping items.
The telephone replay for the conference call is (888) 393-9645.
No passcode is necessary to access the replay and the playback will be available through midnight of February 12.
Now let me introduce our CEO Scott Santi.
Scott? Thanks John.
Good morning everyone.
I'd like to begin with a few comments on full year 2012.
In a challenging global economic environment we were able to deliver solid operating performance while at the same time rolling out and mobilizing the company behind a number of key initiatives related to our 2012 to 2017 enterprise strategy.
Our organic revenues grew 2% in 2012 due primarily to strong year-on-year growth from our auto OEM welding and test and measurement segments.
We also delivered 50 basis points of operating margin improvement and we grew our adjusted earnings per share 10%.
Last month at our investor meeting in New York City we detailed the enterprise strategy that we are undertaking to position the company to deliver solid growth and even stronger margins and returns on capital in the context of an increasingly challenging global competitive environment.
Through the execution of our enterprise strategy we are narrowing our focus to areas of opportunity where we can fully leverage ITW's unique core capabilities.
We have detailed execution plans in place for 2013 around 3 key initiatives associated with our enterprise strategy.
Those are portfolio management business structure simplification and strategic sourcing.
We have covered these initiatives in detail in other forums so won't be going them -- going into them in detail here.
But I can assure you that the entire organization is aligned behind and focused on driving meaningful progress on all 3 in 2013.
I do want to reiterate the performance goals that we are committed to achieving by 2017 through the execution of our enterprise strategy and those are: organic growth at 200-plus basis points above global industrial production operating margins of 20%-plus returns on invested capital of 20%-plus and free cash flow conversion of at least 100% of net income.
Simply put we have 2 objectives for 2013: one is to run our businesses and execute at a high level in the context of the realities of the economic environment and two is to drive solid progress and momentum in the execution of our enterprise strategy across the company.
We are confident that through our enterprise strategy we are taking the steps necessary to position the company to generate maximum performance leverage and impact from a very unique and robust set of core capabilities and that our strategy will result in highly differentiated operating performance in the years ahead.
Now let me turn the call over to Ron.
Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
Here are the highlights for the fourth quarter.
Revenues decreased 2.3% primarily due to the impact of divestitures mainly Decorative Surfaces which closed on October 31.
Excluding the divestiture impact revenue growth would have been 2.3% largely driven by organic growth in North America and acquisitions.
Operating income was $609 million which was lower than last year by $38 million representing a decline of 5.9%.
Operating margins of 14.4% were 60 basis points lower compared to last year.
Diluted income per share from continuing operations was $2.10 which included several discrete items primarily a significant gain on the divestiture of Decorative Surfaces.
Excluding the effect of these discrete items we finished at $0.89 per share.
Overall both our Q4 top line performance and bottom line earnings were largely in line with our expectations as growth in North America and Asia offset continued softness in Europe.
As we discussed at the investor meeting in December we had several significant discrete items this quarter.
I want to take a minute to review our fourth quarter reported performance versus our operating performance from October.
Our reported EPS on a GAAP basis was $2.10.
During the fourth quarter we recorded a gain of $1.37 on the sale of our former Decorative Surfaces segment.
We also recorded the P&amp;L impact of our ongoing 49% interest in the Wilsonart business of negative $0.04 which included activity from November and December primarily related to transaction expenses and purchase accounting amortization.
In addition we had some discrete corporate items in the fourth quarter which resulted in an expense of $0.04 per share.
We also had several discrete tax items which reduced earnings by $0.08 per share mainly related to an IRS settlement we reached during the quarter.
After excluding these items our operating earnings for the fourth quarter were $0.89 which is well within the forecast range we discussed last month.
Now let's go to the components of our operating results.
Our 2.3% revenue decline in fourth quarter was primarily due to the following factors: Divestitures primarily Decorative Surfaces reduced revenues by 4.6%; base revenues were up 0.6% with North American base revenues increasing 1.6%; and mixed international base revenues that overall were down 0.5% year-over-year.
Our Asia businesses grew 3.7% led by strong growth in India as well as solid growth in China.
We saw a 2.6% decline in Europe with a decline in virtually all of our businesses.
Acquisitions added 2.4% to revenue growth while currency translation decreased revenues by 0.7%.
Operating margins for the fourth quarter were 14.4% or 60 basis points lower than Q4 2011.
Base business margins were down 40 basis points from last year.
Higher sales volume contributed 20 basis points of operating leverage.
On the non-volume side price cost favorability improved margins by 50 basis points but was slightly lower than we were expecting.
We also saw some negative impacts from higher pension and benefit cost which decreased margin 70 basis points; and inventory revaluation from lower material cost which reduced margins 30 basis points.
In addition total operating margins were lower by 30 basis points due to dilutive impact of acquisitions.
The net operating margins from acquisitions excluding amortization and other acquisition accounting items were 12.2% for the quarter.
Margins were also lower by 20 basis points due to higher restructuring.
For the full year revenues were up 0.8%.
Excluding the impact of divestitures revenues grew 2.2%.
Operating margins were higher by 50 basis points.
Excluding the discrete items that I discussed for the fourth quarter as well as the $0.33 favorable impact of the Australian tax case in 2011 full year EPS from continuing operations was $4.09 or 9.9% higher than 2011.
Our total full year revenue increase is 0.8% consisting of the following: Base revenue increased 1.7%.
North America was strong for the year at a 4.3% growth rate.
We had a mixed growth profile internationally that resulted in a 1% decline.
John will discuss the full year geographic mix in more detail later in the call.
Acquisitions added 3.1% to revenue growth while divestitures primarily Decorative Surfaces drove a 1.4% reduction in revenue.
Currency translation decreased revenues by 2.7% mainly driven by a weaker euro.
The higher full year base business margins of 110 basis points were partially offset by the dilutive impact of acquisitions of 40 basis points.
Higher restructuring costs of 30 basis points also reduced margin as we expect close to $100 million in restructuring activities this year which was double compared to 2011.
Overall while international demand was sluggish for the year our North American markets remained strong for most of the year.
Despite our uneven top line growth profile we saw a 50 basis point improvement in our operating margins as we maintained our 80/20 operating discipline and continued overhead cost management while launching our rollout of our enterprise-wide strategy and initiatives.
Looking at working capital and cash flow.
Accounts receivable DSO at 58 days was consistent with last year and inventory months on hand improved slightly to 1.7.
ROIC for the year was 15.4% consistent with 2011.
Our ROIC continues to be well above our cost of capital and a key metric for us.
As Scott mentioned we expect the end result from our enterprise strategy will be an ROIC above 20% for 2017 and beyond.
For the fourth quarter net cash provided from operating activities was $605 million with capital expenses of -- expenditures of $108 million resulting in free operating cash flow of $497 million which was 139% conversion of adjusted income from continuing operations.
For the year we generated nearly $1.7 billion of free operating cash flow which was a 90% conversion of adjusted income from continuing operations.
Excluding the increase in taxes paid due to divestitures the cash flow conversion rate is north of 100%.
Turning to our capital structure.
Our capital allocation priorities continue to be as follows: Our first priority continues to be organic investments especially focused on our key growth initiatives.
Examples of our organic investments include R&amp;D spending additional investments in manufacturing capacity and restructuring projects which have long-term margin benefits.
Our next capital priority is dividends.
During the quarter we paid dividends of $350 million.
This included the normal January dividend payment which was accelerated into December to allow our shareholders to benefit from the 2012 dividend tax rate.
Our current dividend yield continues to be about 2.5%.
Any excess capital after organic investments and dividends is used for external investments which are either share repurchases or acquisitions.
We evaluate allocation between these investments based on the best risk-adjusted returns.
During Q4 we purchased just over $600 million in shares which brought us to $2 billion worth of share repurchases for the year.
As we look to 2013 we expect that our normal share repurchases from free cash flow will be at least $500 million.
In addition we intend to use any U.S.
after-tax divestiture proceeds for share repurchases as well.
As of the end of the current year we have approximately $1.9 billion of authorized repurchases remaining under our current buyback program.
For 2012 we returned nearly $2.9 billion to our shareholders through share repurchases and dividends which was 80% of our available capital.
We also utilized $730 million for acquisitions for the year nearly all of which continue to be focused on our growth platforms in emerging markets.
As we think about 2013 and beyond in the context of portfolio management 2 factors will be key to our acquisition strategy: a focus on our accelerated growth spaces and a strong differentiation potential.
Lastly our debt-to-capital ratio dropped to 32% and debt to EBITDA rose slightly to 1.5x during the quarter.
Our cash balance overseas is nearly $2.8 billion and we have plenty of debt capacity to make additional investments.
I will now turn it back over to John who'll provide more details on the operating results by geography and individual segments.
Thanks Ron.
Let me take a few moments to review our full year 2012 geographic trends.
Excluding the impact of currency total company revenues grew 4% for the full year and organic revenues accounted for roughly half of that growth.
In 2012 our strongest organic growing geography was North America as Ron mentioned earlier which increased 4%.
International organic revenues fell 1% with European organic revenues declining 2% roughly in line with our expectations as we came into the year.
The better news was that Asia Pacific's organic revenues grew 1% with India being the principal contributor to the region's growth.
Although we started to see a bit of a pickup in China revenue growth in Q4 it probably had more to do with our auto OEM business and the high level of activity there.
Organic growth in China for the full year was essentially flat.
Now moving to our Q4 segment table of results.
Total company organic revenues grew 60 basis points.
And as mentioned earlier this is led by our Transportation and all other segments that grew organic revenues; 4% and 3% respectively.
As to our operating margins the majority of our segments produced margin declines in the quarter.
As Ron mentioned earlier higher pension and other benefit costs negatively impacted all segments.
In addition certain segments had unfavorable inventory revaluation adjustments including Power Systems and Electronics Construction and Transportation.
The exceptions were our Industrial Packaging and Polymers and Fluids segments that produced operating margin improvements of 140 and 150 basis points respectively and this was in large part due to better variable margin performance on product mix and reduced overhead related to restructuring projects.
Now moving to Slide 15.
We'll take a closer look at our 7 reporting segments.
Starting with our Transportation segment.
Our worldwide auto OEM business was once again the key contributor to segment organic growth.
Worldwide auto OEM organic revenues grew a very very strong 11% in Q4 with North America organic revenues increasing 12% and international revenues growing 10%.
It's important to note that our European auto business produced organic revenue growth of 2% marking the fourth consecutive quarter where our strong product penetration and positive customer mix more than offset a decline in car build.
We should note that auto Europe car builds fell 7% in Q4 versus the year-ago period.
And one other strong trend to note: Our Asia Pacific auto business led by our China auto OEM business grew organic revenues 28% in the quarter.
In summary if you look on a worldwide basis our auto businesses produced organic revenue growth that was 9 percentage points higher than the actual increase in worldwide auto production; a strong performance.
In our 2 other businesses organic revenues for auto aftermarket business declined 5% in Q4 largely due to a loss of a product line with a key customer.
And our truck remanufacturing business which continues to benefit from energy-related projects in Canada and Western United States produced organic revenue growth of 3%.
Moving to Power System and Electronics segment produced substandard organic revenue growth as both the welding and electronics businesses battle slower end-market demand particularly international.
For our worldwide welding business organic revenue declined 1% in Q4 largely due to a 12% decline from our international welding business.
Notably our China welding business faced by slower end-market conditions in the fourth quarter continued to transition the business away from the weak shipbuilding end market to focus more and more on oil and gas end markets.
The better news was that our North American welding business produced organic revenue growth of 3% in Q4.
Our North American oil and gas customer demand continued to be reasonably solid in the quarter.
I will say customer demand from North American heavy equipment OEMs softened a bit in Q4.
And in electronics our worldwide organic revenues declined 1% in the quarter and this was based on the fact that our electronics assembly business which posted a nearly 30% organic growth rate in Q3 due to the new product launch with a key customer -- we saw that business normalized in Q4.
As a result electronics assembly organic revenues declined 1% in Q4 versus the year-ago period.
In our Industrial Packaging segment our worldwide business continues to essentially reflect industrial production trends in our major geographies.
For example our total North American Industrial Packaging organic revenues grew 1% while our total international Industrial Packaging organic revenues declined 2% in the quarter.
And while our worldwide strapping and equipment organic revenues declined 4% in the quarter our protective packaging and stretch packaging organic revenues grew 4% and 2% respectively in Q4.
I should note that our protective packaging business was aided by increased demand from agricultural perishable good customers in Q4.
In the Food Equipment segment a slowdown in equipment sales was evident in both North America and internationally in Q4.
In North America total Food Equipment organic revenues declined 2%.
The equipment portion of this business which comprises roughly 2/3 of the portfolio generated an organic revenue decline of 5% and this was mainly tied to slower demand for equipment from institutional customers and budget-constrained sectors such as schools and hospitals.
The North American service business generated organic revenue growth of 4% in Q4.
Internationally institutionally focused equipment sales declined 3% but service-related organic revenues grew an impressive 8% in the quarter.
Clearly we're very happy with the performance of our service business in the Food Equipment segment.
In our Construction segment improving end-market demand across North America drove improved results in the quarter.
Total North America Construction organic revenues grew 7% in Q4 with residential construction organic revenue growth of 11% leading the way.
Driven by improving residential fundamentals around new housing starts and new housing permits we continue to be optimistic about the longer-term prospects for growth.
In the commercial construction our renovation construction categories organic revenues grew 6% and 5% respectively.
And again improving data fundamentals from both Dodge and ABI give us a higher degree of confidence that North American commercial construction should improve in 2013 and beyond.
Internationally our European construction business continued to face weak end-market demand while our Australian construction business showed signs of life in Q4.
In Europe organic revenues declined 5% in Q4.
But in Asia Pacific organic revenues actually grew 2% and this was the first time we produced positive organic growth in this geography in 2012.
A few notes on our Polymers and Fluids segment.
Organic revenues continue to be negatively impacted by both weak end-market conditions as well as product line simplification efforts we continued to carry out throughout the year.
Our worldwide polymers and hygiene business was the most impacted during the quarter with organic revenues declining 9% in Q4.
However as noted earlier we continued to exit low-margin products and associated customers which in aggregate helped drive a 320 basis point increase in base margins.
On the fluids side of the business organic revenues declined 1% as end-market demand was soft in both North America and the rest of the world.
Finally moving to our All Other segment.
The segment was led by strong organic revenue contributions from our test and measurement consumer packaging and appliance businesses.
For test and measurement organic revenues increased 3% in Q4 and this was mainly due to strong demand for our Instron structural testing equipment particularly from customers in Germany China and Japan.
In consumer packaging organic revenues grew 2% due to the growing demand and higher installation of automated case picking solutions from our Vertique global packaging business.
And in appliance organic revenues grew a robust 11% as growth was driven by demand for enhanced screen and safety products in North America as well as expansion in emerging markets.
Now let me turn the call back over to Ron who will cover our 2013 earnings forecast.
Ron? Thanks John.
Before I provide the details of our 2013 forecast I'd like to walk you through some changes in our segment reporting which will be effective for 2013.
As we discussed at last month's Analyst Day we're aligning our reporting segments to better match our portfolio segmentation strategy.
So looking at the new 2013 segment reporting structure I'll start with our former Transportation segment.
We'll be transitioning that to a pure automotive OEM segment with the automotive aftermarket business moving into our Polymers and Fluids segment as well as the truck remanufacturing and service business moving to our Specialty Products segment.
Given its continued growth we have pulled test and measurement out of the All Other segment and combined it with the electronics business.
This segment represents a core part of our overall growth profile within the company going forward.
The welding business which was formerly combined with our electronics business will now be a stand-alone reportable segment.
And our former All Other segment has a new name Specialty Products which primarily includes our consumer packaging businesses as well as our appliance businesses and our truck remanufacturing service business.
Lastly we've eliminated the Decorative Surfaces segment given the divestiture.
In the appendix of our slide presentation you'll find some detail showing the 2012 revenues for the new segments.
And the appendix of last month's Analyst Day presentation includes more detail on our 2013 segments which is also available on our website.
Prior to our April earnings release we'll provide you a set of restated historical financials for the new segments.
As I mentioned previously because we retained a 49% interest in the Wilsonart business the gain on divestiture and ongoing equity income will be reported as income from continuing operations not discontinued operations and prior period results will not be restated.
To allow for like-to-like comparisons to 2013 we'll be presenting our 2012 results on a pro forma basis which exclude the impacts of the Decorative Surfaces business from our 2012 results.
In the first 10 months of 2012 when we owned the business the Decorative Surfaces business generated $921 million in revenue and $143 million in operating income which resulted in the $0.21 per share impact.
The net gain on the sale of the business and the impact of our ongoing equity interest in the business resulted in $1.30 per share in 2012.
Excluding these items from our 2012 actual results our pro forma 2012 full year revenue is just over $17 billion.
Our 2012 pro forma EPS is $3.76 which represents a growth of 6.8% over a similar pro forma 2011 EPS.
The $3.76 will be the 2012 baseline EPS we'll use as a comparison point to our 2013 forecast.
Going forward we will record 49% of the ongoing net income of the Wilsonart business.
Due to the entity's interest expense and amortization expense we expect our share of the results will have a minimal ongoing P&amp;L impact.
So turning to the forecast.
For the full year 2013 our forecasted EPS range for continuing operations is $4.13 to $4.37.
This range assumes a total revenue increase of 3% to 5% versus pro forma 2012.
The EPS midpoint of $4.25 would be 13% higher than the 2012 pro forma EPS of $3.76 that I just discussed.
Also as we mentioned in New York last month we expect increased operating margins next year in the range of 16.5% to 16.9% versus 2012 margins of 15.9%.
The key drivers of our 13% EPS growth for 2013 include the following: $0.41 from the base business driven from organic growth as well as the net benefits from our initiatives primarily related to business structure simplification with some sourcing benefits later in the year; a minimal impact from acquisitions and a $0.02 decline from divestitures which relate to the smaller divestitures completed in 2012 not the impact of Decorative Surfaces.
We expect to spend between $120 million and $140 million in restructuring which will be 20% to 40% higher than 2012 resulting in a $0.05 EPS decline.
Our nonoperating costs increased largely due to higher interest expense from the long-term balance we issued last August.
We expect currency to have a minimal impact year-over-year as we have assumed exchange rates will hold at current levels.
There's an $0.08 benefit due to the 2013 tax rate forecast of 28.5% to 29.5% versus the actual 30.4% pro forma tax rate in 2012.
And we expect to see a $0.12 benefit from the shares we bought back in 2012 as well as what we forecast to buy back in 2013 which we expect to be a minimum of $500 million from our normal free cash flow.
For the first quarter of 2013 we are forecasting diluted income per share from continuing operations to be within a range of $0.91 to $0.99 which assumes a total revenue growth of negative 2% to flat.
The midpoint of the Q1 EPS range of $0.95 would be a 4.4% growth versus the 2012 pro forma EPS of $0.91.
There's 1 less shipping day in the first quarter of 2013 versus 2012 which had a negative impact of 1.5% on revenues and $0.04 per share on EPS.
Based on equal days revenue would be flat year-over-year with EPS up 9%.
I will now turn it back over to John for the Q&amp;A.
Thanks Ron.
We'll now open the call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] The first question is from Jamie Cook of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
One on your 2013 guidance you talked about the $0.41 help from just your base -- your revenue growth as well as strategic initiatives and you sort of mentioned sourcing benefits you'd get in the back half of the year.
If you could just give us any color on what's really top line versus what's sourcing or any operational improvements? And then my second question just on the restructuring you mentioned 20% to 40% higher versus last year.
I think at the Analyst Day you hinted more towards flat to 2012.
So what's changed and which segments are they directed towards? Okay.
So I'll start with the EPS for 2013.
As we've laid out in the slide there's a $0.41 increase related to the base business which is where the benefits from the sourcing and business structure simplification initiatives are.
That -- so that's based on the 2% base growth as the midpoint of our range.
And about half of that benefit including the negative $0.05 in restructuring relates to the initiatives.
The other half relates to growth and getting operating leverage from that growth.
Research Division</strong> And then just on the restructuring question? On the restructuring side when we had talked in New York we had thought it'd be flat year-over-year which was still a significant increase over 2011.
As we finalized our 2013 plans and look specifically at our 2013 initiatives around business structure simplification we got some more specificity around exactly what we need to do during 2013 so we increased the $30 million.
It's all related to business structure simplification.
Next question is from Andy Kaplowitz of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Can we talk about welding in particular? When do you think we'll hit bottom in that China shipbuilding business for your business? And then if you look at the overall business I think your initial forecast from December was 4% to 6% growth for 2013 organic.
You were at negative 1% for 4Q.
I know the compares are going to get easier in the international business.
So how do you assess that initial '13 forecast and what you saw on 4Q? Well I don't think -- we've changed our organic assumption around welding.
Again 4% to 6% could it be at the lower end? Possibly.
I think that as it relates to China clearly we're going through a transition.
We've been going through a transition on the shipbuilding side.
It will -- I think it will continue to be -- it will continue to impact some of our results but we should probably by the end of the year second quarter things should start to get better for us in China.
And I will point out overall in welding we had a very strong first quarter last year almost 20% year-on-year growth so we have a tough comp in the first quarter but it gets a little bit easier as we move through the year.
Research Division</strong> And John you mentioned that the OEMs softened a bit in welding in North America but still relatively good growth.
I mean do we still look for sort of relatively good growth? I understand the tough comps in 1Q but generally oil and gas can hold you up in North America.
Is that fair? Yes.
I think that's a fair assumption.
I mean if you saw our performance in Q4 up 3% 4% largely driven by oil and gas.
You saw the report coming out of CAT.
So I don't think this is any big news to anybody that their order rates have slowed somewhat.
And they're being impacted by some of the global environment too.
So I would expect oil and gas to be a clear contributor to welding in 2013.
Research Division</strong> So maybe if I can ask just a follow-up on the overall segment Power Systems and Electronics.
Can you tell us how much was the inventory reval in that business versus maybe incremental weakness in the business in that 300 basis points decline? So in the Power Systems segment the inventory reval was negative 70 basis points on margin.
So the other pieces [ph] of the margin certainly as we talked about there's the pension and benefit costs that we record here at corporate that got spread to all the segments; that had an impact of about 100 basis points.
On the plus side price cost was favorable 80 to 90 and overhead was up a little bit.
Next question is from Robert Wertheimer from Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> I wanted to ask one business question.
Obviously the automotive sector is doing great.
And I wondered if you could give us any indication of how long that outgrowth versus the market might continue.
In other words it seems as though you've won a lot of content on vehicles and maybe as the newer vehicles mix in and the older mix out that continues to be a driver for you for a multiyear period or maybe it's over.
I'm just curious.
No I think it's a multiyear story.
Yes this is a business where we obviously have sort of forward visibility.
One of the few where we have some pretty significant forward visibility because we are engineering and specifying in new content on models that are 2 or 3 years away from production.
So I think this is a pretty solid story for us for a while to come.
LLC</strong> So you expect that content win growth above the market to continue for years to come let's say? For at least the next 2 or 3 that we can see.
Yes.
But I would caution Rob as we look at this longer term I think we -- if you're looking at sort of average penetration numbers in aggregate I think we're probably looking at outperformance on a global base probably 4% to 5%.
Now you're going to see some numbers on a quarterly basis that are probably above that.
But long term it's probably more like in the 4% to 5% range.
LLC</strong> Great.
And then if I can ask just a couple of cleanup questions.
There was $0.04 -- you mentioned this in the Investor Day about $0.04 of corporate nonoperating in the quarter.
I'm not sure what that was.
And then just the -- in your earnings walk Slide 19 you have $0.09 of drag from nonoperating.
I'm not sure what that is.
And then just one last cleanup in the $3.76 that you're using for a base for next year what's the 4Q number embedded in that? Okay.
So the $0.09 nonop in 2013 versus '12 most of that relates to higher interest expense.
We issued some long-term bonds in August of 2012 that will have a full year impact in 2013.
What was your first question sorry? LLC</strong> The $0.04 corporate discrete yes.
Yes.
We -- it's mostly pension- and benefit-related cost.
The biggest piece of that is additional costs related to the passing of our CEO David Speer during the quarter where we had some acceleration of pension and equity costs related to that.
LLC</strong> Understood.
And then the 4Q the embedded 4Q in the $3.76 if that's possible.
It just seemed like there was a lower number than the $0.89 embedded.
$0.76 is the embedded 4Q number.
The next question is from Deane Dray of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on that automotive question.
The numbers in China were particularly impressive at 28% on base.
Maybe frame for us what the builds were within those platforms and where you stand in terms of your penetration to date in terms of the OEs in China and outlook for the balance of the year? Yes.
I mean we have -- we've had dramatic overperformance in China.
If you look in the last quarter we were up as you said 28% organically and builds were only up 7% or 8%.
So I think it's really fundamentally focusing on those key OEMs Chery Brilliance and the like.
That's the future of China and their build continues to be -- while that continues to be strong our overall performance continues to be very much targeted around our ability to serve those local OEMs that are going to contribute to growth longer-term.
Who are now building cars that are at a much higher level of technical sophistication than they were even 2 or 3 years ago which certainly helps us in terms of being able to deliver solutions to them that they now need.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then a follow-up question for Scott.
Lots and lots of questions about -- and expectations about a resurging U.S.
residential cycle.
And maybe just give us a sense -- ITW touches so many of those the products and services within that cycle and sometimes it's just proportionately attributed to what your overall revenues are.
But you still has some really good insight of -- and hopefully you can share for us what you're seeing today for the signs of a recovery and how might this cycle play out differently versus previous cycles.
Well I think what we are seeing for the first time in this sort of extended recovery if you want to call it that is we're starting to see I think some real consistent alignment in terms of the overall market metrics that we're looking at across a number of different sources.
So I think we are in a stage now where we're starting to build some momentum and I think the -- in terms of how all this plays out my view is it's still going to be spiky.
It's still going to be -- it's still a high level of foreclosure activity.
There are still some what would you call it some of the excesses of the prior market issues there are -- that still have to be dealt with as we go through this.
But in general I think we're at a point now where we're going to start to see some solid year-on-year improvement and that's going to play out for as it gets going for a number of years.
Research Division</strong> And just to clarify is there the same market exposure the same distribution channels the big-box versus a really diverse set of building yards that don't necessarily show up in -- that you would get from big-box indicators? But how is that mix today versus the last cycle for ITW? Yes.
It's a good question.
I don't -- I think from an overall channel standpoint I think the market structure has remained largely intact.
I think one of the interesting things that's starting to crop up that certainly is going to have an effect is the issue of shortage of skilled trade labor.
We're starting to see now some shortages in terms of various construction trades because a lot of people that used to do that for a living has now -- have now gone out and found other things to do as this market has been in such a declined state for a while and so I think we'll see how that ultimately -- it's probably the biggest concern on our radar in terms of macro fundamentals here.
Next question is from Ann Duignan of JPMC.
Research Division</strong> This is Ann from JPMorgan.
I haven't changed again.
We assumed it was JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to take a circle back on the Industrial Packaging business.
We always think that that business as being the most coincident with economic activity.
And maybe you could give us some color in terms of what you're seeing now as we go into the new year post any uncertainty that popped up in the fourth quarter? Again I go back to my comment around that I think it -- largely reflecting industrial production metrics either in North America or in Europe.
So the European business is slower the North American business is a little bit better.
Now we do have disparate pieces of that business around strapping around protective packaging and around stretch that all have sort of different growth metrics right now.
And quarter-to-quarter those can change based on sort of discrete demand from specific end markets or customers.
But I would say in aggregate what we're seeing there is not dissimilar than what we're seeing from a sort of a total industrial production demand level.
No big changes in Europe over the last 2 quarters.
Right.
More of the same on the North American side too Ann.
Research Division</strong> So the process is the same but the -- And we were down in more than industrial production in the fourth quarter but a lot of that was due to some comps and hedge buys in the prior year.
So if you can strip that out we're really close to flat in the fourth quarter and that's what we're seeing going forward here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's good color.
And then on Food Equipment schools and hospitals no surprise there that the spending might be curtailed a little bit.
Do you think that that was just kind of lack of budgets in 2012 and we might see some pent-up demand in '13? Or are those sectors likely to remain under pressure as we go forward? Just some color on what you're seeing out there in the Food Equipment side.
Yes.
I think the budget issues continue going into '13 for those sectors and that's sort of one of our -- one of the realities of our position as we've got some real strength in the institutional space that both in Europe and in North America are obviously dealing with some fiscal pressures and other things.
We have been very focused on growing earnings through margin improvement in that business and also focusing on the service part of the business as I think John talked about earlier had some nice growth there.
So I think that story remains intact for us in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Is that one of the sectors that you might look to build from -- through acquisition? Yes I think it's one that we certainly need to up our penetration in more of the fast-food fast-casual arena than -- where we said we have a nice position there but certainly not one that is reflective of on a relative basis the overall potential.
So whether it's organic or acquisition or some combination thereof I think we have some -- assume some -- it's been part of our strategy for the last 18 months or so to really position ourselves to have a bigger piece of that part of the market.
Next question is from John Inch of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So the elevated restructuring in '13 versus '12 I apologize if you said this but again where are you taking these actions? Do you expect the costs to kind of be relatively linearly spent? And is this a new run rate given sort of simplification? Or -- we do expect from what we know '14 to kind of revert back to the $100 million.
So the $130 million is really being driven by business structure simplification initiative.
As we talked about in New York 2012 2013 are going to be strong years for restructuring around business structure simplification and we'd expect that to moderate a bit in 2014 probably not back to normal levels which are $60 million $70 million until 2015.
But I would say 2013 we'd expect to be a peak.
And it's really spread out throughout the year and throughout the company as the business structure simplification is really an initiative company-wide.
Research Division</strong> So -- I'm sorry.
So okay it sounds like $100 million for '14 is a reasonable midpoint between what you just said for '15 and what you're spending in '13.
Where are you -- where have you sort of opportunistically if you want to think about in that context or whatever found incremental restructuring opportunities? Is it -- are you just sort of accelerating your process? Or as you're arrived at the new [ph] process and you're saying "Oh we can be doing more of this or that"? Or -- a little more color would be great.
Yes.
John it basically is coming from the fact that as this BSS business structure simplification initiative continues to get sort of developed and executed around the company our plans for '13 have become much more crisp and clear around what we need to do there.
And so essentially it's about this initiative really accelerating from an execution standpoint for '13.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I'm just trying to understand though it's the context that "Oh we really have to " I guess "spend more money because we didn't appreciate how " let's say "difficult the problems were"? Or that you're getting progress and you're accelerating kind of the plan? We can get more done in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That makes sense.
And then just lastly Scott it's going to be your first year as CEO.
I mean obviously simplification is going to be a big part of what I'm assuming you're going to be focusing on.
What are you going to be -- how are you going to be allocating your time? Is there any way to sort of segment this as you're sort of thinking about your year ahead and what you're hoping to accomplish this year? Well I talked about -- as part of my opening comments the real priorities from my standpoint are pretty simple which is we have to execute with excellence in terms of how we run our businesses every day in the context of whatever the realities of the economic environment are.
And we are in the process of sort of executing enterprise strategy that we've spent 2 years developing here.
So from the standpoint of my time and the management's team and our -- management team's time and our priorities that's where it resides.
So we are in execution mode in a big way in 2013 on our enterprise strategy.
Research Division</strong> I'm assuming a disproportionate amount of this is going to be focused on Europe just based on continued market malaise your big company in Europe.
I mean I'm just -- I'm assuming that you're going to be spending more time physically in Europe with your European managers figuring out how to drive incremental productivity and so forth.
Yes I think those plans are pretty far advanced in terms of all the planning around business structure simplification and -- in Europe.
I think the -- I wouldn't characterize the benefits to the company as disproportionate to Europe.
I think Europe is a big part of it.
But ultimately from the standpoint of -- you know this is not necessarily economic in its -- sort of motivation.
This is about structuring the company in a way where we can leverage scale and yet maintain our decentralized operating model.
So this is a global initiative.
We're applying this in both North America and in Europe.
And certainly the economic environment in Europe has an added element to it.
But by and large the processes are very similar in North America and Europe.
The execution is a little more challenging in Europe as I'm sure you well know given just some of the realities there but doesn't in any way take away from the potential benefits for the company in the end.
Research Division</strong> I guess I was also thinking from the potential of the profit improvement.
I'm assuming that you would probably have more European margin improvement opportunity than you would in other parts of the company.
Maybe that's not a fair statement.
Yes I wouldn't necessarily -- I would say there are equal benefits in both.
The next question is from Andy Casey of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> The -- a question going back to the Power Systems and Electronics the 300 basis point segment margin decrease.
If I take out the inventory revaluation and the pension hit you described earlier everything else appeared to drive around the 90 basis point decrease in margins if I'm doing the math right.
That's still a relatively high decremental.
Was that -- aside from the price cost stuff you already described was that primarily driven by the mix shift related to the various OEM actions? And how far are your customers saying those are going to last into 2013? Well I think the biggest piece of that remaining amount that I didn't talk about earlier is there's a 50 basis point hit related to restructuring in that segment which is really more focused on the electronics business versus welding.
So we don't see any significant difference in margins between -- in the product mix area coming through this quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
So that okay should reverse through the year.
On -- then on this automotive aftermarket product line loss a few cleanup questions I guess.
Is that related -- is that contained within the acquired revenues from SOPUS? What drove the customer decision? Was it price or something else? And then does that have a material impact on the '13 revenue outlook? It is related to SOPUS.
It was related to -- how do I want to describe it? I think ultimately a pricing situation that we weren't comfortable pursuing from a profitability standpoint.
And from an overall 2013 impact it certainly had some impact from a revenue standpoint.
But from a -- we've got -- have had some strong margin improvement momentum within the -- what's now our aftermarket platform and we expect that to continue in '13 with or without the revenue that we just talked about.
The next question is from Eli Lustgarten of Longbow.
Just got one cleanup question.
The tax rate is going down in '13 to a new midpoint of 29%.
Is that mostly the R&amp;D tax credit? Or is that the level we should look out for 2014 whether or not they have an R&amp;D tax credit or not? No and I think we've got the R&amp;D tax credit baked in at both years.
I think the -- our normal run rate for our tax rate has been 29%.
It ticked up a little bit in the fourth quarter which got us the 30.4% for the year but we'd expect our normal run rate similar to what it was in the earlier quarters of 2012 to be 29%.
So no significant change in our tax profile.
So '14 it would be -- you should assume the same as '13? Yes.
We're not going to predict '14 tax rate at this point but that's certainly a reasonable assumption.
Or 2015 Eli.
Yes I was just -- just wanted to make sure whether this is a permanent change or not.
Not today.
In the 0.5 point to almost 1 point improvement in operating margins could you give us some idea as you look at the new segments that will most of that come in a couple of segments? Or is it pretty well spread? And could you give us some idea of the operating margin improvement expected for 2013? It's really across most segments.
And as we said these enterprise initiatives are touching all the segments and that's certainly been a large part of the margin improvement.
So there's no 1 or 2 segments that's going to have above average -- or what was it? Above average? Would it be average? Or I mean is there any guidance...
Not anything of significance.
So it's pretty well distributed.
And just a cleanup do you have an auto forecast in North America Europe and China and a housing forecast? Yes.
Eli I'll go offline with you and give you all of those numbers.
Next question is from Ajay of FBR.
Research Division</strong> So maybe just on that inventory reval and I know you do this on a periodic basis but sounds like it came a little bit heavier this quarter.
So is it possible to kind of just provide general color in what that was? Is it more related to raw material pricing? Or is it more accounting on work in process or finished goods? Just general color would be helpful.
So what it is is certainly we do look at our inventory costing as we move through the year on a quarterly basis.
But generally as we move into -- through the end of the year there's a normal process of looking at our standard cost based on current cost as well as going forward.
And if you look at where the impact of that standard to standard it's really in the businesses that use steel as a primary raw material input.
So it's automotive.
It's Power Systems.
It's Construction.
So as you know steel has been going down all year so it's really -- you really had to catch up in some of the adds that we recorded in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
But if we can maybe look at 2013 so your organic revenue guide -- and I know you provided color at the analyst meeting by segment.
But just any updated thoughts on the new segments.
What are your expectations that you're baking in to that full year guide? Which segments coming in better than average which kind of flagging? Well if you remember when we presented this in New York we did present it in the context of the new segments.
So the segments that have higher-than-average growth in that were automotive OEM which we've talked about and welding.
Those are the 2 bigger segments that are driving the higher growth.
Research Division</strong> Good.
And not to violate your 2-question policy but -- so I'm looking at this $0.09 hit nonoperating and you mentioned interest expense in the bonds.
But then you also have this nearly $3 billion in cash overseas which I'm presuming is not yielding much return.
So what's the game plan? I mean is it just you wait for a tax policy change? You have this big cash sitting outside; what do you do with that? That's a good question and it's something that we certainly are focused on.
The way the tax policy works now it would be significantly expensive to bring that back to the U.S.
But certainly we could do that if we needed to do that.
Right now what we've been doing is using that cash for overseas investment.
So we've had a lot of growth in Asia and China for instance through greenfield builds; in Brazil through acquisitions.
So that's certainly where we're using that overseas cash.
But where we're at now and especially given all the discussions around U.S.
tax policy right now there's no plans to bring any of that back until all that gets sorted out.
And certainly we'll evaluate that as the tax policy gets finalized.
The next question is from Joel Tiss of BMO.
So here's my list of 11 questions.
So just 2 quick ones on acquisitions.
You didn't really give us any kind of a target level and I know it's being deemphasized.
But can you just give us a sort of a ballpark of where things look like that might be shaking out? I think what I would say is from my standpoint Joel for 2013 -- not a big focus for us.
We've got a lot of things to get implemented and executed.
We will certainly take a look at good opportunities as they come to us.
And so we're certainly not ruling acquisitions out.
But from an overall priority and focus standpoint for 2013 probably not high up on the priority list.
That being said we had about $500 million of acquired revenues in '12 maybe something close to that maybe something less.
Okay.
And then the growth of 200 basis points organic growth 200 basis points better than industrial production.
Is that going to start later after the businesses get realigned? Or is that something that's going to start right away? Well part of it relates to the portfolio mix so we are -- we have businesses inside the company today a number of them significant ones that are -- have historically performed over the last 5 years at that level or above.
We have some others that have given the sort of characteristics of their markets been working the other way.
So some of the sort of aggregate performance of the enterprise is a function of how we're going to shape the portfolio over the next couple of years.
And I think as a result of that a higher growth portfolio is going to yield us the overall metric that we're talking about.
So yes...
Probably more '14 and beyond? '14 '15 and beyond; heading up to that yes.
Thanks everybody for joining us on today's call.
I know it's a busy day for everyone.
I look forward -- we look forward to hearing from you again and I'll be talking to a number of you later in the day.
Have a good day.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome and thank you for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I'd now like to turn the meeting over to John Brooklier.
Thank you sir.
You may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and welcome to ITW's First Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
Joining me on today's call is our President and Chief Executive Officer Scott Santi; and our CFO Ron Kropp.
Scott Ron and I will discuss our solid Q1 financial results our long-term strategic initiatives and our 2013 forecast.
As always we will take your questions later in the call.
Now here's the agenda for today's call.
Scott will come back momentarily and comment on both our Q1 operating results and our -- and update you on our long-term strategic initiatives.
Ron will cover our Q1 financial results in more detail.
I will then talk about our geographic revenue performance and detail our segment results.
Ron will then update everyone on our 2013 full year forecast and introduce our Q2 forecast.
Finally we will open the call to your question -- questions I should say.
[Operator Instructions] And we have allocated 1 hour for today's call.
A few housekeeping items.
First remember this presentation contains our financial forecast for full year '13 for 2013 second quarter and other forward-looking statements identified on this slide.
We refer you to the company's 2012 10-K for more details about important risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's expectations.
Moving to the next slide the telephone replay for this conference call is (800) 839-1334.
No passcode is necessary to access the replay.
And the replay will be available through midnight of May 7 2013.
Now let me introduce our CEO Scott Santi.
Scott? Thanks John and good morning everyone.
In the quarter organic growth came in about 100 basis points below what we expected heading into the quarter largely due to sluggish demand in the capital equipment components of our product portfolio particularly earlier in the quarter.
While equipment sales were down 6% in the quarter consumable revenue at down 1% largely came in in line with our expectations.
We did see noticeable improvement in demand rates for equipment products on both a sequential basis and in comparison to the prior year as we moved through the quarter particularly in March.
Daily revenue rates for equipment products were up 13% in March versus the average for the quarter overall.
Despite some top line challenges our profitability performance was very solid in Q1.
We delivered above forecast operating EPS of $0.96 and operating margins came in at 16.5% 60 basis points higher than the year ago quarter.
This operating margin improvement was due to a combination of strong tactical cost management from our operating leadership and the early-stage benefits from our portfolio management business structure simplification and strategic sourcing initiatives.
Benefits from these initiatives contributed 40 basis points to overall margin performance in the quarter.
We continued to make good progress in our 3 enterprise initiatives in the quarter.
With regard to portfolio management we announced the strategic review of our Industrial Packaging segment earlier in the quarter.
In addition we've moved more than $600 million of noncore revenues to discontinued operations.
With these 2 moves we have largely completed the process of identifying the core businesses that will constitute our faster growing and more profitable portfolio moving forward.
With regard to business structure simplification we continued to drive alignment and execution across the organization in the quarter.
During the quarter I visited a number of our newly scaled-up businesses; and in each case I was extremely impressed with both the level of progress made and the level of enthusiasm for and commitment to this initiative by our on-the-ground operating leadership.
We came away from these interactions even more convinced that the strategic and operational benefits associated with simplifying and scaling up our divisional operating structure will be considerable over the medium and long term for the company.
As to strategic sourcing we continued to resource the initiative and drive implementation.
We hired a Chief Procurement Officer earlier in the quarter and her early view is much like ours that the potential to better leverage our direct and indirect spend is both considerable and achievable.
A number of category-specific strategic sourcing initiatives and programs are actively being worked and executed across the company.
Finally let me reiterate our 2017 enterprise financial performance goals and those are: Organic growth of 200 basis points above global industrial production operating margins pretax of 20% plus and after-tax returns on invested capital also at 20% plus.
Overall we've made good progress towards these goals in a pretty challenging environment in Q1.
More to come.
Now let me turn the call back over to Ron.
Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
Before I review our first quarter operating results I wanted to walk through some reporting changes in our financials beginning this quarter.
As Scott just mentioned we moved several businesses to discontinued operations.
The larger businesses moved include a transportation-related business and a construction distribution business.
The businesses moved represent more than $600 million in 2013 forecasted revenue with an operating margin of approximately 7%.
This move to discontinued operations reduced our diluted EPS from continuing operations by $0.01 for the first quarter and our full year EPS forecast by $0.07.
As we discussed in January we've also aligned our reporting segments to better match our portfolio management strategy.
The quick highlights are that we changed our Transportation segment to a pure automotive OEM segment and moved our automotive aftermarket business into our Polymers &amp; Fluids segment.
We've formed a new segment that combines our Test &amp; Measurement business and our Electronic business.
Our welding business is now a standalone segment.
And the former All Other segment is now called Specialty Products which primarily includes our consumer packaging businesses as well as our appliance business.
We also modified our methodology on how we allocate corporate-held expenses to our segments.
We previously allocated all such expenses to our segments.
We've -- we're now allocating a fixed overhead charge to each segment based on each segment's revenues.
Expenses not charged to the segments are reported separately in our results as unallocated.
Our historical P&amp;L results and segment data have been restated for the discontinued operations and have also been adjusted for the segment changes I just mentioned.
The appendix of our presentation includes 2001 -- 2011 and quarterly 2012 restated financial data for the total company as well as for each segment.
Lastly as we also discussed in January because we retained a 49% interest in the divested Wilsonart business prior period results will not be restated and the ongoing equity interest will be reported as income from continuing operations.
To allow for like-to-like comparisons to 2013 we will be presenting our 2012 results on a pro forma or non-GAAP basis which excludes the 2012 operating results of the Decorative Surfaces business as well as the fourth quarter 2012 gain on divestiture and equity interest.
Q1 2012 comparisons exclude the Decorative Surfaces business operating results.
As part of our first quarter 2013 we also recognized a onetime pretax gain of $30 million related to an acquisition of the majority 51% interest in the consumer packaging joint venture.
We've excluded this onetime gain when we're discussing our EPS performance for the first quarter.
Finally on to the highlights for the first quarter.
Total revenues decreased 8% primarily due to the impact of Decorative Surfaces.
Excluding the 2012 revenue of Decorative Surfaces revenues declined 1.8% driven by organic revenue declines in both Europe and North America.
Operating income was $660 million which was higher than our 2012 pro forma operating income by $8 million representing an increase of 1.2%.
As a result operating margins of 16.5% were 60 basis points higher than last year.
Diluted income per share from continuing operations was $1.01 on a GAAP basis.
Excluding the onetime $30 million pretax gain I mentioned diluted EPS from continuing operations was $0.96 which represents a 7.9% growth over our pro forma 2012 and was $0.01 above our forecasted EPS midpoint.
Our 8% revenue decline in the first quarter was primarily due to the following factors: Divestitures primarily Decorative Surfaces reduced revenues by 6.4%.
Base revenues were down 2.7% with North American-based revenues decreasing 1.9% and mixed international-based revenues that overall were down 3.5% year-over-year.
Europe declined 6% with impacts across virtually all of our businesses.
Our Asia businesses grew 0.5% led by strong growth in both China and India.
As we look at product mix organic revenues were down approximately 1% in our consumables businesses while we saw a 6% decline in our equipment businesses as businesses remained cautious on their capital spending.
However as Scott mentioned we started to see some improvement in equipment sales as we ended the first quarter.
Acquisitions added 1.3% to revenue growth while currency translation was virtually flat.
Operating margins for the first quarter of 16.5% were 60 basis points higher than Q1 2012.
Base business margins were up 30 basis points from last year led by a 100 basis point improvement on the non-volume side.
A key driver was the 40 basis point improvement from the results of our enterprise initiatives largely related to our business structure simplification activities as well as some benefits from sourcing leverage.
We also had a 40 basis point improvement from strong overhead cost management.
Price cost favorability improved margins 30 basis points.
These are partially offset by a 70 basis point decline from lower sales volumes across the majority of our businesses.
In addition total operating margins also benefited from a 20 basis point improvement due to lower restructuring costs in the first quarter versus last year.
Overall despite our first quarter organic revenue decline from softer North American and European end markets our bottom line operating margin improved versus last year.
We grew our operating margin 60 basis points as we started to see some benefits from our enterprise initiatives while continuing to manage overhead costs in a cautious macroeconomic environment.
Looking at working capital and cash flow.
Accounts receivable DSO was just under 63 days which was a slight improvement versus last year.
And inventory months on hand improved slightly to 1.8.
ROIC for the first quarter was 14.9% which was a 60 base improvement versus the first quarter of last year.
Our ROIC continues to be well above our cost of capital and is a key metric for us.
As Scott mentioned we expect the end result from our enterprise strategy will be an ROIC above 20% by 2017.
Net cash provided from operating activities was $366 million for the first quarter with capital expenditures of $89 million resulting in free operating cash flow of $277 million.
Our cash generated was 16% higher versus the first quarter of 2012 despite over $1.7 billion in revenue divested over the last year.
For the year we expect conversion of free operating cash flow to be close to 100% of income from continuing operations.
Turning to capital structure.
We continue to focus on capital allocation priorities as follows: Our first priority continues to be organic investments especially focused on our key growth initiatives.
Examples of our organic investments include R&amp;D spending additional investments in manufacturing capacity and restructuring projects which have long-term margin benefits.
Our next capital priority is dividends.
Note that our normal January dividend of $174 million was paid on December 31 last year to allow our shareholders to benefit from the lower 2012 dividend tax rate.
Our current dividend yield continues to be about 2.5%.
Any excess capital after organic investments and dividend is used for external investments either share repurchases or acquisitions.
We evaluate the allocation between these investments based on the best risk-adjusted returns and assess acquisition targets by incorporating our portfolio management criteria.
During the first quarter we had $366 million in share repurchases.
As we look ahead through 2013 we have increased our share repurchase forecast from free operating cash flow to at least $850 million versus the $500 million we communicated in January.
In addition we intend to use any U.S.
after-tax divestiture proceeds for share repurchases as well.
As of the end of the first quarter we have approximately $1.5 billion of authorized repurchases remaining under our current buyback program.
We also utilized $56 million for acquisitions during the quarter with continued focus on our growth platforms in emerging markets.
Our portfolio strategy incorporates 2 key criteria as we continue to assess acquisition targets: accelerated growth spaces and a strong differentiation potential.
Lastly our Q1 debt-to-capital ratio is 33% while our debt-to-adjusted EBITDA remained constant at 1.5x.
Our cash balance overseas is nearly $2.7 billion and we have plenty of debt capacity to make additional investments.
I will now turn it back over to John who will provide more detail on the operating results by geography and by individual segments.
Thank you Ron.
Let me take just a few moments to review our first quarter geographic trends.
Ron touched on these a little bit earlier.
But excluding the impact of currency in 2012 revenue from the former debt services segment total company revenues declined 2% in the quarter.
As Ron noted earlier total company organic revenues decreased approximately 3% with North American organic revenues declining 2% and international organic revenues decreasing 4%.
Most notably EMEA and Europe declined 6% and Asia Pacific grew 1%.
The real positive for us in Q1 took place in China and Brazil where our organic revenues grew 10% and 3% respectively.
For our Q1 segment results please note that 6 out of our 8 segments produced operating margin improvement in the quarter ranging from automotive OEMs 10 basis points of improvement to construction products 320 basis points of improvement.
Our 60 basis points of total company operating margin improvement was 40 basis points higher from what we initially forecasted in January for the first quarter.
Also as part of our portfolio segmentation we have added an adjusted operating margin metric which excludes intangible amortization and other noncash acquisition accounting charges from operating income.
As certain segments primarily Test &amp; Measurement and Electronics as well as Polymers And Fluids have grown largely through acquisitions we believe adjusted operating margin show a more consistent comparability across our businesses.
Now let's take a closer look at our 8 reporting segments.
And we'll start with Test &amp; Measurement and Electronics.
This segment was largely a tale of 2 different levels of customer demand.
Test &amp; Measurement business produced worldwide organic revenue growth of 2% and our flagship Instron led the way in the quarter as customer demand for structural testing equipment and software was strong.
On the electronics component side organic revenues were essentially flat as the contamination control and pressure-sensitive adhesive businesses offset organic revenue decline by our electrostatic business.
Organic revenues for the electronics assembly business formerly known as the PC board-related operations declined at a double-digit rate as the semiconductor industry slowed and customers curtailed their spend on capital equipment.
The better news was that operating margins improved 120 basis points year-over-year largely due to strong management of overheads and lower restructuring spend versus last year.
In automotive OEM it was our fastest-growing organic revenue segment in the quarter as our innovative product penetration outperformed auto builds in all and I emphasize all major geographies.
In North America our automotive organic revenues grew 3% outpacing a North American auto build increase of only 1%.
And while our European organic revenues declined 2% please note the European auto builds fell 8%.
Asia Pacific organic revenues increased a strong 24% due to ITW's growing product penetration amid a very robust auto build environment in China.
Notably our Chinese-based auto businesses produced a strong organic growth rate of 46% versus a Q1 auto build increase of 10% in China.
So clearly very good trends going on in the automotive OEM sector.
In our Polymers and Fluids segment organic revenues were again defined by our organic -- ongoing product line simplification what we call PLS in the quarter and weaker industrial production metrics.
Worldwide polymers in hygiene and fluids organic revenues declined 8% and 4% respectively as targeted low-volume low-margin customers continue to leave the portfolio.
This sorting-out process will likely continue as we implement portfolio and business structure simplification initiatives within the segment.
In auto aftermarket organic revenues declined 6% due to the ongoing impact of the loss of a major customer and other targeted PLS activities.
While operating margins declined 30 basis points nearly all that was due to higher 2013 restructuring costs associated with PLS activities.
In the Food Equipment segment ongoing weakness in capital equipment sales was again evident in the quarter.
Total Food Equipment North America's organic revenues declined 1% as equipment sales fell 3%.
Demand for warewash equipment for small restaurants as well as slicing and mixing equipment was soft in the quarter.
Total Food Equipment's international's organic revenues declined 4% with equipment sales decreasing 9%.
A fall-off in demand for cooking or refrigeration equipment in France Italy and the U.K.
contributed to the organic revenue decline.
The better news in the segment continued to be our service businesses where organic revenues in North America and international grew 3% and 4% respectively.
In our welding segment our organic revenue decline was tied to a slowdown in worldwide industrial production in heavy equipment activity.
Please note however that welding faced a very very difficult comparison from 1 year ago when organic revenues grew 19%.
Worldwide Welding's organic revenues fell 6% in the quarter with organic revenues from North America and international declining 6% and 5% respectively.
In North America the industrial portion of the business was faced with lower order rates from key heavy equipment OEMs.
And internationally our organic revenue decline was mainly due to slower than expected end market recovery in China as well as our organic -- I should say our ongoing strategic exit from a very weak shipbuilding end market.
Operating margins declined 200 basis points but please recall they were down from historically high operating margins of 28% a year ago.
In construction products organic revenues declined as major weakness in Europe outweighed modest improvement in North America.
In European construction our organic revenues declined 10% due to weakness in our primary commercial construction end market as well as our residential end market.
In Asia Pacific organic revenues declined 2% largely due to a weak housing market.
In North America the news was better.
Total North American organic revenues grew 2% in the quarter with both residential organic revenues up 6% and renovation organic revenues up 4%.
However commercial construction organic revenues declined 9% which was in line with Dodge U.S.
commercial construction data for the first quarter.
We were very pleased however with the 320 basis points of operating margin improvement in the quarter lower restructuring costs versus the first quarter of last year as well as strong overhead management and BSS savings accounted for the significant improvement in operating margins.
In Specialty Products our newly named replacement for our All Other segment organic revenues were essentially flat in the quarter.
Our worldwide consumer packaging business grew organic revenues 1% mainly due to strong growth contributions from the Vertique automated case picking system.
Our worldwide appliance business produced an organic revenue decline of 3% due to weaker European demand.
Finally in our Industrial Packaging segment the falloff in industrial production demand in both North America and Europe serves as a backdrop for our results in this segment.
In aggregate our total North American and international Industrial Packaging organic revenues declined 1% and 7% respectively.
The chief contributor to both organic revenue decrease was worldwide strapping and equipment decrease of 8%.
And this decrease was largely driven by steel strapping volume declines which were more in Europe where strap steel strap was more prevalent; and a bit less in North America were plastic strap is a bit more popular.
In our other categories protective packaging grew organic revenues 4% and stretch packaging's organic revenues fell 8% due to a timing issue related to agricultural customers.
Now let me turn the call back over to Ron who will update you on our 2013 forecast.
Ron? Thanks John.
Before I provide the details on our Q2 and full year 2013 forecast please note that the 2012 comparisons we will be using to measure our 2013 performance.
As I mentioned earlier we will be presenting our 2012 results on a pro forma basis which excludes the 2012 operating results of the Decorative Surfaces business as well as the fourth quarter 2012 gain on divestiture and equity interest.
Our 2012 GAAP and pro forma results have also been restated for discontinued operations.
Excluding the Decorative Surfaces items from our 2012 actual results our Q2 2012 pro forma revenue was $4.2 billion with operating income of $710 million and diluted EPS from continuing operations of $1.02.
Our pro forma 2012 full year revenue was $16.3 billion with operating income of nearly $2.7 billion.
Our 2012 pro forma EPS was $3.70 which will be the 2012 baseline EPS we'll use as a comparison point to our 2013 forecast.
Now moving on to the 2013 guidance.
For the full year 2013 our forecasted EPS range for continuing operations is $4.15 to $4.35.
This range assumes a total revenue increase of 2% to 4% versus pro forma 2012.
This revenue range is slightly lower than our January forecast as we now anticipate organic revenue growth of 0% to 2% for the year.
Additionally we expect our full year operating margins to be in a range of 16.9% to 17.3% versus 2012 margins of 16.3%.
The full year EPS midpoint of $4.25 is unchanged from our prior forecast and would be 15% higher than the 2012 pro forma EPS of $3.70.
Our current forecast incorporates our performance in the first quarter and benefits from higher forecasted share repurchases offset by lower expected organic revenue growth as well as $0.07 of dilution from businesses that have been moved to discontinued operations.
Key drivers of our year-over-year 15% EPS growth include the following: $0.32 from our base businesses driven from organic growth as well as the net benefits of our enterprise initiatives primarily related to business structure simplification with some sourcing benefits later in the year; the expected benefits from our initiatives to be more than half of our base business income growth.
We now expect to see an $0.18 benefit from share repurchases while shares we bought back in 2012 and our 2013 share repo forecast of at least $850 million.
We expect our forecasted share buyback to offset the dilution we have from our discontinued operations.
And lastly we have a net $0.06 benefit from other items including acquisitions restructuring nonoperating costs and a 2013 versus 2012 tax rate decline.
For the second quarter of 2013 we are forecasting diluted income per share from continuing operations to be in a range of $1.04 to $1.12 which assumes a total revenue growth of 2.5% to 3.5%.
Note that our second quarter forecast includes nearly $30 million of additional restructuring expense versus last year which reduces our second quarter operating margin by 70 basis points and our second quarter EPS by $0.05 versus 2012.
The midpoint of the Q2 diluted EPS range of $1.08 would be a 5.9% growth versus the 2012 pro forma EPS of $1.02.
I will now turn it back over to John for the Q&amp;A.
Thank you Ron.
We'll now open the call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] The first question is from Andy Kaplowitz from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Scott you guys mentioned equipment sales began to pick up in March.
You had sort of sequential increases.
Could you talk about where that was? And did you see that at all out of Europe or was Europe still decelerating throughout the quarter? The primary businesses that we're talking about in the equipment space would be Test &amp; Measurement welding Food Equipments.
In terms of regional color I think there's no question that Europe remains much tougher.
So in terms of the improvement through the quarter there's no question that it was certainly more tilted towards North America.
Research Division</strong> Is it too early to ask you about April? It is a little early.
Certainly based on everything we're hearing we remain on track relative to our plan.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could for the follow-up ask you about North American Construction.
You guys did a great job of margins.
When I look at the revenue growth I mean you mentioned the commercial year-over-year decline that's fine.
When I look at sort of your residential and your renovation it's still underperforming housing starts by quite a bit.
Is this still a share issue that you can improve over time? And maybe you could talk about nonresidential in general in the U.S.? It's certainly been more sluggish than we'd like.
Can that get better over time? In terms of the non-res in terms of the market or you're talking about our particular performance? Research Division</strong> The market on the non-res and maybe the share on the res.
Yes I think I'll take those in sort of reverse order.
I think from a commercial construction standpoint obviously there's been -- the environment there overall has been pretty sluggish for some time.
Our expectations are for some sort of reasonable sequential improvement perhaps later in the year.
But that's going to be very much predicated on how the overall economy progresses from here.
And on the resi side I think we're still in the mode of sort of lagging the start recovery just from the standpoint of when we participate.
And also there's some sort of differences on a regional basis with where some of the hotter sectors are relative to our positions.
But overall we expect this business to continue to improve in terms of our overall organic rates given the trends that we're seeing and housing starts continue.
The next question from Jamie Cook Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
Not to split hairs but when you talked about operating leverage on your base business I think you said more than half would be related to some of the internal initiatives that you have which sounds a little better.
I mean I think last quarter you said half.
But I'm just wondering if some of the initiatives you have in place are returning results a little bit quicker than you had anticipated.
And then I guess my second question is Scott I think last quarter in the Q&amp;A session you talked a little bit about constraints on craft labor and construction in North America.
If you continue to see that or if you've seen the markets get a little tighter relative to where we were a couple of months ago? So on the operating leverage question if you remember we talked about as you said half of the benefit in the original plan was related to initiatives.
What's happened since is we've brought down our base revenue forecast.
So as a result the income from our base businesses from our normal operations has gone down but our initiatives are largely on track.
So the initiative benefits are now a bigger portion of the overall base income increase.
And related to your question on Construction.
Our understanding is that labor remains tight in the Construction market and that it is still having some effect on the pace of the recovery.
Research Division</strong> Okay but no material change since last quarter? No.
The next question from John Inch Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Is there any sort of an update to your targeted number of businesses from simplification? I think you had sort of talked to 150 in the past.
Just remind us if that's still about the number? I realize it's still early days but...
We originally gave you a number that was closer to 150 when we were in New York.
The more current number that we have that we've been sharing with shareholders is really in the 110 to 120 range.
I think that they're -- that number is fluid and you'll probably see that number move.
My sense is it's probably going to move down a little bit as opposed to move up.
Research Division</strong> But not a lot from...
Not a lot from where it is.
Research Division</strong> So the implication of this if you sort of think of taking several hundred businesses and streamlining them down to fewer businesses and leveraging scale economies for purchasing and overhead savings if you're actually moving to a significantly fewer count shouldn't that provide for -- I mean obviously maybe not in '13 but significantly improved sourcing and scale leverage on overhead over time? In terms of the difference between 150 and 120? Research Division</strong> Yes and then to John's point maybe ultimately progressing closer to 100? I mean it seems like a significant count difference to me.
I think the big move is obviously the 600 plus down to 150 to 120.
I think the sort of change between 150 and 120 is not so much a function of sort of scale but more from the standpoint of the planning and execution within the businesses as we actually start to work this initiative.
The 120 is just the place that we're landing not as a target but as the place that makes the most sense from the standpoint of the markets that we serve and how we want to structure ourselves to best operate and execute in those markets.
Research Division</strong> Okay no that makes sense.
Can I Scott then follow-up here with a question on share repurchase? I see that you've upped your target repurchase for the year so I applaud you for that.
This widely propagated negative investment thesis is this whole pending dilution from the sale of Signode.
And you guys have a great balance sheet strong cash flow.
I'm just wondering what are your thoughts toward -- and I realize you're going to deal with Signode later in the year.
But what are your thoughts toward perhaps even more meaningfully upping share repurchase just to close what seems to be a dilutionary gap and sort of this at least hurdle in the minds of investors toward future dilution? What are your thoughts there? Well I think it's a little early in the process but I would say that all options are certainly on the table.
And it's a process that we will certainly focus on and work our way through as we go through the year and get some better definition around the actual structure of how that's going to all take place.
I'm talking about the Industrial Packaging divestiture.
But it's an active discussion with our board and with our management team and it will continue to be so.
And we will update our shareholders at the appropriate time.
And the fact as we looked at it this quarter that's one of the reasons we bumped up the share repurchase forecast for the year from $500 million to $850 million.
And that's really just from operating cash flow.
What we also have said is to the extent we get U.S.
after-tax divestiture proceeds that will be on top of the $850 million.
So certainly as we moved 6 business that are held for sale into discontinued operations as we start selling those or get close to selling those we'll add to the share repurchase there.
And then certainly as we move with Industrial Packaging over the next year plus we'll have to make a decision on share repurchase related to that depending on what the ultimate outcome is.
Research Division</strong> And with interest rates so low would you consider or at least not rule out raising some debt to perhaps get a bit of an advanced jump on the sale of Signode through offsetting the dilution? Yes all options are on the table.
The next question from Deane Dray Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> Scott would like to get some more color on the point in the release and what you talked about this morning on the call here that you've reached the decisions as to where you draw the line between what are core businesses the keepers versus those for potential divestiture of the commoditization.
Just seems like you reached this conclusion earlier than what we had been thinking.
So how did you end up reaching it probably earlier than what people were thinking? And then what was the decision making and especially with regard to some of the businesses in Polymers and Fluids and Specialty Products? Well we talked about it in -- from the outset the sort of primary strategic driver was really around the whole issue of sort of level of differentiation that resides in the businesses to really focus the company on areas that could fully maximize the benefits of the ITW business model.
And one of the key elements of that is the ability to operate in spaces where we can innovate.
And we talked about from the get-go that ultimately as a result of the implementation of this portfolio strategy that roughly 25% of the company's revenues as we started the process were ultimately under some review related to that.
So at the front end we had a pretty good sense of the issues where some of the issues were around sort of executing this strategy.
We took the last -- we've been working on this for a couple of years and we've spent a lot of time really looking deeply at each of those businesses and understanding what the options were long term.
And ultimately with the things that we've announced and/or executed on already we're coming out at about 26% of revenue.
So ended up right where we communicated we would be at the beginning.
I'm not sure that I can sort of comment on what you were thinking relative to what we were thinking but this is not early or late.
This is pretty much in line with our game plan around executing this.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just to clarify on second quarter guidance the implied organic revenue growth in the range? It's 1.2%.
Research Division</strong> At the midpoint? Yes.
Deane I would add on to that as you look for the remaining quarters what's left -- now clearly we had a negative coming into Q1 one less day and some tough comps.
But if you look at the rest of the quarters in aggregate our Qs 2 through 4 would average slightly over 2% organically.
So clearly we see better organic growth as we move ahead in the next 3 quarters.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then last one for me if I look at capital allocation I think we've gone through the buyback strategy for the balance of the year.
But one of the numbers that jumps out at me is M&amp;A $56 million in the quarter.
Are you shying away from assets? I know you said there'd be fewer in terms of what the appetite would be.
But are you passing on businesses or are there just not attractive assets out there? No I wouldn't say we're passing.
What I would repeat is what I said at the last quarterly call which is that acquisitions are not a priority for us this year given the sort of multitude of initiatives that we are executing.
That does not mean that we wouldn't look very seriously at something that was a really strong fit and a great opportunity but ultimately from a standpoint of how much time we're spending looking at acquisitions it is a lower priority this year.
Next question from Ann Duignan JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit more about the CapEx-related businesses that you said were trending up in March? I mean you've got -- I think you said Test &amp; Measurement welding and Food Equipment.
Those are very disparate businesses.
Could you just dig a little bit deeper and tell us what you're seeing out there in those businesses? I can't give you any -- a lot more depth other than the fact that it was sort of very clear to us in January and the early part of February that overall capital spending was -- started the year very sluggish and that we saw some pretty nice improvement across all the parts of the business the capital goods-related product portfolio of the business as we moved into March.
So I can't tell you whether it was sort of fiscal cliff concerns or there's a whole multitude of things.
But the overall environment that we saw was a lot of hesitation on capital-related spending early in the year and that seems to be moderating quite a bit as we got later into the quarter across all 3 businesses.
Research Division</strong> So nothing in particular.
No -- customers stepped out is that were you're saying? Customers kind of stepped aside in January and February and just are coming back in now? That's what it felt like.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then given your divestitures and your strategy for divestitures can you talk a little bit about what the environment is like out there for purchases of some of these businesses? Are you finding a lot of appetite a lot of interest? Are companies hesitant to step in and make acquisitions? And just a little bit about what you're seeing in terms of the environment out there on the...
I think we're seeing a pretty good environment.
If you think about where interest rates are it's certainly a good environment especially for the sponsor side of the buyer universe.
And that's where we've gotten a lot of interest from some of the assets we have currently held for sale.
The next question from Joe Ritchie Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> While you had really nice growth out of China this past quarter and you're pretty well diversified across your businesses in China it'd be helpful to get some more color.
Clearly auto OEM was up significantly and perhaps maybe there was some pressure on the electronic side.
But any more color you can provide on the trend in China that would be very helpful.
What I'd like to say is we saw a broad-based improvement in China but I don't think that's necessarily the case.
And clearly most of our growth in China was driven by very very robust over-performance on the auto OEM side.
There were a few businesses that sequentially did a little bit better but I would say that it's much more tied to what's going on on the auto side than anything else.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then areas of weakness specifically in China? Did you see any end markets that were decelerating? No I don't think we saw anything decelerating but I don't think -- we clearly saw big big improvements out of our auto business.
The rest of them were -- did okay sequentially a little bit better but nothing dramatic.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then...
I think the arrow is pointing to better performance in China as move through the year.
How much better remains to be seen.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then as it relates to the divestiture in Industrial Packaging can you remind us again what the timing what your expected timing is? And then as it relates also to the proceeds that can be used for buyback.
My recollection was that approximately 50% of the business was international 50% of the business was U.S.
And so approximately 1/2 of the proceeds could potentially be used for buybacks is that correct? So as we announced in February what we're doing is a strategic review of the Industrial Packaging business.
So there's been no formal decision to divest it via sale spin or whatever.
So that's currently what we're working through internally within the company and at the board level.
And once we get to a decision on the path that'll be announced and we'll work through that across the appropriate timing.
I wouldn't expect it to be sold or spun off or anything to happen in 2013.
It's probably likely a 2014 event if something does happen.
From a proceeds perspective you're correct about 1/2 the business is overseas although a lot of the intellectual property is owned in the U.S.
So part of the process we're going through is evaluating how much of the proceeds would be in the U.S.
how much would be available for share repurchase if it was a sale process.
So that's one of the things that we're looking at currently.
But likely greater than 50% would be in the U.S.
The next question from Ajay Kejriwal from FBR.
Research Division</strong> So maybe just a couple clarification questions on the '13 guide.
So you're divesting -- discontinuing about $600 million in res that's a $0.07 impact.
Is that in your guide is that baked into your guidance? And then you had a $0.05 onetime or my sense is it's not -- it's excluded from the guide but if you can clarify both that'd be helpful.
Yes so our original forecast in January included these discontinued operations in the numbers because they were -- at that point they were part of continuing operations.
So one of the changes we've made here is we've pulled out these 6 businesses and they have a $0.07 earnings for the year.
So that comes out of the original forecast.
So if our midpoint was $4.25 the adjusted forecast really becomes $4.18.
And then we're adjusting for -- the first quarter out-performance was $0.06 including the onetime gain; another $0.06 positive from higher share repurchase; a negative $0.04 from lower base business revenues the rest of the year; and then a negative $0.01 for everything else primarily translation gets you back to the $4.25.
So at the end of the day what we've done is we've held our guidance at $4.25 even with $0.07 coming out for discontinued operations.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So the $0.07 included but the $0.05 also included the $0.05 gain? Yes yes.
Research Division</strong> But then you're not baking in for any additional share buybacks from the proceeds as you sell those businesses right? Right.
Based on the $850 million which is coming out of free operating cash flow.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then maybe on the auto aftermarket I know you mentioned some PLS activity kind of hurting revenues.
But if you exclude PLS what's the trend there? It's kind of a little surprising.
I thought it was a steady-Eddie business.
Is it related to miles driven or any trends you're seeing there -- Well I think it's -- some of it's miles driven some of it's weather related.
I think one of the bigger things we pointed out when we talked about the auto aftermarket was the loss of a key customer in one of the bigger retail outlets.
So that certainly carries over quarter-to-quarter as we compare year-over-year.
But I would tell you it's sort of the market itself is in North America is doing -- it's probably -- certainly it's not robust.
Maybe growing.
If it's growing it's growing at a very very very low level.
On the European side that's probably the reverse of that where it's probably negative market activity.
The next question from Andy Casey Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> A question on the construction products margin performance.
It was good margin improvement in difficult markets for the quarter.
But it's still kind of trailing the new adjusted average 18.5% by a little less than 600 [ph] basis points.
Can you kind of give us a roadmap over what timeframe you think the gap can be closed? And then is that dependent on the corporate initiatives or are there segment-specific initiatives that we should contemplate? Yes our plan for Construction is that we will get to ITW level margins there within 2 years.
And that will be a combination of enterprise initiatives but probably much more weighted to things going on in the business right now.
The overall color is I think we've been sort of structuring the business to participate in the recovery and have been kind of hanging in there with a cost structure that was much more relevant to conditions 5 years ago.
And as things -- the recovery was delayed things didn't necessarily play out into the sort of normal recovery scenario.
We were just we just took too long to sort of readjust our thinking and our cost structure.
And we've got a really aggressive management team in there now we're getting after it.
This business has absolutely has the potential to perform at or above our expectations for the overall enterprise.
And some nice improvement as a starting point.
We've got a long way to go to get there but we are absolutely committed and we have no doubt that this -- that the Construction business can perform at a level that's accretive to the overall company.
LLC Research Division</strong> And if I can sneak in one more just returning to the Industrial Packaging timing question.
Is it still likely if that business is going to end up being separated that the business results will be moved to disc ops ahead of the potential transaction? And ballpark what are you -- is the timing still the end of the year for a decision or is it somewhere in the second half? Well I think as I said we're working through the decision right? So we can't really disclose what we expect the timing to be at this point but we would expect it to be a decision certainly by the end of the year.
The discontinued ops reporting it really depends on the outcome of the strategic review process.
If it's a sale process then there's certain criteria you have to meet including actively marketing it for sale before you could put into discontinued ops.
But it would be -- it would go into discontinued ops in advance of the actual closing of the sale unlike Decorative Surfaces.
If it's a spinoff then that doesn't go into discontinued ops until the date of the spin.
It depends on the ultimate vehicle for divestment as far as discontinued ops reporting goes.
Next question from Rob Wertheimer Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> It looked to me like the increase in the op margin from Jan guide to now is largely the $600 million of divested businesses at a lower margin? Is that correct or is there something else bridging that op margin improvement? For the full year forecast the majority about 30 basis points of the full year margin increase is related to removing the discontinued operations businesses which have a 6% overall margin from continuing moving into the discontinued.
LLC</strong> And then second in the nonoperating -- the bridge from the last guidance to now nonoperating was a $0.09 headwind and now it's a $0.05 tailwind.
You may have just touched on this -- or I'm sorry a $0.03 tailwind.
Could you just go through that again? So in the nonoperating area for the quarter there was a $0.06 benefit $0.05 of that was this JV gain and $0.01 is normal nonoperating kinds of things.
LLC</strong> In guidance though? And so in the guidance that includes the 5 -- the majority of the change in the guidance for non-op is the first quarter non-op change.
The next question from Eli Lustgarten from Longbow Securities.
Just a quick question on the operating margins as we learn the new segments and new numbers.
Is there anything in the first quarter operating results are any of those margins under more pressure as we go through the rest of the year? I mean we understand welding had a big number last year but the year I guess the year was about 25.4% so we're actually still above that.
Is there any of those segments as you look out through rest of the year that the first quarter operating margins would have difficulty being sustained for the rest of the year? In fact it's actually the opposite.
The first quarter with -- because it's our lower revenue -- lowest revenue quarter it's typically the lowest margin quarter.
Yes I realize that.
So across all the segments we'll see increases in operating margins the rest of the year.
Part of that is just normal seasonality and base business improvement growth versus negative revenue growth.
But also a lot of the initiative benefits come in the back half of the year as well.
So there's nothing -- I realize -- I just wanted to make sure there was nothing that we're seeing particularly with some of the weakness in welding or some of the weakness in Food Equipment business all of those are expected.
No no.
And as you look out for the rest of the year particularly industrial businesses welding and Food Equipment are you expecting overall demand to improve so the negative revenue comps turn positive? Yes.
I think the answer is yes.
If you go back to what we talked about Eli in terms of our quarters and relative to organic revenue we think Qs 2 through 4 will average slightly over 2%.
So I think that underscores both equipment recovery and probably some consumable improvement too.
The next question is from Joel Tiss of Bank of Montréal.
Did I hear you right that apart from the Industrial Packaging business that you're mostly done with the divestments? Yes.
And does that mean that as we look into '14 and beyond that we're going to see more of a shift away from share repurchase toward acquisitions again? Not necessarily.
We're going to allocate capital as Ron described as part of his comments which is ultimately we're going to allocate capital between our 2 external options based on where the best risk-adjusted returns are.
We're certainly not going to shy away from good acquisitions that really fit tightly with our core strategy and that fit the -- accelerate growth positions in our portfolio.
But we're not also envisioning a day when we're acquiring 50 companies a year and adding 5% to 7% of our sales in acquired revenue every year.
Okay.
So this new framework will be kind of an ongoing? Yes.
And then can you just give us the roughly even a range number of shares outstanding at the end of the year or that's too fluid at this point? At the end of this year? Yes at the end of 2013.
We can give you the end of the quarter.
The end of the quarter is about 450 million.
And typically there's about 4 million to 5 million in dilution on top of that.
So you can do the math around the rest of the share repurchase and average price to come up with an end of the year estimate.
Next question from Jim Krapfel of MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to hear what your largest 2 or 3 challenges in successfully executing your strategic initiatives are? And what unforeseen obstacles have come about in the early stages of your evolution? Well I think from our standpoint the biggest challenges are really managing the pace of execution; that we've got across all of these initiatives I think things that we are very committed to very enthusiastic about but at the same time this is not a broken company.
This is a company that's performed very well.
These are initiatives to further improve an already strong company.
So from the standpoint of the challenges that I and the rest of the management team the thing we talk about more than anything is making sure that we've got a good plan that that plan is paced appropriately.
We've got to deliver the bacon quarter by quarter.
I think this is a good example of some pretty terrific execution in the environment and at the same time moving the needle and making progress on these initiatives.
And we've got to have a good balance on both as we move through the process.
So I think that's the challenge that we continue to focus on internally.
As it relates to the initiatives and any surprises I don't think we've had any.
If anything I think as the deeper we get into them the more convinced we are that we are on the right path and that these initiatives are absolutely going to make a big difference in terms of the overall performance of the enterprise on a long-term basis.
So I think that's where I'll leave it.
Research Division</strong> And second question how do you see Europe tracking throughout the year? Are you expecting a similar degree of weakness or do you think an inflection to improvement or worst things more likely? No improvement is in our planning scenario.
I think we're going to leave it right there at the end of the hour.
We've hit the end of the hour.
So we thank everybody for participating in today's call.
And I'm sure I'll be talking to a number of you later today.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
This does conclude the conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome and thank you for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now I'd like to turn over the meeting to John Brooklier Investor Relations Officer.
Thank you.
Good morning everybody and welcome to ITW's Second Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
Joining me on today's call is our President and Chief Executive Officer Scott Santi; and our CFO Ron Kropp.
Scott Ron and I will discuss our Q2 financial results and in addition we will update you on both our long-term strategic initiatives and the progress related to those as well as our Q3 and full year forecasts.
Here is the agenda for today's call.
Scott will highlight our Q2 operating results and our strategic initiatives.
Ron will cover our Q2 results in more detail.
I will then talk about our geographic revenue performance and highlight our segment results.
Ron will then come back and update you on our 2013 full year forecast and introduce our Q3 forecast.
Finally we will open the call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And as always we have allotted 1 hour for today's call.
A couple housekeeping items.
First this presentation contains our financial forecast for full year 2013 the quarter and other forward-looking statements identified on this slide.
We refer everybody to the company's 2012 10-K for more detail about important risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's expectations.
Now let's move to another housekeeping item.
The telephone replay for this conference call is (800) 308-7855.
No pass code is necessary and the playback will be available until midnight of August 6.
Now let me introduce our CEO Scott Santi who will make some comments on the quarter.
Scott? Thank you John and good morning.
In the second quarter we are able to offset modestly lower-than-expected revenues with profitability contributions from our enterprise initiatives in order to achieve the midpoint of our Q2 EPS forecast of $1.08 excluding the $0.05 pension charge that Ron will discuss in a few minutes.
From a revenue standpoint softer-than-anticipated demand in our North American Industrial Packaging Polymers and Fluid and Welding segments resulted in overall organic growth coming in 100 basis points below our expectations heading into the quarter.
Also our electronics assembly platform within our Test &amp; Measurement and Electronics segment also faced challenging comps versus last year as well as continued softness in their end markets.
As a result overall company organic revenues in North America were down 1% in the quarter versus last year.
Our Automotive OEM segment continued to perform at a very high level in the quarter benefiting from focused product development and customer penetration against the backdrop of pretty good worldwide auto builds.
Overall industrial demand remains choppy with the exception of a few pockets like Construction and Food Equipment in North America.
On the profitability side we continued to make solid progress in the quarter.
Adjusted Q2 operating margins of 17.4% were up 40 basis points year-over-year.
The impact of our enterprise initiatives contributed 60 basis points of margin improvement in Q2.
And excluding the $25 million of incremental restructuring expense supporting those initiatives versus Q2 of last year our adjusted operating margins would've been 18% in the quarter.
Overall we continue to make excellent progress in the execution of our enterprise initiatives across the company.
We are at or ahead of our internal 2013 plans for all 3 initiatives and are generating meaningful progress towards our overall enterprise performance goals of 20% plus pretax margins and 20% plus after-tax return on invested capital by 2017.
We are well positioned to fully leverage the benefits of these initiatives as global end markets improve.
Looking at the balance of 2013 we are essentially maintaining the midpoint of our full year EPS forecast on an operating basis though reducing it by $0.05 to $4.20 to reflect the Q2 pension settlement charge.
While we expect the demand environment to continue to be uneven we believe contributions from our enterprise initiatives will keep us on a path of continued profitability improvement for the remainder of 2013 and beyond.
Now let me turn the call over to Ron.
Ron? Thanks Scott.
Good morning everyone.
Before I review our second quarter operating results I wanted to walk through some adjustments impacting comparisons in our second quarter financials.
In the second quarter of 2013 we recognized a $34 million pretax pension settlement charge.
This charge was primarily related to higher lump sum pension payments related to the exit of our Decorative Surfaces employees from the ITW pension plan.
We've excluded this onetime charge when we're discussing our EPS performance for the quarter.
At this time we don't expect any significant pension impact related to settlements for the remainder of the year.
Also as we discussed last quarter our Q2 2012 comparisons exclude the Decorative Surfaces segment operating results.
Now here are the highlights for the second quarter.
Total revenues increased 1% excluding the 2012 Decorative Surfaces revenue.
Worldwide organic revenues were flat while revenue from acquisitions grew 1%.
Excluding the effect of the pension settlement charge adjusted operating income was $736 million which was higher than our 2012 adjusted operating income by $26 million or 3.7%.
Adjusted operating margins of 17.4% or 40 basis points higher than last year.
Excluding the pension settlement charge diluted EPS from continuing operations was $1.08 which represents a 6% growth over our adjusted 2012 EPS and within our forecasted EPS midpoint.
Our 1% revenue increase in the second quarter was primarily due to the following factors: Base revenues were flat with international revenues growing 1.1%.
We saw some stabilization in our European organic revenues which only declined 1% while our Asia Pacific organic revenues increased 2.6% led by strong growth in China and India.
Our North American-based revenues decreased 1% as our equipment businesses declined by 4%.
This softness was especially evident in our electronics assembly platform as they faced challenging comps from last year and continued to see weakness in the general electronics industry.
Excluding the 38% decline in the electronics assembly platform North America base revenues would have grown 1.0%.
If you look at product mix worldwide organic revenues were up 1% in our consumable business while as I said we saw a 4% decline in our worldwide equipment business.
Acquisition added 1.0% to revenue growth.
Adjusted operating margins for the second quarter of 17.4% were 40 basis points higher than Q2 2012.
Base business margins were up 100 basis points from last year.
A key driver was a 60-basis-point improvement from the results of our enterprise initiatives largely related to our business structure simplification activities as well as some benefits from sourcing leverage.
Price cost favorability improved margins 50 basis points.
In addition total operating margins were negatively impacted by $25 million in higher restructuring costs versus last year reducing our overall margins by 60 basis points.
Despite our flat organic revenue from soft North American end markets and $25 million in dollars in higher restructuring cost our bottom line adjusted operating margin improved 40 basis points versus last year.
We continue to see the positive impacts from our enterprise initiatives while continuing to manage overhead costs in an uneven macroeconomic environment.
Our working capital and cash flow continued to be strong as accounts receivable DSO was 62 days which was a slight improvement versus last year.
And inventory months on hand improved to 1.7.
Adjusted ROIC for the second quarter was 16.1% which was a 70-basis-point improvement versus the second quarter of last year.
Our ROIC continues to improve toward our target of 20-plus percent by 2017.
Net cash provided from operating activities was $643 million for the second quarter with capital expenditures of $89 million resulting in free operating cash flow of $554 million and over $800 million of cash generated in the first half of the year.
We generated 35% more free operating cash flow versus the second quarter of 2012 despite several large businesses being divested in the past year.
For the year we expect conversion of free operating cash flow to be close to 100% of income from continuing operations.
Turning to capital structure.
Continue to focus on capital allocation priorities as follows: Our first priority continues to be organic investments especially focused on our key growth initiatives.
Examples of our organic investments include R&amp;D spending additional investments in manufacturing capacity and restructuring projects which have long-term margin benefits.
Our next capital priority is dividends.
Note that our normal January dividend of $174 million was paid on December 31 last year to allow our shareholders to benefit from the lower 2012 dividend tax rate.
Our current dividend yield continues to be over 2%.
Any excess capital after organic investments and dividends is used for external investments either share repurchases or acquisitions.
We evaluate the allocation between these investments based on the best risk-adjusted returns and assess acquisition targets by incorporating our portfolio management criteria of accelerated growth and strong differentiation potential.
In the second quarter we had $310 million in share repurchases and have had nearly $700 million in repurchases in the first half of the year.
As we look ahead through the remainder of the year we have increased our share repurchase forecast from free operating cash flow for the year to be at least $1 billion versus the $850 million we communicated in April.
In addition we tend to use -- we intend to use any U.S.
after-tax divestiture proceeds for share repurchases as well.
As of the end of the second quarter we have approximately $1.2 billion of authorized repurchases remaining under our current buyback program.
We utilized $95 million for acquisitions during the first half of the year with a continued focus on our growth platforms in emerging markets.
In early July we added to our portfolio with other focused acquisition targets as we closed on 2 acquisitions a Chinese food equipment business and a European consumer packaging equipment supplier.
As we continue to shape our portfolio our focus remains on 2 key criteria: accelerated growth spaces and a strong differentiation potential.
Lastly our Q2 debt-to-capital ratio is 33% while our debt to adjusted EBITDA remained constant at 1.5x.
Our cash balance overseas is nearly $2.8 billion and we have plenty of debt capacity to make additional investments.
I will now turn it back over to John who will provide more details on the operating results by geography and individual segments.
Thanks Ron.
Let me take just a few minutes to review our Q2 '13 geographic trends.
Excluding the impact of currency and the 2012 revenues from the former debt services segment total company revenues grew 1% in Q2.
And as Ron noted earlier total company organic revenues were flat in the quarter with North American organic revenues declining 1% and international organic revenues growing 1%.
Most notably European organic revenues declined only 1% and Asia Pacific organic revenues grew 3%.
The positives for us in Q2 were in China and Brazil where our organic revenues grew 14% and 19% respectively.
Moving to the next slide for our Q2 segment results.
It's important to note that while our total company organic revenues were flat the major negative impact came from our Test &amp; Measurement and Electronics segment.
As Ron mentioned the segment had very difficult year-over-year comps and experienced in-market softness in the electronics assembly platform.
Notably our total company organic revenues would've been 130 basis points higher if this platform had produced flat organic revenues on a year-over-year basis.
Looking at profitability 6 out of our 8 segments produced operating margin improvement ranging from 40 basis points of improvement from our Construction segment to 230 basis points of improvement for our Food Equipment segment.
From my earlier comments our Test &amp; Measurement and Electronics segment was hit with a 200 basis points operating margin decline.
If you recall from last quarter we added an adjusted operating margin metric as part of our portfolio segmentation which excludes intangible amortization and other noncash acquisition accounting items from operating income.
We continue to see that our more acquisitive segments primarily Test &amp; Measurement and Electronics as well as Polymers &amp; Fluids show a much more consistent performance comparability when we look at adjusted operating margins across our segments.
Now let's take a peek at our 8 reporting segments beginning with Test &amp; Measurement and Electronics.
This segment had an organic revenue decline of 9%.
T&amp;M's worldwide organic revenues declined 2% as demand for capital equipment was muted in the quarter particularly in North America.
And as noted earlier total electronics organic revenues fell 16% as the electronics assembly business faced tough comps in soft end markets.
We anticipate that the third quarter will also prove to be a difficult comparison for electronics assembly due to the fact they had a major customer order in the third quarter of 2012.
Much better news on the Automotive OEM side which Scott referenced earlier.
It was our fastest-growing segment.
In aggregate Auto OEMs organic revenues grew a very solid 12% versus a worldwide auto build of 3%.
The Auto OEM formula remains the same.
New product innovation and new platform penetration equals enhanced growth versus new car builds.
By geography while European auto builds grew 1% in the quarter our organic revenues increased 11% there.
Strong performance in Europe.
Our key OEM relationships with Volkswagen Ford and GM in Europe continue to be a successful formula for us.
In North America organic revenues of 7% were slightly ahead of our 6% auto builds.
And finally in China organic revenues grew 40% versus auto builds of 11%.
All in all it was another excellent quarter for our Automotive segment.
Operating margins of 20.6% improved 70 basis points on a year-over-year basis.
Moving to Polymers &amp; Fluids.
Organic revenues were again defined by ongoing product line simplification what we call PLS activities and a loss of key customers.
Organic revenues for worldwide polymers in hygiene as well as fluids both declined 4% in the quarter.
Automotive aftermarket organic revenues decreased 2% due to ongoing PLS programs and a loss of a key customer.
We believe the sorting-out process of unprofitable customers will diminish as the year progresses.
And despite some pressure on the top line we continue to be very pleased with the profitability arc of the segment.
Operating margins of 18.1% were 150 basis points higher than the prior year period.
In Food Equipment conditions improved modestly in North America for capital equipment but remained difficult in Europe.
This resulted in segment organic growth of 1% in the quarter.
Total Food Equipment North America's organic revenues grew 5% with equipment increasing 4% due in part to higher cooking revenues for customers serving independent restaurants lodging area and nursing facilities and schools.
North America service organic revenues grew a very healthy 5% in the quarter.
Internationally Food Equipment's organic revenues declined 2%.
Notably equipment sales fell 7% as cooking and refrigeration slowed in France Italy and the U.K.
Much like North America service revenues grew an impressive 7% in the quarter.
Even with muted overall growth this segment produced operating margins of 18.7%.
That's 230 basis points higher than the year-ago period.
But clearly lots of good things happening in the Food Equipment area.
In our Welding segment worldwide organic revenues were flat as North American revenues grew and international revenues declined.
In North America organic revenues were up 1% in part due to new product launches in the commercial sector that include MRO of small manufacture and commercial construction customers.
Internationally revenues -- organic revenues declined 2% largely due to slowing in Asia and the repositioning of the portfolio from shipbuilding to oil and gas and infrastructure activities.
In Asia the major areas of decline emanated from China and Australia.
Despite all this operating margins of 26.5% were 60 basis points higher than the year-ago period.
In Construction Products organic revenues were flat as reasonably good growth in North America was offset by declines but at moderating rates in Europe.
In North America total organic revenues grew 2% with both U.S.
residential organic revenues up 2% and renovation organic revenues up 8%.
U.S.
commercial construction organic revenues declined 2% mainly due to softness in the metal business segment and some related PLS activities.
In Europe our organic revenues fell 4% as much improved performance over Q1 when European Construction revenues declined 10%.
Asia Pacific organic revenues grew 3% in the quarter and this was a turnaround from Q1 when organic revenues declined 1%.
Operating margins of 13.8% continued their movement upward a 40-basis-point improvement versus the year-ago period.
In Specialty Products the segment organic revenues grew 2% in the quarter.
Segment growth was helped by 2% organic growth from the consumer packaging businesses.
In particular global packaging systems led the way thanks to accelerated growth of warehouse automation system which includes our Vertique and Hartness businesses.
Our ground support business produced organic revenue growth of 12% in the quarter while organic revenues for our worldwide appliance businesses declined 4%.
Operating margins were strong at 22.4% and that's an increase of 40 basis points versus the year-ago period.
Finally in our Industrial Packaging segment which Ron referenced earlier worldwide organic revenues declined 1%.
Total North American Industrial Packaging organic revenues decreased 3% due to moderating industrial production trends and softness in the food and beverage category.
Internationally the news was a bit better as organic revenues increased 1%.
Please note that this was the first positive international revenue number we've produced since the fourth quarter of 2011.
Now let me turn the call over to Ron who will update you on our forecast.
Ron? Thanks John.
As a reminder our 2012 comparisons exclude the operating results of the former Decorative Surfaces segment as well as the fourth quarter 2012 gain on divestiture and equity interest.
For the full year 2013 our forecasted EPS range for continuing operations is $4.10 to $4.30.
This range assumes a total revenue increase of 0.5% to 2.5% versus an adjusted 2012.
This range is slightly lower than our April forecast as we now anticipate organic revenue growth of negative 1% to plus 1% for the year.
Additionally we expect our full year operating margins to be in a range of 16.9% to 17.3% versus 2012 margins of 16.3%.
Our midpoint of $4.20 would be 14% higher than the 2012 adjusted EPS of $3.70.
The full year EPS midpoint of $4.20 is down $0.05 from our prior forecast due to the $0.05 pension settlement charge from this quarter.
As Scott mentioned we have kept our second half operating forecast the same.
Despite the uneven end market environment for some of our segments we remain confident that our enterprise initiatives and strong overhead management will help deliver our bottom line.
For the third quarter of 2013 we are forecasting diluted income per share for continuing operations to be in the range of $1.06 to $1.16 which assumes a total revenue growth of 3% to 5%.
The midpoint of the Q3 diluted EPS range of $1.11 would be a 9% increase versus the 2012 pro forma EPS of $1.02.
I'll now turn it back over to John for the Q&amp;A.
Thanks Ron.
We'll now open the call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We're ready for the first question.
Our first question comes from Ajay Kejriwal.
Research Division</strong> So just to maybe clarify on the full year guide.
The $0.05 in pension so is that being excluded from the guide or is it included? No so the current guidance the midpoint is $4.20.
The prior guidance was $4.25.
So the only real change to the EPS guidance was the $0.05 charge that we recognized in the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So on a non-GAAP basis if we were to exclude it's essentially the same? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So that's helpful.
And then on Test &amp; Measurement could you maybe talk a little bit about expectations? I know you -- third quarter you have tough comps.
But just color on what you're seeing with your customers please.
What I would say Ajay is quote activity remains good in the T&amp;M space.
Electronics is still fairly weak.
The color in the T&amp;M space is the quote activity remains fairly robust.
But there is in the short run some level of let's say hesitation in terms of actually customers converting those quotations to actual orders.
But our expectations are things continue to move forward at an okay pace and hopefully accelerate a little bit as we move through the year.
I think I don't need -- the electronic side I think we're expecting the year to be pretty tough all the way around.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And maybe one more before I pass it on.
On the Auto OEs you're seeing very very nice penetration.
Just maybe talk about sustainability and expectation in the second half.
Yes I think we're very well positioned there.
It's the one part of our business where we have a fairly strong level of forward visibility in that we are selling new content on new models of cars as they are engineered and developed.
So we are set up there for a pretty nice run over the next several years based on programs that we know we have that will be on new models moving into the market.
So I think we're very comfortable through the balance of the year for -- that we'll have continued strong performance there and into '14 and '15 as well.
Yes.
And I would just also add that if you look on from a car build perspective in the second half we don't expect big movement or big changes in car build projections which have been reasonably good around the world.
The next question comes from Jamie Cook.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One I thought your comments on the international Industrial Packaging businesses were interesting in terms of you were up and it was the first time that you've seen -- I guess that you've been positive since the fourth quarter of 2011.
So if you could just give some color on what actually drove the strength there.
And then how sustainable do you think that is? And then I guess just my second question.
Last quarter when you guys did your earnings call you said in March you saw an improvement I think in U.S.
markets Welding Food as well as Test &amp; Measurement.
Obviously things have changed.
But can you just give us some color on when things sort of broke down in the quarter which month? Okay.
On the Industrial Packaging side in terms of international revenue the big contributions on the plus side came out of India and China.
Europe was still down modestly year-on-year in the quarter.
And in terms of the capital spending environment in Q2 I -- what I would say is I think things were relatively sluggish throughout the quarter as -- and you talked about the segments that were affected.
Food Equipment actually stayed pretty strong through the quarter.
But certainly in Welding relative to what we saw towards the back half of Q1 things certainly moderated in Q2 and likewise in the Test &amp; Measurement arena as well.
So there was no sort of fall-off-the-cliff in the second quarter.
We do have an element of seasonality that's baked into our planning between Q1 and Q2.
That's pretty normal.
And what I would say is we just didn't see as much acceleration in Q2 as we normally would seasonally.
But all 3 of those businesses were up sequentially in second quarter versus Q1.
So it wasn't a big deceleration.
It was just a lack of -- maybe the best way to describe it is things didn't ramp at the same rate as we would normally expect in Q2.
The next question comes from Rob Wertheimer.
LLC</strong> Just wanted to check in.
You gave comments on the construction market but it continues to be a bit soft.
Can you comment at all on commercial construction on whether you're gaining or losing penetration/share in the U.S.
and globally? Well I would say that if you look at the commercial construction numbers particular in North America I think they're roughly in line with what we're seeing with Dodge construction data which is measured on a square footage basis.
I don't think there's any disconnect there on the commercial side.
Commercial has been much slower to recover.
I think from the last set of numbers we saw commercial was down roughly 1 or 2 points.
So I think our numbers are roughly in line with those.
So I don't think it's a penetration issue at all.
I think it's just the market itself has been slower to recover as it tries to recover in line with what's going on on the housing side.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then this is an unrelated follow-up.
Could you talk about the ramp in strategic initiatives the savings that you've gotten to date? Is that sort of the run rate for the rest of the year? Or is it a continually gradual process? I just don't know the pace at which you're rolling out programs and implementing changes.
So as we said the enterprise initiatives had a 60-basis-point benefit in the second quarter.
And as we continue to do simplification activities and additional sourcing we'll continue to see that ramp up not just next quarter but as we move through the next year or 2.
So I would expect a bigger impact in the third quarter than the second quarter.
And just to add to that as you may recall the impact from initiatives was 40 basis points in Q1.
We got to 60 in Q2 and I think that's not an infinite slope in that line.
But certainly over the next 6 or 8 quarters we would expect to just continue to see further progress on that front.
Next question comes from Andy Kaplowitz.
Research Division</strong> So in North American Welding you have some distinct businesses in Welding levered toward oil and gas levered toward heavy equipment machinery customers.
When you look at 2Q what did you see in those distinct businesses? Did the major -- did the heavy equipment customers did they continue to destock in the quarter and that affected the Welding business? Or was it just more of a slowdown in oil and gas still affecting the business? And did you see any improvement in that business as the oil prices have ticked up here recently? We didn't see any improvement.
I would say dimensionally the heavy equipment sector was softer in Q2 relative to oil and gas.
I think in both areas particularly on the capital of the equipment side what we saw was certainly more continued tentativeness there around new equipment purchases.
But probably the heavy equipment's end market is softer than the oil and gas in the quarter.
And I would just like to take you back to what I said earlier Andy when we talked about the commercial construction piece being the best piece for us in North America.
If you think about that that tends to be sort of a smaller equipment investment around smaller manufacturers and other related buyers.
So I think that the dichotomy between the 2 between the heavy industrial side or the heavy equipment manufacturers and that is sort of representative of what's going on in Welding right now.
I don't think we see -- we're not projecting any further significant declines at this point in time.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful guys.
And then Scott or John Europe it was only down 1% after being down 6% year-over-year last quarter.
A lot of this does seem like your Auto outperformance but maybe you could talk about the quarter itself.
Are you getting -- are most markets at least stable to modestly improving sequentially in Europe? Can we call a bottom here and now an improvement yet or not really? I think we have relatively high degree of confidence that Europe has bottomed.
Certain pockets have gotten a little bit better.
I don't think we've seen anything that's gotten demonstrably worse.
So I think it's a bottom.
The question is how long will the bottom take place? We're clearly not calling for big recovery in Europe but I think that it's positive for us and other companies that Europe is showing signs of stability at the bottom.
So we'll continue to ramp up probably good numbers from our Auto business and then we'll keep track of what's going on in our businesses and obviously update you on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
Research Division</strong> John would you say that Construction outperformed your expectations in Europe or is it just kind of trending in line with easier comps? I would say probably more in line with comps.
One of the things about Europe obviously is that you start to comp these numbers and comps are going to help your comparison numbers.
But I'd say Construction in general is probably where we would've expected it to be.
Andy Casey.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple things.
Can we walk through the drivers of Food Equipment the 230-basis-point margin improvement? Was that all volume price and mix or was there some benefit from the enterprise strategy in there as well? It was a little bit of everything.
Price/cost had a benefit of about 70 basis points.
Enterprise initiatives had about 40.
We just said we saw overall better variable margins exclusive of price/cost of 90 better overhead control of 30.
And the part of that would be mix and the strong performance out of the service business in both Europe and North America.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then second I'm wondering on your full year operating margin guidance.
You have pretty good performance in terms of year-over-year improvement in price/cost and enterprise benefits year-to-date.
But it really doesn't look like you're expecting any significant improvement in operating margin performance during the second half.
First is that a correct assessment? And then second why wouldn't you be seeing some flow-through from those benefits into the second half? So if you look at the margins in the second half they're about at the run rate as they were in the second quarter if you back out the pension charge.
So without the pension charge of 17.4% back half margins are in that range for the rest of the year.
The prior year margins while we did have a very strong margin third quarter primarily due to some corporate adjustments favorable corporate adjustments -- it was 17.5% last year -- fourth quarter was 14.9%.
So we are overall improving quite a bit in the second half and a lot of that improvement is coming from enterprise initiatives.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's basically flat from here.
Will we expect a step-up through the second half? Yes I mean certainly in the fourth quarter 14.9% versus 17% plus is a pretty significant margin improvement.
The other element of this is as we saw in the second quarter we're expecting a higher restructuring spend year-over-year.
So even with that higher restructuring spend we're seeing significant margin improvement.
Ann Duignan.
Research Division</strong> It's Ann Duignan.
Two follow-up questions really.
On the Automotive outperformance can you just give us a little bit more color on what products and what platforms are winning in Europe and in China? Is there an opportunity to take those new products in Europe to China in a year or 2? Or is this kind of a global rollout of a new product and it's simultaneous across the world? Yes I think a core strategy without necessarily getting into specific products on specific platforms is that we have very much -- the Automotive business is globalizing so we very much are focused on sort of major global OEMs and our ability to ultimately invest in innovation and new product development in opportunities that have sort of major potential to expand both from the standpoint of different OEMs and also on a global basis.
The story in China right now is a function of the fact that the quality of cars that they're building in China more and more has reached the point where the kind of solutions that we offer are things that they need.
So as the overall standards of the quality and features that they are starting to put in the cars in China is certainly creating more and more opportunities for us to bring content that we've already engineered in North America or Europe into the China market.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful I guess.
And then on the enterprise initiatives are we sort of done now with the business unit consolidation and now we're moving into more of the strategic sourcing i.e.
we should look for the improvement going forward to show up in gross margin versus SG&amp;A? Or is it going to be a mix of both going forward? If you could help us from a modeling perspective where you'd expect the improvements to show up would be helpful.
Yes so in 2 quarters we're done with the BSS which have -- I'm going to give you sort of a -- try to give you a flavor without -- not having a lot of sort of authoritative facts behind this.
But what I would say is we're at best 15% of the way through BSS in terms of the kind of moves that we have on the board and the things that we're going to do.
We're getting what I would describe as some very consequential but low-hanging fruit benefits at this stage but this has probably got another 2 to 3 years to run on BSS.
And likewise on sourcing as we've talked before we are at the early stages.
I think I'm very pleased with our progress in '13 on sourcing but ultimately have some -- the big benefits still ahead of us in terms of '14 '15 '16.
Research Division</strong> So more of a gross margin impact from the sourcing as we move into '14 and '15 is that the way we should think about it? On a relative basis but I wouldn't discount the BSS in terms of continuing impacts for the next -- for '14 '15 and some of '16.
Stephen Volkmann.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of cleanup items if I could.
What's the organic growth forecast for the third quarter that's in the 3% to 5% total revenue growth? Organic growth for the third quarter? 1%.
1%.
Research Division</strong> 1% great.
And the quarter end share count? Quarter end share count 447 million.
Research Division</strong> And then restructuring spending in 2014 is it going to be up or down over '13 do we think? It's really the same but I would expect it would not be up significantly at the high end.
Schon Williams.
Research Division</strong> You guys have been vocal in the past about wanting to expand within quick-serve restaurants in the Food Equipment space.
Obviously you did a purchase here the Chinese manufacturer.
I'm just wondering is that it? Are we kind of done with that or is there more acquisitions to be done over the next couple quarters there? On the quick-serve space? Research Division</strong> Well in the quick-serve space or Food Equipment in general.
I mean whichever you feel...
I think the major thrust within Food Equipment is innovation-based organic growth.
We will certainly continue to look at M&amp;A opportunities as they arise like we did in China.
And I think we're very enthusiastic about how that business fits strategically with our growth plans and opportunities in China.
But I would say the major thrust going forward for us in Food Equipment is to continue to build a much stronger organic-growing business through an accelerated rate of innovation there.
Research Division</strong> I mean should expect that most of the acquisition activity for the portfolio going forward is going to be concentrated within Food Equipment? Or is this kind of again it's going to be kind of more one-off here and there? I wouldn't say it would be concentrated in Food Equipment.
I think what we have said as part of our enterprise strategy overall is that this company our focus is on really building a much more robust organic front-end engine as our primary growth thrust and that we will certainly supplement that ramp with good strategic acquisitions as those opportunities arise.
But ultimately those opportunities may arise in any one of the operating segments that we're in today.
But ultimately that's not the front end in terms of really how we think about and how we're focused on driving growth going forward.
By example if you look at what we've acquired thus far this year I mean they fall under the areas such as Food Equipment in China.
We've also done deals in Welding in Europe and we've also done I believe a couple of deals on the consumer packaging side.
So very much targeted to the areas we've talked about that we think have big potential for differentiation and longer-term growth.
Right.
Highly differentiated technologies in end markets that we are -- that we know and understand very well.
John Inch.
Research Division</strong> The weaker North American welding results do you guys think you lost share for whatever reason to either Lincoln or ESAB? Just thinking ESAB is now got new management.
I think they've launched a new product.
What are your thoughts? Our thoughts today would be no.
I think we'll obviously -- yes we're very focused on this.
The Welding business is a business that's been a very strong organic growth for us across a very long period.
Our expectations are going forward that that will continue to be at the high end of our overall organic growth performance in terms of our portfolio.
I think given that the market positions that we have in areas like equipment space I think our view is what we said before that Q2 was really more of a demand issue in certain key end markets like heavy equipment and oil and gas.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Scott the North American result is kind of a point of a differential growth that you called out.
Was any of this attributable to Canada? The Canadian economy hasn't been particularly great lately.
I'm just wondering if that's perhaps part of some of the mix of slightly softer revenue there.
I don't think it was geographic John.
I think it was really around again the 3 segments that we talked about.
Industrial Packaging was much softer than we expected.
Welding was a little softer as were Polymers &amp; Fluids in North America.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
And then just lastly on restructuring obviously with enterprise initiatives the nature of your restructuring and sort of the approach and so forth is different than what sort of legacy ITW would have pursued in terms of its restructuring.
Can you talk about that a little bit Scott in the context of your initiatives? Are you finding restructuring -- maybe just a little more color? Are you finding restructuring somewhat more challenging easier? Has it been -- have you picked off a lot of the low-hanging fruit? Or just anything that might give us a sense of sort of the approach and the paybacks just something that might help us take a look at this.
Well I think this is -- most of what this -- the concentration of spend right now is really around supporting our business structure simplification initiative where we've talked about building scale from the bottom up in our structure and ultimately a landing spot of 105 or so much larger much more globally competitive divisions.
So I think the activity is concentrated there.
We are -- I talked about this a little bit on the last call but I think from the standpoint of the strategic benefits around this and the operating cost benefits our management team is very motivated very much behind this initiative lots of opportunity to both position ourselves to be much more competitive on a global basis to accelerate organic growth and at the same time drive some pretty consequential overall structural cost savings.
So I don't -- it's not -- I don't know how to characterize it in terms of any difference.
I think it's not dissimilar from restructuring that we would do when we acquired new businesses.
So I don't -- I guess I don't know how to fully answer your question other than...
Research Division</strong> Well it's mostly also -- I'm assuming then people and overhead hasn't really -- you have been tackling plants or...
No I would say we absolutely have been tackling facilities plant consolidations as part of this activity absolutely.
Mig Dobre.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'd like to go back to the Food Equipment segment and to your recent acquisition in China.
Is there any color you can provide us with regards to Vesta's size and relevance in the Chinese market? And strategically how are you thinking about this acquisition? Do you see -- how do their products compare for instance from an innovation standpoint with some of the brands that you've got here in the U.S.? And do you see some potential for technology and manufacturing sharing with the brands that you currently have? Yes absolutely.
I think the way I would characterize it in terms of how much we probably want to say about it is what we -- I think the combination of that business with our business has great benefits both ways.
It has -- it's a business that operates at a scale well above what we operated at in China up to this point.
So what comes with it is a manufacturing footprint and a local R&amp;D capability that is certainly a big step-up in terms of scale.
There's some strong differentiation in the product lines that we acquired.
We certainly feel both through our existing -- technologies that exist in our existing product lines that we're going to be able to supplement their product portfolio.
And likewise from the standpoint of service capability big footprint there already something that in terms of some of the knowledge and know-how we might bring and might learn from them in return.
Some really nice benefits both from us to them and them to us in this.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I guess my follow-up here would be over time do you see Vesta as a potential player in Western markets as well? It's early.
I don't know if we'd want say much.
I think it's largely a China play.
Deane Dray.
Research Division</strong> Covered a lot of ground here.
I do have a question for Scott on the electronics business kind of a broader question.
This is not the first quarter where we've seen some sharp volatility and cyclicality in this business and the issue is this business is on a completely different cadence with most of your other or all of your other industrial businesses.
So maybe just to hear from you since you've been through this whole portfolio rationalization is electronics a core business within ITW? And maybe what are the key values? Is it market share synergies with others cash flow? Or just maybe hear your comments on that.
Sure.
I would absolutely tell you that we are thinking a lot about the cyclicality issues in electronics.
I think at its core what I would say is I think we've been very selective about the pieces of the electronic markets that we choose to play in.
I think we in particular we like a couple of spots where we are in terms of again some of those sort of value-creation attributes of those spaces.
There are some spaces that are relatively under-attended in our view in a market that on a long-term basis the sentimentals are that they're going to grow and grow quite a bit.
We make good money.
This is -- it's a space where ITW in the aggregate where we -- it certainly is accretive to our overall margin and return goals even on the dips.
And I think margins in electronic space even on a big decline year-on-year we're still in the high-teens for us.
So I think we're -- I guess what I would say Deane is I think there are some things there that remain interesting for us on a long-term basis.
But I also think we have to understand how to manage in that space in a way where it's less of an outlier in certain instances.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then on the auto builds I mean this is a pattern that we've seen play out over the years where ITW outpaces builds U.S.
Europe.
But it really looks outsized this quarter.
Is the expectations on how you can sustain this lead over is it all market share it's new product innovations? But again this is high-quality problem where you're having to explain the performance versus global builds.
Yes I -- what I would say is worth commenting on there is I think the strategy today for us in the Automotive is very different than some of those prior cycles that you referenced and the growth engine here is -- today is all about sort of proprietary solution-based new content.
So we're not at the end of RFQs.
As a supplier we are really focused in on high value solving sort of big pain point issues for Auto OEM.
So from the standpoint of -- we've talked about this before overall content in North America in the mid-$60 a car range today; Europe around $50; and Asia at $20.
On an overall average material cost in a car is let's say $15 000.
Is there another $30 or $40 we can find a really innovative important solutions for our customers over time? We have a lot of conviction about that opportunity being out there.
So from a sustainability standpoint the strategy today is very different much more tightly focused on the kinds of the things I talked about.
And so I think both as I try to dimension the overall size of the opportunity and the uniqueness of our strategy -- and by the way we're pretty uniquely positioned as the only company out there that can deliver these solutions on a global basis.
So I think we've got again a very different strategy and a lot of conviction about our ability to sustain some pretty strong outperformance here for some time to come.
Nigel Coe.
Research Division</strong> I agree.
I mean the Automotive performance is outstanding.
We don't see too many suppliers with 20% margins.
And I'm just wondering just do you get any pushback from the OEMs on those levels of margins? Well in the end to say we don't would probably not be accurate.
But in the end it's all about the value of the solution.
And we're not -- again we're not in big dollar spaces.
We're I think in general that our OEMs -- our customers appreciate the value that we deliver which is we help them solve again sort of big problems that they have in ways that ultimately make them more money and help them be more effective as businesses.
So in the end it's really about -- we're going to get paid if we do our job.
Research Division</strong> Right right.
I just have a couple quick questions that cover a lot of ground here.
But just looking at the 4.4% midpoint revenue growth guidance for 3Q.
I think John you mentioned 1% organic growth within that.
So is the 3-point bridge from M&amp;A? And if so is that sort of incremental [ph] investor or are there some other acquisitions coming through there? 2% of it is acquisitions-related and the rest is currency and other stuff.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So 1 point from currency 2 points from acquisitions and 1 point of organic okay.
And then the second thing is I think Ron this is your last quarter.
I'm just wondering where you are in terms of the CFO replacement.
We are making progress.
Joseph Ritchie.
Research Division</strong> So I had a quick question on the earnings bridge on Slide 13.
It looks like you've taken down revenue guidance that should be slightly offset by the increased share repurchases.
But it seems like there's implicitly potentially higher margins or cost-out that should have to happen in order for you to maintain your guidance or the midpoint of your guidance.
So help me rectify that.
Yes so I think here's the way I would look at it.
The revenue forecast is down from where we were before.
The margins are basically the same.
So that means we are taking additional cost out to basically hold the income contribution from base.
So that's the $0.32 in the bridge from base.
From a share repurchase perspective although we've increased the total for the year because most of that'll come in the back half of the year in the fourth quarter it'll have very little impact.
So it didn't really have a EPS impact in the current year.
Certainly it will going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's really helpful.
And then I guess a follow-up to that is as it relates to that $0.32 base.
I think last quarter you mentioned about $0.18 to $0.19 was going to come from the enterprise initiatives.
Thus far this year you've done about $0.06.
Have you increased that target then? Yes certainly as we talked about earlier it is accelerating.
So it's a little bit higher than what we talked about last time probably in the $0.20 range.
David Raso.
Research Division</strong> Yes just a further clarification on the guidance.
The 1% you took out of the full year organic growth rate did that come out of North America solely or is it a mix? A mix.
Research Division</strong> A mix.
And then for the share count you mentioned 447 million at the end of the quarter.
Was that a diluted number or a basic number? That is a basic.
LLC</strong> It is a basic so it's more around 450 million diluted? Yes yes.
LLC</strong> Because I'm just trying to come up with it.
It does seem to imply maybe that the prior answer just now -- I didn't fully catch -- the margins seem to have to improve unless am I not recognizing the share repo steps up notably from say $300 million a quarter? How significant is the repo in the back half? You still kept it as an $0.18 benefit.
Yes.
Yes as I said earlier we did increase it $150 million but that's all going to fall in the fourth quarter and it's going to have very little impact and really no EPS impact in the current year.
So what's happening on the margins is normally when revenues come down you'd expect there'd-- everything else being equal there'd be a deterioration in margins.
And so we're holding our margins the same.
That's how we're getting basically to the same EPS.
Research Division</strong> And for the margins in the second half you said they'd be similar to 2Q.
But the amount suggests they have to be in the upper 17s.
Well 2Q as adjusted if you back out the pension.
17.4%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right so you got your comp in.
Yes.
But it's actually 17.4% even if you pull out the $34 million from SG&amp;A.
Yes that's what I'm saying is the 17.4% or in a similar range for the rest of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean not to nickel and dime you here but I mean the margins have to be higher than 17.4% the rest of the year on that revenue base with that kind of share count to hit 4.20x all in or 4.25x right? Yes and it's in the range.
I mean we're not...
Research Division</strong> Oh okay.
I just wanted to clarify that.
And the restructuring cadence again.
Year-over-year you said it was $25 million more in 2Q year-over-year.
What's the cadence again in 3Q 4Q on a year-over-year basis? We're seeing some increase but not as much.
So probably in the $20 million in the second half above last year.
Walt Liptak.
LLC Research Division</strong> My question is on the guidance too.
The organic revenue growth being a little bit lighter is that a result of the second quarter or is it more of a forward look on the full year? And then which segments are performing at a lower rate than you thought of back in April? I think it's really -- I think what we tend to do is we tend to hold at second quarter.
It's much harder to forecast on a 3- to 6-month basis where things are going to be so we're basically holding it where we essentially ended the quarter.
I don't think we've carved it out per segment but I don't think they'd be radically different than some of the segments we've talked about today per Q2.
Industrial Packaging Polymers &amp; Fluids would probably be the primary examples there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And if I can just get one last Welding question in.
You didn't mention anything about pricing.
But if you've taken out prices yet this year with material costs down is there a price increase for the back half or maybe a price decrease? Price increase went into effect I believe 1st of April.
Yes April of this year.
I wouldn't -- I don't -- I'm not -- I don't have knowledge of any additional price increases at this point in time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then those price increases are sticking given -- even with the commodity prices coming down? Yes.
We're going to end it there at the top of the hour.
We thank everybody for joining us on today's call and we look forward to talking to you later.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
Please disconnect at this time.
Welcome and thank you for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now I would like to turn the meeting over to Mr.
John Brooklier Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Brandon.
Good morning everyone.
And welcome to ITW's Third Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
Joining me on today's call is our President and CEO Scott Santi.
And I would also like to introduce and welcome a new member of the ITW team to today's call our new CFO Michael Larsen.
As many of you may recall Michael joined us last month from Gardner Denver where he served as both CEO and CFO during his time there.
I know Michael looks forward to meeting both our current and prospective investors as well as the analysts who cover us.
During today's call Scott Michael and I will discuss our strong Q3 financial results and also cover our newly updated Q4 and full year forecast.
Before we continue let me do a few housekeeping items.
I'd like to remind you that this presentation contains our financial forecast for the full year and the 2013 fourth quarter as well as other forward-looking statements identified on this slide.
I won't read through the entire slide but I'll let you do that as I move to the next slide.
One other housekeeping item.
The telephone replay for this conference call is (866) 431-5846.
No passcode is necessary and the playback for the call will be available until 12 midnight the night of November 5 2013.
Now let's move on.
Let me introduce our CEO Scott Santi who will comment on our Q3 performance.
Scott? Thanks John and good morning everyone.
Overall I was pleased with our third quarter performance.
In an economic environment that remains choppy at best we were able to deliver solid operating results while we continued to make meaningful progress in the execution of our enterprise initiatives.
From a geographic perspective while we are seeing pockets of growth in the Asia-Pacific region and Europe appears to have stabilized North America remains a mixed bag.
Against this backdrop our Automotive OEM segment continued to deliver strong growth with organic revenues up 11.5% in Q3 versus worldwide auto builds that were up 4% in the quarter.
In addition we saw a noticeable improvement in the growth trajectory of our Food Equipment segment where organic revenues were up 4.4% in the quarter.
In terms of segment performance one other element I would highlight is the 250 basis points of year-on-year margin improvement delivered by our Construction Products segment in the quarter.
As I have noted previously we are focused on getting our Construction margins up to ITW standards and our Construction Products management team made solid progress in this regard in Q3.
Regarding earnings Q3 EPS of $0.90 came in $0.02 higher than the midpoint of our forecast.
Per our announcement last month we revised our earnings forecast to reflect our plan to divest our Industrial Packaging business and the associated reclassification of the segment into disco.
While this -- with this move we believe investors now have a clear line of sight on our go-forward portfolio and its underlying earnings growth potential.
On our enterprise initiatives our worldwide management team continued to lead solid execution throughout the organization in Q3.
In the quarter we got 80 basis points of margin contribution directly from our enterprise initiatives which drove overall enterprise operating margins of 19% in the quarter a rate that was among the highest in the history of the company.
A final word on capital allocation.
We continue to remain return-focused on the best ways to utilize our capital.
As you can see from our Q3 results we continued to generate strong levels of free cash.
Our free cash conversion rate through the first 9 months of 2013 was well over 100%.
Year-to-date we have returned nearly $1.6 billion to shareholders in the form of share repurchases and dividends.
And as a reminder we also announced last month that we intend to utilize our existing share repurchase authorization to offset the full amount of EPS dilution associated with the divestiture of Industrial Packaging.
Now let me turn the call over to Michael who will now cover Q3 financial highlights.
Michael? Thanks Scott and good morning everyone.
First let me say that I'm very pleased to have joined the ITW team at such an exciting time for the company.
I look forward to working with our talented worldwide management team on executing our enterprise strategy with a strong focus on creating long-term shareholder value.
It's great to be here.
Okay.
Before I go through our third quarter results let's start on Slide 5.
And since there are a few moving pieces this quarter and not everyone's estimates have been updated since the announcement of September 24 I'd like to quickly walk you through EPS guidance versus actual for the third quarter and full year 2013.
On September 24 we announced the sales process for our Industrial Packaging segment and moved IPG to discontinued operations which at the midpoint reduced third quarter EPS by $0.14 and the full year by $0.53.
At the same time we announced a $0.09 discrete nonrecurring tax item related to foreign earnings in Australia.
And as a result we reduced our 3Q EPS forecast midpoint from $1.11 to $0.88 and the full year 2013 from $4.20 to $3.58.
Our actual third quarter results had diluted EPS from continuing operations of $0.90 or $0.02 better than the September midpoint primarily as a result of better operational performance.
Adding back the $0.09 tax item our third quarter adjusted EPS was $0.99 an increase of about 12% versus prior year when you exclude the 2012 Decorative Surfaces operating results.
Turning to Slide 6 let me give you some additional detail on our third quarter performance.
As Scott said this was a good quarter as the ITW team executed well and delivered solid margin expansion and strong cash flows.
Total revenues of $3.6 billion increased 2.9% versus prior year.
Again this is excluding Decorative Surfaces.
Worldwide organic revenue was up 0.4% as growth internationally was partially offset by North America and revenue from acquisitions contributed 2.4 percentage points.
While we continue to see a mixed economic environment and had some comp challenges in one of our segments growth rates in the quarter were encouraging as they improved sequentially from the first half of 2013 and we saw solid growth in several of our segments.
We'll get into more detail on geography and segments in a few minutes.
Operating income was $678 million up 8.4% versus last year and our operating margins were one of the highlights of the quarter at 19% 110 basis points higher than last year.
We're pleased with the progress and momentum on our strategic initiatives as we enter into the fourth quarter and 2014.
And while 19% operating margins in the quarter and 17.8% on a year-to-date basis are positive signs we clearly expect that there's more to come as we execute well on the strategy.
On Slide 7 organic revenue is up 0.4% for the quarter versus being down 1.1% in the first half of '13.
We continue to see strength in Automotive OEM up nearly 12% organically.
And we're also encouraged by a 4% organic growth in Food Equipment including growth in the higher margin service business.
We also saw positive across-the-board momentum in our North American Construction business which increased 9%.
As usual John will cover the segment performance in greater detail in a few slides.
Looking at organic growth by geography our international revenues were up 2.9% in the quarter with Asia-Pacific organic revenues increasing nearly 7% led by strong growth in China.
Our European organic revenues were positive up 1% in the quarter which marks the first quarter of organic growth in Europe since the first quarter of 2012.
While our North American organic revenues decreased 1.4% the softness was largely driven by electronics assembly platform.
As we mentioned last quarter we're dealing with difficult comps from last year which will ease here in the fourth quarter.
Excluding the electronics assembly platform our total company organic revenues are up 2.6% in North America and up 2.9% on a worldwide basis.
Acquisitions added 2.4 percentage points of revenue growth led by 2 international acquisitions this quarter a European Consumer Packaging equipment business and a Chinese Food Equipment business which gives us entry to the fast-growing Chinese Western cooking industry.
I should mention that while it's still early days the acquisitions are performing in line with our expectations.
Like I mentioned operating margins for the quarter were 19% up 110 basis points from last year as base business margins were up 120 basis points.
Key drivers of the margin expansion was 80 basis points from our enterprise initiatives largely related to our simplification initiatives as well as benefits from strategic sourcing.
Price cost favorability also improved margins 30 basis points.
In summary we're encouraged by some of the recent revenue trends in the quarter and remain focused on executing on our enterprise strategy to deliver our margin expansion cash flow and strong returns.
On Slide 8 free operating cash flow of $732 million for the quarter was an increase of 34% versus prior year.
And on a year-to-date basis net cash provided from operating activities was about $1.8 billion.
Capital expenditures were $257 million resulting in free operating cash flow of about $1.6 billion as we converted free operating cash on 110% of adjusted net income on a year-to-date basis.
Returns are also trending well as adjusted return on invested capital on a year-to-date basis was 16.3% 110 basis improvement versus last year.
On Slide 9 a quick update on our disciplined capital allocation.
In the third quarter we repurchased 5.2 million shares and on a year-to-date basis we repurchased 15.6 million shares.
Our ending share count for the third quarter was 443.8 million shares.
The remaining share repurchase authorization is approximately $6.8 billion.
And as announced in September we intend to utilize it to offset the IPG divestiture-related EPS dilution by repurchasing approximately 50 million shares funded through a combination of sales proceeds free operating cash flow and additional leverage.
Our debt ratios as you can see are largely unchanged.
And considering our strong balance sheet and cash flows we continue to have plenty of flexibility from a capital structure standpoint.
With that I'll turn it back over to John for some additional color on the quarter.
John? Thanks Michael.
I'll take just a few moments to review our Q3 geographic trends on Slide 10.
As Michael noted earlier our reported organic revenues increased 0.4% with international revenues growing 3% and North America organic revenues decreasing about 1%.
Internationally an important number for us was European revenue growth of 1% in Q3.
This gives us even more conviction that at a minimum Europe has formed a strong base level.
We also like what we saw in China and Australia/New Zealand.
Organic revenues grew 22% and 5% respectively in the quarter.
Now let's move to Slide 11.
For our Q3 segment results I'll cover the underlying organic growth details for these and other segments on the following slide.
Let's focus on the profitability side.
It's important to note that in aggregate we had 6 out of 7 segments produce operating margin gains in the quarter with Auto OEM Polymers &amp; Fluids and Construction Products generating operating margin improvement of at least 200 basis points in the quarter.
We are encouraged by the breadth of contributions to our improving operating margin performance.
Now let's move to Slide 12 and take a brief look at our reporting segments.
Starting with our Test &amp; Measurement Electronics segment organic revenues declined 12%.
By category total Electronics organic revenues fell 21% largely due to the aforementioned comp issue related to our electronics assembly business.
The better news is that we expect this comp to be far less negative in Q4.
Also please note that our other group of electronics businesses which include the majority of category revenues and consist of adhesives contamination control electronic packaging and electrostatic control products that part of the portfolio grew 5% in Q3.
In Test &amp; Measurement organic revenues declined a very modest 1%.
And to put this segment profitability in context please remember that operating margins for the entire segment still totaled a solid 16.3% in Q3.
On the Automotive OEM segment once again it was ITW's fastest growing segment.
In total Auto OEM's organic revenues grew approximately 12% versus a worldwide auto build of 4%.
In Q3 the story was the same as prior quarters.
Our advanced value-added engineering of products to worldwide OEMs helped us grow well above auto builds.
By geography international organic revenues grew 13%.
And notably European organic revenues increased 9% even as auto builds only grew 2% in that region.
In Asia Pacific our organic revenues grew 24% thanks in large part to our rapidly growing China auto business which was up 40% in Q3.
And by comparison China auto builds were only up 9% in the quarter.
And in North America organic revenues grew 10% versus an auto build increase of 6%.
All in all this was another very strong quarter of growth and profitability from our Auto OEM business.
In our Polymers and Fluids segment organic revenues were flat but showed sequential improvement from prior quarters as we started to anniversary easier comps based on some of the product line simplification activity from 2012.
Segment organic revenues declined 7% in Q1 and decreased 4% in Q2.
In Q3 the best news stem from our auto aftermarket businesses that produced organic revenue growth of 2%.
Growth in this category was driven by our North American engine repair and car care businesses.
In our polymers and hygiene as well as fluids categories organic revenues declined 1% and 2% respectively due to residual PLS activities and assorted end market weakness in these platforms.
In Q3 however operating margins hit 18.1% for the segment.
And as noted earlier that's 220 basis points higher than the year-ago period.
Moving to Food Equipment.
We clearly saw improving end market conditions and better sales focus drive the best organic performance of the year for Food Equipment.
As Scott noted earlier total organic revenues grew 4% in the quarter with strong growth and profitability contributions from the North American and international equipment and service businesses.
In North America equipment and service-related organic revenues grew 2% and 8% respectively.
The growth in North America service was due to new customer signings.
Internationally equipment and service produced organic revenue growth of 4% and 5% respectively.
And the growth in international equipment relates to new product launches from our European warewash business as well as better sales from our U.K.
refrigeration business.
Operating margins of nearly 20% were 90 basis points higher than the year-ago period.
Moving to the Welding segment.
Worldwide organic revenues declined 4%.
Organic revenues for our international North American categories decreased 11% and 1% respectively.
Notably equipment revenues were positive but consumable revenues were negative in the quarter.
Internationally organic revenues fell largely as a result of our Asian business continuing to transition its portfolio from the low-margin shipbuilding revenues to higher-margin business associated with oil and gas as well as infrastructure projects.
In North America organic revenues were modestly negative.
Despite lower-than-expected organic revenues in this particular segment operating margins continued to be very strong at 25.4% for the quarter and that's 90 basis points of improvement versus last year.
We should note our Construction Products segment we produced an array of encouraging numbers as organic revenues grew 3% for the entire segment in the quarter.
North American construction organic revenues increased 9% with residential up 13% renovation up 16% and even our commercial construction category was up 5% versus the year-ago period.
So good news on the North American side.
Internationally was a tale of 2 geographies.
Asia-Pacific organic revenues grew 4% largely on improving markets and better sales activity in Australia/New Zealand.
In Europe organic revenues declined 4% as government spending and commercial construction projects remained a bit weak.
Notably segment operating margins continued their upward climb during 2013 to 16.2% in Q3.
As mentioned earlier that's 250 basis points higher than the year-ago period.
In Specialty Products segment organic revenues grew 2% in the quarter and segment growth was helped by 3% worldwide organic growth from our Consumer Packaging business.
Within Consumer Packaging Q3 highlights include new business pickups at our Hi-Cone Brazil business as well as growth in our warehouse automation category of businesses.
The offset to that was worldwide appliance where organic revenues declined 1% in the quarter as white good sales were sluggish in Europe.
Q3 segment operating margins of 21.1% remain strong or 150 basis points higher than the year-ago period.
Now having done that let's turn the call back over to Michael who will update you on our Q4 and full year forecast.
All right.
Thanks John.
So on Slide 13 and as a reminder our forecast has IPG and discontinued operations and our 2012 comps on this page exclude Decorative Surfaces.
So starting with the fourth quarter we expect diluted EPS from continuing operations to be within a range of $0.85 to $0.93 which assumes total adjusted revenue growth of 2% to 5% and organic year-over-year growth slightly higher than the third quarter.
Keep in mind the typical revenue seasonality from the third to the fourth quarter.
Fourth quarter restructuring is in line with the third quarter and we expect a tax rate of approximately 29% in line with prior quarter guidance.
As announced we are actively repurchasing shares.
And while we can't comment on the specific number and timing we have plans to repurchase more shares in the fourth quarter than we did in the third quarter.
So for 2013 we expect diluted EPS from continuing operations in the range of $3.56 to $3.64 with the midpoint of $3.60 up 12% from prior year and up $0.02 from our September guidance primarily as a result of our third quarter performance.
If you look at the walk at the bottom of the page starting with our 2012 adjusted EPS of $3.21 base performance and initiative at $0.33 for the year and the other major positive driver here our share buyback program at $0.17 and partially offset by pension and restructuring which takes us to our 2013 forecast midpoint of $3.60.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to John for Q&amp;A.
Thank you Michael.
We'll now open the call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We will compete the call at the top of the hour so that leaves roughly 40 minutes for questions.
We're now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Jamie Cook.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One on the Construction side if you could just give a little color on how you think about the margin improvement what sort of revenue-driven versus what you've done internally? And it also looks like for the first time in a while commercial construction has turned the corner.
So if you could give any color on that front that would be helpful as well.
Yes I would say that from the standpoint of overall margin significantly more than 1/2 the improvement was what I would describe as structural cost improvement rather than revenue-driven.
And from the standpoint of commercial activity in North America what I would say right now is we're certainly encouraged by the uptick we saw in Q3 but I think it's a quarter or 2 more before we call it a trend.
Our next question is from Steve Volkmann.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to switch to Automotive if it's all right.
Obviously you guys had been outperforming the market for quite a while here.
I guess I'm just trying to think over the next few quarters.
As you look at programs that you're on I would think you'd probably have some visibility into sort of how long this can continue and I'm curious about your thoughts there.
Yes I would say based on -- we have about 3 years worth of forward visibility in terms of new content that we are engineering and selling-in.
And sitting here today we feel pretty good about the next 2 or 3 years in Automotive for sure.
Research Division</strong> So you'll continue to outperform whatever builds are? I would expect that yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up where is your comfort level on whatever ratio you want to use debt-to-cap or debt-to-EBITDA or whatever? And how much leverage theoretically would you be comfortable with as we go forward here? Yes.
So what I'd say is we're working through the plans here for 2014.
Obviously if you look at our balance sheet and our strong cash flows we're comfortable with what I would describe as quite a bit more leverage.
And really to utilize that for the 50 million shares that we are going to buy back for the IPG-related divestiture.
So that will be -- really be a combination of continued strong free cash flow.
We had a good quarter here in the third quarter as well as the sales proceeds and then additional leverage.
That would keep us within a range of I'd say we'd be very comfortable with and wouldn't have a significant impact on our ratings.
So I don't have a firm number for you as we sit here today because we're still working through the plans but that's kind of the framework we're operating within.
Our next question is from Ajay Kejriwal.
Research Division</strong> Michael welcome aboard.
So maybe if on margins obviously a very strong quarter.
A couple of things.
One if you can provide some color on sourcing.
Sounds like that contributed to the quarter so where we are versus expectations and how to think about '14.
And then if you can step back Scott and maybe talk about the long-term margin goals that you laid out last year how do you feel given the already very impressive performance is that 20%-plus goal that is in sight now? Is that goal you think conservative? Well sort of first question first.
What I would say from the standpoint of enterprise impact in the aggregate we are essentially right where we expect to be.
We're tracking the plan.
What we talked about a year ago was the fact that the business simplification was going to be more of a contributor towards the earlier half of the 5-year period and the sourcing initiative was going to be a larger contributor towards the back half and I think that's exactly how it's playing out.
So out of the 80 bps of contribution certainly you can expect that more of that -- a larger percentage of that came from the simplification initiative in Q3.
And again that's I think right in line with what we communicated when we announced this plan a year ago.
We continue to build momentum in sourcing and it's really made a meaningful contribution in the quarter.
And I think we've said previously that our overall savings from sourcing will exceed our plan in 2013.
As far as the long-term objectives I think what we said all along was our goals were 20%-plus on both margin and ROIC.
This was certainly a nice performance in the third quarter at 19%.
I'll remind you that's a quarterly number what we're -- what we have described in terms of enterprise goal is sort of annual performance so we are clearly in the third quarter from a seasonality standpoint in a place where the revenue helps us in terms overall margins.
So it's certainly nice to see the progress and the trajectory.
We remain I think very -- very comfortable and very committed to the overall enterprise goals that I've talked about or that we've talked about a year ago.
This quarter represents again some nice progress and some continuing momentum.
We go back to the -- just the contributions from these initiatives over the prior 3 quarters we had 40 basis points in Q1 60 in Q2 80 in Q3.
So I'm pleased with the momentum what we're building behind this.
But ultimately we're not at a place where we're declaring a new goal.
I think the overall enterprise initiatives still are in place and are confident that by 2017 certainly encouraged by the progress we're making that the goals that we put in place are very achievable.
I'll leave it at that.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's very helpful.
And one quick one on weldings.
The consumables business down in the quarter.
Is that just a mix shift towards higher margin products or are you seeing any change in the underlying demand characteristics? I think the biggest impact on a global basis is really the continued downshift in China away from the shipbuilding business.
That was largely a consumable position.
I think North America the overall color is and you've heard this from a lot of our customers in terms of the mining industry some of the heavy equipment manufacturers.
That's really where a lot of the sort of market pressure has been.
And I think ultimately to see the equipment business be slightly positive in that environment we feel pretty good about.
Our next question is from Rob Wertheimer.
LLC</strong> You had called out the swings I guess in electronics assembly are -- previously with last year being very strong this year weak.
Is that a business that's going to continue to sort of careen back and forth? Can you talk about where you think the normal volumes might be and whether you're -- which way you're sizing for? Yes I -- the way I would describe it is the real sort of volatility in terms of comps that we're dealing with relates to a single customer and what I would describe as a very one-off kind of situation last year.
So obviously a significant impact in the quarter when we're talking about almost 3 full percentage points of impact on organic growth.
But I think we're very comfortable with the electronics business we have.
We're not a producer of components.
We are basically supplying mostly MRO-related products to that industry and where the sort of volatility as it relates to manufacturing equipment used in that industry.
And on a go-forward basis our intention is certainly not to -- or our expectation is we're not going to see this kind of volatility.
We're not going to manage the business to either create or try to serve that kind of volatility on a go-forward basis.
Another thing I would point out is that the core margins from an operating standpoint in the electronics business in Q3 even at obviously a low point in the market of north of 20% if you strip out the amortization and acquisition-related accounting.
So from an operating perspective -- we had a lot of value in the business as we own in that sector but our sort of intentions on a go-forward basis are certainly to manage it to -- in a way that we have much more diversity in terms of end customer and end market exposure.
LLC</strong> That was very helpful.
And then sort of follow-up on growth I mean you guys have been doing great on Automotive as Steve mentioned for quite a while now.
And you have over the many years invested a lot in innovation.
Are you able to see down the road in any of your other sub segments whether you've had an acceleration in -- and what you think your innovation payoff is going to be? Can we expect that Automotive to be replicated anywhere else? Yes I think the Automotive business is -- when we talk about sort of rebalancing of the overall growth focus of the company we've talked about it before and really shifting from a growth model over the last 20 or 25 years that was over 2/3 acquisitive to on a go-forward basis now being 2/3 organic.
I think the Automotive business represents a great example of what the rest of the company ultimately is in the process of becoming.
We get there in large part through a lot of the portfolio work that we've been doing.
So as we refocus the portfolio only on areas that have the ability to drive innovation as a core part of the market characteristics in which we operate it really elevates from the standpoint of overall impact on the company our ability to have a certain amount of our organic growth within our own control through the amount of innovation that we drive.
Our next question is from Andrew Kaplowitz.
Research Division</strong> Scott I'm really impressed with the Food Equipment growth in the quarter especially compared to last quarter.
John mentioned some of the reasons new product launches and new customer signings.
But we know that you're also focused more on fast food and casual dining.
Have you seen any fruits of that? And then is it really the European business that turned in the quarter sequentially or Asia? I mean what resulted in the strong performance? Well I think a little bit of all of the above.
The European business even the equipment sales being positive year-on-year in Q3 was a nice step forward.
And again some of that was driven back to the prior question on some new product launches in the warewash business in Europe.
And what I would say overall in terms of Food Equipment in terms of the sort of transition that we've been on a fairly heavy focus around margin improvement in that business for the last 2 years.
And I think largely what this represents are some encouraging signs around our belief that now shift a much more focused business more front and center on a growth agenda.
And one quarter in it's important that obviously we sustain it going forward from here but I think it was -- we're very pleased to see growth in both the equipment and the service business in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay Scott.
And if I could ask you about your 4Q '13 guide.
Seasonally usually in 4Q you get a drop-off in margins so I guess I'm not perturbed by what I see.
But it's a pretty significant drop off at the midpoint of the revenue range if I'm doing this right.
Is there anything in there like restructuring seems about the same between 3Q and 4Q.
Is it just conservatism given choppy end-markets? Am I missing something as I look at 4Q versus 3Q margins? Yes and I'd say there's really nothing unusual in here.
I think if you go back and look over time we typically see a 2% to 3% decline in revenues from the third quarter to the fourth quarter driven by the seasonality in some of our businesses.
And so if you take the flow-through on that that really accounts for the majority of the margin decline here sequentially.
I think year-over-year in terms of margins we're still going to put up some pretty good numbers in part given some favorable comparisons.
But this is really nothing unusual kind of typical seasonality from the third to the fourth quarter.
Our next question is from Ann Duignan.
Research Division</strong> Can we talk a little bit about the North America construction businesses the residential renovation and commercial.
You gave good color on Food Equipment about what was kind of market growth versus what ITW specifically did to outgrow the end-markets.
Could you talk a little bit about that construction businesses in the same vein? Yes.
What I would say about construction in North America is I think it was probably the bulk of the contribution was from overall market lift.
As I've said earlier it's an area that we are very focused around structural cost and margin improvement so we certainly got innovation agenda there but it's not one that is front and center at the moment.
Research Division</strong> Okay but -- good to know.
And then on the price cost side can you talk a little bit about that? How much is price? How much is cost? Is it the cost of steel has gone down? Or what businesses were impacted just if you could expand on the price/cost comment I'd appreciate it.
Yes I mean we had some material deflation in the quarter in line with a little bit better than prior quarter.
And then as the majority of the 30 basis points really came from the price line.
And part of that is targeted price increases as a result of some of the PLS work done in some of our segments.
Research Division</strong> And any segment in particular benefiting or not benefiting? Really across the board I'd say if you look at maybe Polymers &amp; Fluids strong performance there.
The next question is from David Raso.
Research Division</strong> I just wonder if you can help us set the parameters for the analyst meeting coming up in December what we should expect.
Well you can expect us to give you an update on our enterprise strategies.
I mean that's first and foremost.
That will be agenda #1 for us.
Then we're also going to be looking at what underlying growth rates are going to be probably for 2014.
I think the overall focus is going to be we're going to provide some sort of drilled-down examples of this enterprise strategy in action so to speak in a number of our different businesses.
Research Division</strong> And it seems like you mentioned you're maybe a bit ahead of plan thinking about maybe even next year on the benefits.
I mean should we expect a resetting of some of those goals or just simply an update on the progress maintaining those goals.
I'm just trying to think through...
Yes I think I wouldn't expect any resetting of goals.
We said from the beginning that this was a 5-year plan not a 5-month plan and we are still on track relative to the 5-year plan.
And a lot of the sort of pacing is ultimately going to come much more from the economy than in the kind of tailwind or headwind we get as we move through this 5-year period than any opportunity to accelerate.
I think one of the things we've talked in a few of these calls in different forms is that managing the pace of execution is a really important imperative for us.
And we've got to make sure that as we are implementing a lot of these changes that certainly are positive in terms of the overall performance of the company that we are still allowing our businesses the ability to digest those changes at a rate where they can still serve their customers and perform as businesses on a quarter-to-quarter and month-to-month basis.
So I wouldn't look for any resetting of goals.
Research Division</strong> And then thinking about the end-market comment give us some color on '14 just trying to gauge your confidence in Europe getting better.
When I think Europe for you I think Food Equipment and Construction are 2 of your bigger businesses.
And Food does seem to be improving while Construction is still kind of down 4% in Europe.
Can you just give us maybe a little more color on Europe how you're thinking of setting up your framework for '14 on what you know at the moment on Europe? Yes I think you've got it.
I think Automotive is the third major business for us over there.
I think that's -- looks like certainly more of the same.
Food Equipment as I said before we're encouraged and would feel even better if we see another nice quarter in Q4 heading into '14.
And then on the Construction side I think the market remains weak.
And we also have an agenda there that's really focused as I said before around sort of structural cost improvement and getting the margins up to a level that are accretive to the overall company's goals.
And so regardless of the market environment we're going to make a lot of progress in Europe next year.
Our next question is from Mig Dobre.
Research Division</strong> Sticking with Food Equipment looking at the margin there I think this might be the best third quarter performance that you guys have had in the last decade or so.
And I -- from what I understand there's been a lot that's been done on the cost side in this segment.
Is this basically how we need to be thinking about incremental margins in this segment going forward looking at the third quarter performance? Can we extrapolate this basically? Yes I think directionally I think there is -- what you have to keep in mind is there are some business structure simplification and sourcing benefits that are contributing that if your time horizon is further down the path these incremental margins are not sustainable once we've sort of developed or sort of generated the full value of the benefits from those initiatives.
But on a core margin basis we've for a long time targeted 35% to 38-plus percent incremental margins depending on the business.
And I think that's a very -- that will be a target that will stay in place.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then maybe a little more color on China.
And obviously a lot of positive commentary here but I'm trying to if you would parse out what sort of ITW-specific given your presence in the country and product introductions so on and so forth versus actual if you would improvement in demand in China.
Can you kind of parse that out for us? Yes I think -- a bit of this story is certainly some sequential overall improvement but a big part of the overall results are largely driven by Automotive.
And Welding's sort of a negative against the overall market pickup there.
But in general we saw modestly better results across the board with the exception of Welding.
But in terms of the number -- the business really driving the overall percentage growth that was largely Automotive.
Our next question is from Nigel Coe.
Research Division</strong> So just -- I wanted to drill into the share repurchase and your earlier comments that significant scope to raise the leverage ratios.
So I'm just wondering maybe you could just think about how you're thinking about financing the repurchase.
And maybe how contingent is the cadence of the repurchase on the actual sale proceeds from Industrial Packaging? Well I mean obviously the proceeds from the sale of the packaging business are largely going to be used to repurchase a portion of the 50 million shares that we've been talking about.
So I think in terms of the financing kind of similar to the previous question I mean we're working through the specifics as we look into the fourth quarter and 2014 in terms of what we're comfortable with in terms of the pace of the repurchasing of the shares here.
And like I've said I mean we -- as we continue to perform well with -- on margins and free cash flow as we look to increase our leverage here in the first half of '14.
And then the third portion here is obviously the after-tax sales proceeds from the IPG divestiture.
So all those things combined as we look at kind of the timing and some different scenarios around the timing are going to drive our repurchases here.
What we said today was for the fourth quarter we expect to repurchase more than we did in the third quarter.
So we did 5.2 million shares in the third and we plan to do more than that in the fourth quarter and we'll kind of pace it as we continue to perform well with free cash flow and we get better visibility to the timing around the sale which we should add that we're very pleased with the progress so far.
We're seeing a high level of interest and obviously market conditions for the financing for a potential purchase remain very favorable.
And so all those things combined we'll look at that and kind of lay out our plan.
And we'll update you as we go through the year.
Research Division</strong> That's really helpful.
But just quickly would you be open to the idea of maybe pre-funding some additional share repurchases with short-term debt.
So raising the short-term leverage a little bit higher than perhaps the run rate and then taking down short-term debt with the proceeds? I'd say right now we're looking at all the options as we get ourselves ready and finalize the plans for 2014.
When the process of rolling up the annual plan from our segments and that will certainly give us a view of the operating performance.
And an outcome of that is our -- the details around our capital allocation strategy for 2014.
The big parameters will remain the same in terms of organic investments and the buyback looking at acquisitions to a lesser extent.
And so we'll continue to look at all the parameters and button that up as we wrap up the plan here for '14.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally Michael you're obviously new to the team.
You come at ITW with a fresh pair of eyes.
Maybe just let us -- give us some color in terms what you see where are the strengths and weaknesses of the organization? And I guess specifically where do you think you can make the biggest impact? Let's start with the positive.
So while I am CEO accepted right? Well then let me just say Nigel I'm excited to be here.
I mean ITW is an American icon.
It's been around for over 100 years.
A long history of strong performance operationally and financially.
I'd say really a unique differentiated business model a great set of businesses.
And I really look forward to working with the management team here and on executing the strategy.
If I didn't think the strategy was right I wouldn't be here okay? And so I really think that as we continue to execute well and there's some I'd say some early indications that we're making good progress we'll continue to generate a lot of cash.
And I look forward to working on the capital allocation.
And again the focus here is on creating long-term shareholder value.
So it's a little early but very pleased to be a part of this.
Our next question is from Eli Lustgarten.
Very nice quarter.
Can we just go back to Welding and I guess a little more color what's going on.
I mean is Equipment still the dominant piece of that business? And if it is it says that there's a big drop in consumables side.
So can you give us how much the Asia Pacific you said it was shipbuilding was more consumable.
How much of that is the total? Is that -- and what would consumables look like x the big drop in China from -- moving away from shipyard? The first question the U.S.
is the easier of the series.
But from a standpoint of equipment as a percentage of the overall portfolio we still remain about 60% equipment and 25% consumables and about 15% a variety of other accessories in Welding.
From the standpoint of the overall consumable impact in China versus the rest of the world I can't really give you that but we can find that out and get back to you.
The thing I would add is if you look at the North American numbers Eli I mean North America basically down 1 with positive growth on the equipment side.
So that tells you that clearly there was a bigger falloff on the consumables side.
We like the fact that the equipment side of the business has -- is still generating positive numbers which is more of a sort of more of a CapEx story.
So I think to the extent that Equipment has stayed up at higher levels for us is a good indicator longer term for the business.
I mean shorter term consumables have been hit which I think gets into the whole issue of what discretionary spending is -- what it's looking like in that particular category.
But I think we like the long-term effect that or long-term implications for capital equipment in the business which is the core of the business for us.
And I was just going to add just go back to the point John made earlier that despite a pretty tough market we still got improved operating margins 90 basis points in the segment on down revenue.
I mean the operating margins were fabulous probably the best way to describe it.
And I had one question.
It looks like appliances are very -- are not a big part of the business at ITW at this point.
Is that a market that you're targeting for future penetration or so? I mean is...
No no.
It's a business that in terms of the particular niches that we're in we're very happy with the overall margin and return metrics in the business but it's not a position that we expect to build out much bigger than it is today.
Our next question is from John Inch.
Research Division</strong> So just to pick up on the North American Welding consumable aspect.
I think you're perhaps maybe losing share and maybe even by design to either Colfax Sea Sub [ph] or Lincoln or could this be a channel-related issue? I'm just curious why all of a sudden consumables would drop if you're getting little bit of uplift in some other areas.
Well I think there was a question along these lines after the second quarter and I think you have to let everybody else come in and see.
I think our -- there's been no shift in strategy for us.
Our overall approach to Welding is really around where can we add value where can we innovate where can we do something unique and special for our customers.
And ultimately as we've talked at length there are large percentages of the consumable business that are -- where that's very difficult to do.
And that's sort of by design our overall Welding portfolio being much more concentrated in equipment is how we get there but that's not a new strategy in the last quarter.
That's been the strategy for the entire 20-plus years we've been in the business.
So you can -- whether we're losing share or not in the third quarter you can wait and see what other competitors report and make your own assessment at that point.
John it certainly wasn't the case in Q2.
We came out first with our number and the question came up and competition was significantly more negative than us.
Research Division</strong> No.
But then I'm just wondering.
I mean obviously you make more margin on Equipment right? So as you go through this process of driving margins higher your Welding margins are fantastic as Eli suggested.
So I don't know maybe there was something about what you're doing deliberately for example you're walking away from some business or maybe you shuttered a plant or something that has an impact temporarily but gives you a better margin uplift down the road.
That's all I was trying to understand.
Nothing strategic.
What I would say is that in our view is it's market.
Research Division</strong> Okay it's market.
Then Scott what about the playbook for electronics equipment? I mean I understand -- I mean first I guess it's what $400 million.
I understand it's not going to be a big driver either way but if you sort of think about what other industrial companies have been doing right Dover got out of their electronic assembly and test businesses.
Emerson unfortunately got out of their power business at the bottom.
But this business to your point it does make pretty good margins even though it got hit on the top line.
Maybe I'm trying to understand.
I understand why you perhaps want to keep it.
What's the playbook though? Like you were sort of saying "Well let's diversify the customer base and maybe do some other things." But is this on sort of a 6-month time line to kind of make it a little less volatile? Or is it -- are you going to give it a lot more flexibility than that? Well I wouldn't put it on a 6-month time line.
I think the overall playbook what I would point to is first of all the underlying profitability.
We make a lot of money in this business and I'm not going to compare what we do versus what other companies might have done because the businesses themselves are different.
But ultimately the overall margin and return profile says that this is a pretty good business.
Now we've got to find some ways to manage this volatility issue much more effectively than we have.
There's no question about that and I think it's -- there's certainly some things we can do around that.
It's not something that we're interested in seeing get huge inside the company but it's a good position where again from a standpoint of the overall return and cash flow metrics it's a pretty solid business.
So I think -- I don't think it's on -- I wouldn't want to imply at all they've some sort of 6-month do-or-die kind of program here.
But ultimately we're very clear and the management team running that business is very clear that we're going to find a way to manage this business in a much less volatile fashion going forward.
And I'm pretty confident today that we're going to be able to do that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So let me ask it in a different way.
How soon do you think you can get to a point -- you clearly have initiatives to diversify customers maybe launch new products stuff like that.
How soon do you think you can get to a point where you're at least satisfied that this looks a lot more like an ITW-like business far less volatile and as you point out very strong profit characteristics? Well I think the comp issue is largely gone we're going to feel just a piece of it in the fourth quarter but nothing near what we saw in the second and third.
So this was largely a one customer issue that was just some very large orders in 2012 that ultimately I don't expect to recur I'll put it that way.
Our next question is from Deane Dray.
Research Division</strong> You can tell that there's been some fundamental changes at ITW if we got this deep into the Q&amp;A and no questions about M&amp;A.
And Scott I know this reflects the whole change in strategy to pivot from 2/3 growth from M&amp;A to 2/3 from organic.
So I know you'll be able to comment on this at the December meeting but for today could you give us some insight into what you're seeing in the organization changes in terms of freeing up all that capacity that used to do 30 to 50 deals per year how that -- those resources are reallocated how you're ramping up more focus on customer-backed R&amp;D and so forth and how might that be reflected today and in the next couple of quarters? Yes I think the -- what I would say to that Deane is that I think we're very clear across the extended management team about what our growth priorities are and what our growth focus is going to be on a go-forward basis.
What I want to be careful about though is sort of managing expectations around accelerating organic growth while we've got things like business structure simplification happening in a pretty major way.
So from the standpoint of what I talked about earlier in terms of managing the pace of execution the focus right now is really getting through the large part of BSS.
Again everybody is clear on a go-forward basis that we are going to be much more organic-centric in our growth focus.
There are certainly businesses in food -- we talked about several of them in Food Equipment and Auto OEM that are further down the path in that regard.
So it's certainly having an impact in terms of strategy and focus but we're also not yet in a place where we're really stepping on the gas pedal hard because we're also working on these other initiatives that I talked about.
So what I expect to see is a sort of prolonged acceleration over the next couple of years in our organic growth rate not some immediate impact from this flipping the switch if that makes sense.
Research Division</strong> Sure it does.
And might we see spending on the R&amp;D line customer-backed R&amp;D line begin to inch up? And would you ever separate that from the SG&amp;A side? I think it's largely from an R&amp;D spending as a percent of revenue I -- this issue for us is much more about the portfolio than it has been about any lack of investment in R&amp;D and innovation.
We have a patent portfolio of over 12 000 patents.
We have had businesses like Welding and Auto OEM that have been investing heavily in customer-centric R&amp;D for a long time.
We've also had prior to this portfolio move about 25% of our portfolio were because of the sort of commoditizing characteristics of those businesses the R&amp;D spend has not been all that high.
So from a standpoint of accelerated organic growth the shift in portfolio focus is going to have a much bigger impact in my view than any need to sort of accelerate our spending or investment.
We've never restricted our investment in R&amp;D but we've been very thoughtful about investing and only in places where it can really generate significant benefit.
I'm sorry Deane.
Research Division</strong> Yes just last question for me is on the M&amp;A outlook.
You've got 2 deals that completed that European Consumer Packaging business the China Food Equipment.
Are there -- what's that pipeline look like today? Is it just not actively cultivating? Or is there something that you might be announcing? Well there's nothing that we're going to be announcing that's imminent that I'm aware of.
I think the overall sort of strategy from an M&amp;A standpoint is we're going to invest in businesses where we can use M&amp;A to accelerate our organic growth rate.
And I think the 2 that we did in the second quarter are good examples of that where we're taking -- we're really positioning a couple of businesses that have some very strong organic prospects to expand those -- their ability to execute on those geographically.
So it's certainly part of the conversation but much more down in the overall strategy at the segment level.
And that strategy conversation starts with what's the organic growth focus and then perhaps how might we supplement that or accelerate that through some very targeted M&amp;A.
Our last question is from Steven Fisher.
Research Division</strong> Similar question to Deane's but on the growth rates.
Given that your portfolio has now mostly been restructured what's going to be the biggest thing to get you from lagging Industrial Production today to beating it over the next few years? Well I'll go back to what I talked about before.
We -- the portfolio today on a go-forward basis is characterized by a number of businesses that have outgrown Industrial production for a long time.
So if you look at Welding as an example it's been a high single-digit organic grower for the 25-plus years we've been in the business through the cycle.
Auto OEM business we've talked about that's clearly a 400- 500-basis-point above market grower.
Test &amp; Measurement has been another one that at least in the relatively short time we've owned it has been a high single-digit organic grower.
So there's already a number of businesses inside the portfolio that have absolutely demonstrated the capability to grow organically well in excess of the underlying growth rates in their markets.
Keep in mind that we've been averaging that kind of organic growth in with about 1/4 of the portfolio for the last 5 or 10 years that have been basically given a 0 growth because of the commoditizing spaces and the negative year-on-year price pressure that you get in those kinds of spaces.
So there's an element of just shifting the portfolio that gets us much growth here fundamentally organically.
And then what I said before I think the point that Deane was trying to make is we are absolutely shifting the overall growth focus from acquisitive to organic.
And that's going to -- there's no question in my mind that that's going to help further accelerate the overall organic growth performance of the company.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just quickly you've talked in previous quarters about Brazil.
I'm not sure if I missed it.
Did you give what the growth rate there was in the quarter and what's the underlying trend? Yes growth rate for Brazil was up over 2% total company.
Okay.
Well thanks everybody.
We appreciate you joining us for the Q3 call and we look forward to talking to everybody again.
Have a good day.
Thank you for participating in today's conference.
All lines may disconnect at this time.
Welcome and thank you all for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Mr.
John Brooklier.
Sir you may now begin.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and welcome to ITW's Fourth Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
Joining me this morning is our President and CEO Scott Santi; and our CFO Michael Larsen.
During today's call Scott Michael and I will discuss our strong Q4 and full year financial results update you on our enterprise strategy progress and provide our full year and Q1 2014 guidance.
At the end we will open the call to your questions.
Per our long-standing practice we ask for your cooperation on our one-question one follow-up question policy.
As always we have scheduled one hour for today's call.
Moving to the next slide.
Before we continue let me remind you that this presentation contains our financial forecast for 2014 first quarter and full year as well as other forward-looking statements identified on this slide.
We refer you to the company's 2000 sic [ 2012 ] 10-K and Q3 2013 10-Q for more detail about important risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's expectations.
Finally the telephone replay for this conference call is (800) 570-8799.
No passcode is necessary.
The playback will be available until 12 midnight of February 11 2014.
Now let me introduce our CEO Scott Santi who will comment on our strong Q4 financial performance.
Scott? Thanks John and good morning everyone.
I'll make a few comments on our fourth quarter performance and our progress on our enterprise initiatives and capital allocation strategy before turning it back to Michael who will provide some more detail and color on both our Q4 results and our forecast for Q1 full year 2014.
Overall we were pleased with our Q4 performance as we were able to deliver strong across-the-board operating results while we continued to make meaningful progress in the execution of our enterprise initiatives.
Q4 revenues were up 4.8% in a modestly improving macro environment.
Our Q4 organic growth of 3% was up from flat in Q3 driven largely by North America and China with overall organic growth of 2% in Europe.
Once again our Automotive OEM segment delivered strong growth with organic revenues up 11% in Q4 versus worldwide auto builds that were up 6%.
And our Food Equipment segment continued down this path of improving growth with overall organic revenues up 4% in the quarter driven largely by strength in North America and leveling demand in Europe.
We also saw a solid improvement and demand in our Test &amp; Measurement business in Q4.
Total company operating margins of 17.7% were 260 basis points higher than Q4 of last year and that was driven by disciplined operational performance and the continued excellent work our business teams are doing in the execution of our enterprise initiatives.
In the fourth quarter enterprise initiatives contributed 110 basis points of margin improvement.
Q4 earnings per share of $0.92 came in $0.03 higher than the midpoint of our forecast and were up 43% versus our adjusted Q4 of 2012 earnings per share.
This shows promising momentum going into 2014 as we enter the second year of our enterprise strategy.
Finally we remain focused on driving strong free cash flow and being highly disciplined in our capital allocation approach.
Full year free cash flow conversion came in at a strong 129% of net income.
And in 2013 for the full year we returned $2.9 billion to shareholders in the form of share repurchases and dividends.
As was announced last year we intend to utilize our existing share repurchase authorization to offset the full amount of earnings per share dilution associated with the upcoming sale of the Industrial Packaging segment.
In summary we made meaningful progress in the execution of our enterprise strategy in 2013 and as a result delivered meaningful improvement in all of our key performance metrics in the year which was year 1 of our 5-year plan.
I want to recognize great work done by all of our ITW colleagues around the world in making it happen.
The ITW team has the company well positioned to deliver continued strong progress towards our enterprise strategy performance goals in 2014.
Now let me turn the call over to Michael.
Michael? Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
As Scott mentioned we were pleased with our fourth quarter financial performance and the positive momentum as we continue to execute well on the enterprise strategy.
Let's start on Slide 5 with the fourth quarter.
Total revenues of $3.55 billion were up 4.8% versus prior year as organic revenues were up 3% with international and North America both up 3%.
In terms of segments we have continued double-digit growth in Automotive.
And Food Equipment had another strong quarter up 4%.
Test &amp; Measurement was also up 9%.
John will add some more color on our segments in a few minutes.
Our recent acquisitions contributed 2 points of growth and are off to a good start.
Operating income in the quarter was $628 million up 23%.
And margins expanded 260 basis points to 17.7%.
Our disciplined and focused execution on business structure simplification and strategic sourcing contributed 110 basis points on a year-over-year basis.
EPS from continuing operations was $0.92 up 43% over our adjusted 2012 EPS and $0.03 higher than the midpoint of our guidance.
Finally we had another strong quarter in terms of free cash flow which I will discuss in just a minute.
On Slide 6 organic revenues were up 2.8% for the quarter and the associated operating leverage was 70 basis points.
Price cost was favorable 40 basis points.
And the largest driver of our margin expansion like I said was 110 basis points from the continued strong execution of our enterprise initiatives.
Total operating margins of 17.7% up 260 basis points from last year as every 1 of the 7 segments delivered on margin expansion.
As you can see Construction Food Equipment Test &amp; Measurement and Electronics led the way.
But even in higher margin segments such as Automotive the team found a way to expand margins another 160 basis points.
On Slide 7 a good fourth quarter rounded out a solid year for ITW.
In an environment that improved gradually as the year went on total revenues were up 2% with organic up 0.2%.
International organic revenues were up 1% with Asia Pacific growing 4% while North America declined by 0.5%.
Margin expansion for the year was strong with operating margins up 110 basis points to 17.8% as enterprise initiatives contributed 80 basis points and price cost 40 basis points.
Full year EPS from continuing operations was $3.63 up 13%.
And free cash flow for the year was $2.2 billion 129% of net income.
So in summary a solid year with some positive momentum on top line and operating margins that position ITW well for 2014.
On Slide 8 free operating cash flow for the quarter was $597 million or 147% of net income and $2.2 billion for the year an increase of 28% versus prior year and a full year conversion rate of 129%.
Our operating teams continue to make steady progress on working capital.
Return on invested capital improved towards our 2017 goal of 20%-plus as the full year adjusted return was 16.3% 180 basis points improvement versus 2012.
On Slide 9 we continue to be disciplined and returns-focused in our capital allocation.
Our priorities remain unchanged in terms of organic investments and attractive dividend yield and an active share repurchase program.
In the fourth quarter we repurchased 14 million shares and share count for the year ended at 430 million.
In 2013 we repurchased 30 million shares for $2.2 billion slightly higher than the 2012 repurchases in dollar terms.
For 2014 we expect to repurchase the remaining 35 million shares required to offset the EPS dilution related to the IPG divestiture.
As previously discussed the funding for the repurchase program is a combination of free operating cash flow proceeds from the IPG transaction which remains on track for a midyear close and additional financing at attractive rates.
In the fourth quarter we increased our commercial paper program by a little over $1 billion.
Okay I'll be back in a few minutes here to comment on the first quarter outlook and reaffirm our 2014 guidance.
But first let me turn it over to John for some additional commentary on the quarter.
John? Thanks Michael.
On Slide 10 just very quickly let's look at some geographic trends.
Scott and Michael have both noted our reported organic revenues increased nearly 3% in the quarter with international organic revenues growing 3.3% and North American organic revenues growing 2.6%.
In Q4 we saw some improvement in the North American economy.
Europe continues to show signs of stabilization.
And China along with Australia and New Zealand continues to drive growth in Asia Pacific.
On the next slide just a couple of quick comments.
From a profitability standpoint as Michael noted earlier all 7 of our reporting segments showed operating margin improvement in the fourth quarter with Construction Products up over 300 basis points.
Test &amp; Measurement Electronics Food Equipment and Automotive OEM produced margin improvement in ranges from 160 to 250 basis points.
As we've said repeatedly these strong results underlie the meaningful progress we've made in year 1 of our enterprise strategy.
Now moving to Slide 12.
Let's take a brief look at our reporting segments.
Starting with our Test &amp; Measurement and Electronics segments organic revenues rose 1%.
In Test &amp; Measurement organic revenues increased 9% as equipment orders improved as the quarter progressed.
Electronic organic revenues declined 8% as comparison eased somewhat in Q4.
We expect these comps to be more favorable in 2014.
And in the quarter operating margins were up an impressive 250 basis points.
As we noted earlier in Auto OEM this was once again our fastest-growing segment with organic revenues outpacing worldwide auto builds by 5 percentage points.
And that's thanks to growth in new product penetration and favorable customer mix around the world.
Breaking this down geographically Auto OEM's organic revenues grew 11% versus a worldwide auto build of 6%.
And by geography North American international organic revenues grew 13% and 10% respectively.
Similar to prior quarters European organic revenues increased 10% even as auto builds only grew 3% in that region.
In Asia Pacific our organic revenues grew 15% largely due to robust China auto builds.
Our organic revenues in China grew 28% in the quarter while auto builds there grew 18%.
In sum this was another very strong quarter of growth and profitability from all geographies of our Auto OEM business.
In our Polymers and Fluids segment organic revenues declined 1% primarily due to ongoing product line simplification work and exiting low-margin businesses.
As we move into Q1 2014 comps should ease somewhat based on the PLS work done in '13.
To provide a bit of background segment organic revenues declined 7% in Q1 of '13 decreased 4% in Q2 and we were flat in Q3.
The segment's operating margins of 16% improved modestly in Q4.
And we anticipate additional operating margin expansion in the upcoming 2014.
Scott noted Food Equipment's progress earlier in his commentary and may deliver another very strong quarter of growth thanks to new customers and service expansion largely in North America.
Total organic revenues grew 4% in the quarter.
In North America equipment and service-related organic revenues grew 7% and 6% respectively.
International equipment produced organic revenue growth of 2%.
And service organic revenues were essentially flat in the quarter.
International growth was moderated due to weak economic conditions in France and Italy offset by some improving conditions in the U.K.
The segment's strong operating margins of 19.5% were 250 basis points higher than the year-ago period.
In the Welding segment worldwide organic revenues were flat due to soft demand in North America and Asia offset by stronger revenue growth in Europe.
Organic revenues for international increased 4% while North America decreased 2% largely due to sluggish heavy equipment activity.
Internationally organic revenue growth was due to improvements in the oil and gas areas in Europe as well as our worldwide insulation businesses.
The Asian revenues reflected end market softness in general industrial end markets across Asia.
However segment operating margins continue to be very strong at more than 23% in the quarter.
We continue to be very pleased with the profitability progress in our Construction Products segment.
Talking about organic revenues first they grew more modestly and they grew 2% in the quarter.
North American construction organic revenues increased 5% with residential construction up an impressive 12%.
The North American renovation and commercial construction categories however were essentially flat in Q4.
I think this points to the sort of the up-and-down nature of what we've seen in the commercial sector over the last number of quarters.
Internationally organic revenues grew 1% with Asia-Pacific up 4% due to our strong retail business in Australia and New Zealand.
European organic revenues declined 3% thanks to sluggish construction and remodeling activity.
As noted earlier segment operating margins were up some 310 basis points versus the prior year as management continues to resize the business.
Finally in our last segment Specialty Products segment organic revenues grew 1% in the quarter.
Segment growth was driven by 5% worldwide organic growth from our consumer packaging businesses.
Our Hi-Cone and warehouse automation businesses continue to generate organic growth in the segment.
Worldwide appliance organic revenues declined 4% in Q4 as market conditions in Europe remained weak.
Nonetheless Q4's segment operating margins of 17.9% were 50 basis points higher than the year-ago period.
Now let me turn the call back over to Michael who will update you in our Q1 and full year earnings forecast.
Michael? All right.
Thanks John.
And as you've heard today we exit 2013 with some positive momentum that positions us well for 2% to 3% organic top line and 18% to 24% earnings growth in line with the 2014 guidance communicated at our December 6 Analyst Meeting.
While we were encouraged by what we saw in the second half of 2013 and the fourth quarter in particular we think it's prudent to remain cautious on the global macro environment at this time.
We expect operating margins of approximately 19% for the year as we continue to execute well on the BSS and sourcing plans that support our enterprise initiatives.
And we're reaffirming our 2014 EPS guidance in the $4.30 to $4.50 range again an increase of 18% to 24%.
And all of this is very consistent with our outlook from December.
In terms of our IPG-related share repurchase program we are slightly ahead of schedule.
And if we stay on track we could complete the program earlier than year-end.
If so you should expect a slight EPS benefit associated with the timing of the repurchase program.
For the first quarter we expect EPS within a range of $0.93 to $1.01.
This assumes total revenue growth of 3% to 6% on some easier year-over-year comps and an organic growth rate similar to Q4.
In conclusion the fourth quarter was a good finish to a solid year for ITW and we're well positioned to deliver continued strong progress toward our enterprise strategy performance goals in 2014.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to John for Q&amp;A.
Thank you Michael.
We'll now open the call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We're ready for questions now.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Ms.
Jamie Cook of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess just 2 questions one within the Construction Products side the margin performance was fairly impressive.
Can you just talk about the drivers behind that and how to think about incremental margins if we get a bit of a tailwind from the construction cycle? And then just two just there's a lot of optimism I think in 2014 with some potential recovery in non-res construction.
Just sort of how you guys are viewing that? And do you think the market's a little too optimistic? Yes.
In terms of the overall margin sort of trajectory that we anticipate we've talked before about our view that the construction business at its current size and scale certainly has the potential to be operating at a much higher level of profitability in a level that's accretive to our overall company objectives.
So from the standpoint of incremental margin performance from here forward we expect it to be very strong for the next 4 to 6 quarters regardless of what's going on in the macro environment.
And I think on the commercial construction question I think we are right where you described.
I think it's -- I think John used the phrase choppy for the last couple of quarters.
I think we have been encouraged at times over the last 2 to 3 quarters.
And in the fourth quarter things seemed to soften up again a little bit.
So I think we'll certainly be happy to see it when the recovery comes but at this point are not seeing a whole lot of basis for a high level of enthusiasm there.
We'll see what happens.
I would just add to that.
If you look at -- Jamie if you look at the latest Dodge data through the end of the year on a square footage basis which is the metrics we look at construction on a square footage basis is basically -- commercial construction is basically flat year-over-year.
So to Scott's point I don't think there's anything supporting a better commercial construction in the near term.
Our next question comes from Ms.
Rob Wertheimer of Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> And I apologize.
I missed the first minute of the call but did you get into the change in profit in discontinued operations quarter-to-quarter and what caused that? No we did not.
I'm not sure what you're referring to.
LLC</strong> What was the discontinued ops profit in the quarter? I think it...
Well for IPG? If you go in the appendix you'll be able to see that in the schedule.
LLC</strong> I just thought that it declined from $40 million or $50 million down to $1 million and comes from discontinued ops.
That was -- maybe I misread it.
Okay.
Well part of that is related to some of the restructuring we're doing as we prepare the business for sale.
And there were some tax charges related to that.
And that -- so that's what you would have seen in the discontinued ops.
LLC</strong> Okay perfect.
So it's deliberate actions rather than a degradation on...
Yes.
No no absolutely.
It's the legal reorganization as we get ready to separate the IPG business from ITW and proceed with the transaction.
LLC</strong> Okay perfect.
And if I can just ask one sort of big picture question.
Are you seeing any revenue gain or any revenue impact from the BSS initiatives? Obviously Auto's been incredibly strong.
That's a bit of a global business.
I'm just curious.
I mean obviously you talk about the [indiscernible] saves and the cost saves and the COGS line.
What is your impression of how it's shaking out on revenue? Are you losing any J-curve? Are you seeing more opportunities as you continue to do it? And I'll stop there.
Sure.
Our expectation is that BSS is very much going to drive a greatly enhanced focus in terms of the major growth opportunities in the company.
So there is a big revenue component in terms of improved organic growth performance overall that's driving BSS.
That being said I think the focus around the company in the first year has largely been much more internal than external.
I would expect '14 to be a year where we're still fairly heavily focused on completing some of the internal restructuring but that we begin to start to pivot our view if you will from inside to outside in preparation for some accelerating organic growth in '15 and from '15 going forward.
Our next question comes from Joe Ritchie of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> And so just a quick question on the cost-outs.
I know that historically you've talked about the synergies that you plan to get being linear over the next 5 years.
Can you just provide what the actual benefit that you received in '13 and what your expectation is for 2014? Well you're talking about on the BSS side and the sourcing side combined we saw 110 basis points of improvement in the fourth quarter.
And that built up really from -- if you go back into the first quarter of 40 basis points then 60 then 80 in the third quarter then 110 here.
And we really expect to kind of have leveled out here at about 100 basis points improvement a quarter roughly as we move forward into 2014.
Again the way we've laid this out we've talked a lot about the pace of execution here and not wanting to get too far ahead of ourselves and take risks that we don't need to.
And so we've really laid it out in a fairly linear fashion here in terms of the restructuring costs as well as the savings associated with those.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And so I mean I calculated a number that was roughly $110 million to $120 million in savings in '13.
And so in '14 it was really -- it was very very much back half-loaded.
So in 2014 since we're exiting at a higher run rate you'd expect there then to be a benefit an incremental benefit in '14 versus '13.
Am I thinking about it correctly? I think in terms of what you'll see is a 2014 that where the BSS savings will be very much in line with what we saw in 2013 and then continued progress on the sourcing side.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And I guess one last question on the incremental margins.
Clearly the margin performance across several of the segments were great.
I'm just trying to understand I'm trying to break up the difference between what you're getting from BSS and sourcing versus the incremental margins that you're seeing on your organic growth.
Is there any heuristic that we should use or think about for '14 and beyond? What I'll tell you that on the -- in terms of the incrementals on the organic growth I mean we remain in the 35% range.
And anything beyond that is a combination really of BSS and sourcing efforts.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Steven Fisher of UBS.
Research Division</strong> You guys are still looking for 2.5% organic growth in 2014 at the midpoint versus the 2.8% in Q4.
So just wondering if you're thinking that 2% to 3% growth forecast is conservative at this point? Or are there really areas you think are going to slow that you mentioned that you kind of want to be cautious at this point still? Well I think what I'll say is the 2% to 3% organic we view that as a realistic assumption for 2014 based on what we're seeing right now.
And so if you look at 2013 the fourth quarter was really our first quarter of organic year-over-year growth at 2.8%.
And while we're encouraged by some of the revenue growth we're seeing in our segments we think it's a little too early to call these trends and get too far ahead of ourselves here.
The other thing I will say is if you look at some of our more capital goods-driven businesses including the Welding side in North America we haven't quite seen the pickup yet in the CapEx cycle.
So I'd say very much consistent with what we're seeing today.
We've laid out the 2% to 3% organic consistent with what we said in December.
And on a reported basis that's about 2% to 4% revenue growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then at the Investor Day you said if things lined up perfectly you thought there could be some upside to the 10 million shares a quarter and 50 million total on repurchases.
I guess curious how you're thinking about that now? I mean I think if you do the math I guess about 49 million shares in total that you're talking about? Yes.
So when we announced the IPG move to discontinued operations back in September we also said that we would repurchase 50 million shares to offset the EPS that goes with IPG.
Last year we completed 14 -- or in the fourth quarter we completed 14 million shares slightly ahead of the 10 million planning assumption.
And so we have 35 million shares to go.
And if we remain on track here as I said we're slightly ahead of schedule we could see that program get completed earlier than year-end.
And if that happens we should expect to see a slight EPS benefit associated with that.
But I really can't comment much beyond that in terms of the actual timing and number of shares being repurchased by the company.
Research Division</strong> So it's a timing upside not a number of shares upside? That's correct.
Our next question comes from Nigel Coe of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So the performance of the Auto OEM business continues to impress.
And I'm just wondering do you think you can maintain that going to 2014? And I'm just wondering how the new platform launch calendar looks for this year versus last year? Nigel I think we're in pretty good shape there for '14 and probably several quarters beyond that based on what we have visibility of right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I think Michael you mentioned 14 million shares done.
Was that actually in the quarter or does that include what you did -- where you've done in January as well? That was in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you talk about what you've done in January just in general? No.
I mean what I can tell you is that we have an active program here and we're committed to repurchasing the 35 million shares.
And we are slightly ahead of schedule at this point like I said.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I know you addressed the question on disc ops and it sounds like there's 1 or 2 discrete surcharges of it.
If we look at the underlying performance of the IPG business did it grow EBITDA in 2013? And you remain confident that you're going to close this deal by mid-2014 indicating there should be an announcement fairly soon.
I'm just wondering can you just maybe provide sort of a bit of comment into the timing? And would you expect it to be exits or could there be something along the lines of the structure that we saw with the exits? Yes so here's what I'll say.
I mean we're targeting to answer your last question first a complete sale of the business and not a joint venture.
We are very pleased with the auction process that we're running.
The business to your earlier question is performing in line with if not a little bit better than expectations.
And so we're on track to complete a transaction a closing of a transaction by the middle of this year.
And so if you back into that you would expect an announcement in the not-too-distant future.
Our next question comes from Ann Duignan of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us just a little bit more color on the Food Equipment business where you saw the strength of the small businesses? Was it institutional? Was there any buying at the end of the year for tax reasons do you think? Or just a little bit more color on what's going on there? I think overall what's driving the overall acceleration of growth is a much more active new product pipeline there that we've been working on for the last couple of years and we've been commercializing steadily over the last 3 or 4 quarters.
The overall environment here is I would say okay at best.
So it's largely driven by again new product development in North America.
And it's also had an effect or an impact in Europe offset somewhat by the much more sluggish macro environment there.
Research Division</strong> And is it the more products filling out the product breadth or is it products into new customers? It would be much more about product enhancements.
So innovation associated with water savings energy savings et cetera.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And the same question on the construction side.
Are any of your customers buying into year-end for tax reasons? Or we haven't found anyone yet buying for tax reasons.
Certainly not on the commercial side.
Research Division</strong> Not on the commercial side obviously.
Okay most of my other -- yes go ahead.
Sorry.
I was just going to say we didn't see a lot of acceleration in terms of year-end buying.
I'd say from a standpoint of Test &amp; Measurement that business strengthened up to the extent there was a bit of use it or lose it there in terms of capital budgets we really can't say but that would be the one area that would maybe be a bit subject to some year-end sort of buying patterns.
But across the board it was pretty minimal.
Our next question comes from Deane Dray of Citi.
Research Division</strong> On the residential side up 12% can you give us a split between how much of that is new builds versus renovation and how you expect resi overall to play out during the course of 2014? Yes.
I mean that's all new build.
So when we give you the -- it's really the housing number.
So the renovation would really go into our renovation category which is represented by the box stores largely for us.
So the number you saw for '12 is really housing single-family housing and some multi in there.
But it basically -- that's a number that you would want to track along with housing starts.
Research Division</strong> And so your expectation for the balance of the year? Well for the -- you mean for '14? Research Division</strong> Yes sorry.
Yes for '14 housing starts right now are running at about 1 million.
I don't think we're seeing a projection that's dramatically higher than that for 2014.
But I think you should expect us to probably from a growth standpoint to run at numbers that are consistent with what you're seeing right now probably low double-digit on the housing side.
I think the renovation on the commercial side -- commercial side in particular is too difficult to call right now in terms of what improvement we might see there.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then I also wanted to ask about M&amp;A.
And we know the new look ITW is 1/3 of top line is coming from M&amp;A on a go-forward basis.
So maybe some observations color on what the funnel looks like the size of deals pricing and so forth.
Well I think what I would say for now is I would expect 2014 to look a lot like 2013 looked like.
We had 3 really nice very tight fit highly strategic deals that we did.
And I think the revenue contribution in Q4 was about 2% from those.
And I think our -- my expectation for '14 would be that would look very similar to that.
I would -- I'm not sure how to comment on the pricing environment other than to say...
Research Division</strong> Well you walked away from deals because of pricing? No I think we're -- it's much more about sort of the strategic filter right now than it is the pricing.
And so the things that we got really interested in in 2013 we were able to close.
And I would expect that we'd have the same ability to be successful in 2014.
Our next question comes from Steve Volkmann of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick follow-ups.
Any update on your price cost assumptions for 2014? Yes.
So we're still -- we're tracking.
If you look at '13 we had about 40 basis points of favorable price cost.
That's a difficult number to forecast.
And while we're not seeing a lot of significant cost pressure at this point so we're basically going with the 20 to 30 basis points for 2014.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then can I just ask about Test &amp; Measurement and Electronics? The margin obviously was up nicely there.
And I'm wondering if that's sort of mix related with more Test &amp; Measurement or if it's more sort of enterprise initiatives or just any commentary there? I mean it's really a combination of all of the above including the flow-through on the 9% organic growth in the Test &amp; Measurement business.
So really a combination of all of the above.
Our next question comes from Eli of Longbow Securities.
Just a follow-up on Steve's question.
Can you talk a little bit about -- you see any effect from the strong dollar and what's going on in pricing across your markets? Is pricing sort of benign? Was there any areas of price improvement taking place? So on the dollar-euro our rate that we're using for this year on average is about -- at $1.34 consistent with last year.
So we're not seeing a -- in our forecast but that's kind of what we're planning for.
Because we have manufacturing in the international markets that -- on cost associated with that we don't see large swings in earnings per share in terms of changes to the euro-dollar rate.
On the price side of things what I'd say is that we've historically done a good job offsetting inflation with price.
And we continue to see that.
I think some of the highlights for the fourth quarter if you look at our Welding business in particular we were able to continue to see favorable price cost dynamics.
So but really no change in terms of the pricing environment.
And just a quick follow-up.
I mean your 3 businesses -- the 3 businesses you highlighted was Automotive and Food Equipment and Welding was flat.
Are those 3 higher-margin businesses a goal in 2014 to sustain margins? Or is there still areas of improvement that can take place given just a little bit of different kind of demand trends in '14 versus '13? Well we expect all of our operating segments -- operating margins in '14 to be better than '13.
Our next question comes from Andrew Kaplowitz of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So Scott your international welding business flipped pretty dramatically in terms of growth in the quarter.
You mentioned the strength in Europe but it really was a pretty big change.
Was this sort of new product penetration something different that happened there? Because I think it went from like negative 11% to 4% something like that? Yes our European welding business is largely centered on oil and gas.
And so what really is going to drive most of the swing quarter-to-quarter is much more about projects and the timing of those projects.
So...
Research Division</strong> Is that sustainable though Scott going forward then? Well we kind of -- we remain very bullish on the oil and gas play on our welding business for the long haul.
I think the -- and we expect our oil and gas component of our welding business to be a strong organic grower for at least the next 3 to 4 years out as far as we can see.
I think whether you're going to see it consistently grow quarter-to-quarter in Europe given that it's a relatively small business I can't say.
But overall we expect the demand environment there to continue and improve.
We're very active in that space with new product development product innovation.
And that will continue to help drive the overall growth rates there.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And maybe just stepping back I think we all understand the need to be conservative when looking at organic growth for 2014.
But maybe you can talk about the pieces of your forecast that you gave at the Analyst Day? If you look at 2% to 3% in North America 1% and 2% in Europe 4% to 6% in Asia Pacific and other I guess what I see is Europe is maybe trending toward the higher end of expectation.
You've had really strong growth in South America.
Maybe you could talk about that and any risk you see a slowdown in the emerging markets? Well I think the overall framework and we've talked about this in New York in December was our model is we're going to forecast based on demand rates that we're seeing now.
And to the extent we saw some slight uptick in a couple of parts of the company in the fourth quarter is certainly something we'd rather have than not but ultimately to overreact too much to some relatively short-term trends in an overall macro environment that's been pretty choppy for 8 quarters or more.
I think we're on a wait-and-see mode.
We've got a business plan setup where we're going to deliver between 18% and 24% earnings growth at the revenue forecast that we have right now.
Could things be better next year? Sure.
Could they be worse? They could but I think we're trying to sort of walk down the path of reasonable expectations in a solid business plan where we can grow earnings in a significant way regardless of the macro environment.
Research Division</strong> I think that's fair Scott.
But is it fair to say that Europe at least has been tracking better than the expectations or am I putting words in your mouth? I think it's become firmer.
Yes more stable.
Industrial production in Europe is still negative.
I think the last equivalent of the PMI index in Europe is still running negative.
So it's -- I think there's plenty of reason for wait-and-see.
Yes.
I mean we saw 2% organic growth here in Europe in the quarter.
And our guidance for the year assumes 1% to 2%.
So I think again we're right in line.
Our next question comes from Andy Casey of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just want to make sure I'm getting this correct on the combined margin impact of anticipated BSS global procurement and restructuring.
If I'm doing the math correctly on the restructuring it seem like you incurred close to $140 million in 2013.
I'm wondering is any of that related to IPG or is that ongoing ops? No the correct number is $114 million.
I think you said $140 million.
So it's $114 million was our spend in -- or our investment if you like in 2013.
And that excludes IPG.
And our assumption for '14 right now is $100 million of restructuring.
And we've laid that out as approximately $25 million a quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great Michael.
And then if you take a little bit smaller depth than I was looking at the $14 million decrease does that mean we're emerging from the heavy lifting period related to setting the foundation for the enterprise strategy? I wouldn't say that.
I mean I think we're 1.5 years into the restructuring the BSS efforts.
And we have at least another year to go here with some significant work to be done including in places like Europe that can be a little bit more challenging.
So I wouldn't say that it's getting easier from here.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then there've been some questions around this next one.
Could you give us the end of fourth quarter diluted share count? 430 million I believe.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly...
Sorry hang on the 430 million is the basic number.
So 440 million is the diluted number.
433 million.
433 million sorry.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then what sort of issues would cause you to change the repurchase pace for the balance of 2014 from what you actually realized in Q4? Well I mean I think the pace is going to be dictated to some extent by the 3 things that I laid out which is our ability to continue to generate strong free cash flow which I think we had another good fourth quarter.
That will be typically seasonality.
We're going to be a little bit lower than that here in the first quarter.
We are funding some of these repurchases with short-term debt.
And so in the fourth year that was predominantly through our commercial paper program.
We've got some things coming up here in the first half of the year that we want to refinance at some very attractive rates.
And so the timing around that needs to be aligned.
And then I'd say the last piece here is really the transaction the closing of the transaction for IPG the proceeds of which will be to some extent used to buy back shares.
And so I think those are the things that along would obviously we continue to look at the kind of the cash on hand in North America and therefore what's available for repurchase.
So those are kind of the 3 variables that would determine the timing.
Our next question comes from Mr.
John Inch of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Did you give a range of organic expectation in the first quarter? I think you said it was going to be comparable to the fourth quarter right? So that's around 3%.
Is there a range tied to that? You gave a range of 3% to 6% for -- in the press release.
I'm just wondering what you think in terms of organic growth in the first quarter vis-à-vis range? Yes.
I mean I think it will be similar kind of the 2.5% to 3% range is what we're projecting right now similar to what we did in the fourth quarter.
The comps year-over-year are a little bit easier.
We were actually down in the first quarter last year.
Research Division</strong> Well actually Michael the comps are a lot easier.
And I'm sorry what's the 2.5% to 3%? Is that...
It's organic.
Research Division</strong> I'm asking -- what do you think? You gave a sales range for the first quarter of 3% to 6%.
What do you -- is that consistent with an -- would that spread be the organic range? No that's the reported range.
So that still has some of the acquisitions from '13.
Research Division</strong> So you're just making a point estimate for organic growth in the first quarter? Well I mean I can tell you 2% to 4%.
And so that would be midpoint of about 3% which is what we did in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay so 2% to 4%.
So just kind of get to the heart of my question like your organic growth for the year has only got a point of difference right 2% to 3%.
Yet your first quarter if you just think of the time value of risk should be -- you clearly have visibility into the first part of January and the business trends in your company.
Why would you have a 2-point spread in organic growth in the first quarter and only 1 point for the year? Isn't the year a little bit more harder to forecast around now than the first quarter? John I think we're splitting hairs here.
I mean I think we discussed a point earlier.
We...
And you're free to do your own forecast.
Yes yes yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I'm not disputing your methodology.
I'm just trying to understand.
Is there anything that's implicit in the way you've provided for first quarter that we're supposed to be recognizing either because of something specific to the compare which is obviously very easy or some other aspect just to make sure that we've got our Is and Ts dotted and crossed as we roll into...
We've built an organic forecast that is predicated on same number of days for the quarter.
And we are projecting Q4 daily demand rates into Q1.
Into Q1 with an easier comp gives us a number of x is then that range that Michael talked about.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So when you gave the 2% to 3% for the year if I go back to the December outlook meeting I think if I'm not mistaken pretty much the 2% to 3% was predicated considering you have pretty easy compares in '14 on sort of no business change or cadence sequentially.
Yet it does appear the quarter has actually ended better sort of on an organic note.
So am I still reading that right? So in other words equal...
Yes I think John we're back to where we were before which is if you really want to bite on these Q4 trends as strong momentum building trends you could absolutely have a more optimistic view of '14.
In our view it's a little early for that.
I think we'll talk to you at the end of first quarter.
And if we see 2 quarters in a row we're going to be much more comfortable sort of ramping as we go forward.
But given the environment over the last 8 quarters and like Michael said some of the things we're seeing in parts of the business where we're still very sluggish in welding still very sluggish in a number of the capital goods sectors.
I think we're comfortable with where we sit.
Research Division</strong> That's fine Scott.
I just want to make sure the framework's consistent and there's nothing else that's been adjusted in some manner that still gets you to the same outlook.
But that's great.
I appreciate it.
Our next question comes from Mig Dobre of Robert W.
Baird &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> A lot has been covered but if I go back to the Welding segment maybe you can provide us a little bit of color on consumables versus equipment demand and how you're thinking about that maybe going forward and the potential impact on incremental margin on the segment in '14? Well I guess where I would start is where we're really seeing the drag.
The demand drag right now is really in the heavier equipment sector sort of take a lot of what you're hearing about from the mining exposure in other heavy equipment industries.
And we're a major supplier in that space.
And that's really been the headwind.
We've had reasonably good performance in the commercial end of the business from the standpoint of organic growth.
So it's not really a consumable versus equipment mix issue.
It's really more of an end market exposure issue.
And our equipment business with improved results in this heavy equipment space it's -- the overall business is certainly highly profitable for us.
But that segment or that sector in particular is a very strong one for us.
So if we get some reasonable recoveries and go through '14 and start to see some growth again in this heavy equipment space it should be favorable to the overall margin profile of the business.
Research Division</strong> I see.
But you haven't seen maybe I don't know wishful thinking on my part an uptick in consumables or anything like that as of yet? Not yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question is going back to the Construction segment.
It was a good color around North America but I'm wondering can you talk a little bit about what you're seeing outside like EMEA and Australia specifically? Yes I think Australia has actually performed pretty well.
If anything it was a slight upside in terms of our own projections in Q4 up I think 4% or so.
So some reasonably good performance in Australia.
Europe remains its luck.
But as we've talked before we've got a lot of work on the cost structure in Europe that's in front of us.
So not super worried about the demand side in Europe right now.
But I think Australia we actually were modestly surprised on the upside in terms of the overall demand.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
So it's not just the easy comps issue you're saying? It's sort of more than that? Yes right.
Our next question comes from Shivangi Tipnis of Global Hunter.
Most of it is already covered but I just have one question on the margin.
So you're expecting about 19% for 2014.
So that's about 120% -- sorry it's about 120 bps improvement.
The guidance on your long-term goal was 20%-plus for the margin and ROIC which is a quite impressive improvement.
Should we expect this 20% market growth in early 2015 or so or maybe like it would still be about 2016 2017? Yes I mean I think we're -- if I understood your question correctly we're not giving guidance for '15 today.
I mean we're -- we've said that -- you're right that it's about 120 basis points of margin improvement and assumed in the guidance for 2014.
And that puts us right on track with the targets that we laid out 1.5 years or 2 years ago almost at the -- for the 2012 2017 strategy.
And so we would say we're right on track to achieve the 20%-plus operating margins.
Okay okay sounds good.
And then just one last question on the organic mix with China.
So it's about -- it looks like about 43% of your international revenue were organic.
So about -- that's about like 3% of the 7% sales growth.
So -- and much of it was from South Africa -- or South America and China.
So do you expect this pattern to continue in 2014 or we should expect like the change in a mix due to M&amp;A or maybe the other thing would be like China's fragmented GDP growth the inflation pressure than the recent PMI which was below 50.
Does that concern you for China's organic 2014 growth? No.
No our China business is driven mostly by our Auto OEM business which is then as John commented earlier a very strong performer.
And we expect that to continue for a while into the future.
Our last question comes from Mr.
David Raso of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Yes I'll be quick.
Two of the deltas for '14 versus '13 help organic.
You hope to be having a lot easier comps and maybe some growth in Electronics and then the absence of the PLS drag that you had in Polymers this year.
Can you quantify those? Like for example what are you forecasting Electronics to be in '14 after being down 10% to 15% drag in '13? And again what's the quantification on a PLS drag that you had in '13 that I assume goes away in '14? Yes so we're really expecting an Electronics business in '14 that's largely flat with '13.
So not expecting significant improvement.
I think on the PLS side I don't think we've broken that out historically by business.
But I think we would say in the Polymers &amp; Fluids business that the majority of that activity is behind us at this point.
And so we'd expect to see a slightly better '14 than '13.
Research Division</strong> Can you help us a little bit on the size of the PLS drag in '13? Not really no no.
Thanks everyone for joining us today.
We look forward to talking to you again and stay warm.
Thank you sir.
So that concludes today's conference call.
Thank you all for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome and thank you all for standing by.
(Operator Instructions) And now I'll hand the call over to your host Mr.
John Brooklier.
Sir you may now begin.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to ITW's first quarter 2014 conference call.
Joining me this morning is our President and CEO Scott Santi; and our CFO Michael Larsen.
During today's call Scott Michael and I will discuss our Q1 financial results as well as provide more detail on the $0.15 EPS raise for our 2014 full year guidance.
At the end we will open the call to your questions and per our practice we ask for your ultimate cooperation on our one question and one follow-up question policy.
We have scheduled approximately one hour for today's call.
Before I continue let me remind you that this presentation contains our financial forecast for the 2014 second quarter and full year as well as other forward-looking statements identified on this slide.
We refer you to the company's 2013 10-K for more detail about important risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's expectations.
Also this presentation uses certain non-GAAP measures a reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures is contained in the press release which can be found on our website at itw.com.
Couple of other housekeeping items.
Replay conference call number is 800-841-8616.
No passcode is necessary.
The playback will be available until 12 midnight of May 6 2014.
Finally one other note you'll notice that we have updated the format of the slides which is intended to provide a more streamlined and concise presentation while keeping the relevant content intact.
We view this as another exercise in 80/20.
So with that I'll turn it over to Scott Santi who will comment on the quarter.
Scott? Thanks John and good morning everyone.
On the whole we've had a good start to 2014 and we continue to be pleased with the progress we are making in executing our enterprise strategy.
In the quarter operating margins of 18.7% were up 180 basis points and adjusted after-tax return on invested capital was up 240 basis points to 17.2% representing continued solid progress towards our stated goals of 20%-plus for each of these key metrics by 2017.
Overall organic growth was solid at 3.3% in the quarter which we were able to achieve without any meaningful contribution from our Test and Measurement or Welding segments.
Two of our strongest organic growth businesses historically due to a CapEx spending environment they remain sluggish.
An additional note related to the company's organic growth performance in the quarter is that we estimate that the portfolio of actions we have taken over the past two years had roughly a 100 basis point positive impact on the company's overall organic growth rate in Q1.
Earnings per share of $1.01 were up 15% versus Q1 of last year up 22% if you exclude a one-time gain of $0.05 a share in the prior-year quarter related to the acquisition of a majority interest in the joint venture.
As a result of our operational execution and the progress we were able to make in Q1 on our stated goal to repurchase 50 million shares to offset the earnings per share dilution associated with the divestiture our industrial packaging segment we are raising our full year midpoint guidance by $0.15 to $4.55.
The new full year midpoint represents EPS growth of 25% on a year-over-year basis.
Michael will provide more detail on our revised Q2 and full year EPS forecast during his comments in a couple of minutes.
Before turning the call over to Michael let me conclude by recognizing and thanking the executive leadership team and all of our ITW colleagues around the world for the great job that they continue to do in serving their customers and executing on our enterprise strategy.
Michael? Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
Starting on Slide 2 ITW had a good start to the year as margin expansion and share repurchases contributed to EPS of $1.01 which was the high-end of our guidance range and a year-over-year increase of 15%.
Total revenues were $3.6 billion up 4.4% versus prior year with organic revenues up 3.3%.
International growth was 6.3% while North America was up 1%.
In terms of end-markets Automotive OEM Food Equipment and Construction Products all had good growth in the quarter.
As usual John will provide some more segment detail in a few minutes.
Operating income in the quarter was $667 million an increase of 16% as margins expanded 180 basis points to 18.7%.
Our enterprise initiatives business structure simplification and strategic sourcing contributed a combined 120 basis points on a year-over-year basis with strong execution across our businesses as five out of seven segments expanded operating margins by more than 100 basis points.
We were also pleased with 60% incremental margins in the quarter.
Free operating cash flow for the quarter was $246 million.
The conversion rate in the first quarter was driven by typical seasonality and we expect cash flows to increase from here and our full year conversion rate should be greater than a 100% of net income.
The sale process for the Industrial Packaging business remains on track and we are working towards May 1 closing date.
We've accelerated the timing of the IPG-related share repurchase program and bought more than 18 million shares in the first quarter.
We now expect to substantially complete the announced 50 million share repurchase program by the end of Q2.
We anticipate that the ending diluted share count for 2Q is going to be approximately 400 million shares.
We will discuss the positive impact of the lower share count in our updated guidance in a few minutes.
So in summary a good start to the year as the team continues to execute well on the enterprise initiatives.
On Slide 3 our international organic revenue growth was up 6.3% outpacing North America up 1% in the quarter and total organic was up 3.3%.
We continue to see improvement in Europe up 5% with growth across the board including Automotive OEM Food Equipments and Test and Measurement.
China and Australia are the key drivers of Asia-Pacific growth up 7% with double-digit contributions from several businesses partially offset by declines in Welding.
Brazil is still fairly small for ITW but led the way with an increase of 17% as our South America organic revenues were up 18%.
Finally North America up 1% in the quarter with continued strength in Automotive and Food Equipment while our businesses that are more closely linked to the CapEx cycle such as Welding and Test and Measurement were essentially flat.
Weather had a fairly limited impact on our North American revenues although sequentially we did see a slightly stronger March and April is off to a decent start.
Moving to Slide 4.
Solid execution across our segments led to margin expansion in the quarter with operating margins of 18.7% an increase of 180 basis points from last year.
In particular Automotive OEM Construction Products Food Equipment and Polymers and Fluids put up some solid margin expansion numbers.
The key drivers of the first quarter margin expansion are listed on the right side of the page.
Operating leverage on the topline was 80 basis points and the largest driver of our margin expansion was 120 basis points from the continued progress at our enterprise initiatives.
Price cost was 10 basis points and acquisitions are performing well but reduced margins by 20 basis points.
I'll be back in a few minutes to comment on second quarter and 2014 guidance but let me first turn it over to John for some additional commentary on the quarter.
John? Thanks Michael.
On Slide 5 you'll see the breakdown of total revenues and operating income per segment.
Michael noted earlier Automotive OEM and Food Equipment segments led the way with 13% and 9% total revenue growth respectively.
Operating income for Auto OEM Food Equipment and Construction Products produced significant year-over-year increases.
Now let me go further into each of our operating segments.
Starting with Automotive OEM this segment once again was ITW's fastest growing segment with organic revenues up 13% and that's outpacing worldwide auto builds by 8 percentage points.
By geography Europe grew 14% North America 11% and China 28%.
In Europe we outperformed European auto builds by 7 percentage points largely due to our successful fuel release and powertrain product lines.
In North America we outpaced auto builds by 5 percentage point led by fasteners and body components.
And in China we continue to gain share with new and existing products.
In sum this was another very strong quarter of growth and profitability for our Auto OEM business and the segment's strong operating margin of 23.3% was 350 basis points higher than the year-ago period.
One thing I should note is auto builds are forecasted to moderate in the second quarter but we still expect to maintain good penetration across all geographies.
Moving to the next Slide.
In our Test and Measurement and Electronic segment organic revenues were essentially flat in the quarter.
On the Test and Measurement side of the business sluggish CapEx spending and order delays resulted in 1% decline in organic revenues.
On the Electronic side revenues were flat in the quarter as our other electronics category which includes businesses in areas such as contamination control and pressure-sensitive adhesives they produced organic revenue growth of 4%.
This was offset however by electronics assembly business which saw organic revenues decline 7% in the quarter due to weak end-market demand.
Looking ahead we expect our Test and Measurement businesses to benefit from more recovery in end-markets and a push out of Q1 orders into the remainder of the year.
Q1 operating margins of 12.2% down largely as a result of increased restructuring.
But I would remind everyone that our core operating margins for this segment when you adjust for amortization and other cost is still approximately 16%.
So the underlying profitability in this segment continues to be good.
In Food Equipments this segment delivered another very strong quarter globally of organic revenue growth thanks to new product innovation and increased service capabilities.
Total organic revenues grew 5% in Q1.
In North America equipment and service-related organic revenues grew 6% and 5% respectively.
And internationally equipment produced strong organic revenue growth of 7% and service organic revenues 2%.
Both improvements over last quarter are driven by growth in Germany the U.K.
and Switzerland.
The segment continues to show strong profitability with operating margins of 18.6% and at the 190 basis points higher than year-ago period.
On Slide 7.
In our Polymers and Fluids segment organic revenues were flat primarily due to ongoing product line simplification which we refer to as PLS here at ITW and the exiting of some low margin businesses.
While growth is still lower than we'd like the comps are easing thanks to the work that was done in 2013.
Notably we did see a pickup in organic revenues in worldwide Fluids and Auto aftermarket.
I would note that the Polymers category reflects most of our current PLS activity.
The segment's profitability continues to improve with operating margin of 16.6% in the quarter and that's an improvement of 200 basis points versus year ago.
In Welding worldwide organic revenues declined 2% due to ongoing portfolio repositioning and slower pipeline activity in China as well as sluggish CapEx spending in North America.
International organic revenues decline 10% in the quarter and that's mainly due to previously noted factors in China.
And in North America organic revenues grew only 1% and it was largely the result of weak CapEx spending from key customers and key sectors such as heavy equipment.
However segment operating margins continue to be very strong at 25.7% and remains our most profitable segment company-wide.
Moving to Slide 8.
We continue to be very pleased with the topline and profitability progress in our Construction Product segment.
Organic revenues grew 5% in Q1 and that was led by Asia-Pacific where organic revenues were up 14%.
This was due to strong new housing retail and commercial construction in Australia and New Zealand.
European revenues grew a modest 1% in the quarter.
North America construction organic revenues were flat as improvement in residential construction were offset by declines in the commercial construction category.
Let me make a quick comment on our North American commercial construction business.
While there has been talk of industry growth in the sector by both peers and investors our Dodge commercial data for Q1 on a square footage basis showed 13% less activity versus the year-ago period.
We do however think we'll see better commercial construction growth as the year progress so stay tuned.
Profitability continues to improve as we execute our enterprise initiatives across the segment.
Q1 operating margin of 14.8% showed an impressive 310 basis point improvement over the year-ago period.
And in our final segment Specialty Product segment organic revenues grew 2% and was largely due to our consumer packaging businesses.
Ground support grew 10% and appliance sector was flat.
The segment continues to be very profitable with operating margins of 21.1% that's 120 basis points higher than year-ago period.
Now let me turn the call back over to Michael who will update you on our Q2 and full year forecast.
Michael? Thanks John.
And as a result of our first quarter performance and lower share count we're raising our full year EPS guidance by $0.15 to a range of $4.45 to $4.65.
The midpoint of our updated guidance the $4.55 represents an increase of 25% versus 2013 and we now expect full year operating margins in the mid-19s.
We tighten the range for our full year revenue growth rate assumption and raising the low end from 2% to 3% and we now expect total revenue growth to be in the 3% to 4% range.
The organic revenue growth that goes with this assumption is unchanged at 2% to 3%.
Our second quarter guidance we expect EPS within a range of $1.16 to $1.24 and this assumes total revenue growth of 3% to 5% and 100 basis points of margin expansions on a year-over-year basis from the initiatives.
So in summary a good start to 2014.
We're raising our full year EPS guidance by $0.15 to a range of $4.45 to $4.65 and the midpoint being a 25% increase year-over-year.
With that let me turn the call back over to John.
Thank you Michael.
Now we'll open the call to your questions.
And in the interest of giving more people a chance to ask questions please honor our one question one follow-up question request.
We're targeting to complete this call at the top of the hour.
We'll take our first question.
Our first question comes from Andrew Kaplowitz.
Scott maybe you can step back and talk about your geographic markets from a perspective that in the beginning of the year you said North America could grow in the 3% to 4% range and Europe could grow in the 2% range.
1Q performance was basically the opposite.
Should we look for more growth in Europe from you this year and maybe less in North America or do you expect it to normalize over time? I mean we noticed that you said weather wasn't that much of an impact in 1Q.
Well I would say that based on our first quarter results relative to our expectations heading into the year I would say Europe has been a slight upside positive at 5% growth in the quarter North America certainly at 1% was a lag.
I don't know that that completely shifts our expectations for the year.
I think we do see again based on some modest improvement in March and how April is tracking at North America at 1% probably we wouldn't expect that to be the number for the year.
We would expect some incremental improvement in North America from here.
And again I think the overall demand levels out of Europe that we're seeing are pretty broad-based across our businesses and I would consider that to be pretty encouraging at this point.
I think a follow-up to that really is around the construction business overall.
Asia really got stronger in the quarter.
I think it was 4% year-over-year growth last quarter to 14% this quarter.
Is it fair to say that you're actually seeing a nice recovery in Australia now? And you did mention some expected improvement in Q2 in North America and you mentioned that April was starting off well.
Are you seeing them improvement as the weather has gotten better here in the U.S.
in April? Yes to both of your questions.
I think Australia and New Zealand clearly we're seeing some very positive overall demand improvement there.
And we have sort of made a commitment not to talk about the weather as part of our results in the quarter but what I would say is certainly North America for construction along with the service business and Food Equipment were probably the two areas where it would be hard not to conclude that we had some pretty material weather impact on those businesses.
And I think March and what we're seeing in April in construction in North America would suggest things are improving there for sure.
Our next question comes from David Raso.
On the guidance increase of $0.15 can you quantify the way you're thinking about how much was from repo and how much was from essentially margins? So what I'll tell you is of the $0.15 approximately half is shares and the other half is better operational performance which you're seeing in the operating margins.
And we now expect to be in the mid-19s versus our previous guidance of 19 squiggle 19.
So it's about half and actually if you -- well talk about the first quarter for a second the performance in the first quarter versus the guidance the better performance was driven equally about half from shares and the other half from better operations.
That's what I was thinking as well until you mentioned the more exact target on the margin saying 19.5%? We've said mid-19s yes.
But before we were thinking 19% correct? That's correct.
Roughly if you just add the 50 basis points there I mean basically it looks like that alone at $0.10-plus.
So I'm just making sure I'm not doing something wrong here in the sense of the margin improvement plus the repo would actually maybe a little more than $0.15 so I'm just trying to make sure I understand that 19% and 19.5% alone? I mean I can't really comment on your math.
The math we're doing here internally is about half of the improvement here is from margins and the other half is from lower share count.
Next question comes from Rob Wertheimer.
I had a question about Brazil.
There's been some mixed data in the economy and then I guess machinery and markets anyway coming out of there.
I was curious where exactly you were strong if it was content if it was share if it was what was going on there? And your thoughts on China as well you mentioned the Auto but just generally? Well I think our position in Brazil was pretty concentrated in the Polymers and Fluids area and also with Welding and a few other businesses.
And so what I would say about our own results in Brazil is it's much less about the overall economy.
We are sort of transitioning from a period going back two or three years where we did a fair amount of acquisition activity there to get ourselves positioned and are now starting to operate -- we're starting to operate these businesses and I think get focused on the areas of opportunity in terms of growth.
China for us I think is right now clearly automotive is the leading business over there.
We're seeing what I would describe is more moderate overall economic activity across the number of our businesses.
And the Welding business in the first quarter on a year-on-year basis was Michael or John talked about it in his comments a negative primarily as a result of lower large oil and gas pipeline activity over there versus what was going on there last year.
If I can ask just one follow-up on Auto you mentioned in China.
Can you talk just a bit just in principle about how the design curve works on your content wins? I mean you have done a great job obviously of growing auto markets.
Is that something you can see reliably two years out in three years at more that since your products aren't terribly complex they can be engineered and faster? I'm just curious about how far out you'll take that? We talked about that before.
This is the one part of the company where we have a fair amount of forward visibility.
We are working on things today that are going into model redesigns that are going to be executed three years out typically.
And you're still seeing content growth throughout that three-year period? Yes.
Next question comes from Jamie Cook.
A couple of quick questions.
Just to clarify you increased your margin targets to mid-19 or so.
Are you still expecting all the segments to show margin improvement in the quarter because some of the results within the quarter you know what I mean were mixed with some segments showing very strong improvement and some still showing decline.
And then my second question if you could just give a little more clarity on what you saw in the Test and Measurement on the order trend side just sort of the trends you're seeing there and when you expect that to pick up and translate into revenue growth? Why don't I do the margin expansion questions and then maybe Scott you want to comment on Test and Measurement.
So yes we do expect all of our businesses to expand margins in 2014 versus 2013.
And I think you will see that progress again in the second quarter here we'll continue that.
We talk about Test and Measurement little bit of an outlier in terms of some increase restructuring spend but we fully expect that business to be back on track in terms of margin expansion as we move forward from the second quarter and into the rest of the year.
So now your second question was on? Just the second question because you noted in the slides the order of trends in testing and measurement.
It sounds like there were some delays or something like that.
Can you just talk about give a little more clarity there the more insight as to translate it.
What I would say about that is on the ground we're certainly seeing sort of better overall activity levels in terms of code activity levels backlog is up.
And from the timing and release standpoint we're still seeing some fairly choppy customer demand from that standpoint.
But again I would say the people in those business are feeling generally like things are heading in the right direction.
The overall conditions are improving.
I would say we're not in that mode with Welding at this point.
Next question comes from Ann Duignan.
I know there have been a lot of questions about Automotive but is it the right way to think about that business going forward that you'd be able to sustain growth at roughly the 2.5x to 3x global automotive build.
Is that the right way to think about it for the next 12 to 18 months? 2x to 3x I don't think so.
I think what we would be expecting on a longer term basis would be 300 to 400 basis points of market out performance on an annual basis.
And then on the enterprise initiatives they are at the 120 bps to margins.
Can you just break that out sourcing versus product line simplification or the different initiatives that you're undergoing? They both contributed significantly to the 120 basis points.
But equal equal at this point? We have said consistently we're not breaking this out but to Scott's point they have both contributed significantly.
And just on the same follow-up then price cost added 10 basis points.
It added 40 basis points in Q4.
Is there anything we should be watching out for on the price cost side or is it just tougher comps? No there's really nothing unusual there.
I mean I think the 10 basis points was a little bit lower than our assumptions for the year which remains at 20 to 30 basis points of improvement.
And so there is some timing and some FX headwind but overall we continue to feel very comfortable about this 20 to 30 basis points for the year.
Next question comes from Deane Dray.
Question for Michael.
Post the close on industrial packaging you said May 1 and you accelerated buybacks.
Where do you expect leverage to come out on the second quarter and then the run rate exit for the year? You're talking about debt to EBITDA leverage right? Yes.
So we're currently little on the high side at 2.4x as we accelerated the repurchase program in part because we saw the transaction closing sooner.
Our target leverage ratio remains in the approximately 2.2x to 2.3x EBITDA on a go forward basis.
And are you at all constrained -- and this is more directed to Scott also but the idea on M&amp;A I know there is going to be -- we've shifted two-thirds core revenue growth one-third M&amp;A.
How are you thinking about M&amp;A for the balance of the year or might you be a bit constrained on the balance sheet? Well I don't think given the cash flow of the company the balance sheet isn't really the issue where I would describe our position near-term is similar to what I've said I think couple of quarters ago on the call which is given all that we are currently executing inside of the company around these initiatives and also our focus on organic acceleration M&amp;A isn't our near-term priority for us.
But that being said we did three really nice medium-sized deals last year that were really strong strategic fits and should similar opportunities emerge this year we would not hesitate to pull the trigger.
Our next question comes from Stephen Volkmann.
I think you called out some POS headwinds kind of on the topline for both Welding and Polymers and Fluids.
I'm curious if you have visibility into sort of how long that lasts and when that's simplification kind of gets anniversaried and the growth rates might start giving a little better? I don't think we said that was an issue in Welding in Polymers and Fluids definitely.
And what I would say is we're probably looking at in terms of drag another quarter or two maximum.
And John pointed out as we're seeing in the couple of businesses inside Polymers and Fluids that are coming out at the other end of that in the Fluids platform that was up 4% organically.
Auto aftermarket also up.
And on Welding I thought you were sort of trying to get away from shipbuilding or something? Well I think that's really more of the portfolio repositioning we've done and that's been going out in the last couple of years there.
So that's becoming less and less of the portfolio.
I think they think they're going to probably be through most of that by the end of the year.
This has been a two-plus year transition in the portfolio.
Our next question comes from Eli Lustgarten.
Can I get a one clarification on share count? You said you're going to finish your program at the end of second quarter maybe roughly 400 million shares at the end of the quarter.
Is that the number we should use for the second half of the year or do you intend to have some more normal share repurchases after that? The 400 million shares is the projected share count at the end of the second quarter.
And so our focus here right now is on completing the IPG-related shares repurchase program the 50 million shares that we announced back in September.
And then we'll kind of reassess where we're at by the end of second quarter and we would be able to give you an update on the next earnings call.
But what I will tell you in terms of our capital allocation strategy it has not changed.
And so we remained focused on internal reinvestments in the business for future growth and margin expansion.
We will continue the dividend obviously and then we'll balance acquisitions and share repurchases based on the best risk-adjusted returns for our shareholders.
And so that hasn't changed.
I was just asking whether the guidance to $4.45 $4.65 assume that the share stay at 400 for the rest of the year? That's what I was just checking on that? That is correct.
And from an operation Welding has always been a problem child.
Do you have any forecast for any improvement in Welding for the rest of this year or you'll have to wait until 2015? Well let me first of all Eli disagree with your characterization that Welding is a problem child.
Well the value topline that I was talking about.
Yes.
So those of you that follow the company know that Welding has been historically one of our strongest organic growers high single-digits through the cycle.
The big thing that's going to get Welding going again is North America honestly that we are still in the midst of a pretty significant contraction in the heavier equipment segments of the market that we serve.
In our view that's not a structural issue that's a cyclical issue.
We expect that to turn around hopefully some time this year.
And at least our experience in Welding is once things do turn we have six eight quarters that are really solid organic growth.
Next question comes from Andy Casey.
Just a couple of clarifications I guess.
On mid-19% operating margin guidance is there any change in the anticipated restructuring or is that all driven by better operational performance? That's all better operational performance.
So the restructuring for the year at approximately $100 million has not changed.
And then back on the sluggish CapEx trends specifically North American Welding.
I am just curious -- and Scott you kind of answered this but can you comment on whether you saw any month-over-month improvement in that business in quoting or orders during Q1? Maybe some modest sequential improvement towards March but nothing that I would say gives us any sort of enthusiasm at this point that we're seeing a real turn there.
And that typically how closely in line would that be with an increase in construction activity.
I realize heavy equipment can be used in other stuff but if there is an improvement as John indicated on the Construction Products business in the second half.
Would that normally drive up Welding as well? Commercial construction will have some positive impact.
Although the place of real softness again is more ag-equipment mining equipment et cetera.
Next question comes from John Inch.
Mike what are the expected proceeds net cash proceeds from the completion of the IP sale is expected to be? The gross budget is $3.2 billion and we anticipate that the after-tax will be in the low-2s.
And then what exactly are you planning to do with the cash because obviously you've sort of completed this I realize what you just said that you're going to evaluate share repurchase at the end of the second quarter but just help me if there is some obvious earmark for in excess of $2 billion because in theory right you can get your leverage targets simply by growing EBITDA as the outlook for the economy in your businesses continue to improve and you still get benefits of simplification.
So I'm just curious on your thoughts toward deployment of the $2 billion? So a little bit more than half of that will be utilized for the share repurchase program and get that completed by the end of the second quarter.
And the balance will essentially be to reduce our outstanding commercial paper and get our debt to EBITDA leverage back into the 2.25 range that we discussed earlier.
Are there thoughts then just because interest rates are still very favorable toward -- again as you grow your EBITDA right perhaps some more permanent swap of some of the commercial paper into term debt? Because otherwise you're going to have leverage that's -- financial leverage that's too low if you continue on this track.
So I'm just trying to understand how you're managing the product? Right so I think we've actually been fairly opportunistic here in terms of locking in rates and what we think is an attractive low interest environment and extending the duration of our debt portfolio.
And so as I think you maybe aware we issued $2 billion worth of bonds here in the first quarter with an average duration little over six year then a coupon that's on average in the low-2s.
And we have some additional plans here for the rest of the year.
I think if you look at kind of a bigger picture if you take a step back and look at where we were three years ago so the average rate on our debt is about 200 basis points lower today than it was three years ago.
The duration has been extended from fairly short-term in the three to four year range to well north of 10 years.
So I think we've been fairly opportunistic in terms of our capital structure and are taking advantage of the current rate environment.
And then Scott if you will just take a look at simplification enterprise initiatives clearly this is paying pretty handsome dividends to ITW.
Could you just remind us or give us your perspective which of your segments are ahead of where you would have expected maybe a year ago and which still seem to have work to do? Because I don't think just a print of margins or performance alone gets at the underlying.
So I'm very interested in your perspective of which of your segments kind of are ahead and which are behind? Well I think where I would start on that is I think the sort of scope of work if you will that we had to do certainly varied at the front-end by segment and I would sort of point to -- if you look at the simplification initiatives as one example within Food Equipment and Welding which were businesses that were the starting points was at a much larger overall division structure relative to the rest of the company.
They had much less work to do.
The other end of the spectrum was Polymers and Fluids that was 130-odd divisions.
So haven't really thought about it in terms of who's ahead or behind.
But what I would say is I think overall the level of progress and execution remains robust and brisk.
And there is a fair amount of runway left.
This isn't something we're wrapping up in the next couple of quarters as we've talked before that we've got another couple of years easy of some continued work to do that is both accretive to our overall numbers you know what our performance goals are and also it's going to result in a company that's much more focused and much more effective in terms of the growth agenda that we have going forward.
Right but for instance Polymers and Fluids I mean obviously it still has issues but it might actually be ahead which could in theory gives it a lot of operating leverage as the business starts to see better fundamental topline for example or Welding might be a little bit behind which may help to explain a little bit of the margin.
I don't know I'm just -- is there any other sort of parsing that you might call out Scott? I don't know.
I was talking about construction before in terms of big margin improvement opportunity there.
I think the progress I think were up 250 basis points.
Even the Auto business that I think is there is sort of templates for kind of organic growth we want to build in all of our businesses has still got a pretty rigorous business structure simplification an in sourcing agenda in front of it.
So a lot of leverage in terms of revenue growth but margins up in the first quarter year-on-year significant percentage of that was related to the initiatives as well.
So it's hard for me to think in terms of who's ahead and behind.
I think because the specific to-do list in each of the segments is pretty unique to those segments.
But in general I don't think we've got anybody dogging it.
I think everybody is getting after it pretty good.
Our next question comes from Ajay Kejriwal.
So I wanted to drill into the organic growth rate a little bit.
Clearly a positive surprise as far as our model is concerned.
And Scott I know you've spent some time talking about China Brazil and other markets.
So the 6%that you're seeing in international markets 1Q is there anything as you analyze the performance there that jumps out as either channel related or anything that suggests that 6% may not be sustainable for the year? Nothing that I can think of Ajay.
So international continues at say around 6% and maybe better in the North America kind of based on what I heard earlier in the call takes up so we could expect growth rate to be better than what you printed in 1Q right? I think we've talked about this before.
Our forecasting approach in terms of what we're looking is that we're going to use run rates that we're seeing in the businesses today.
You are certainly free to analyze the upside and downside opportunities and risks around that.
But we've talked before about the fact that in our business model we have no incentive to get ahead of ourselves.
We have a very fast reaction fast cycle time supply chain and manufacturing approach.
And so from our standpoint the most prudent planning assumptions for us are really deal with what we're seeing on the ground today.
Of course conservative is better as far as we are concerned so good organic.
Now maybe on the incremental margins real nice performance there talk a little bit about Construction Products so obviously it was an okay quarter but margins picking up.
How should we think about incrementals in that business as revenue start coming back? Well I think the endgame there as I've talked before a number of us have talked is in terms of the raw material in that business from a performance standpoint we expect that business to perform from a margin rate standpoint at or above the company goals on a long-term basis.
Given where they are today despite a significant amount of improvement in the first quarter as there is still some room to improve further between where they are in that 20%-plus goal.
So the answer to your question is incremental margins for the next eight quarters are to be really good and accelerating topline helps us get there faster.
Our next question comes from Shivangi Tipnis.
My first question is on pricing.
So you commented that it was about 10%.
Was it linear across all segments? No.
The 10% is really an average.
It wasn't 10%.
The 10 basis points.
Yes.
Sorry the 10 basis points.
So the 10 basis points is really an average and I wouldn't read too much into it in terms of we have different timing around price increases in the various segments and we had some FX impact in one business that we didn't see in another businesses.
And so I would say we're still holding to the 20 basis points to 30 basis points for the year and we're comfortable with that assumption.
But then what was the most pricing pressures and in what segment did you see the most headwinds that contributed to the lower expected EPS form the pricing? I think you were expecting at least 20 basis points even in the first quarter and you got about 10 can you talk about the headwinds? Yes.
Again I mean there is really nothing unusual in terms of head or tailwinds in the first quarter other than what I described.
And so fairly normal quarter in terms of price cost for us.
And one question on the auto build rates can you talk a little bit about the near-term moderation in the auto build rates that you were talking about? And is this going to be globally including China? We expect auto build rates in the second quarter to be in the sort of 1% to 2% range.
That's a worldwide number.
We would expect that virtually all of the geographies to be down sequentially from where they were in Q1.
Into Q2 China looks like it's going to be roughly about the same.
I don't think we see much of a change in China but Europe looks like it's going to have a lower build rate based on the data we're seeing right now.
North America looks like it's going to be a lower build rate.
But remember we continue to add our penetration numbers on top of that.
So just as a clarification you mentioned that you would comfortably be able to outperform the auto build rates even with the moderation is that correct? That's correct.
But I think what we're basically trying to say is don't expect double-digit growth in Auto for next quarter based on a foundation of lower build rates.
Next question comes from Joel Tiss.
I have just one quick question.
Can you talk about some of the successes and maybe some frustrations on the organic growth and just what you're seeing like you've done a great job of pointing out the gas cap not having a gas cap anymore those sorts of things but just a little bit of color there? One of the things I would point out to is I would go back to the comment I made at the outset of the call which is we've worked very hard on shaping the portfolio so that we are in a collection of businesses that we have a lot of conviction about their ability to grow at a healthy clip organically.
And again those actions resulted in an overall organic growth rate for the company of a 100 basis points better in Q1 that would have been if we still were in some of the businesses that we have divested.
I would say characterize our progress in organic as frustration at all.
I think we're just getting in the position we've talked before about the fact that we've a lot of activity inside the company.
We're trying to be very delivered.
I'm talking about simplification and sourcing.
We're trying to be very delivered about making sure that we're focused on the right things at the right time.
This year is a year we expect to turn our attention more to the organic growth agenda.
But keep in mind we still have more than a fair amount of activity going on internally.
But I think some of the acceleration on organic growth we talked about Auto Food Equipment now Construction Test and Measurement it looks like its going to get going and then we've got a couple of other businesses that are not where we wanted them to be.
We talked about Welding that's much more of a situation relative to the current market environment.
And Polymers and Fluids we got to get through this period of sort of reshaping and refocusing but expect that business to certainly contribute from our organic standpoint.
So I think we feel much better about the quality of the portfolio that we are going forward with in terms of its organic growth potential and certainly expect to continue progress as we move down the road.
Our next question comes from Jim Krapfel.
So you're still expecting a run rate of 100 basis points of margin improvements from your initiatives through the rest of 2014.
Is that right? That's correct.
On a year-over-year basis we expect 100 basis points a quarter from BSS and from sourcing.
And then how much do you think you have left in the tank then for 2015? Well I think the way we'd answer that question is similar to what Scott talked about earlier as we've laid out our goals very clearly for 2017 which is 20%-plus operating margins and 20%-plus return on invested capital on an after-tax basis.
And so we're not going to give guidance for 2015 today but the trajectory and the targets we've laid out as we continue to progress on this enterprise strategy we're very confident that we will be able to achieve those targets.
Thank you.
At this time there are no further questions on queue.
So we thank everybody for joining us on today's call.
And we look forward to talking to you again.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
Thank you sir.
So that concludes today's conference call.
Thank you all for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
Welcome and thank you all for joining today's conference.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
And now I'll turn today's conference over to John Brooklier.
Thank you sir.
You may begin.
Good morning everyone and welcome to ITW's Second Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
Joining me this morning is our CEO Scott Santi; and our CFO Michael Larsen.
During today's call we will discuss our strong Q2 financial results and update you on our earnings forecast.
As usual we will open the call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We have scheduled 1 hour for today's call.
Before we get to the quarterly data let me remind you that this presentation contains our financial forecast for the 2014 third quarter and full year as well as other forward-looking statements identified on this slide.
We refer you to the company's 2013 10-K for more detail about important risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.
Also this presentation uses certain non-GAAP measures.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures is contained in the press release.
With that housekeeping taking place I will turn the call over to Scott Santi who will make some brief overview comments on the quarter.
Scott? Thanks John and good morning everyone.
Overall we were pleased with our performance in the quarter and with the continued progress we are making in executing our enterprise strategy in what continues to be a mixed environment.
Our operating margins in the quarter of 20.5% were up 300 basis points and after-tax return on invested capital was also up 300 basis points to 19.5% representing continued solid progress towards our enterprise performance goals of 20%-plus for each of these metrics by 2017.
6 of our 7 segments improved operating margins in the quarter with strong performance across the board as enterprise initiatives contributed 120 basis points to overall margin improvement.
The environment continued to be mixed and overall revenues were up 4% and organic revenue up 1.4% lower than our Q1 growth rate primarily due to more challenging comps internationally and lower auto builds.
In addition ongoing product line and customer base simplification associated with the execution of our enterprise strategy reduced our organic growth by approximately 1 percentage point.
There were some encouraging signs in North America as our Test &amp; Measurement business and Welding business both grew 4%.
For the first half of 2014 total revenues are up 4% and organic up 2.3% both in line with the top line guidance we've been giving since December.
EPS of $1.21 was up 32% versus Q2 of last year slightly ahead of the midpoint of our guidance.
And as a result of performance year-to-date and our confidence in the outlook for the second half of the year we are narrowing and slightly raising our guidance range today.
The new full year midpoint represents a 26% increase on a year-over-year basis.
In closing I'd like to thank the ITW team for the strong performance and continued progress they've delivered in the quarter.
In year 2 of our 5-year enterprise strategy we are pleased with the progress so far and confident in our ability to deliver on our enterprise performance goals.
Now let me turn the call over to Michael Larsen our CFO.
Michael? Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
Okay.
Let's start with the financial summary on Page 2.
Q2 was another quarter of strong operational execution resulting in EPS of $1.21 an increase of 32% year-on-year.
As you may recall last year had a $0.05 nonrecurring pension settlement charge.
So on an adjusted basis EPS increased 25%.
The operating teams continue to execute well on their business structure simplification and sourcing efforts delivering record operating margins of 20.5% a 300-basis-points improvement over last year with 120 basis points of margin expansion from the enterprise initiatives.
Total revenues were $3.7 billion up 4% versus prior year with organic revenues up 1.4% below our Q1 organic growth rate primarily as a result of more difficult comps internationally.
For the first half of 2014 our total revenues are up 4% 2.3% organically in line with the revenue guidance we've been giving since December of last year.
In the quarter we essentially completed the portfolio management element of our 5-year enterprise strategy with the sale of the Industrial Packaging business and we're confident that our current portfolio of differentiated businesses is well positioned for growth with best-in-class margins and return on invested capital.
We also completed the share repurchase program related to Industrial Packaging by repurchasing 17 million shares in the quarter bringing the total share repurchases to 50 million shares since the announcement in September of last year.
Our ending diluted share count for Q2 is 400 million shares.
And since September we've spent $4 billion and repurchased 11% of our outstanding shares.
Our remaining share repurchase authorization is $2.8 billion and given the performance of the company and our outlook for 2014 and beyond we fully expect to repurchase shares opportunistically in the second half of the year.
Free operating cash flow for the quarter was $0.5 billion and our conversion rate is tracking to be greater than 100% for the full year in line with our previous guidance.
Finally as you can see our return on invested capital on an after-tax basis was 19.5% an improvement of 300 basis points.
In summary the ITW team continue to make good progress on the enterprise strategy in a mixed environment and we remain on track for a strong 2014 which I'll discuss in more detail in a few minutes.
On Page 3 some more color on the organic growth rate for the quarter with North America up 1% with continued strength in Automotive up 8% and Food Equipment up 4%.
As Scott said we were encouraged by our Welding segment and Test &amp; Measurement business in North America both up 4%.
International growth was 2% in the second quarter compared to 6% in the first quarter primarily due to tougher comps in Europe and South America.
Internationally strength in Automotive and Test &amp; Measurement and Electronics was partially offset by expected declines in Welding.
You can see Europe up 1% in the quarter; South America down 5%; and Asia Pacific up 7% as China and Australia performed well.
In China Automotive was up 22% Food Equipment up 14%; Polymers &amp; Fluids up 9%.
Since we will be mentioning product line and customer base simplification what we commonly refer to as PLS a few times today let me just spend a minute and put this core element of our 80/20 management process in the context of our enterprise strategy.
An integral part of our 80/20 process and our enterprise strategy is to focus on quality of revenue and not quantity.
And through product line and customer base simplification our segments are eliminating the complexity and overhead costs associated with smaller product lines and customers and focusing their businesses on supporting and growing with their largest customers and product lines.
PLS is a core element of our 80/20 management process and an integral component of our ability to achieve sustainable best-in-class margins and returns going forward.
In year 2 of our enterprise strategy PLS is a natural and expected outgrowth of our business-structure simplification initiative as we now focus on reapplying ITW's proprietary 80/20 management process to our 90 new larger-scale divisions.
We quantified the reduction on organic revenue to be approximately 1 percentage point and we fully expect that focusing the company on taking full advantage of the considerable growth potential that resides within our largest customers and product lines will achieve improved overall organic growth performance over the medium and long term.
The financial impact of product line and customer base simplification continues to be fully captured in our guidance as we continue to expect total year revenues up 3% to 4% and organic revenues up 2% to 3% in what continues to be a mixed environment.
Moving on to Slide 4.
Operating margins were a highlight this quarter as solid execution across the board led to operating margins of 20.5% an increase of 300 basis points from last year.
6 out of 7 segments expanded margins in a big way many achieving the record levels of profitability as Construction Products Automotive OEM Polymers &amp; Fluids Specialty Products and Test &amp; Measurement and Electronics all put up solid margin expansion numbers.
As you can see businesses such as Polymers &amp; Fluids and Construction are now approaching sustainable 20%-plus operating margins levels that frankly seemed out of reach just a few years ago.
In a sluggish environment Welding essentially maintained their best-in-class 26% operating margin for the quarter.
On the right side of the page we've listed the drivers with 120 basis points from the continued progress on our enterprise initiatives operating leverage of the top line growth was 40 basis points and price/cost was again a favorable 10 basis points.
And with a few exceptions the material cost environment remains benign.
You can see the 130 basis points of margin favorability from other which includes the nonrecurring pension settlement in the year-ago quarter.
With that I'll be back in a few minutes to discuss the third quarter and updated 2014 guidance.
But first let me turn it over to John for some additional commentary on the segments.
John? Thanks Michael.
On Slide 5 you'll see a breakdown of total revenue and operating income per segment.
And while Auto OEM and Food Equipment segments led the way in top line growth 5 of our 7 segments produced double-digit growth and operating income.
In particular and as noted earlier Construction Products and Auto OEM achieved operating income gains of 32% and 26% respectively.
You'll see further evidence of this as we highlight significant operating margin progress for nearly all of our segments.
Now I'll go into further detail on our operating segments.
On the right-hand side of the page in Auto OEM the segment produced another outstanding quarter on multiple fronts.
Organic revenues grew 8% outpacing worldwide auto builds by 6 percentage points.
By geography organic revenues for Europe grew 9%; North America 8%; and China was up 22%.
Our European businesses outperformed European auto builds by 7 percentage points largely due to our fuel and powertrain product lines.
In North America we outpaced auto builds by 4 percentage points thanks to our plastic fastener and powertrain products.
And in China we continued to gain share via multiple product lines outperforming auto builds by 11 percentage points.
The drop-through to the bottom line was very strong as segment margins of 23.7% were 310 basis points higher than the year-ago period.
Great performance by Auto.
In our Test &amp; Measurement and Electronics segment on Slide 6 organic revenues increased 1% in Q2.
The good news is that we saw improvement in the Test &amp; Measurement portion of the segment in the quarter.
The T&amp;M portion their organic revenues grew 6% thanks in large part to the strength from our flagship Instron business which was up 8% in Q2.
We're hopeful that the better performance in T&amp;M and Instron is suggestive of a more sustained pickup of CapEx spending and we're encouraged by order activity and backlog as we move into the third quarter.
In the Electronics piece of the business organic revenues declined 3% largely due to comps in the electronics assemblies business.
We believe this category will improve as the year progresses.
For the segment operating margins of 15.2% were 150 basis points higher than the year-ago period.
Looking at Food Equipment.
Segment organic revenue growth was 3% and largely reflected global contributions from its equipment and service businesses.
In North America equipment and service-related organic revenues grew 4% and 5% respectively.
Equipment's organic revenue growth was driven by an increase in the sales of refrigeration and cooking products.
Internationally equipment revenues increased 5% thanks to a strong warewash and refrigeration sales.
International service organic revenues declined 2% due in part to some weakness in France.
And once again the segment's operating margins of 19.5% improved with 80 basis points of improvement versus the prior year period.
Moving to Slide 7.
In our Polymers &amp; Fluids segment organic revenues declined 3% and that was largely attributable to our ongoing PLS activity.
As Michael noted earlier in his PLS comments we continue to weed out the less profitable products and customers in this and other segments.
As a result PLS has had the typical impact of decreasing organic revenues but improving margins.
All 3 of our platforms polymers fluids &amp; hygiene and auto aftermarket posted declining organic revenues of 6% 3% and 1% respectively.
The much better news is that segment operating margins moved up significantly to 19.6% and that was 130 basis points higher than the year-ago period.
In the Welding segment worldwide organic revenues declined 2% but that was largely due to specific international business as well as some targeted PLS customer back activity.
The international organic revenue decline of 15% was due to a convergence of events.
In China we were once again hit by comps related to the completion of the portfolio transition from a shipbuilding to an energy-infrastructure focus.
We believe however that this comp will ease in the Q3 and beyond.
We also experienced some delays in onshore pipeline projects in China.
In Europe we implemented PLS activity in Germany and our Middle East business was negatively impacted by political events in the region.
The much better news came from North America.
And as Michael mentioned earlier organic revenues increased 4% in the quarter.
We saw some early signs of strengthening in equipment sales for both the industrial and commercial end markets and continued growth in the welding gun area.
We also expect Welding to benefit from easier second half 2014 comps.
And we'll remind you that the company-leading operating margins of 26.3% while they were down 20 basis points is still a very strong performance.
On Slide 8 we continue to be very pleased with the dramatically improving profitability metrics in our Construction Products segment despite some uneven organic revenue performance.
Segment top line reflected geographic variability as Asia Pacific's organic revenues grew 8% thanks to our residential and commercial construction growth in Australia and New Zealand.
You'll recall we also had good performance in Australia and New Zealand in the first quarter.
Our North American Construction-related organic revenues declined 2% as our residential business was moderately negative thanks in part to some ongoing PLS activity while our renovation and commercial construction business showed modest growth.
In Europe organic revenues declined 4% as commercial construction activity was especially soft in France.
As we have consistently communicated with our investors at this point in time we are chiefly focused on improving the profit profile of this segment through both business structure simplification and PLS initiatives.
We are clearly on the right path as Construction Products' operating margins of 18.2% were 450 basis points higher than the year-ago period.
And then finally in our Specialty Products segment organic revenues were flat as a pickup in a variety of our consumer packaging businesses principally our film gluing systems and apparel-related units was offset by delays in projects for our warehouse automation products.
Our appliance business grew organic revenues 1% while our ground support organic revenues were flat.
Strong segment operating margins of 24.2% were 180 basis points higher than the year-ago period.
Now let me turn the call back over to Michael who will cover our 2014 and third quarter guidance.
Michael? Okay.
Thanks John.
Our financial performance in the first half of '14 and the positive momentum on the enterprise initiatives gives us increased confidence in our ability to deliver on our financial commitments for 2014 and beyond.
For 2014 we're raising the EPS midpoint slightly and narrowing our full year EPS guidance range to $4.50 to $4.62 which compares to the previous range of $4.45 to $4.65.
The new $4.56 midpoint represents an increase of 26% versus 2013 on unchanged total 3% to 4% revenue growth.
As you can tell we're not counting on a second half acceleration of revenues.
Our balance sheet and cash position is excellent and we fully expect to repurchase shares opportunistically in the second half of the year.
At this point we can't be more specific in terms of timing or magnitude and we have not included any impact from lower share count in the updated guidance today.
With the month of July the third quarter is off to a good start and we expect Q3 EPS to be in a range of $1.19 to $1.27 again with 3% to 4% total revenue growth and continued year-over-year margin expansion with approximately 100 basis points coming from our enterprise initiatives.
We're pleased with our first half financial performance with total revenues up 4% operating margins of 19.6% an improvement of 240 basis points and EPS up 23%.
In addition following the completion of our portfolio management efforts we now have 7 highly differentiated segments with significant growth potential going forward.
While much work is still ahead of us 2014 the second year of our 5-year enterprise strategy is shaping up to be a year of continued progress as the ITW team works hard to further expand margins and returns and we continue to redeploy our strong cash flows in a disciplined and returns-focused manner.
In addition we believe that many of the efforts that we're undertaking today are positioning the company for stronger organic growth in the future.
With that let me turn the call back over to John.
Thanks Michael.
We will now open the call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take the first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question Andrew Kaplowitz Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Scott so you've talked in the past about some of the bigger CapEx markets potentially coming back such as Test &amp; Measurement and Welding.
In 2Q you did see some of that improvement.
So do you think this is the inflection in sort of these large CapEx markets that we've been waiting for? And you did mention pretty good order visibility into 3Q and that's despite ag being weak which we know is part of the Welding business.
So maybe you could talk about that.
Yes.
Andy I don't think that we've seen enough to say it would be an inflection point by any stretch particularly given the overall choppiness of the environment.
I think we were generally pleased with certainly a noticeable pickup in the order rates in both businesses in North America.
But I think we'd like to see another quarter or 2 before we call it an inflection for sure.
Research Division</strong> And then Scott in terms of ag are you worried about that affecting the Welding business a little more as you go forward in the second half? I don't think so.
I think right now we're -- I don't expect things to get a whole lot worse there.
And again the overall mix ag represents 10%-ish of our revenues in North America.
So I think we've got a nice mix of end-market exposure there that even if it did erode further I don't think it's going to put us off our plan at all for the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just another big-picture question.
Like business simplification through PLS is -- it's actually slowing down some of your businesses that you just talked about.
But you've talked about how it eventually will accelerate organic growth.
So the headwind that you mentioned was 1% in the quarter.
When do you think that headwind will turn into a tailwind? Is that next year end of this year? Like how should we look at that? Well I think it's a little early to tell.
I think we'll have a little bit better view for you on '15 as we get to December and we've gone through our planning process.
What I would say is it's in our plans for the next 2 quarters.
As Michael said earlier this is -- we are front and center on the reapplication of 80/20 across our 90 scaled-up divisions and it's certainly a normal and expected part of the process.
So what I can say for sure is for the next 2 quarters we expect a similar sort of impact that's fully embedded in our guidance.
And I think we need to get through our '15 planning process to have a better view internally and what we can share externally on how that ultimately impacts our overall performance in '15 if at all.
The next question from Deane Dray Citi.
Research Division</strong> So year 2 enterprise strategy and you're already bumping up on the operating margin 20% and the return on invested capital target.
So is it time to start setting the bar higher? Should we be going some -- temper expectations for further improvement? But just help put us in context as you get there sooner than you thought.
Well what I would I guess sort of offer as a reminder is this is 1 quarter not a full year.
So I think what -- where we are sets us up certainly for us to be able to at least hit those 2 metrics in '15 given the progress that we're making.
And I think what I would say is we still have plenty of work to do across all of these initiatives.
We are not done with BSS not done with sourcing.
So we would expect continued progress as we move forward.
But it -- but we haven't sort of boxed the upper end at this point and we're really managing the company quarter-by-quarter and ultimately we'll talk about where we think we can get in '15 late this year.
Research Division</strong> And Scott I probably should've added a congratulations within that question because you did get there faster and those are impressive numbers.
And then the second question is on capital allocation.
So just in terms of how you've couched buybacks to be opportunistic other uses of cash maybe the M&amp;A environment the target has been 1/3 of your revenue growth to come from M&amp;A but it's been pretty quiet there.
So maybe put that in context for us please.
Yes Dean so this is Michael here.
So what I would start with is that our capital allocation strategy remains unchanged.
As you know we've been very disciplined and returns-focused.
And we generate a significant amount of cash.
And priority one is reinvesting in our businesses whether those are CapEx projects or new products given our innovation efforts as well as BSS or restructuring efforts.
And so all of those projects are fully funded.
The second priority is our dividend.
We have a -- roughly a 2% dividend yield at this point.
And the dividend continues to grow in line with our cash flows as -- and has done so for a little over 50 years.
And we certainly view that as an important component of our capital allocation strategy.
And so that leaves the balance approximately 50% of our total cash flows for we've -- what we've called external investments.
And really that encompasses acquisitions which under the right set of conditions and financial criteria would take priority over share repurchases.
Given where we're at in terms of the M&amp;A environment and also given our strong balance sheet and cash position and our view of where the company is going to be not just in 2014 but really as we continue to execute this 5-year strategy we have a preference for repurchasing shares.
And so that's what we alluded to in the second half of the year is that we will -- rather than an announced program like the one we just completed for -- associated with the IPG divestiture is an attempt to be more opportunistic as we go into the balance of the year and also as we start to think about 2015 and putting together the plans for next year.
So that's how I'd position it for you Deane.
Next question Jamie Cook Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Andrew on behalf of Jamie.
Just a quick question on Construction.
So you guys spoke about there's some -- still some uncertainty I think and some mixed commentary on housing and commercial construction.
Would you guys say you're -- have changed your stance on this segment at all in terms of becoming more cautious of recovery? Or what's your view at this point as it relates to how it was 6 months ago when the year started? Well I don't think it's changed at all.
I think what we've been saying for the last year for our business in the Construction or in our focus that we had a business that had the potential to generate a significantly greater level of earnings at the current revenue base than what we have been performing to.
So our focus for the last 4 to 6 quarters has largely been on getting our Construction business up to margins and profitability levels that we could see in terms of their potential.
And I think that's been the focus.
Our -- from the standpoint of top line and the market dynamics right now you all read what's going on there.
It's pretty up and down.
I think on a year-to-date basis from an overall organic standpoint we're largely tracking various industry metrics.
We're not looking for a lot of out-performance there yet because we are so focused on driving these internal improvements and we got a lot more work to do there particularly in Europe and we're on it.
So I don't think our view has changed at all other than I think we're on track we're pleased with our progress and clearly there is no sort of momentum right now on the ground in terms of any significant recovery building particularly in the housing market in the U.S.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just switching to Food Equipment.
Margins there were pretty impressive and are looking pretty good relative to historical levels.
How sustainable do you think those are? Are there any initiatives underway? Or that you could talk about that you think you can get those -- you keep those margins at this -- at current levels or even go higher? I think they're very sustainable and would expect that as we continue to grow that business given historical levels of incremental profitability that we generate an organic growth let alone the continued impact of some BSS and sourcing initiatives there that we'll continue to move those margins up as we go forward.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question John Inch Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> It's Karen Lau dialing in for John.
So could you talk about the progression on the quarter? Some companies called out Europe fading and Latin America seems to be really soft especially in June.
Did you see any of that? And I guess more importantly did you see any of those geographic markets improve since the end of the quarter? We didn't see any unusual trends as we went through the quarter.
June was our best month but it usually is.
And so there was really nothing unusual.
Europe as you noted was -- and South America which is primarily Brazil for us was weaker in the quarter.
But weakness -- we didn't see increased weakness or strength as we went through the quarter.
Like I mentioned July for us is off to a good start and we feel good about the guidance we've given here for the third quarter and for the total year.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then on price costs you realized 10 basis points in the first half.
I believe you implemented some pricing increase maybe towards the end of 1Q.
Does -- did those price increases stick? And are you still expecting 20 to 30 basis points for the year? Yes.
So we -- as you mentioned we did increase price in several of our segments and saw positive price in the majority of our segments.
The 10 basis points is slightly below the 20 to 30 that we were expecting for the year and we're probably going to be at the lower end of that range as we look at it today.
Nothing structural.
There's a little bit of FX impact here.
But as I mentioned the environment in terms of direct material inflation remains benign at this point and the businesses are doing a good job taking advantage of price opportunities as we continue to add value to our customers.
So that's how I'd describe it.
Next question Nigel Coe Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is Jiayan filling in for Nigel.
We just want to dig a little bit into SG&amp;A.
It has been pretty flat in the range of $680 million to $690 million for the past few quarters.
So I wonder whether this is a good run rate going forward.
And also if we look at the sales under the G&amp;A portion how has the G&amp;A expense been trending over the past few quarters? And what's your expectation there? Yes.
So if you look at SG&amp;A this quarter it was down $70 million on a year-over-year basis.
About half of that is the pension charge that I mentioned in my comments.
So approximately $35 million.
And we did have slightly lower restructuring costs this quarter versus the same quarter last year.
But beyond that it's really continued good cost controls and discipline in our segments.
And so with those caveats I just mentioned I would think this quarter has a pretty good run rate on a go-forward basis.
As a percentage of sales 18.2% and so we don't expect it to differ much from those levels.
And actually as we continue to implement our BSS efforts across the company we should expect to see overheads come down.
Like I said as we exit smaller product lines and discontinuations with customers that -- and take out the overhead associated with that you should expect to see overheads and SG&amp;A to improve.
Research Division</strong> Great that's really helpful.
And another question for the 120 bps contribution from enterprise initiatives.
Can you maybe just give us some color what percentage of this is driven by the PLS and what percentage is driven by the other initiatives? Yes.
So we -- historically we've not broken out the impact from the enterprise initiatives in much greater detail and we're not going to go down that path.
And so the 120 basis points was really strong execution by the operating teams on our BSS efforts as well as on the sourcing side.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the PLS benefits you're already seeing that during this quarter right? So the -- all the things you are doing you are already reaping the benefit.
It's not like a benefit you're expecting to see in 2015.
Right.
I mean I think the benefit you're seeing now is the lower overhead costs and the improved mix of our product portfolio.
What you don't see today is what we've talked about which is as we focus on the larger product lines and customers we fully expect that we will take advantage of the full organic growth potential with those customers and product lines.
And so what we're doing is positioning the company for accelerated organic growth in the future.
And that's -- so obviously you have not -- in the short term you're seeing the reduction in the revenues but you're not seeing the long -- medium- to long-term impact yet.
Our next question Jim Krapfel MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> So you had a couple of quarters now of 120-basis-point margin benefit from your strategic initiatives.
Just wondering what's the run rate of improvement you expect going forward here in the next couple of quarters.
And at what point would you expect maybe some strategic sourcing benefits to max out? Would that be in kind -- end of 2015 or '16 period? So to answer your question I mean we are expecting approximately 100 basis points of margin expansion from the initiatives in the third quarter and again in the fourth quarter.
And that's on a year-over-year basis.
And that's what I just described as very consistent with the guidance that we've previously provided.
And we have -- as we develop the plans for '15 and '16 we don't see any reduction in the sourcing savings.
So we really continue those -- expect to see those continue as we go through at least through 2017 which is the fifth year of our enterprise strategy.
So we're not seeing a decline in sourcing savings.
If anything we're probably seeing a little more of an improvement this year versus last year in year 2 of our strategic sourcing efforts.
Our next question Walter Liptak Global Hunter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Let me ask about the Welding business especially North America.
The 4% organics looked a little bit better than we were expecting.
Can you talk about how the quarter trended? And how things are doing in July? I don't know that we saw any major inflections month by month that was -- the improvement was in the capital equipment area which again we thought was positive development and also on guns.
So it does speak to a little bit more investment by our Welding customers.
But as I said earlier it's basically a 1-quarter trend.
So hopefully it will continue.
We'll wait and see.
The only thing I'd add is we are -- if you look at the comps on a year-over-year basis the comps do get easier here in the second half of the year.
So on a year-over-year basis we should be seeing improved growth rates out of the Welding business.
Walter I also add that we've talked about Welding before and we specifically talked international that the comps on the international side relative to this portfolio transition in China we should start to see better comps than that as we move into third quarter and beyond.
So I think that'll be helpful to the overall segment performance.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That sounds good.
And if I can switch over to electronics assembly and the decline there.
There are some new mobile devices coming out in the second half and -- despite the decline there I wonder what the outlook is for your second half.
Yes.
So Walter this is Michael.
I mean we're not expecting significant improvement for the electronics business here for the balance of the year.
You are right that there are some encouraging potential order activity going on in that segment and that would be slight upside to our current expectations for the second half.
But again we're not counting on it at this point.
[Operator Instructions] Next question Ajay Kejriwal FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> So on PLS Scott we've seen actions in a couple of segments here Polymers &amp; Fluids Welding Construction.
I guess the question is there more opportunity in PLS either within these segments or maybe on the segments where we haven't seen that initiative being played out? So just if you can talk a little bit about what to expect on PLS in the next say 12 to 18 months.
Yes.
I would -- I think the -- we've talked I think throughout our description of what this business structure simplification initiative means is that there's a structural element to it in terms of generating better scale and leverage and focus in terms of the division structure.
And the second part of that is then the opportunity to reapply 80/20 to all of those businesses.
And so I think what I would say is we've moved -- it's largely a function of who's ready to get to that second stage more so than there's a particular -- there's a differential impact as you go segment by segment.
So in the Polymers &amp; Fluids business was -- got to that place earlier than some of the other segments.
We're now at a place where pretty much across all 7 segments it's an active part of let's call it Stage 2 of the BSS process.
So I think it has just become -- it sort of moved again from a couple of segments to pretty much being implemented across all 7.
It's a normal part of the process.
Polymers &amp; Fluids is going to get to the end of it sooner than the other segments because they started it first.
But I think overall that opportunity to reapply 80/20 is a real significant and meaningful part of the overall impact on BSS.
And it's an impact of that.
It's just starting to show up in terms of overall margin and profitability performance.
Research Division</strong> So I guess expect more PLS in the other segments where we haven't seen that started yet.
Well it's been started.
I think it's what would you say pretty much from -- at a minimum the beginning of this year everybody I think across the company's been in a pretty heavy teeing [ph] around starting to really focus.
Getting the structural stuff out of the way and really starting to focus on reapplying 80/20 across the company.
As we've said earlier we've got another couple of quarters where clearly it's going to be an active part of what we're up to.
And I think we need to get through the planning process and see how much -- what the '15 agenda looks like business by business in that regard.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then China we're seeing really good growth in Auto.
And then overall that 8% number is that reflecting the impact in Welding? Or is there anything else going on in that 8% number? Yes.
That's the largest declines in revenue in China is indeed the Welding segment as we've talked about as we exited the shipbuilding market and really have focused on the energy side.
And we believe that's where the -- not just the better margins reside but also the better growth potential.
So in the quarter in China strong performance in Automotive and Polymers &amp; Fluids and Food Equipment.
And then decline's primarily focused just in the Welding segment.
And gentlemen I am showing no further questions at this time.
Okay.
Well we appreciate everybody's participation in the call and we look forward to talking to you later.
Thank you.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Thank you for joining.
Welcome and thank you for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] Today’s conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now I’d like to turn the meeting over to Mr.
John Brooklier Vice President Investor Relations.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Thanks Diane.
Good morning everyone and welcome to ITW’s Third Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
Joining me this morning is our CEO Scott Santi and our CFO Michael Larsen.
We would also like to welcome our Erin Hoffman our new VP of Investor Relations.
As you know Erin joined us in early September and we are working on a smooth transition of the Investor Relations role till I retire in March of 2015.
Erin good to have you onboard.
During today’s call we will discuss our outstanding Q3 financial results and update you on our earnings forecast.
As usual we will open the call to your questions.
We ask for your cooperation on our one question one follow up question policy as we have scheduled one hour for today’s call.
Before we get to the quarterly data let me remind you that this presentation contains our financial forecast for the 2014 fourth quarter and full year as well as other forward-looking questions identified on this slide.
For a preview of the company’s 2014 Form 10-Q for the second quarter for more details about the important risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectation.
Also this presentation uses certain non-GAAP measures and a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures is contained in the press release.
Take care of that I’ll turn the call over to Scott Santi who will comment on the quarter.
Scott? Thanks John and good morning everyone.
Overall we were pleased with the performance in the quarter and with the progress that we are continuing to make in executing our strategy.
Operating margins in the quarter were a record 20.9% and were 190 basis points higher than in Q3 of last year with a 120 basis points of that improvement coming directly from enterprise strategy initiatives.
After-tax return on invested capital was 20.1% marking the first time we’ve gotten both of these key metrics above our stated goals of 20% plus in the quarter since the launch of our enterprise strategy in 2012.
Operating income of 772 million was the highest quarterly total on the company’s history and free cash flow was very strong at 128% of that income.
EPS of $1.28 was up 42% versus the prior year.
We were also pleased with our organic growth performance in the quarter as we had four of our seven business segments deliver organic growth of 5% or better.
While we are still three or four quarters away from being able to turn the majority of our attention to the growth agenda component of our strategy it’s encouraging to see some early signs of progress on the organic growth front in a number of our businesses.
Product line and customer simplification activities remain an active element of our portfolio management initiative currently and had a negative impact on the company’s overall organic growth rate of approximately 1 percentage point in the quarter.
I expect that these activities will have a similar 1% negative impact on our organic growth rates were up most if not all by 2015.
However keep in mind the product line in customer simplification our core components of ITW’s 80-20 business management system and we are in the process of reapplying it to our scale of operating divisions.
These activities are a key driver of our ability to continue to improve margins and returns and to accelerate organic growth going forward.
Overall we are pleased with our progress as we approach the end of year two of our five year enterprise strategy.
At our upcoming Investor Day in December we will provide investors with an updated view of our performance targets for 2017 as well as lay out a preliminary line of what we think 2018 and beyond might look like in terms of both strategy and performance.
I’d like to close by thanking all of our people around the world for the great job that they continue to do in serving our customers and in executing our strategy.
Now I’d like to turn over to Michael.
Michael? Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
Okay let’s get started with the financial summary on page two.
Third quarter was another quarter with solid execution and high quality of earnings with organic growth of 3.5% record operating income and record operating margins of 20.9%.
EPS of a $1.28 was an increase of 42% versus prior year.
Revenues were 3.7 billion up 3.5% with growth in all major geographies.
Four segments automotive food equipment test and measurement and electronics and welding stood out with organic growth of 5% or better.
As Scott mentioned consistent with the first half of the year product line simplification was a 1% drag on our overall organic growth rate.
Five of our seven segments expanded margins by more than 200 basis points with a 120 basis points from enterprise initiatives which included increased contribution from our strategic sourcing efforts.
Incremental margins were 76% and cash generation was solid with free operating cash flow 128%.
We spent 500 million on share repurchases and you might recall that we raised a dividend of 15% in the third quarter.
Good progress in after-tax return on invested capital with an improvement of 250 basis points.
So overall we were pleased with the strong results in the quarter and the continued positive momentum on our enterprise initiatives.
On page three a few highlights on organic growth for the quarter with North America up 4% as a result of continued strength in automotive up 8% food equipment up 6%.
Also in North America welding was up 10% and test and measurement and electronics grew 6% certainly some encouraging progress on organic growth.
International growth was also positive up 3% in the quarter with Europe up 3%.
Four of our segments were positive in Europe with automotive up 9% and food equipment up 6%.
Asia-Pacific increased 5% driven by Australia up 5% and China up 3%.
Automotive OEM and food equipment in China were both up double digits construction in Australia test and measurement and electronics in Asia-Pacific were up high single digits.
So in summary solid organic growth across all major geographies and some encouraging signs in our CapEx driven segments welding and test and measurement as we continue to apply our 80-20 business system and position our businesses for future organic growth.
Moving on to slide four operating margins were once again a highlight as solid execution on the enterprise initiatives which included greater contributions from the strategic sourcing effort led to record operating margins of 20.9% an increase of 190 basis points from last year.
As Scott mentioned the third quarter was the highest ever in terms of operating income at 772 million which speaks to the quality of the revenues generated by this portfolio of highly differentiated businesses after completing the portfolio management component of our enterprise strategy.
This former record was 770 million in the second quarter of 2012 the quarter that had revenues almost 1 billion higher than this quarter.
We were pleased to see that all seven segments improved operating margins with five of the seven segments expanding margins by more than 200 basis points and polymers and fluids exceeding 20% for the first time.
At the right side of the page we’ve listed the drivers of the margin expansion with the largest contribution being 120 basis points from enterprise initiatives.
We continue to invest in future margin expansion and spent $28 million on restructuring related to our business structure simplification efforts.
So clearly more to come in terms of BSS savings as we spend approximately $100 million this year.
Operating leverage was 80 basis points and price cost was favorable for a total of 190 basis points of margin expansion.
So really great progress and lots of positive momentum on the enterprise initiatives.
We’ve continued spend on restructuring and higher contributions from sourcing which gives us increased confidence in our ability to expand margins in 2015 and beyond.
With that I’ll be back in a few minutes to go over our updated guidance but first let me turn it over to John for some additional commentary on the segment.
Thank you Michael.
Moving to slide five you’ll see the breakdown of total revenue and operating income per segment.
Six out of our seven segments produced top-line growth in the quarter while all seven segments demonstrated operating margin expansion.
Our auto OEM food equipment test and measurement electronics and welding segments led the company’s top line growth and five out of seven segments produced operating margin over 20%.
This was an outstanding quarter for the company as our enterprise initiatives contributed to improve our operating margin performance in all of our segments which I will detail now.
As I cover our segments I’ll remind all of you that our organic revenue growth excludes the impact of currency and acquisition activity.
Moving to auto OEM the segment produced another long line of solid quarters.
Organic revenue grew 8% compared to worldwide auto builds of 2% and that was due to ITW’s style customer backed innovation and ongoing product penetration.
By geography organic revenue for Europe grew 9% North America increased 8% and China was up 12%.
Our European businesses outperformed European auto builds by 10 percentage points due to penetration gains across all platforms.
In North America our growth equaled auto builds at 8% however Detroit where we have significant penetration only grew by 3%.
In China we outperformed auto builds by four percentage points.
Profitability remain high with operating margins 23.4% a 230 basis points improvement from last year.
Moving to slide six in our test and measurement electronic segment organic revenues increased 5% in Q3 a solid improvement sequentially over last quarter.
Test and measurements organic revenues grew 8% led by strength in our worldwide Instron business with growth of 22% in Q3 and both North America Asia produced good results.
The electronics business increased organic revenues by 3% as the electronic assembly business moved into positive territory with 5% growth in Q3.
The remainder of the electronics business grew 1%.
For the total segment Q3 operating margin showed notable improvement at 18.7% that’s 240 basis points higher than the year ago period.
The food equipment segments organic growth rate of 5% reflected another quarter of very good growth and showed progress along all major product categories and geographies.
In North America equipment and service related organic related service revenues grew 6% and 4% respectively thanks to growth in refrigeration and cooking businesses and new product innovation.
Internationally equipment revenues increased 8% due to strong warewash and refrigeration sales while service organic revenues increased 1%.
The segment’s operating margin at 23.1% was a robust 320 basis points higher than the prior year period.
So again good progress on the food equipment side.
Moving to slide seven in our polymers and fluids segment organic revenues declined 2% and that’s largely driven by our ongoing product line simplification activity.
As we’ve noted in prior quarters we continue to weed out less profitable products and customers in this segment which as you know negatively affect organic revenue but substantially improves profitability.
Polymers and fluids and hygiene businesses organic revenues each declined 1% while automotive aftermarket declined 4%.
As the product line simplification activity diminishes we expect the effects of PLS to have less of an impact on organic revenue in 2015 and beyond.
The much better new shorter term is that the segment achieved Q3 operating margin of 20.2% a 210 basis point improvement over the year ago period.
Looking at the welding segment the worldwide organic revenues grew 5% due to strength in North American equipment sales.
North American organic revenues increased 10% it’s a very good number for them in the quarter and that was driven by robust growth in both industrial and commercial markets and growth in the oil and gas business.
International organic revenue declined 7% due to impact of delayed onshore pipeline projects in China and the Middle East and also some of the PLS projects in Germany negatively impacted the organic revenue growth in the quarter.
All said the welding segment continues to lead the way with company high operating margins of 26.2% and that’s 80 basis points higher than the year ago period.
So a nice quarter from the welding segment.
Moving to slide eight the construction product segment produced modest organic revenue growth of 2% in the quarter.
Asia-Pacific led the way with 6% organic growth and that was largely driven by growth across all construction sectors in the Australian and New Zealand geographies.
In North America organic revenue was up 2% with a residential and renovation categories up but commercial construction down.
In Europe organic revenue was down 1% and that was largely due to product simplification and declines of France offset by strength in the United Kingdom.
As noted in the prior quarter the segment’s profitability continues to be our major focus and operating margins of 18.9% were 270 basis points higher than the year ago period.
In specialty product segments organic revenues were flat as modest growth across our consumer packaging business was offset by delays and customer projects and warehouse automation business.
In total our consumer packaging business and appliance was flat while ground support was up 2%.
This segment represents a collection of high margin businesses in the total segment operating margins of 21.3% the 20 basis point higher than the year ago period.
So substantially good progress from a lot of our segments.
Now let me turn the call over to Michael who will cover our fourth quarter and 2014 full year guidance.
Michael? Okay thanks John.
So on page nine let’s start with our guidance for the quarter where we expect 2% to 3% organic revenue growth and 100 basis points of margin expansion from enterprise initiatives.
Currency is a 3% headwind on revenues so total revenues are expected to be about flat.
Foreign exchange is a manageable $0.04 headwind to EPS and EPS is expected to be in the $1.07 to $1.15 range midpoint of $1.11 an increase of 21% over last year.
For the full year we are raising our EPS guidance third time this year to $4.57 to $4.65 which compares to $4.50 to $4.62 previously.
At the new midpoint of $4.61 EPS is expected to be up 27% over 2013.
Our organic revenue growth assumptions for the year remains unchanged at 2% to 3% and we now expect higher operating margins of approximately 20% roughly 200 basis points of improvement.
So in summary we are pleased with our progress on our enterprise strategy and strong financial results for the quarter and for the year.
In a macro environment similar to the one that we’re in today we have great confidence in our ability to further expand operating margins and deliver differentiated earnings growth in 2015 and beyond as the team continues to execute well in our five year strategy and position ITW for a solid organic growth with best in class modules in returns.
We look forward to sharing more detail with you at our upcoming Investor Day on December 5th.
So with that Thanks Michael.
So now I’ll open the call for your questions so please be brief to allow more people the opportunity to ask a question.
Remember one question and one follow up question.
We’ll now open the call.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
Rob Wertheimer your line is now open.
LLC</strong> Hi.
Good morning.
So great results in welding.
I was curious if there was what the discrepancy if there is one between welding and construction particularly North America is? Does the strength in welding tend to turn around the construction or you’re turning product lines somewhere there or it’s just not as much overlapping them in the customers I would have guessed? I might probably not as much overlap most of the strength in welding was in what I described is more general industrial and oil and gas really end markets less so in commercial construction.
LLC</strong> Perfect.
And then just one more in welding may be you don’t want to get in too much detail in the international side but are you able to say if the pipeline delays are sort of geopolitically related or whether there is any other more economic reason to the delay? I’d say it’s hard to say at this point.
I think we’re looking at some things that just got pushed back a little bit relative to our earlier expectations on timing.
I think we’ll have to wait and see.
LLC</strong> So far you don’t think it’s cancelled or gone it’s just pushed out? Yes.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Great.
I think that was my two I guess.
Thank you.
Thanks Rob.
Ann Duignan your line is now open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Ann.
Can you talk a little bit about what you are weeding out on the businesses that you are weeding out the lagging businesses.
Can you just talk about – give a little bit more color on which business you are actually divesting up or discontinuing? Well if you’re referring to the product line simplification work the way I would describe it as sort of the next level down of our portfolio strategy and really what we’re doing there is weeding out relatively small volume product lines that add complexity but don’t really drive a lot of impact and/or product lines where we don’t have the sort of level of differentiation that we’re ultimately looking to build the company around.
So lower profit certainly lower volume product lines.
And that’s going on all over the business.
So even automotive that’s got the best growth rate it’s got pretty healthy product line simplification agenda underway.
Okay.
So it’s more just 80-20 across the entire business it’s not related to one specific end market? Correct.
Well said.
That’s helpful to understand.
And then my follow up is on food equipment can you just give us a little bit more color on what’s going on those businesses? And there were some pretty end results just curious to get a bit more color how much is market? How much is market penetration innovation? If you can just give us a little bit more quantitative analysis around what’s going on there that would be great.
Thanks.
Yeah I think what I would say of I think we’re very happy with the equipment sales increases in the quarter.
The one in Europe certainly stands out from my standpoint where we’re plus 8% internationally overall part of that is certainly some progress we’re making around in acquisition because last year on China but also the core European business was actually relatively healthy given a lot of the gloom and doom in terms of the overall economic situation there.
I would say overall we’re not seeing a ton of market lifts probably things in North America will get better but largely these numbers are driven by new product activity.
Any products in particular or any categories in particular particularly in Europe I’m just curious Yeah warewash which is our commercial dishwashing business and also refrigeration in Europe.
Okay.
And you believe those are more market penetration not end market? Yes.
Okay.
I’ll leave it there.
Thank you.
Take care.
Andrew Kaplowitz.
Your line is now open.
Hi guys good morning.
It’s Alan Fleming for Andrew this morning.
Alan how are you? I’m doing well.
Just on Europe you saw some acceleration to plus 3% from I think plus 1 last quarter.
And I know some of this seems to be somewhat specific to ITW with strength in food equipment and auto but just curious if you guys view is it possible that Europe may be a little more stable than some feared and things have not slowed down as much as it seems may be if you just give a little bit more color on that market.
Yeah sure.
Again we can comment on what we’re seeing in our businesses and we had obviously a good quarter in Europe and a good September when we haven’t seen signs of slowdown in Europe.
I mean we were encouraged to see automotive up 9% really continue to build on strong penetration gains in that business.
Test and measurement and electronics had a good year all around and were up in Europe.
We just talked about food equipment up 6% and then welding polymers and fluids and construction you’re probably seeing a little bit more product line certification in those businesses but overall Europe for us 3% we’re pleased and we have not seen a slowdown in Europe.
Okay helpful.
And then just on construction North America I know you’re continuing to see some declines on the non-res side is there any kind of reason for hope that you guys are seeing any positive signs in that market? The way we characterize our construction business North America it’s been bouncing around quarter to quarter it’s up a little down a little and I think we’re still waiting for some traction overall.
There is a fair amount of good progress we’re making inside the business on the margin front but from an overall demand standpoint I think we’re still not seeing any consistent trends whether it’s commercial construction activity.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you guys.
Jamie Cook.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning.
I guess just two questions one broader and then one on test and measurement.
I guess I’m surprised I mean know you’re having the market healthy something internal issues help your top line but I’m surprised when I think about the organic growth of 3.5% just given a number of free announcements that we’ve seen across industrials and just broader concerns on the macro.
Did any of your businesses see deterioration as we exited the quarter or as we look into October? And to the headlines you’ve read from other companies concern you more as you think about 2015? And then my second question on the positive test and measurement had a very good quarter.
Your Instron business was up 22% I’m just wondering if you can give a color there I think last quarter you talked about some confidence may be you could see a pickup in CapEx your thoughts there.
Thanks.
Yes.
So on your first question Jamie we didn’t see any of our businesses slow down as we went through the quarter.
We are – if you look at the comps on a year over year basis had that made drive some of would be referring to but generally there was solid strength as we went through the quarter there.
Although it’s little early to comment but we haven’t seen anything unusual that’s inconsistent with what we were expecting and what’s including in our guidance today.
Now that said I mean we are obviously we are aware of the headlines and what other companies are reporting so we continue to monitor what’s going inside our businesses and the order rates that we’re seeing.
In terms of tests and measurements they had a good year really if you go back to first quarter second quarter backlog activity particularly in the Instron business has been excellent.
And we’re encouraged by what we’re seeing now keep in mind that that business was up 8% organically in the fourth quarter last year so the comps are going to be a little bit more challenging here in the fourth quarter.
But in terms of seeing a sustained pick up in CapEx cycle probably a little too soon to call that but we say that we’re encouraged but what we saw in the second quarter in test and measurement then obviously we’re not seeing anything that would suggest that there is a slowdown in those businesses.
Thank you.
I’ll get back in queue.
Walter Liptak.
Your line is now open.
Hi thanks.
Wanted to go back to the welding segment and I understand your answer that general industry is where you’ve seen the pickup and North America.
But I wonder if we saw a slowdown in welding this year and now it seems to be picking up I’m wondering if you can attribute that to anything pent up demand or any different sectors within welding.
Well I’ll just go back to what I said earlier which is oil and gas North America in the quarter was strong and also the general industrial part of our business and also the commercial part was certainly much stronger year on year than we’ve seen past prior quarters.
But I’ll also reference to what Michael just talked about the pickups are largely for us and the equipment area and from the CapEx standpoint I think it’s been a couple of quarters now improving demand rates in the CapEx area but I don’t think that we’re ready to call any big inflexion point we’d like to see it sustain itself around the couple of quarters.
Does it seem like a pickup in the welding distribution channel or is it direct to… The commercial business is what we talk about general industrial and commercial we’re talking about sort of about more fragmented part of the market most of that has access through distribution channel.
I assume that the pickup in the channel the sales through the channel are function of increased demand from their end customers.
Yeah of course.
Thank you.
Ajay.
You line is open.
Thank you and good morning.
Scott congratulations good to see the organic growth rates come through here.
So may be talk a little bit about some of work that’s being done I imagined a lot of it is blocking and packing business by business but then to the extent there are initiatives at the corporate level be it in terms of what you’re doing with incentive structures and may be other initiatives.
So just give us a sense of what to expect and the work that you’re doing to drive organic growth? Yeah sure.
So we are as I said in my comments we are still another three or four quarters away from being able to bring the majority of our focus to the organic growth component of this strategy.
We’ve talked I think to significant degree about the past in the end what makes all of this work is the ability to move our organic growth rate up and on an historical basis we’re talking percentage point or so improvement relative to the history.
So we’re not talking about it a huge step up but a meaningful one.
Right now what we’re doing is trying to manage these internal initiatives related to our structure related to sourcing in a thoughtful way to face the implementations of those in such a way that our business is continued to be able to deliver for their customers and deliver for our investors.
We probably got another three to four quarters of pretty significant activity in that regard.
So from an organic growth standpoint I think largely what we’ve accomplished to date is I think we’ve got the management team fully aligned around the fact that in this reshaped portfolio we have highly differentiated business that all have significant potential to drive organic growth through innovation and penetration I think that part is very clear across our management team.
heading into ‘15 we will be doing some work on incentives to get that sort of further flushed out so in ‘15 and beyond we will continue we’ve already made some adjustments we’ll continue to make some more.
But I think this is largely an issue for us of focus and execution with a much higher quality of portfolio that will ultimately add more potential to grow organically.
Good.
And then enterprise initiatives obviously very very impressive margin gains here.
And without taking any of that thunder away from the December meeting may be just talk about which innings you are in terms of savings from BSS and then sourcing? Well I think the way that I would answer that Ajay is that we’re in the end of year two of five year plan that we’ve set along that we’re expecting fairly comparable improvements year by year as we go through the plan.
I think a couple of years in we have some better sort of thoughts and visibility on where we think we’re going to end up on ‘17 and build the December meeting around sharing some views on that with our investors.
Okay.
Thank you.
Andy Casey.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Andy.
If we could go back to the enterprise initiative for that last question you’ve increased your 2014 operating margin guidance by about 100 basis points through the year now 20 versus your initial 19 and you’re kind of at the bottom range the longer term 2017 goals.
If you’re focusing on returns of the next three to four quarters before you really transition to the organic growth are we talking about more than 200 basis points left in your view? Yeah so I guess.
Andy this is Michael.
So we’re not ready to go down that path for a number of reasons.
One we’d like to give you the full picture when we get to our Analyst Day on December 5th that you’re of course invited to.
The other thing I tell you is this is annual plan season for us right now so all the businesses are working through their plans for next year being able to share a much better view of what this might look like in terms of the landing spot for margins and returns at the end of the five year enterprise strategy as well as provide some detail on 2015.
But what I would echo with Scott just said that we expect all our businesses to continue to improve and get a little bit better on every year on operating margins and you should expect us to describe that in more detail when we get to the analyst day on December 5th.
Okay.
Thanks.
At least the question was good for some laughter in the background.
Thank you for that.
You’re welcome.
Regarding to the Q4 organic growth guidance for growth moderation just to clarify that Michael is that mainly driven by comparisons and not trend deterioration? Yes that’s correct.
And if you look at the growth rates last year we were up 3% organically in the fourth quarter we were up 1% up organically in the third quarter.
We talked about test and measurement in particular having a more challenging comp and then may be a little bit of a decline auto builds as well.
So that’s all factored into our guidance.
And like I said we haven’t seen any deterioration in terms of our segments.
Thank you very much.
John Inch.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
So [inaudible] what was the POS drag in that segment.
I forget what you said if you’d actually called that out on the top line.
About 2 percentage points in that business so a little bit more than some of the other segments.
And Michael you or Scott said that you expected the associated drag to lessen in that 2015.
When you think overall you think POS is going to drag the company is organic the kind of 1% cadence through 2015 or do you expect the other segments to realize the lessening as well? I think a conservative expectation would be a 1% drag all of next year and then largely we will get it behind us.
We may get out of it a quarter or two ahead of that but I think that would be the planning assumption for now.
I assume there is a sort of a degree Scott of kind of flex in that as far as naturally it lessens but then you kind of want to keep it at the 1% to sort of accomplish the initiatives is that the way to think about it? In other words it might naturally lessen but then you might redouble efforts to bring it back to 1%? No I think most of its really I would describe as in terms of impact at this magnitude I would describe it as a onetime event.
This is really about reshaping the portfolio.
So we did it at the macro level in terms of the divestitures and refocusing the company.
What’s going on now is really about driving that same principle down to operating businesses.
So it’s existing product lines that don’t carry the level of differentiation that we think are appropriate for a strategy or exiting volume product lines in the scale of divisions.
So this is much more of a onetime even over a six or eight quarter period of thoughtful repositioning and refocusing of our portfolio.
We need to go through it.
Now that makes sense.
Just also the kind of [inaudible] is in theory you would say POS adds beyond 15 and we get a one point boost but shouldn’t you in theory get more than one point because less distractions spread over less robust product lines with the terminology.
I won’t necessarily applied on a percentage basis but major component of PLS is to get us focused on the stuff that we really have conviction about being able to grow at the kind of earnings and returns profile we think are appropriate for the company long term.
So there is an element of this that’s certainly margin and return related but it’s equally important from the standpoint of the organic growth accelerations we go forward in getting us focused on the major product lines where we have major positions and industries that really think are the right ones for the company.
And then Scott one of the phenomena have been in the quarter just the significant down shipped in the price of barrel of oil.
Presumably you’ve looked at this possibly touched a little bit.
If oil stays around the $80 $85 mark what do you think the impact ITW really if anything? I actually can’t answer that.
We haven’t spent a lot of time studying that one at this point.
If it stays down there for another quarter we will certainly have a more up to date view a thoughtful view but right now I think it’s something that’s moving around but not really driving much change in our business underground right now.
So if there is a more significant direct impact I presume you would have been studying it by now without the characterization? Yes.
[inaudible] Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and welcome Erin.
My first question is thinking about the enterprise initiatives and the 100 basis points in benefits that you’re expecting to see in the out years.
I mean is it fair to say that you’re going to see disproportionate amount from the segments today that are below the 20% threshold because as we exit ‘14 you’re probably going to see at least four of your segments above the 20% range.
Just curious how you’re thinking about it.
Like I said we expect all of our businesses to continue to improve every year and just add to that that some businesses are little further along than may be others.
So if you look at the welding business which was in the enterprise initiatives may be a little bit more for the long run and the enterprise strategy and the ability to now focus on organic growth versus some of the initiatives.
But overall I think we’ve said before that we expect all of our businesses to reach 20% plus over time and like I said we expect all of our business to continue to improve every quarter every year.
And I guess may be one follow on is really you guys are nice to have a breaking out where you’re spending your restructuring spending.
It looks in the most recent quarters in an auto or food equipment.
There has been recently some concerns that the auto market are going to decelerate as we head into next year and clearly that’s been a driver for you guys.
So just any commentary around where you’re spending on restructuring and any view on the auto markets would be helpful? The restructuring basically follows our BSS initiatives which you know particular event based on end market conditions and in terms of we’ve deploying that spending over the last couple of years.
From an auto perspective I think we are certainly in a position to absorb some modest slowdown in the end market.
We have in terms of the penetration games that we have been delivering for the last 8 to 12 quarters now one target for business where we have three years of essentially visibility in terms of new programs that we’ve got.
We’ve got a pretty good pipeline of new content coming in and certainly tailwind is better than headwind.
But can be still operated and generate some organic growth even if the market slows down or flattens out on our site I think we are in a really good position to do that.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Eli Lustgarten.
Your line is now open.
Good morning everyone.
Hey Eli.
Can we just follow up your last comment and talk about the automotive.
You said three years visibility I mean the gains in your from penetration was absolutely spectacular.
Can you give us an idea of what kind of thing that we can expect over the next four to six quarters because you said you had to see for 12.
Would it stay at the same rate or can you give us some magnitude some way of calibrating penetration games that we’ll see for the next I think we’ve been running at four to five percentage points over market growth kind of rate and I think good expectation would be for us to be able to continue that.
So sustainable at least well till ‘15? We believe so.
And second point sourcing and better buying a big part and this year everybody’s been blessed with flow of material prices going on.
Is there any way if you can give us some idea of the benefit of the actual drop in commodity prices have especially company versus the initiatives we’ll get some idea how we’re leveraging that at all? The way we reported externally is we’ll give you the price cost metric and that has been favorable all year every quarter by 10 basis points twice ahead of cost.
So that continues…I think at this point we still describe the material environment fairly benign.
There is a couple of outliers for the overall.
I think all businesses are doing a good job offsetting material price inflation with price.
On the sourcing side is the bigger contribution to the over 120 basis points of margin expansion.
While we don’t break it out between sourcing what I’ll tell you is that we were very encouraged by the progress that we’re seeing on the strategic sourcing side and you see in our variable margins or gross margins with 100 basis points improvement that we believe is sustainable.
So I think we’d answer your question.
And the bulk of it is coming from the sourcing side at this point would you guess? So we don’t break out the 120 so we don’t break it out but like I said we are very encouraged by the positive momentum on the sourcing side and we expect that to continue.
Thank you very much Joel Tiss.
Your line is open.
I didn’t I was going to make it.
Thanks.
How’s it going? As you guys move through this the 80-20 and the simplification and other things that you are working on can you just give us a sense of how I know you are not looking at the acquisition yet can you talk a little bit about how you are seeing opportunities in that front to fill in different product lines and may be how the philosophy in the future around acquisition would end up changing instead of buying [inaudible] I think we would plan to spend some time on that in December if we can defer that answer that question of Joel in December.
I think as Michael said before we’d like to be able to talk about that with all of you on our investors in a way that’s more comprehensive than a quick answer.
So it’s not too early like that was the other part of the question it’s not too early for you guys to start thinking of acquisition? There is a lot of stuff on your plate obviously but.
Well I think it’s a matter of where do acquisitions fit in our strategy I think that’s ultimately what we want to talk about and certainly it’s not a matter of where we’re – from a financial standpoint or it’s not a matter of capability we know how to acquire companies and ultimately where they fit in our strategy on a go forward basis is a very different place than where they fit historically in ITW.
And then lastly if there’s no to look at the $500 million of share repurchase in the fourth quarter as a sign that things are slowing down a little bit or if there is any concern in the operations? No I don’t you think how you would draw that conclusion I mean we said that we were going to be opportunistic in terms of share repurchases in the second half of the year.
We started out the third quarter with 500 million and in the fourth quarter we expect to spend at least another 500 million on the share repurchases.
So there is no change in terms of our view of how attractive the share repurchases are and therefore we are continuing obviously.
Thanks very much.
Stanley Elliot.
Your line is still open.
Great.
Thank you guys for putting me in Hate to go back to the welding business because there are so many things to talk about in the quarter but as it relates to the oil piece could you quantify how big the oil end market is for welding in general? 20% of our North American business.
It’s fair to say when you talk about the general environment a lot of the growth you are seeing was more industrial production kind of a general fab which is a significantly larger part of the market if I am not mistaken.
Is that correct? Yes.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Steve Fisher.
Your line is still open.
Thanks.
Good morning I may have missed this earlier but can you discuss the direction of various components of your business in China how they are moving in different directions or where they’re all up.
Basically we saw the automotive business leaped away up 12% food equipment also up double digits so we said a lot about the acquisition that we did and how good a job the team has done in terms of integrating that acquisition.
So now we are benefiting organic growth rates in food equipment in China of solid double digits.
Polymers and fluids had a good quarter up 5% and then the others are fairly small.
The main drag really was what’s got talked about oil and gas pipeline projects been differed in China so that business was down but other than that – which was on the wielding side.
Other than that we had a very good quarter again in China.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Sean Wayne.
Your line is still open.
Hi good morning.
I would want to maybe come back to the food equipment again I mean the incremental margins in that business significant acceleration there.
I mean certainly you talked about new products can you just help me understand how much of the margin expansion was kind of volume related versus new product introductions? And then should we start thinking about this business being kind of a 20% to 25% margin business kind of going forward or was there anything of one timish in that quarter that is unlikely to repeat.
No I mean there was nothing unusual in the quarter other than really solid execution and organic grows.
To answer your question specifically if you look at the 270 bases points of margin expansion in food equipment in the quarter 150 of that came from the initiatives.
So the work around at BSS and sourcing and a 120 bases point from the operating leverage on the organic growth.
But really I guess Scott described it very well in terms of performance of that business and we think it’s very sustainable on the go forward basis.
All right.
Thank you.
Just know housekeeping the other income came in I guess quite a bit harder than what I would have expected in giving the run like the last couple of quarters.
It means talking of what the variance was there? It’s primarily interest income.
Ok perfect.
Thank you.
Jim Krapfel.
Your line is still open.
Hi good morning.
So just on price costs I imagine while your raw material cost have come down recently.
I would like to get your comments on the extent of that going forward and then also your ability to hold and increase pricing from here.
I would expect us to continue to be favorable on the price cost side of things and so saw 10 bases points in this quarter and it’s probably going to be in that range for the fourth quarter but you know as these businesses know are working to become more and more differentiated and in terms of adding value to the customers you obviously going to have more leverage for a pricing standpoint so but I wouldn’t expect that just yet but nothings really change in terms of ability to continue to get price in all of our businesses to offset the cost.
Okay.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
John Inch.
Your line is open.
Hi so in terms of follow up come more of a big picture question Scott ITW historically has never been managed on a geographic basis now that you’ve been CEO clearly enterprise initiative have a lot of traction and momentum.
The company has made a lot of structural changes are you thinking perhaps any more about sort of managing the company as a bit portfolio in so far as having geographic exposures are concerned.
I will give you an example so China you know you have done pretty well but there seems to be significant sort of there is an expectation China could slow in the coming years.
So I don’t know how that could represent your businesses as may be a pro or con but you know how does it affect kind of corporate in the way you are looking at the world.
That’s just one example there could be lots of others.
I think where we are and we’ve done a lot of thinking about this really the most important decision that we make for the company and our shareholders of what we business we should be in.
And geography is in our view kind of second condition to sort of our thinking around what business we should be in.
If you look across the portfolio that we’ve assembled we’ve got $2 billion plus businesses highly differentiated in terms of the things they do for their customers.
$2 billion business customers.
Lots of room to move.
David Raso.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Just a quick question thinking about incremental margins next year I know pensions been a help this year I meant that’s been really more just an absence of some of the curtailments you had last year.
Let me just try to think the puts and takes for next year I know you’re not going to want us to give us too much granularity but there any items which we talked about enterprise initiatives pension anything else that we can think about last quarters obviously incremental have been over 75%.
So the baseline for next year but just trying to get a feel for the puts and takes.
I think the way I’d answer your question David is that look at ITW historically excluding initiatives have been in the 30% 35% range.
And when we’re done with the initiatives we’d expect to be at the high end of that if not for better but we still have a lot of work going on margin expansion to come from these initiatives in ‘16 and beyond.
I can’t at this point – all right I don’t want to give you at this point an incremental margin sums up of 2015 this will be part of when we get all together we’ll be able to give you our best view at that point.
Outside of the initiatives sort of a historical baseline is the way to think about it? I’m sure I’m making sure when I’m listening some thoughts I already have your pension or just any other company is leave to go.
So without getting into these are kind of small pieces of a bigger puzzle.
But since you are asking specifically pension has not been a tailwind this year in a significant way and we don’t expect it to be a significant headwind in 2015.
The other item that is may be worth talking about is currency we called $0.04 of headwind here in the fourth quarter which we believe which is every manageable.
There could be some headwind in currency in 2015 depending on where rates are at the time and we think that’s very manageable at this point.
All right.
I appreciate it.
Thank you very much.
Thanks everyone for joining us on today’s call and we look forward to talking to all of you again.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference call.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome and thank you for standing by.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] Today’s conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
And now I’d turn today’s meeting over to Aaron Hoffman Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you sir you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to ITW’s Fourth Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
Joining me this morning on our call our CEO Scott Santi and Michael Larsen our CFO.
During today’s call we will discuss our Q4 and full year financial results and update you on our earnings forecast.
Before we get to the results let me remind you that this presentation contains our financial forecast for the 2015 first quarter and full year as well as other forward-looking questions identified on this slide.
We refer you to the company’s 2014 Form 10-Q for the second quarter for more details about important risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.
Also this presentation uses certain non-GAAP measures; a reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures is contained in the press release.
With that I will turn the call over to Scott.
Thanks Aaron and good morning.
Overall we were pleased with our performance in the fourth quarter and for the full year as we continued to execute well on our enterprise strategy.
In the fourth quarter earnings per share came in at $1.18 which was an increase of 28% versus Q4 of last year and $0.07 above the midpoint of our forecast.
This above forecast earnings performance was driven primarily by margin performance that came in at the high end of what we expected heading into the quarter.
Q4 operating margin improved to 190 basis points year-on-year with a 120 basis points of that improvement coming from enterprise strategy initiatives.
Organic revenues in the quarter were up 2.3% largely in line with our forecast with ongoing product line simplification activities reducing organic growth by roughly 1%.
The quarter kept the solid year for ITW.
For the full year earnings per share increased 29% operating income of 2.9 billion and operating margin of 19.9% were above all time records for the company.
After tax return on invested capital improved 260 basis points to 18.9%.
In 2014 we made significant progress on the execution of our strategy as we simplified the company through our business structure simplification initiative and generated cost savings from our strategic sourcing initiative that exceeded our plan.
We also completed the heavy lifting with regard to divestitures associated with our portfolio management initiative while our divisions continued to be very active in refining and narrowing the focus of their business portfolios through the implementation of our product line and customer base simplification initiatives.
Free cash flow was strong in 2014 and came in at 110% of adjusted net income through the combination of our strong free cash flow and divestiture proceeds.
In 2014 we were able to return a record 5 billion to our shareholders in the form of share repurchases and increased dividends.
In summary ITW's unique and highly differentiated business model is delivering strong results as we continue to execute our strategy.
As we enter year three of our five year plan we are well positioned to deliver another year of solid progress in 2015.
I’d like to close by thanking all of our people around the world for the great job that they continue to do in serving our customers and in executing our strategy.
I’ll now turn the call over to Michael.
Michael? Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
Starting with the financial summary on page 4 fourth quarter EPS was a $1.18 an increase of 28% versus prior year.
The EPS number included $0.04 of currency related headwinds versus prior year.
Enterprise initiatives contributed 120 basis points of margin expansion and led to operating margin of 19.6% and operating income of 686 million.
Also good progress on the after tax return on invested capital metric with an improvement of 220 basis points to 18.6%.
Revenues were 3.5 billion up 2.3% organically after the expected 1 percentage point impact from product line simplification.
Foreign currency translation reduced revenues by 3.5% resulting in total revenues declining 1.4%.
Cash generation was as expected with pre-operating cash flow conversion at 124% and we allocated $800 million to our share repurchase program in the quarter.
The ending diluted share count was 386 million.
Overall we’re pleased with the results in the quarter and the positive momentum going into 2015.
Turning to revenue by geography organic revenue was up 2.3% with positive growth in all major geographies.
North America up 3% as a result of strength in welding up 10% food equipment up 5% and automotive OEM up 4%.
International growth was stable up 2% with Europe up 1% driven by automotive OEM up 12% and food equipment up 5%.
Asia-Pacific and South America were both up 2% with China up 4% on strength in automotive OEM food equipment and Test &amp; Measurement and Electronics all up 10%.
So 2.3% organic growth after the ongoing product line simplification activities that reduced organic growth by roughly 1% in the quarter.
On page 6 operating margin exceeded our expectations going into the quarter had solid execution on the enterprise initiatives led to an operating margin of 19.6% an increase of 190 basis points from last year.
Margin expansion was broad based with six of seven segments expanding margins by more than 100 basis points in the quarter.
On the right side you can see the key drivers of the margin expansion with the largest contribution 120 basis points from enterprise initiatives.
Operating leverage was 60 basis points and price cost was favorable for a total of 190 basis points of margin expansion.
So overall solid progress in operating margin and we continue to have significant potential to further leverage the enterprise initiatives and expand margin as we move forward.
On page seven the 2014 financial summary just a couple of the highlights to recap the year and set the stage for 2015.
Earnings per share of $4.67 increased 29% over 2013 with operating margin and operating income at all-time highs.
Operating margin of 19.9% improved 210 basis points with 120 basis points from our enterprise initiatives.
Organic revenue growth was 2.6% and in our expected range of 2% to 3% and throughout the year PLS reduced revenues by about 1 percentage point.
Cash flow was strong with 110% cash conversion and we returned over 5 billion to shareholders 4.3 billion in buyback and 700 million in dividends across the key financial metrics solid performance and positive momentum going into 2015.
Turning to the segments let’s start with the left side with full year segment results for organic revenue growth and operating margin improvement as you can see good progress on margin improvement across the board with more run-way from enterprise initiatives in 2015.
In the automotive OEM segment another good quarter and a solid year.
Organic revenue in the quarter grew 7% compared to worldwide auto builds of 1%.
By geography European organic revenues stood out up 12% with new products and strong penetration gains across all platforms.
In North America our growth was in line with auto builds at plus 4% as at Detroit 3 where we have above average content builds actually declined 4% versus the prior year.
In China we outperformed auto builds by 4 percentage points.
Profitability also improved with operating margin of 22.3% 190 basis points improvement from last year.
We expect automotive OEM to continue to outperform auto builds in a meaningful way and this segment is well positioned for another solid year in 2015.
In our test and measurement and electronics segment organic revenue decreased 1% in the quarter primarily due to challenging comparisons in test and measurement where organic revenue declined 4%.
The electronics business increased organic revenue by 5% as the electronic assembly business grew 11% in the quarter.
Operating margin declined slightly due to higher restructuring in the quarter.
Continuing its strong performance food equipment’s organic growth rate of 5% was broad based across the major product categories and geographies.
In North America equipment organic revenue grew 6% driven by new products and penetration gains in refrigeration and cooking.
Internationally equipment revenue increased 6% driven by strong warewash and refrigeration sales our service organic revenues increased 2%.
The segment operating margin of 21.7% was 220 basis points higher than the prior year so a solid year for the food equipment group and significant positive momentum going into 2015.
In our polymers and fluids segment organic revenue increased 1% and operating margin expanded by 150 basis points as this segment continues its progression to 20% plus operating margin.
Automotive aftermarket had a good quarter up 2% polymers was flat.
The fluids and hygiene declined 2%.
The welding segment had a solid quarter with organic revenue of 4% driven by continued strength in North America where organic revenue increased 10% due to demand in both industrial and commercial end markets.
International organic revenue was down as a result of the challenging year ago comparison and continued product line simplification in Europe.
Welding delivered another 230 basis points of margin expansion this quarter bringing margin to 25.4%.
The construction product segment produced organic revenue growth of 2% in the quarter.
Enterprise initiatives drove 190 basis points of margin expansion this quarter.
And as you saw on the previous slide construction is now at 17% for the year an increase of 310 basis points versus prior year and well on its way to 20% plus on a sustainable basis.
North America was up 8% with growth in renovation and commercial offset by decline in residential.
Asia-Pacific increased 1% for the quarter and Europe organic revenue was down 4% largely due to continued product line simplification and weakness in France offset by strength in the United Kingdom In the specialty product segment organic revenue was down 3% as a 5% decline in consumer packaging was offset by growth in appliance and ground support equipment.
Operating margin of 19% was 110 basis points higher than the year ago period.
That wraps up our segment discussion and turning to our guidance for 2015 and the first quarter; our EPS guidance for 2015 has not changed since our December Investor Meeting.
We are maintaining our annual EPS guidance of 5.15 to 5.35 an increase of 12% at the midpoint.
Let me walk you through some of the key assumptions included in our guidance starting with 2.5% to 3.5% organic revenue growth in line with current run rates and what we communicated in December.
As expected PLS remains at 1 percentage point drag throughout the year.
Total revenue is expected to be down 1% to 2% as a result of the impact of foreign currency translation which creates a 4% headwind at current rates.
As for 2015 operating margin we expect enterprise initiatives to contribute an additional 100 basis points of improvement which will get us to approximately 21% for the full year.
Our guidance today reflects current exchange rates which creates $0.25 of EPS headwind up from $0.15 when we met in December.
As we sit here today we expect the positive momentum that we’ve generated with our enterprise strategy to offset this increased headwind.
However exchange rates remain highly volatile and we’re keeping a close eye on the situation.
The other topic likely on your mind is the potential impact of lower oil prices.
As discussed at our December meeting ITW revenues into the oil and gas industry are only in the 2% to 3% range and primarily in the welding segment.
We continue to expect that any potential reduction in revenues from oil and gas related end markets will be offset by lower input cost for raw materials such as chemicals and resins as well as lower transportation and freight cost.
Overall we continue to expect that this will be a net neutral for ITW.
Couple of housekeeping items includes an expected tax rate of 30% to 31% and restructuring in the range of 70 million to 80 million for the year.
Finally on capital allocation free operating cash flow conversions expected to exceed 100% and we expect to allocate approximately 1.5 billion of our free cash flow to our share repurchase program in 2015.
So for the year maintaining guidance and well positioned to deliver another year of solid progress towards our enterprise price performance goals.
For the first quarter we expect EPS to be in the range of $1.13 to $1.21 an increase of 16% at the midpoint of $1.17.
This includes $0.07 of EPS headwinds from currency at current rates.
Organic revenue growth is expected to be 2% to 3% and our enterprise initiatives are expected to generate about 100 basis points of margin expansion in the quarter.
Finally share repurchase is expected to at least 500 million in the quarter.
In summary the positive momentum and strong execution in ITW’s enterprise initiatives puts us in a solid position as we enter 2015.
We expect 2015 to be another year of strong progress that keeps us firmly on track to deliver on our 2017 performance goals.
With that let me turn it back over to Aaron.
Thanks Michael.
We’ll now open up the call to your questions.
Please be brief to allow more people the opportunity to ask a question and remember our policy of one question and one follow up question only.
So with that let’s turn to the questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Joel Tiss of BMO.
Well I usually barely make it at the end.
How are you doing guys? It looks like you’re kind of reaching or you’re moving toward your 2017 goals a little faster than expected is there more benefit you’re getting from your initiatives or do you think you’re going to finish early or I’m just trying to or you’re going to have to enhance your plans as we go down the road? I’m just trying to understand what’s going on at the operating level? Well the way I would characterize it is I think we’re largely on track.
We did update our margin goal in December for 2017 to be in the 23% range that’s certainly reflective of the progress generated to date and also what we see ahead in terms of additional opportunity around these initiatives but again I think we’re largely where we expect to be executing and making progress quarter-by-quarter and still remain on track with what we’ve set out to do two years ago.
Thank you next question is Andy Kaplowitz of Barclays.
Hey guys how are you? Nice quarter.
So Scott you talked about welding a bit you guys talked about oil and gas that is within welding but it was up very strong 10% and we know oil and gas has been slow but you’ve also talked in the past about it being more downstream and midstream.
So as we look at welding in 2015 can you give us a little more clarity about what you think the non-oil and gas businesses will do and then maybe have you gotten more color since the December Analyst Day on what you think oil and gas will do in the business? I would say relative to the second part of your question we haven’t seen any real noticeable change in terms of buying behavior out the oil and gas segment to date.
That certainly doesn’t mean that we don’t expect there to be some impact from that as we go forward.
But on the ground in the fourth quarter we didn’t see any significant change relative to the run rates we had from the oil and gas sector heading into the quarter.
On an overall basis for ’15 I think what we saw that was encouraging was some noticeable improvement in demand in North America through the back half of the year given certainly the volatility of the current environment I don’t know that we have anything that we would say is leading us to believe that that won't continue as we go forward and so I think we’re pleased with the momentum that’s been building there and expect it to continue at a moderate level through ’15.
And Scott let me back up to your last response and just ask you in general you mentioned the volatility of the market you can see some of the other guys report on what they’re doing.
But you guys have been doing pretty well it looks like Europe is holding up for you but it’s pretty heavily weighted towards your auto outperformance and the food equipment.
So is there a way to characterize what you see in the different geographies specifically Europe and U.S.
did you see any change in order patterns throughout the end of the year last year and as you started here in January or is it sort of just steady as you go and we can expect the outperformance that we usually get from ITW? Well the answer to that is we really haven’t seen any change I think from an overall demand standpoint Q4 I think things held up pretty well right in line with our expectations certainly consistent with Q3 run rate.
So as we’ve talked before our planning is built on demand that we’re actually seeing on the ground and as it relates to Q4 things held up pretty well certainly on track again with expectations and consistent with Q3 run rates.
Okay and throughout Europe as well and major businesses.
Yes.
Thank you.
Our next question is Jamie Cook of Credit Suisse.
Good morning and nice quarter I guess a couple of questions one within the construction products division the North America up 8% driven by renovation and commercial was encouraging.
You guys have been less optimistic on commercial construction.
So can you sort of talk about any change in your outlook does this get you more excited in what you think potentially the effect of energy is on the construction business? And then my last question just I am sorry if I missed it what is your assumption on sort of price cost with -- you talked about some of the tailwinds that you could from resin chemicals et cetera.
Has that changed relative to your December outlook meeting? Thank you.
So let’s start on the construction side.
So if you look at the total segment we were up 2% in line with what we’ve done really throughout 2014.
And so we’ve been growing in the low single digits in the construction segment and we’re not expecting things to improve much as we go into 2015.
Certainly there are some encouraging headlines but that is -- we're not counting on it as we go into 2015.
North America was up 8% we saw some strength in renovation some slight growth on the commercial side and then a decline in residential.
So I wouldn’t get too excited about the number of North America 8%.
We expect this to continue kind of along with the run rates that we saw in 2014 so low single digit type growth is how we would characterize the construction in North America with some optimism given some of the headlines.
On the price cost side we had 10 points of favorability in 2014.
That is still our base assumption for 2015 but clearly as we’ve talked about the impact of lower crude oil prices and what that may mean to our purchase of chemicals resins certainly our transportation and freight costs we would expect as those savings come through to see an improvement in our price cost metric.
For now we are holding on to the base assumption here at 10 basis points favorable and we’ll keep you posted as we go through the quarters.
Good morning everybody.
A question on -- it’s kind of a specific question but in North America did you see any benefit in any of your business from the late passage through the Section 179? No I think as we went through the quarter here really this behaved in line with our expectations.
We had a strong finish in December but we always do.
And so there was really nothing unusual about the fourth quarter as it unfolded.
Okay thank you.
And then as you look at polymers and fluids going through 2015 are you expecting full year pretty consistent impact from PLS initiatives or does that taper off as you go through the year? Well I think that -- as it relates to that segment specifically they have been doing some real heavy lifting with respect to PLS and are getting close to -- getting through the end of that process.
So we would expect that to start to dissipate here as we move through ’15.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Scott just maybe on the enterprise initiatives I know you gave [a lot of] [ph] detail at the December meeting.
Maybe an update on BSS in terms of what are some of the major items things that you’ve been looking to achieve in the course of this year? And then also on sourcing does the recent moves in commodity pricing that has held that how you think about the sourcing gains during the course of this year? Ajay the connection was a little static so I’m going to -- I think the questions related to some commentary around where we with respect to BSS execution and the second is around sourcing impact relative to lower energy prices and the impact those might have on commodities.
Regarding BSS I think we continue to make good progress.
I have been very pleased with both the quality and the pace of execution and this is there has been a lot of moving parts inside the company in support of this initiative and our mantra from day one with our divisions was that we had a lot of important work to do but ultimately we’re going to do that in a way that didn’t impair our ability to serve our customers or deliver for our shareholders throughout and I think we largely been able to sustain that from day one.
It is a five year process not a -- and we’re certainly heading into the year three of that.
I think organizationally we've got the organizations that we want in place but we’re still doing a lot of work down at the individual division level in terms of plan consolidation facility consolidations and really getting these businesses in a position to fully operate a single entity global divisions.
That work continues.
I think we’re well on track but we have a fair load of work still to do in ’15 and probably a decent amount in ’16 on that as well.
As it relates to on the sourcing side we are -- any energy savings that accrued this year would be and that’s something we would talk about as it relates to our sourcing initiative that would reflected in our price cost reporting.
Sourcing initiatives is much more around permanent changes and structural cost as a result of a much more focused 80-20 driven effort around improving the efficiency with through which we source raw materials.
So as Michael talked about earlier there is certainly some potential for some benefit on this on the input cost side related to lower energy prices but that is something that we would not report as part of our sourcing initiative we would talk about that as a price cost benefit as we moved down the road.
And then Michael on FX can you talk about hedging how do you think about your FX exposures how much is naturally hedged versus through contracts? Thank you.
Yes so Ajay I just maybe reiterate on the sensitivities around foreign exchange and when we were together in December we gave you a rough rule of thumb I gave everybody a rough rule of thumb that said a penny change in the euro versus dollar rate equates to a penny of EPS on an annualized basis and obviously since then the euro has weakened versus the dollar to a tune of about $0.10 and so that’s the $0.25 of headwind that we talked about now versus the ’15 in December and obviously all currencies are moving.
So this is the rough rule of thumb.
Well in terms of hedging we are well hedged naturally so we’re a company that manufactures in the regions that we sell into and so this is really just the translation impact for ITW there are no mismatches in terms of revenues and cost no structural issues to speak of that need to be addressed here and so beyond that we’re all looking at the same currency rates we told you what the sensitivities are and in terms of operationally our view hasn’t really changed and the way we run the company hasn’t really changed but obviously the way we report our earnings when we consolidate and back into the U.S.
are impacted by currency.
But we’re not a hedger of translation risk.
That’s correct yes.
Thank you our next question is Walter Liptak of Global Hunter.
Hi thanks.
Good quarter guys.
Wanted to ask you about the welding segment and if you could break out the North America and give us some indication of price versus volume.
We typically do not go into that level of detail for competitive reasons Walter so we’re not going to go there today I think there is really nothing unusual here.
The plus standard would be largely volume.
Yes I mean it’s very similar to what we’ve seen in prior quarters nothing unusual.
Okay got it.
And then another question not a follow up but in the electronics segment you had that plus 11% growth and I wonder if we can get some color on that the products that that was going into the geographic regions and trying to get an idea if that's sustainable as you go further into 2015? I think the increase we were talking about was in the electronic assembly piece primarily sold into Asia that business can be a little bit lumpy.
So I wouldn’t read too much into one or two quarters here we’re certainly encouraged by what we saw in the third and the fourth quarter but the long term growth rate here is unfortunately probably a little bit lower than what we saw in the fourth quarter and probably in the low to mid-single digits in that segment.
Thank you next question is from Rob Wertheimer of Vertical Research Partners.
Hi not to circle around again but it just seems as though that the risk -- the benefit on the materials cost side and we’ve had a long period of inflation against this kind of flip flop in the last year or so.
Have you had more pushback that you’re hearing from your sales staffs on pricing on getting any kind of pricing through that they’re being asked for pass-through or is it really the net risk really does lay your way? I mean there’s really been no changes in terms of how we look at price cost inside the company and no increased pushback to your question.
Okay thanks.
And then just real quickly on food service curious about the general feeling in the market propensity to spend whether you’re seeing people do positive capital decisions or whether doing more replacement.
I am just curious about what you feel the rest of the market like? Thanks.
The environment overall is still -- I would certainly not describe it as a market with a lot of tailwind.
Lot of what we’re benefiting from right now is at number of meaningful new product launches that are -- certainly given us an extra 2% or 3% of organic growth.
I think that’s the best color I can give you on it for now is no big changes in demand over the course of the last year but we’ve seen our own growth rate accelerate as we move through the year largely because of some the product commercializations.
The test and measurement segment was down on tougher comps in the quarter.
What do you expect there for 2015 and do you have any visibility to that showing some growth next year or this year? Yes so if you recall in the fourth quarter ’13 that business test and measurement was up 8% or 9% organically -- 9% organically.
And I think as we look forward into 2015 we expect similar to what we saw in 2014 so in the low to mid-single digits as Scott said earlier and we’ve said many times we in our guidance the way we model this is at current rates.
So we expect that test and measurement to be at that low to mid-single digit type growth for 2015.
Okay great.
And not sure if I missed it but the China 4% growth in the quarter and how you see that playing out in 2015? China for us is really primarily driven by the strong performance in our automotive business that continues to outperform in a meaningful way.
We also had in the quarter food equipment primarily as a result of an acquisition we did little over year ago.
And that’s based strong growth in food equipment and then we talked a little bit about the polymers and fluids business also being positive in China.
So the offset here is primarily similar to what we talked about in the third quarter is the welding business where we continue to see some -- two things going on one is product line simplification where we’ve exited some business lines that didn’t meet our threshold from a large end standpoint and then some projects that are still being delayed in China.
So I would expect China -- if you look at China for the year we’ve kind of been in that mid-single digit type growth rate and based on the continued outperformance in automotive and food equipment we’d expect that to continue.
Thank you everyone for your time today.
And we’ll look forward to speaking with you all again very soon.
Have a great day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Thank you for holding.
All parties will be on a listen-only mode until the question and answer session of today's conference.
[Operator Instructions] The conference is being recorded.
And I’d now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Aaron Hoffman the Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thanks very much.
And good morning and welcome to ITW’s First Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
Joining me this morning are our CEO Scott Santi and our CFO Michael Larsen.
During today’s call we will discuss our first quarter financial results and update you on our earnings forecast.
Before we get to the results let me remind you that this presentation contains our financial forecast for the 2015 second quarter and full year as well as other forward-looking statements identified on the slide.
We refer you to the company’s 2014 Form 10-K for more details about important risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.
Also this presentation uses certain non-GAAP measures; a reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures is contained in the press release.
So with that I will turn at this time over to Scott.
Thanks Aaron and good morning.
Overall a solid start to the year for the company as we delivered earnings per share at $1.21 an increase of 20% over the last year and $0.04 higher than the midpoint of our forecast.
And that was despite an additional $0.03 of currency headwind versus where rates were when we issued our Q1 guidance on January 27.
In the quarter we were able to deliver stronger performance despite a challenging macro environment.
We continued to focus on executing and the things that are within our control and our business teams around the world continuing to do a very good job of doing just that as evidenced by the 220 basis point operating margin improvement that they delivered in the quarter.
Q1 operating margin of 20.9% matched the all-time record high for the company set in Q3 of last year.
Enterprise strategy initiatives good tactical cost management and favourable mix as a result of our product line simplification program drove the bulk of the margin increase.
Organic revenue growth for the quarter was 2% gross 1% net including the impact of the product line simplification.
This was below our 2% to 3% forecast as weaker capital spending generally and the oil and gas sector specifically resulted in modest year-on-year revenue declines in our welding test and measurement in electronics and specialty product segments.
Despite the current macro challenges we are continuing to invest aggressively in support of our strategy to position ITW to deliver solid organic growth with world class margins and returns on capital.
In the quarter we invested more than $150 million in capital expenditures restructuring and innovation programs.
As you likely saw on our press release we are taking our full year EPS forecast down by $0.15 to reflect foreign exchange rates.
At the new midpoint of 510 full year EPS growth is 9% despite a translation impact of $0.40 negative.
On a constant currency basis 15 EPS gross would be 18%; so overall a strong start for the year in a challenging environment.
ITW is well positioned for another year of progress in 2015 and we remain solidly on track.
The meter exceed our 2017 performance goals.
I'll now turn the call over to Michael.
Thank you Scott and good morning.
Starting with the financial summary on page 4 and Scott mentioned first quarter EPS was a $1.21 an increase of 20% versus prior year and $0.04 above the midpoint of our guidance.
As expected Enterprise initiatives drove 100 basis points of margin expansion which contributed to first quarter operating margin of 20.9% and operating income of 697 million.
Also good progress and after tax return on invested capital with an improvement of 210 basis points to 19.3%.
Revenues were 3.3 billion up 1% organically after the expected 1% impact from product line simplification.
Foreign currency translation reduced revenues by 7% resulting in total revenues declining 6%.
Pre-operating cash flow was strong at 359 million more than a $100 million higher than last year.
Also during the quarter we were able to efficiently act as about 1.1 billion of cash outside of the U.S.
which helped funding buyback of $1.6 billion.
Overall; solid execution in a more challenging environment and stronger margin performance offset currency and lower revenues in some of our equipment businesses.
Turning to revenue by geography; organic revenue was up 1% with growth in all major geographies except South America which as a reminder represents less than 3% of our sales.
North America was at 1% as a result of strengthened food equipment of 7% and automotive OEM of 3%.
Welding and Test &amp; Measurement and Electronics were flat while the specialty product was down 7%.
International growth was up 1%.
Q1 had a tough comparison.
You may recall that last year international was up 6% in the first quarter.
Europe was up 1% this quarter driven by automotive OEM up 13% partially offset by declines in welding polymers and fluids and specialty products.
Asia-Pacific was up 1% from strength in automotive OEM and food equipment both up 5% offset by welding down 7%.
China was solid and up 7% in the quarter with automotive food equipment and test and measurement on electronics all growing double digits.
Overall 2% gross organic revenue 1% net after ongoing product line simplification activities reduced organic growth by 1% and a mixed demand environment for some of our equipment related businesses.
Margin performance continues to be a highlight hence the operating margin improved by 220 basis points to 20.9% which marked a new record for a first quarter and tied for best quarterly operating margin performance ever.
The margin expansion as you can see is significant across every segment.
On the right side you can see the key drivers of margin expansion this quarter with the largest contribution a 100 basis points from enterprise initiatives.
Operating leverage was 20 basis points; price cost was also favorable 20 basis points.
Finally 80 basis points of improvement from cost management and the benefits of product line simplification for a total of 220 basis points.
So in summary significant sustainable progress on operating margin in every segment through the execution of our strategy with more to come as we work towards our 2017 goals.
On this page you can see the significant progress all the business teams have made on margin improvement over the first two years of this enterprise strategy.
Five segments are now at or above 20% compared to only one segment when we started and overall 400 basis points of improvement while much work is still ahead of us significant progress and strong execution on the enterprise strategy so far.
Also keep in mind that the reported margins for test and measurement and electronics and polymers and fluids each include over 400 basis points of non-cash acquisition related amortization expense that will run its course over time.
For your information we have included a schedule with the acquisition related amortization expense for each segment in the appendix.
With that let me provide some additional color about each segments performance in the first quarter.
The automotive OEM segment has another really good quarter as organic revenue grew 7% and significantly outperformed worldwide auto builds of 1%.
By geography Europe stood out once again with revenues up 13% driven by new products and strong penetration gains across all platforms.
In North America our growth was slightly above auto builds at plus 3% as at Detroit 3 actually declined slightly versus the prior year.
In China organic revenues grew 14% outperforming auto builds by 8 percentage points.
Profitability also improved with operating margin of 25% 170 basis points higher than last year.
In our test and measurement and electronics segments organic revenue increased 1% in the quarter similar to the growth rate in the fourth quarter.
Organic revenues in test and measurement declined 2% due to lower capital spending.
And that said the largest division in test and measurement [indiscernible] was up 5% of the quarter.
Electronics business was essentially flat with the other electronics platform up 2% offset by a slight decline in the electronic assembly platform.
Operating margin increased 250 basis points to 14.7% in the quarter and I already discussed the significant impact related to acquisitions.
Food equipment is up to a good start with organic growth of 4%.
In North America equipment was up 10% driven by new products and penetration gains in refrigeration and cooking.
Internationally equipment revenue was flat on a tough comparison.
Service grew 4% in North America and 1% internationally.
The segment's operating margin of 22.6% was 400 basis points higher than the prior year period driven by solid execution and lower restructuring.
In the polymers and fluids segment organic revenue declined 1% while operating margin expanded by 340 basis points as this segment reached 20% this quarter.
Fluids and hygiene organic revenue was down 5% driven primarily by softness in Europe.
Polymer was up a solid 4% and automotive half the market was flat.
And as I already mentioned there is more than 400 basis points of noncash acquisition related intangible amortization impact in these segment's margins.
Welding organic revenue was down 3% this quarter as a result of weaker demand in oil and gas related end markets.
About 15% of this segment's revenues go into oil and gas and that particular part of the welding business the oil and gas part was down 30% globally.
Excluding oil and gas welding organic revenues would have been up about 3%.
North America was flat with growth in commercial welding offsetting declines in oil and gas.
International is down 13% driven primarily by oil and gas.
Nevertheless welding delivered 120 basis points of margin expansion as operating margin came in at 26.9%.
The construction product segment produced organic revenue growth of 2% in the quarter and margin expanded 118 basis points to 16.6%.
North America was up 5% with growth in renovation and commercial while residential was flat.
Asia-Pacific-East increased 1% for the quarter and Europe was up 1% as strength in the United Kingdom was partially offset by continued product line simplification.
In specialty products organic revenue was down 6% due to ongoing product line simplification along with weaker equipment sales.
North America was down 7 and international down 3.
Operating margin improved 150 basis points to 22.6%.
So that wraps up the segment discussion and turning to our guidance for 2015 and the second quarter; we have updated our 2015 full year EPS guidance by $0.15 to reflect current exchange rates.
We now expect full year EPS of $5 to $5.20 which is 90% growth at the midpoint or up 18% on the constant currency basis.
Full year organic revenue growth is now forecast to be 1% to 2% due to a more challenging capital spending environment.
As expected PLS remains at 1 percentage point drag throughout the year.
And total revenue is expected to be down 5% to 6% as a result of the negative impact of foreign currency translation which creates a 7% headwind at current rates.
Given the strong first quarter results and continued positive momentum on margins we now expect that operating margin will exceed 21% for the full year.
This includes approximately 100 basis points of margin improvement from enterprise initiatives.
On capital allocation for the full year we now expect to allocate approximately $2 billion with share repurchases while maintaining our target leverage ratio.
ITW's board of directors authorized a new $6 billion share repurchase program in the first quarter.
For the second quarter we expect EPS to be in a range of $1.22 to $1.30 with $0.15 of negative impact from currency headwinds which is $0.05 higher than what we saw in the first quarter.
Organic revenue growth should be up 1% to 2% and we expect operating margin of approximately 21% which again includes approximately100 basis point from enterprise initiatives.
So that summarizes our guidance and as you can see in a more challenging environment ITW continues to be well positioned to deliver another year of strong progress in 2015.
With that let me turn it back over to Aaron.
Thanks Michael.
We’ll now open up the call to your questions.
Please be brief to allow more people the opportunity to ask a question and remember our policy of one question and one follow up question.
I just want to ask about -- kind of do a fine point on the guide.
You basically sort of suggesting that the bulk of the reduction is currency and if you look at the way this sort of plays out that would proportionately hit mostly in the second quarter but you did take organic growth for the year down and so my question is really if you could parse between what you’re seeing in terms of end markets and the context of reducing guidance second quarter versus the rest of year.
Like for instance why doesn’t the rest of the year come down further if you’re seeing systematic weakness as many companies are so I’m just trying to understand the moving parts here? Yes so John let me try to answer that so the way we’ve modeled the rest of the year is based on current run-rates.
And so based on what we’re seeing in terms of revenues and orders in our businesses today.
So we’re not assuming that things improve from here or deteriorate from where we are today.
The other point around the guide the adjustment that we’ve made is $0.15 reduction just for currency.
Here we are considering the lower organic growth rate but given the performance in the first quarter and the positive momentum on margins as well as a slight benefit from the lower share count we’re projecting that we’ll be able to offset those lower revenues with better margins we’re guiding to 21% plus operating margin today which is an improvement from where we were in January and we’re getting a little bit of benefit from the accelerated share repurchase program in the first quarter.
Okay so better execution really is offsetting the lower organic I think that’s what you’re -- Yes.
I think that's more or less what you’re suggesting.
That’s correct.
And then Michael the share repo for the year had been tagged last quarter to 1.5 billion you actually did 1.6 billion this quarter.
So the question is sort of like how are you thinking about share repurchase for the rest of the year? Are you going to be sort of front loading that and then seeing how the rest of the year plays out or would do you think consider raising some financial leverage? I’m just curious because you obviously want to keep powder dry and I’m just curious how you’re thinking about share repo particularly against the backdrop of what clearly has been some economic softening and that just may present more favorable entry points sort of purchase your shares in future quarters that’s all? Yes so John we’re in line with past factors we’re not going to comment specifically on the timing of these share repurchases but we’ve said before that our goal is to remain opportunistic as we go forward.
I’d say in the first quarter the ability to access the foreign cash to the tune of about 1.1 billion is what helped fund the 1.6 billion of repurchase in the quarter which was essentially the guide that we’d given for the year.
We expect to do approximately 2 billion for the year and the balance we’ll be opportunistic and we do not expect to increase leverage from here certainly not to achieve the $2 billion.
But as you know we have a strong balance sheet we generate a lot of cash with the ITW business model and given the diversity of our businesses and so certainly we are open.
But given what we’re seeing today we’re not expecting to increase our target leverage ratio beyond the 2.2 to 2.3 which is where we are right now.
And we would like to be more opportunistic as we go forward for the balance of the year on the share repurchases.
Sorry Michael just as a clarification you took your repo for the year from 1.5 to 2.
You’re sort of suggesting based on that was driven by the success [audio-gap] to repatriate 1.1 billion does that imply that you had thought you’re going to repatriate 600 but you’re able to do 500 or excuse me but you’re able to do 1.1 billion and that’s the difference or is there something else? No that’s about right John that’s about right.
And did you pay tax on that repatriation? So our tax rate for the quarter at 31% as well as for the year we’re still guiding to 30% to 31% so we were able to do this in an efficient manner from a tax standpoint.
Looking maybe for a little more color on your CapEx comments I mean we know that mining and now there is energy CapEx is under a lot of pressure.
But how do you think about CapEx trends more broadly outside of these three specific end markets? I think we saw certainly soften up a bit in the quarter.
I don't think it was anything overly dramatic but if you look at test to measurement and specialty in particular I think welding was largely impacted by oil and gas there was other two segments.
What I would say is in general we saw customers become a little bit more tentative about moving forward on capital expenditures again nothing overly dramatic nothing that we can't we don't think we can power through we go through the air but right now the environment is certainly little choppy than it was as we ended the year.
Is it fair to say that you are starting to see hesitancy beyond these 3 end markets? I think actually surely not in for the equipment.
So I think it's more for the industrial CapEx the food equipment business is much more tied to the consumer end the economy.
They continue they saw there was else in the quarter continue to accelerate.
There are also reaching a place from the stand point of their work through the enterprise initiative where they are how we focused on driving organic and I think you are seeing some of that progress show up.
So I think we're again talking about test the measurement specialty in terms of more generalized CapEx spending softness and welding in particular which related to oil and gas.
Alright that's great and sticking with food equipment here as I understood from your comments you hint that potentially some share gains in North America any color their and really kind of what drove very good results their this quarter will be helpful.
We didn't hint in the share gains but sales were up 7% in the quarter in North America through a combination of as I said some continued 7% -- with the equipment are 10.
Equipment up 10.
overall up 7 thank you Michael and combination of continued mid product pipeline things in the market as well as a reaching the position they said earlier where they are much there in a position that really focus on driving organic.
On the industrial CapEx comments you described what you saw in North America during the quarter outside of the oil &amp; gas sector.
Specifically was there any improvement through the quarter or did it just remain choppy? I think in general that was pretty flat through the quarter.
Actually no better or no worse in terms of January February or March.
Right I think this quarter was pretty—the challenges we are talking about on the capital equipment side in oil &amp; gas showed up fairly early in the quarter and we were able to take some cost actions here as we prepare for not just the quarter but for the rest of year.
But you can't certainly the price that didn't accelerate in the quarter and didn't improve in the meaningful way from the run rate that we saw earlier on.
Okay thank you Michael and then is the same true of Europe and then let in somebody else ask.
You broke up a little bit.
But I think this we saw the same trends essentially in Europe.
Europe was a little bit weaker on the equipment side down slightly.
But I think again the comps were pretty challenging.
Europe was up 5% in the first quarter last year.
So would be too much into that at this time.
But also Europe Asia-Pacific was really consistent as we went through the quarter.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
Hi good morning.
On the second quarter question of the margin and also sales on the sales it looks that the organic growth you are expecting to accelerate a little bit.
I'm just trying to figure out is that simply because comps get a little bit easier or is there something you are saying to suggest the organic could accelerate a bit? We are sequentially we historically we typically see an increase through the seasonality from Q1 to Q2.
If you look year-over-year we are guiding to 1% to 2% which is a little bit higher than what we saw here in the first quarter but not significantly higher.
Maybe the other way that was kind of what you’re trying to get at is if you look at our EPS for the year this positions us at the first half earnings per share at about 48% of the year and 52% in the back end of the year so not a back-end loaded plan and very consistent with what we’ve been able to deliver historically.
So again we’re not counting on acceleration here in terms of organic growth other than what we typically see we’d love to see one.
We’d love to take one we’d certainly take it we’re ready if it comes but typically Q2 represents an improvement from Q1 on the top-line.
Yes I was referring more to year-over-year and I know it’s modest but I was just curious… And what I would add to that is go back to what Michael said before the comps move around so we were plus 5 last year in Q1 and plus 1 in Q2.
Yes I thought that as far as probably little more comp than it is you’re not seeing the acceleration on organic.
And then last one on the profitability the last couple of quarters you have posted negative sales year-over-year but you’re able to grow EBIT year-over-year.
The second quarter you’re implying sales down 7.5% but EBIT does fall at detrimental call it 12% 13% 14% which still would be a good performance but just trying to understand what’s the switch from now of sales decline pushes EBIT down when the last two quarters you’re able to grow EBIT on sales decline just if there’s something changed? Yes no I think nothing fundamentally is really changing other than this is the toughest quarter from a currency standpoint so if you look at the impact from currency on revenues and margins as well as EPS Q2 is the bulk of it.
When you translate this into earnings per share we have $0.15 of headwind here in the – 10 in the first quarter 15 in the second quarter and then the balance 15 remaining for the second half of the year for a total of 40 so that’s really what’s driving the outlook here for the second quarter.
A lot have been answered.
I just wondered looks like the margin progress in the second quarter that you imply seems to slow down a little bit and I just wondered if you’re seeing any challenges on really driving the kind of margin improvement going forward just because the low hanging fruit has been harvested already or is it more just currency and comparisons and shaky economy? Actually on operating margins the things that are within our control I think the teams continue to do a really good job and we expect as we said a 100 basis points from the initiatives in the second quarter which is in line with the first quarter and in line with our expectations for the year if anything on the more technical cost management if you like so responding to what we’re seeing in some of the equipment businesses I think we’re doing a better job maybe on the discretionary cost side but I also think it’s important to point out that we’re not reducing our investment in terms of new products and restructuring and CapEx so we’re continuing to move forward with those investment plans.
So it’s really I wouldn’t say that we are performing at any different on the margin side in the second quarter and the balance of the year than we have in the past and certainly if anything the progress we’ve made so far on margin expansion and we showed you the data for the last two years gives us a lot of confidence in our ability to deliver the 23% target for 2017 so continued progress and driven by strong execution by the business teams that are focused on the things that are within our control so….
Can you talk about your relatively strong performance in construction you’ve talked about expecting overall low single digit organic growth for the year which you delivered in the quarter but European construction turned positive I think for the first time in the year and U.S.
commercial construction seems to be waiting through energy weakness so can you talk about what you’re seeing in both the U.S.
and Europe? Yes I think overall this has been certainly what we’re seeing over the last let’s say three quarters or four quarters there’s been kind of an up and down track record both geographically and also in terms of residential versus commercial versus remodel and I think first quarter overall was pretty good.
We continue to be very focused on margin improvement in construction but I think what I would say and I swore we won’t going to talk about the weather but given some of the weather in North America I think Q1 was actually a pretty solid quarter for our construction business and hopefully it sets up for some continued progress in terms of overall market demand as we move through the year.
And then I would just add a comment on Europe.
I mean I think you’re right we did turned positive in the first quarter and a lot of positive momentum in certain regions particularly in the UK where we have a strong position.
And then our upstate as you’d expect by regions in some of the other parts of Europe maybe France but overall good progress on margins as well on the construction side.
And then last quarter you talked about some execution of price cost getting better given lower material and oil cost and price cost did improve by 10 basis points can you talk about your ability to hold price in the current environment and then whether you expect the tailwind from lower raw material cost increase as the year continues? Yes so I think on price really nothing unusual in terms of our ability to realize price increases as well as announce according to the schedule we’ve set out so nothing has really changed on the price side.
On the potential savings from the lower oil prices on the direct material side and also on the indirect transportation cost I think our business teams are working on it really hard.
We saw little bit of benefit here in Q1 particularly in chemicals and resins but I think it may take a little bit of time to fully play itself out here and so little too early to call what this maybe for the year but we did 20 basis points in the first quarter that’s our assumption for the balance of the year and in line with what we’ve seen over the last three quarters or four quarters or so.
So no change optimistic and we’ll get more on the deflation side but little too soon to call out a number at this point.
I guess first of all I just wanted to explore further your thoughts on some of the buybacks.
I think I understand why you accelerated the share repurchase in 1Q but looking for the rest of the year beyond what you have in free cash flow I don’t understand the toggle around the decision to repatriate versus potentially lever out through buybacks? Yes so like I said we’re -- given our business model and given our balance sheet and how much cash we generate the current leverage ratio of about 2.2 times on a gross basis.
<br>We enjoy a solid credit rating [indiscernible] A 2A plus it gives actually as to credit markets on very favourable terms so we’re very comfortable with our current leverage ratio we’re not looking to go any higher from where we are today.
The decision on what to do with available cash flow is we really go through a thought process that’s in line with the capital allocation framework that we’ve discussed on several occasions so our number one priority which consumes about 25% of our total cash flow is to invest in the business for organic growth and for productivity so this is new products restructuring CapEx and we spend more than $150 million on that in the first quarter.
We’re committed to [indiscernible] an attractive dividend and so our dividend yield is competitive or in the 2% range at this point that’s approximately 25% of our total cash flows and so that leaves the balance which is a pretty big number for external investments and there are still acquisitions which we’d love to do under the right conditions.
We’ve talked about what those are in the past and or share repurchases and some combination thereof and the decision is really made based on where we can get the best risk adjusted returns.
And if you look at our share repurchase program over a long period of time we generate 12% to 13% returns with very low risk and given the visibility that we have into the performance of the company and given what we think overtime we’ll be able to deliver in terms of total shareholder returns and so that’s really what drives that decision we committed in December to approximately 1.5 billion and we were able to do that a little bit sooner because we were able to access some of this overseas cash and we'll continue to look at opportunities to do that.
We are saying approximately 2 billion for the year and let's see how it plays out and we'll keep you posted on the earnings call as we go forward.
Okay understood and then I guess just turning to welding for a second.
Drilling down into your performance in the quarter down 3% organically I think you said oil &amp; gas on 30% it's easiest comp of the year.
Could you just provide maybe a little bit more clarity on your thoughts on the trajectory for the segment for the year? Yes I mean we don't get too fancy in trying to forecast too much.
Like we said we were doing current run rate basis and so if in the first quarter we were down 30% we expect that to continue throughout the year maybe a little bit better in the second half of the year in terms of the declines on the year-over-year basis.
But not really counting on things getting a lot better or deteriorating significantly from here I think the 30% decrease is pretty significant and maybe a little bit of reaction to the changing environment on the oil &amp; gas side and I might just that following a very strong fourth quarter in that business and so fairly maybe a little bit faster we action than what we expected and a little bit more than maybe expected.
But this is our assumption for the rest of the year that this run rate will continue.
[indiscernible] businesses up 3 in the quarter.
Yes on the commercial side we continue to see solid demand which in North American was enough to offset the decline in oil &amp; gas.
Great thank you so much guys.
Hi good morning.
Just a follow up.
I wanted to see if I can understand the oil &amp; gas better.
Is international down lot more in North America and if you are giving the North American oil &amp; gas number isn't international more upstream obviously [0:02:24.7] [prices] down just given the mix is in all that upstream it's a lot bigger than we talk.
Yes you are talking about the walling business specifically? Correct.
The difference in the percentage is largely because most of our international sales in welding and oil &amp; gas related.
They are much more balanced portfolio in terms of their market exposure in North America.
Participating in the same parts of the industry overall.
Okay.
So the mix international would be most mid stream downstream than upstream? Correct.
We just like to higher concentration of our international welding in international welding revenues are tied oil &amp; gas.
Perfect and then if I may is there any risk of an inventory build of the equipment or what not as the oil gas side of welding was down or is it contained with an oil &amp; gas? I don't think there is much risk.
Our part of let's go to our methodology is for 98% of our loving product portfolio our customers ordered today and we ship them tomorrow.
So in terms of their sort of reaction to the current market environment and the changes that has in terms of the demand back to us I think it's a pretty efficient system.
So I don't think we're seeing much risk around inventory build.
Thanks good morning.
I'm wondering in which segment you expect to see the biggest impact from the increase internal focus on growth this year and even if that the segment that negative where do you expect the biggest impact to be? I think we are we talked about this before and lot of the work that we've done over the last 2 years plus is really about positioning ourselves internally totally drive and focus in a very efficient way and organic growth.
So in terms of the organizational structure of the company in terms of product line simplification work we're doing right now that's largely about cleaning the clutter out and eliminating the distractions associated with product positions that are either not as differentiated as we want to focus on are ultimately too small to matter.
So I would point to automotive and food equipment as the businesses that further down the path.
I think the welding business certainly met up some of the current challenges in oil &amp; gas is very well positioned.
That's been a business that's growing organically at 9% plus for us since the mid 90's when we got in the business.
So certainly we expect that one to start to accelerate as we go forward and then all of the others are at various stages on the path in terms of the [indiscernible] work needed to focus on driving organic.
Constructions continue to make progress build some big restructuring going on in Europe there polymers and fluids was probably the most fragment that complex structure where I think getting to the back side of what they use to do really get in position to drive organic growth.
So I think come a long as we've talked before this is the transition year 16 to POS impact starts to drop considerably and I think we are in a position to but having in the next year.
That's the plan.
Great and then automotive your business tour you have bit more with this facility and so the 14% growth in China in the quarter.
I know you said few times that thinking about the rest of year I knew the run rate.
But increase visibility and how do you think that 14% in China and goes rest of the year? Hey Steve.
Could you re-ask that question? You dropped out in the middle of it and I just want to make sure we hear your question properly to answer it properly.
Sure.
Sorry about that.
I was just saying that your automotive business tends to be one where you have a bit more visibility and the 14% growth in China in quarter and I know you've said a few times today that as you think about the rest of the year for you businesses you tend to sort of just run rate.
But because you have that more visibility in automotive and how do you think about that 14% growth in China over the rest of the year? I think we are well set up there as you describe that the automotive business.
What we are selling today really across the world are is a function of penetration gains that we engineered and invented and sold in going back 2 and 3 years.
So I think the run rate is really solid running going through rest of this year the pipeline is terrific in terms of future years and we continue to be very boyish and what we think we can do with this business long-term.
Hi good morning.
Just two quick questions.
One I mean I know the focus largely has been more on internally igniting organic growth and share repurchase.
But can you talk it all about just sort of the deal pipeline it all becoming more attractive your interest in larger versus smaller deals and what you are seeing in terms of evaluation and then I'll get back in queue.
Nothing is really I think we're pretty clear in our December Investor Day meeting around where we see M&amp;A fitting in terms of our overall enterprise strategy largely focused on building on businesses to our existing segments that we think can either help support or further accelerate the organic growth rates.
No magic from the side standpoint but certainly something that's comfortably in a $100 to $500 million range in that regard.
So ultimately that's opportunistic.
We will access those opportunities as we find M&amp;A come available to us.
We are certainly focused right now on getting this product to organic growth firmly in place.
So from the standpoint of pipeline it's we got a few things out there that are absolutely fits that we are working in terms of both answers to some of our existing businesses.
But I don't expect that particularly robust from the standpoint of overall deals done.
But just to clarify do you feel anymore I guess pressure look distort you've far exceeded I think everyone's expectations on margins and how successful you've been and the macro obviously has been a bigger head wind to more strong companies and you've done a great job.
But do you feel like you could be more opportunistic? I mean to help the organic growth by doing deal at this point.
I don't think there is any change in past year or aggressive it's ultimately about how does it fit how does it help us do what I just described and once we really not going to react on a short term basis.
This is as we've laid out a 5 year plan to position the company to generate 12% to 14% TSR on a consistent basis and the big [indiscernible] is really driven by an organic finance.
So that remains our focus right now.
This is also 5 year plan not a 5 quarter plan.
It's all about positioning the company coming out of 2017 could be able to perform like we think again and so we're focused on making that happen and we made a lot of progress and you are kind of note that we've got lot more work to do to get where we think we can get over the next 2.5 years.
Hi good morning.
I'm from JP Morgan.
Most of my questions have been answered.
Maybe just back to your comments on CapEx spending and been kind of whole through the course of the quarter.
Are any of your customers and any of the segments growing concerned about the strong dollar and what's that doing to export or do you think it's just general uncertain any color you could give us will be great? I think the impact and export competitiveness is in my view probably driving some of the softness in CapEx particularly obviously in North America.
I think there are some shifts and some adjustments that our customers are making around how this change in relative currency rates are impacting their competitiveness from an expert standpoint.
So I think if they are sorting out what is likely to happen to whatever business they are exporting from North America given this change in structure geographic competitiveness.
I think that's in large part driving some of the softness around CapEx.
And now you are seeing that any specific segment? I think as we go back to TNM probably little bit on the industrial side of welding in our specialty business where which is the equipment that was largely packaging or maybe the packaging equipment.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just on share repurchase I mean your stock is trading at a significant premium to the S&amp;P and trading inline with the large capital [consumers].
What kind of analysis do you do internally to either decide to accelerate through the purchases or hold under the cash for better opportunity? I think I'll go back to what I said earlier is that these are long term decisions that we make and they are really based on highly disciplined approach and being very returns focused.
This share repurchase program has been a terrific program for the company and certainly for the shareholders.
The alternative which is holding under the cash as you know is not very attractive today and certainly relative to the share repurchase program given our recent performance and given where we believe the company is headed which we've been very public about in terms of the goals and we rate out for 2017 and beyond.
We are confident that this continues to be a great way for us to allocate capital and so we're committed to the share repurchase program and we expected to continue be an active program going forward.
I was there that better than the target leverage ratios we talked about earlier there is plenty of flexibility in there opportunity come along.
Correct yes.
Okay I guess I was saying the more whichever consider a special dividend rather than share repurchases.
I think we look at all the options and we have not in the past done special dividends.
But we'll certainly continue to look at all the options.
Okay thank you.
I leave it there.
Appreciate it.
Hi good morning.
Just one quick you guys mentioned that the BSS headwinds should start to go in 2016.
But I guess I'm assuming that's not really like a cliff event.
So when do we really start to see that phase? Could it be in the second half of this year and then accelerate in '16 or might just being little optimistic there? I think the question was wrong and then correct me if I'm wrong.
Either BSS or PLS headwinds I'm not can you just let me… Whatever headwinds you got of from and together? I think the game plan there is a lot of planning around this as we've got a full year of TLS activity in 2015 it's going to represent a 1% headwind to our organic growth rate.
We are not in the 16 planning but magnitude it probably drops up by half in '16 and then fully done in '17 and beyond.
This is a pretty big one time event it really is linked to our portfolio strategy.
So we did a lot of work.
At the front of the strategy around really building the portfolio that can sort of deliver this organic growth front end that we've talked about.
So 30 businesses the best that we've 3.5 billion of revenue.
This is really stage 2 of that which is now working inside all of our divisions to basically take the same approach from a product line standpoint.
So we're not pruning product lines that don't need our differentiation standards or that are too small to ultimately matter.
So that's this is sort of phase two of portfolio management.
But we work really hard on the last year we can work hard on this year.
I think we're going to start to truly get on top of it and it will be a lesser issue certainly in '16 and should be fully completed by '17.
Hi thanks and congratulation guys on getting the margin.
I've got a couple of follow on one it is just I want a little clarity on the oil and gas in North America.
Basically how much is that down you think you could be down 30% but doesn't sound like it is and second thing is on pricing.
Are the own G customers looking for price declines your margin don't suggest it.
But are you trying to help your customers with lower pricing? Yeah.
Oil and gas in North America was down at the rate we talked about earlier in the 30% range and from a pricing standpoint we are not really planning that space and that's we're big enough sort of component of what they are having to buy.
We're not really seeing a lot of pricing pressure it's more a big slow down in actually the project work their that's impacting their demand for welding products.
Okay got it.
And then follow on to the construction question.
Is North American construction trending ahead of where you thought it was through the first quarter or is this inline I mean your comments of....
Yes I think largely inline.
The business was flat.
We'll see how that plays out in the second quarter depending on whether remodel was up 3 and commercial was up 2 to 3 in North America.
So reasonable better growth there but I'll tell you largely inline with expectation.
Great thank you all for joining us this morning.
We appreciate that very much and we look forward to speak with everyone again soon.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Welcome and thank you all for standing by.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session of today's conference call.
This call is also being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this point.
Now I will turn the meeting over to your host Mr.
Aaron Hoffman Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Investor Relations</strong> Great.
Thanks Madison.
And good morning.
Welcome to ITW's second quarter 2015 conference call.
Joining me this morning are our CEO Scott Santi; and our CFO Michael Larsen.
During today's call we will discuss our second quarter financial results and update you on our earnings forecast.
Before we get to the results let me remind you that this presentation contains our financial forecast for the 2015 third quarter and full-year as well as other forward-looking statements identified on the slide.
We refer you to the company's 2014 Form 10-K and first quarter 2015 Form 10-Q for more detail about important risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.
Also this presentation uses certain non-GAAP measures.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures is contained in the press release.
So with that I'll turn the call over to Scott.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Aaron and good morning everyone.
In the face of a fairly unprecedented combination of currency translation headwinds and contracting demand in two of the company's highest growth core businesses ITW delivered another solid quarter of execution with earnings per share of $1.30 an increase of 7% over the last year.
Excluding the $0.12 negative impact of currency translation our earnings per share would have been up 17%.
Operating margin in the quarter was up 80 basis points year-on-year and operating margin of 21.3% was a new all-time record for the company.
In addition after-tax return on invested capital reached our Enterprise Strategy target of 20% plus.
Despite the current challenges associated with the external environment we continue to focus on and invest in our strategy to accelerate organic revenue growth across the company.
In the first half of 2015 we invested roughly $300 million in our businesses as we added capital equipment to expand capacity launched new products and continued to simplify our businesses in order to focus them on their largest and most compelling growth opportunities.
Our pivot and focus to organic growth is already delivering solid above-market growth in our Automotive OEM and Food Equipment segments and we saw nice improvement in the organic growth rate in our Construction segment this quarter.
As a result we now have three of our seven segments growing organically in the mid-to-upper single-digit range.
Revenues in our Welding segment and Test &amp; Measurement platform were down significantly in Q2 Welding down 6% and Test &amp; Measurement down 7% as both businesses are seeing contracting demand from the oil and gas sector and the continued soft capital spending environment for industrial equipment more generally.
Both of these businesses have traditionally been among ITW's fastest and most consistent organic growers and we believe that the long-term fundamentals for growth and profitability in both of these businesses remain very strong.
As a result we continue to invest to ensure that they are well positioned to return to their historic growth rates as conditions in their end markets improve.
As we wrap up the second quarter of 2015 we are also at the halfway point of our five-year Enterprise Strategy.
And while we have a lot of work left to do we've made substantial progress in executing our strategy to position ITW to deliver solid above-market growth with best-in-class margins and returns on capital.
We've divested over 30 businesses including two full segments in conjunction with our portfolio strategy to focus the company exclusively on businesses that have strong and sustainable differentiation attributes.
Our business teams are currently executing the product line level component of this strategy through our product line simplification initiative.
As a result ITW today has a much more differentiated set of businesses with better overall earnings quality and significantly higher organic growth potential.
As an aside and as an illustration of the significantly higher overall level of quality of the ITW business portfolio last year ITW's operating income of $2.9 billion was an all-time record for the company.
The prior record of $2.8 billion was set in 2012 when the company's revenues were $3.4 billion higher.
So in other words last year we made more money than we ever had in the history of the company and revenues that were $3.4 billion lower than the prior record.
Our focus now will increasingly turn to leveraging this much higher quality business portfolio into accelerated organic growth.
Activities associated with business structure simplification are starting to lessen with significant incremental benefits still to come.
Strategic sourcing is now fully embedded in our operations and delivering consistent above-plan benefits.
Organizationally as the effort and attention required to mobilize execute and support these initiatives winds down over the next 18 months we will be increasingly able to shift our focus towards leveraging our much more highly differentiated portfolio and to accelerate organic growth.
Since we started executing on the Enterprise Strategy two and a half years ago we have expanded operating margin and ROIC by more than 500 basis points and we remain solidly on track to meet or exceed our 2017 performance goals of 23% operating margin 20% plus after-tax ROIC and organic growth of 200 basis points above global GDP.
I'll now turn the call over to Michael.
Michael? Thank you Scott and good morning.
Let's get started with the financial summary on page four.
EPS for the quarter was $1.30 an increase of 7% versus prior year and came in at the high end of our guidance range driven by better margins and favorable currency relative to the exchange rates assumed in the guidance we provided on April 21.
On a year-over-year basis currency was a $0.12 headwind and on a constant currency basis EPS growth would have been 10 points higher at 17%.
Softness in the capital spending environment in oil and gas end markets in our Welding and Test &amp; Measurement businesses resulted in essentially flat organic revenue which was offset by record margin performance as Enterprise Initiatives again contributed 100 basis points of operating margin expansion.
Revenues were $3.4 billion up 0.2% organically after the expected 1% impact from product line simplification.
Positively we saw continued strong organic growth performance from our Automotive OEM and Food Equipment segments at plus 6% and plus 4% respectively and a nice acceleration in our organic growth rate in Construction of plus 6%.
I'll cover the segments in a little bit more detail in a few slides.
Cash generation continues to be very good free cash flow at $384 million 80% of net income and we remain on track to meet or exceed our target of 100% for the year.
On capital allocation we invested approximately $180 million in share repurchases and are on track for $2 billion for the year.
Also really good progress in the after-tax return on invested capital now solidly above our long-term target of 20% plus.
In summary excellent execution of our Enterprise Initiatives continues to deliver strong financial results in a challenging capital spending environment.
Turning to revenue by geography on page five organic revenue was up slightly in North America and international and up 1% excluding the impact of product line simplifications.
Our businesses in EMEA continued to do well.
EMEA was up 2% with another quarter of double-digit growth in Automotive OEM.
Asia-Pacific was down 3% due to Welding and Test &amp; Measurement and Electronics partially offset by growth in Construction Products and Polymers &amp; Fluids.
China which represents approximately 5% of total revenues was down this quarter 2% due to Welding's oil and gas business.
Our Automotive OEM business however was up 8% and continues to outperform the underlying market.
Overall strong organic growth in three segments with Automotive Food Equipment and now Construction Products joining the mix offset by softer demand in our Industrial equipment businesses Welding and Test &amp; Measurement.
On page six operating margin performance continues to be excellent with 21.3% this quarter being an all-time high for the company and 80 basis points better than last year.
Operating margin improved in five of our seven segments with Food Equipment up 250 basis points Construction up 170 basis points and Polymers &amp; Fluids up 130 basis points.
Welding was down slightly and Specialty was down 70 basis points on a tough comparison versus prior year.
On the right side you can see the key drivers of margin expansion this quarter with Enterprise Initiatives the primary driver with 100 basis points of positive impact as expected.
Price/cost was favorable 20 basis points and other was a slight headwind due to a project in Specialty Products last year that did not repeat this year.
As you can see 150 basis points of margin expansion in the first half as we target to exceed 21% operating margin for the year.
Let me just point out that while first half revenues are down more than $500 million operating income is essentially flat and EPS is up 13% 23% on a constant currency basis.
And so overall a lot of good things going on in terms of execution on so-called self-help in an external operating environment that remains challenging and somewhat uncertain.
Turning to page seven we get into the segment results.
And on the left side we listed organic growth by segment for the first half of 2015.
You can clearly see the three segments growing solidly at 6% 4% and 4% year-over-year and you see the impact of the soft capital spending environment on our Welding and Test &amp; Measurement and Electronics segments.
As Scott said our Welding and Test &amp; Measurement businesses have historically been strong above-market growth businesses.
In fact from 2010 to 2014 both businesses grew organic revenue at a 6% CAGR.
As we've discussed previously Specialty Products and Polymers &amp; Fluids are still impacted by a significant amount of product line simplification.
Now let me give you some additional color by segment starting with Automotive OEM.
Automotive OEM continues to leverage ITW's unique approach to innovation and drive product penetration gains for strong organic growth.
As you can see organic revenue in the second quarter was up 6% on flat worldwide auto builds.
By geography Europe continued to outperform with double-digit revenue growth; and in North America the business was up 5% again solidly above 2% auto builds.
And in China organic revenues grew 8% outperforming auto builds also.
Operating margin improved 80 basis points to 24.5%.
In our Test &amp; Measurement and Electronics segment organic revenue declined 5% in the quarter.
Organic revenue in Test &amp; Measurement declined 7% due to the previously-discussed impact of the softer capital spending environment.
And the Electronics business was down slightly at 3%.
Operating margin for the segment increased 90 basis points to 16.1% in the quarter or 20.1% excluding the intangible amortization.
In the appendix we included the schedule with a margin impact of amortization expense from acquisition-related intangible assets by segment and in total.
Food Equipment organic growth was up 4% with North America Equipment up 9% driven by new products and penetration gains in warewash refrigeration and cooking.
Internationally Equipment revenue was flat on a tough year-over-year comparison.
Good performance in Service as revenues grew 5% in North America 3% internationally.
The segment's operating margin of 22% was 250 basis points higher than the prior year period driven by strong execution of Enterprise Initiatives and growth from new products.
In the Polymers &amp; Fluids segment still a significant amount of product line simplification in the quarter as organic revenue declined 2% while operating margin expanded by 130 basis points.
Polymers was down 3% Fluids &amp; Hygiene was down 2% and Automotive Aftermarket was flat.
Turning to Welding this segment is clearly being impacted by softer demand on the equipment side which represents two-thirds of the business.
In addition there is a fair amount of product line simplification this quarter and as you can see organic revenue was down 6% as operating margin remained essentially flat above 26% and solidly best-in-class.
As expected demand for equipment in oil and gas related end markets remained soft in the quarter very much in line with Q1 run rates.
And in addition the commercial business and the industrial businesses were impacted by the soft capital spending environment as well.
On slide 10 the Construction Products segment exceeded top line growth expectations this quarter with organic revenue growth of 6% the highest growth rate in four years.
North America is about 40% of the segment and led the way up 15% with growth in all end markets particularly renovation and remodeling.
Asia-Pacific increased 3% for the quarter and Europe was down slightly as strength in the United Kingdom was offset by softness in Continental Europe.
Operating margin came in at 19.9% an improvement of 170 basis points.
In Specialty Products organic revenue was down 3% due in part to product line simplification.
North America was down 5% and International was down 1%.
Operating margin fell slightly but was still very good at 23.5%.
So that wraps up the segment discussion and now I'll turn to the outlook for the balance of the year on slide 11.
As you saw this morning given the strong EPS performance in the quarter we're raising our full-year EPS guidance by $0.05 at the midpoint.
We now expect full-year EPS of $5.07 to $5.23 which is 10% growth at the $5.15 midpoint.
As a reminder EPS for the year would be up 18% on a constant currency basis.
Based on current demand trends full-year organic revenue growth is expected to be approximately 1% up 2% excluding the impact of product line simplification.
As you know PLS remains a 1 percentage point drag throughout 2015 and then moderates starting in 2016.
Total revenue is expected to be down 6% as a result of currency which creates a 7% headwind at current exchange rates.
We clearly expect that slightly lower revenues will be offset by record margin performance.
Its operating margin remains solidly on track to exceed 21% for the full year and it's worth pointing out that in spite of a 6% or $850 million revenue decline we're on track to set a new record for operating income dollars this year.
In terms of capital allocation we continue to invest aggressively for growth pay an attractive dividend that grows in line with earnings over time and as I said earlier we expect to invest approximately $2 billion in share repurchases with $1.8 billion completed to-date.
Turning to the third quarter we expect EPS to be in a range of $1.32 to $1.40 up 6% in the midpoint with $0.11 of negative impact from currency assuming current exchange rates.
We expect organic revenue growth to be flat to up 1% and we should achieve record operating margin of approximately 22% as Enterprise Initiatives deliver 100 basis points of margin expansion.
So that summarizes the quarter and our guidance for the balance of the year.
As you can see the operating teams continue to execute well in a challenging external operating environment.
And we remain solidly on track to meet or exceed our 2015 and 2017 performance goals as we continue to focus on and invest in our strategy to accelerate organic revenue growth across the company.
So with that let me turn it back over to Aaron.
Investor Relations</strong> Thanks Michael.
We'll now open up the call to your questions.
Please be brief so as to allow more people the opportunity to ask a question.
And remember one question one follow-up question.
Thank you sir.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
Our first question comes from the line of Mr.
John Inch with Deutsche Bank.
Sir your lines are open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Can I start with PLS? How Scott and Michael do you have confidence that PLS is working and that there is going to – this is basically going to incite underlying growth call it starting – or improved underlying growth starting in 2016? I mean plus it's a bit of a black box so could you just tell us because obviously growth is probably investors' number one concern with you right now not Enterprise Initiatives that are clearly working.
So how does the PLS – how do you have the confidence PLS as it dissipates will incite better underlying growth? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well absolutely the elimination of the negative is the obvious first part of that right.
So the whole point of PLS is really around the idea of simplification and embedded in 80/20 is a real strong discipline around focusing on the relative handful of product lines and customers that really can drive growth.
So the PLS that we're doing now is a collection of 15 years of aggressive acquisition.
So we're going through now – 50 to 60 deals a year we're going through now and really simplifying our businesses consolidating our focus on our best growth opportunities from a product line in an end market and customer standpoint.
It's not something that's new to the company but certainly it's something that's new in terms of being done at this level across the company all at once.
The end result is that we eliminate the distractions both from the standpoint of operational distraction from the standpoint of distraction to the focus of our sales teams marketing teams.
So the growth agenda and the growth focus becomes very clear.
PLS by itself doesn't create growth but what it does is create a high degree of focus on the best growth opportunities we have and we still then have to execute on that.
But the elimination of that complexity we have a lot of conviction about the fact that that's a really important step in this process.
Inc.</span></strong> Would you expect Scott some sort of a multiplier effect? So in other words if it's dragging by one you don't simply add one to future growth.
The focus allows you to get a little bit better? I'm not trying to be leading I am just...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No no.
Absolutely.
We expect to accelerate organic.
We expect to be an above-market grower by 200 basis points across the company.
And that's because we are focusing the company on highly differentiated positions in end markets that fundamentally have reasonable growth prospects but we expect to be able to outperform market level growth because we are focused on driving highly differentiated solutions to end customers that have complex and sophisticated business problems.
Inc.</span></strong> Is PLS – yeah I was going to ask is PLS dragging cash flow? Because you mentioned you expect cash to accelerate I guess based on it driving toward 100% if not higher for the back half.
Is it dragging cash I think at 80% net income conversion this quarter? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah no.
No PLS doesn't create a drag on cash flow.
I'd say actually quite the opposite over time.
The 80% conversion is in line with our typical run rate for the first half.
Same as we did last year in the first half of the year.
And so we would expect it to accelerate here in the back half and we're confident that we'll be at or above our 100% target for the year.
Inc.</span></strong> Just last China auto 8% is probably a relief for a lot of folks but the question is with production rates expected in that country to come down how are you thinking about your trends juxtaposed against your performance penetration but then obviously slowing production rates in that market? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You're talking about just auto John or the whole company? Inc.</span></strong> Yeah just auto in China.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think the auto China business it's largely a penetration story.
I think we are at the early stages of sort of moving from the global OEMs – not moving from but supplementing a very strong position with global OEMs in China with an accelerating level of penetration for the sort of major domestic players over there.
So I think there's plenty of runway for us.
The build rates or the production rates are certainly going to have some impact overall but we're still running high-single digits there in a market that last quarter I think was – the build rate was up a couple of percent.
So I don't think – the macro in China is going to have some relative effect but I don't think it's going to make it impact our overall ability to grow there over the next multiple years.
Inc.</span></strong> Well then second half is this going to be one for one? So for instance if builds in China go from plus two to minus five would that subtract seven points from your trend or do you think you do a little better or is it too granular? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think it's a little granular.
I would say we're running 6 percentage points ahead of market so figure five to six I think would be a good target.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Mr.
Joe Ritchie with Goldman Sachs.
Sir your line is now open.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
So I know the focus is shifting to growth but let's talk about the margins for a second because they were still really good in basically a no-growth environment.
The Enterprise Initiatives are coming through.
I'm just curious as the year progresses how are you guys thinking about price/cost? And then secondly can you talk a little bit about that negative 40 basis point impact you saw in the other line item? Is that mostly driven by mix this quarter? So let's start with the 40 basis points of other negative impact on margins.
And it's very simply – it was a project that we completed in Specialty Products last year that didn't repeat in this quarter.
So that is a...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> This is a high margin project.
That didn't repeat on a year-over-year basis and so you'd expect that drag to go away for the balance of the year.
For the balance of the year you would also expect it align with our guidance that our Enterprise Initiatives continue to generate 100 basis points of margin expansion.
We have a lot of confidence around that number just given the projects underlying that in terms of our sourcing efforts and our business structure simplification projects.
Price/cost was favorable again this quarter at 20 basis points and we expect that to remain at 20 basis points favorability here in the second half of the year.
We have not seen any change in the dynamics around our ability to get price.
As you know one of the byproducts of product line simplification is that your portfolio is much more differentiated and so if anything we should have the ability to maintain our pricing if not do a little bit better.
And on the cost side I'd say on the question we talked about on the last call around material deflation as a result of crude oil and other commodities we are still working on that.
We have not seen it in the numbers yet.
I think it would be reasonable to assume that we'll get some favorability in the second half but again we're not counting on it.
So those are soon to call out here and certainly not in our planning assumptions for the second half.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And I would just add to that we've got – given what we have already talked about in terms of our 2017 margin target we've got 100 basis points of margin improvement from initiatives for another two years after this one 100 basis points a year.
Right.
No that's helpful.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Not just the next two quarters in other words.
Great.
No that's helpful.
I guess maybe my one follow-up and shifting gears back into the growth side and the CapEx side can you maybe provide a little bit of color on both Welding and Test &amp; Measurement and specifically what's happening within oil and gas? I think your expectations last quarter were for oil and gas to be down $30 million (26:44).
And then within Test &amp; Measurement I know it's only about $100 million of that business but that market was also down significantly this quarter.
So any color on the oil and gas and non-oil and gas trends within those two segments would be helpful.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think from an oil and gas perspective I think the first quarter run rates held up.
They probably flipped around the percentages maybe a little bit just based on whatever happened last year in terms of seasonality so no real uptick or further deceleration either way in the oil and gas side.
I think on the Welding side what we saw in the second quarter that we didn't see as much in the first quarter is the softness in Welding expanding beyond oil and gas and Michael talked about it in his comments that the core industrial equipment business was down 4% 5% I think in the quarter.
And even the commercial business that has been which is the lighter duty part of the Welding capital equipment sector which has been a little bit more robust was down I think 1% or 2% in the quarter.
So beyond oil and gas at least in terms of the second quarter the year-on-year trends got incrementally negative.
Okay.
Great.
And then on Test &amp; Measurement? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think the core business there just continues to be choppy.
I think the year-on-year comps got a little worse.
The non-oil and gas related end markets for our Test &amp; Measurement equipment business in terms of second quarter were down probably mid-single-digit year-on-year.
And again no real changes in terms of run rate or demand patterns there but more of the same.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Things are not getting better yet.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Mr.
Andy Casey from Wells Fargo.
Sir your line is now open.
Thanks a lot.
Good morning everybody.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Question on the $0.05 increase to the 2015 guidance could you help us a little bit more with the components that drove that? The organic growth went down a little bit but everything else on slide 11 stayed reasonably constant with the equivalent slide in the Q1 presentation.
Yeah so Andy – so you're right.
I mean the revenue assumption is a little bit lower for the back half of the year but that's offset by the stronger margin performance in the back half.
The $0.05 really is the $0.04 of beat in the quarter here which is a combination of primarily currency favorability relative to our guidance and slightly better margins and so we're carrying that forward.
And then as we sit here today relative to the currency planning assumption we had in April we have a little bit of favorability.
So those things together make up the $0.05 that we raised the guidance for the year.
Okay.
Thank you Michael.
And then if I look at – and I'm going to get a little picky here but if I look at Auto OEM and Food Equipment the operating margin was still really strong but it softened a little bit in Q2 versus Q1.
Is that a function of the shift to the organic growth acceleration or were there other impacts that caused around a 50 basis point 60 basis point compression in the quarter? No Andy (30:24).
There's really nothing unusual in terms of the margins.
I mean it can fluctuate a little bit quarter-by-quarter but I just...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Based on mix shifts.
Yeah I just look at the year-over-year performance.
I mean Food 250 basis points.
And if you look at the schedule in the appendix you'll see that was on higher restructuring so it's actually over 300 basis points excluding that.
And then Automotive at 24.5% is still very strong performance.
I think if you look at our peers in that space that's approximately 3x what everybody else does in that space.
So I appreciate you being a little picky here but I really don't – I don't want to be defensive but I think we feel very good about the progress on margins.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Mr.
David Raso with Evercore ISI.
Sir your line is now open.
Hi.
Good morning.
A pretty straightforward question.
I'm just curious how July has started organically versus your third quarter guidance and for that matter even sort of the implied fourth quarter? The base growth a year ago accelerated a little bit 3Q 4Q from what you had in 2Q? Yeah that's right.
The comps are little tougher here David in the back half so third quarter of last year I think was up 3.5% organically.
As an aside EPS was up 40% last year.
So in July it's in line with the guidance for the quarter.
We said up in that 0% to 1% range and that's kind of what we're seeing so far.
Typically sequentially the business in total is flat from Q2 to Q3.
Auto typically is down a little bit offset by some of the other businesses.
But really nothing unusual as we go into the back half of the year.
I'd say the things we just talked about Scott talked about Welding and Test &amp; Measurement certainly not improving and some tough comps particularly on the equipment side in those businesses.
We talked about automotive China.
We'll see how that plays out in terms of auto builds but we'll outperform that market substantially and everything else is kind of in line with what we've seen so far.
And I think David just to add on if you look at our guidance for the year and the EPS of the first half of the year represents 49% of the total year and the second half is 51% and so we're exactly in line with where we performed historically and we're not counting on an acceleration or things getting a lot better here in the second half of the year.
Yeah I'm not trying to nickel and dime it but as you said usually 2Q 3Q are roughly similar.
Things don't seem to be accelerating.
But you were willing to put a nickel to actually $0.06 on the midpoint increase into your guidance 2Q to 3Q which – I mean I'll take it but I was a little surprised that you were willing to guide 3Q where you did given the trends.
There must be some underlying confidence on the margins...
Yes.
...maybe July was stronger than we thought but now it sounds like you're going to have to get that nickel sequentially $0.06 to the midpoint of the guidance really from margins.
And maybe if you can help us maybe the share count at the end of the quarter anything to...? The share count is 368 million.
And you're right.
The improvement from Q2 to Q3 is all operating margin performance.
So like I said Q3 should be another record for the company at approximately 22% and we just did 21.3%.
And so on the same revenues I think if you do the math you'll see that it's a very reasonable assumption.
Got it.
That's helpful.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Mr.
Joel Tiss with BMO.
Sir your line is now open.
All right.
How's it going guys? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Good Joel.
Is there a less upward margin pressure as the PLS starts to slow down a little bit in 2016? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Less upward margin pressure? Can you clarify that Joel? You're eliminating fewer and fewer negatives so there's – it seems logical that there would be a little bit less buoyancy in the margin improvement.
Or is that getting so small that it doesn't matter anymore? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You're talking about a relatively immaterial amount of revenue so I don't – the addition by subtraction is not a significant driver of the margin improvement.
There're certainly some underlying costs that comes out from an operating perspective as we take the complexity out of a lot of relatively small volume SKUs.
That's a normal part of our 80/20 process.
So I don't think there's a whole lot of delta in terms of margin momentum around the sort of revenue impact the PLS starting to dissipate here.
Okay.
And I just wondered Scott if you could give us a little bit more color on a couple of the drivers of the organic growth.
Some new product introductions and some of the capacity that you added just some kind of real live examples to give us a little bit better flavor.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think you're seeing it in places like Food Equipment from an innovation perspective Automotive OEM.
I mean we've talked about it before as these businesses as we have gone through this repositioning around our strategy our seven businesses were all in a different starting point.
The Auto OEM business was the most ready sort of move through the process of streamlining their structure developing a sourcing capability simplifying their product offerings and you're seeing coming out the other side in their performance.
An example of what we think – to certainly higher or lower percentages overall the way that we're ultimately positioning the entire company to operate.
So in terms of the investments there we're investing heavily in R&amp;D we're investing heavily in capacity.
This is a business growing high-single digits so we are investing ahead.
It's also a business where we have a three-year out time horizon so we have a pretty good runway there.
So we are investing and supporting that growth rate in terms of capital equipment and what are the next innovation programs beyond the current three-year horizon.
Food Equipment is another one that's now starting to come out the other side 9% equipment growth in North America in the quarter.
Service business up mid-single digits worldwide and that's being driven by both focus – the ability to focus on their best most competitive positions most compelling growth opportunities and the amount of investing they're now positioned to support and execute on those growth opportunities.
Construction started to come out the other side at least as it relates to North America so there's no secret in terms of what we're doing here other than we've got some – we're in some really good industries.
We're in product offerings in those industries that are highly differentiated that solve real meaningful problems for customers and we expect the acceleration to come from an ability to really focus on fully leveraging those opportunities and that focus increases as we're having to spend less time inside those businesses doing things like PLS developing sourcing divesting businesses et cetera.
So that's really the glide path we're on.
Okay.
And then just Mike real fast I don't know if you answered why the free cash flow was down $100 million in the quarter and if you could just give us an update on the timing of reducing debt as the share repurchase starts to get toward the end? Yeah I think if you look at Q1 Q2 last year cash flow and this year there were some movements between Q1 and Q2 related to the IPG divestiture and some of the tax payments associated with that.
If you normalize for that like I said for the first half of the year this year we converted 80% of the income to cash exactly the same number as what we did last year.
And so it's really...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> As we have done for the last (38:58) Yeah that's kind of our historical run rate.
And then we ramp up from here.
And so like I said we all expect and you should expect us to meet or exceed the 100% target for the year.
So nothing unusual really there.
In terms of – so you asked reducing the overall debt I mean we don't have any plans to change our current target leverage ratio.
We're in that 2.2 times 2.3 times range.
That's for us the optimal structure at this point given how much cash this business model generates how much cash we have on hand net leverage is about 1.5 times.
That is what really supports the overall Enterprise Strategy here from a capital allocation standpoint.
So there are no plans to materially change our overall debt or leverage ratio target in the near term.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Just one more comment on the free cash flow.
Our second and third quarters going back for a long long time are higher overall revenue quarters than Qs one and four.
So from the standpoint of the seasonal free cash flow in the second quarter we're funding additional working capital around those higher elevated seasonal sales to support Q2 and Q3.
And then in Q1 and Q4 those numbers come back down.
So we always are sort of negative to net income from a free cash flow standpoint in the first half of the year and positive in the second half of the year.
And it's just the incremental delta on receivable and inventories to support the seasonal fluctuations in sales.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Mr.
Nigel Coe with Morgan Stanley.
Sir your line is now open.
Yeah thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
I think Michael you mentioned 3Q the pickup in the midpoint is driven by the margin.
And we don't have a huge amount of seasonal history with this new portfolio so I'm wondering is that pickup driven by base cost reduction i.e.
initiatives? So is there some mix factor at play here? No.
There's probably a little bit of mix.
We'll see how it plays out in the quarter.
The bulk of the improvement here is driven again by the Enterprise Initiatives.
So we will get 100 basis points from Enterprise Initiatives and then sequentially like I said revenues are about the same.
Year-over-year we expect revenues to be flat to 1%.
And so again the key driver here is really operating margins in the 22% range.
And you know this Nigel.
If you go back historically same as last year and the years before the third quarter is usually our highest quarter in terms of operating margin.
Yeah it's a bit of a different mix too to a lot of (42:02) companies because of the shutdowns in the summer period tend to cause a little bit of operating deleverage.
But I noticed last year we had the same dynamic.
So I'm wondering with the new portfolio whether there's mix play.
But it sounds like there's a bit of mix and a bit of operating cost reduction.
And then the second is just what struck me was the geographic trends in international markets Europe up 2% and Asia-Pac down 3%.
And what really struck me was the Welding performance in EMEA up 5%.
So I'm wondering can you maybe just give a little bit of color in terms of what you're seeing in Welding Europe and how sustainable you think that is? Yeah so I think Europe we've talked about before really for us as a company stabilized back in 2013 and we're quite encouraged by what we've seen and the 2% growth in the region.
I think on the Welding side this was a good quarter in Europe which was really driven by a one-time order.
We hope it's not one-time but that's what we're hearing.
So I wouldn't read too much into that in Europe.
It wasn't a specific customer or specific country so.
Great.
Well thanks for the color.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Mr.
Deane Dray with RBC Capital Markets.
Sir your line is now open.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
So halfway through the Enterprise Strategy and Scott I recall that the big emphasis was there's going to be this pivot from two-thirds M&amp;A and one-third organic to reverse that to two-thirds organic one-third M&amp;A.
And my question is you really haven't seen M&amp;A getting restarted and Michael's comments on capital allocation not one mention of M&amp;A.
And so at what point do you start to restart that M&amp;A engine? Or do you want to recast a different percent of organic versus M&amp;A? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No I don't think – I think our intentions around this are pretty clear.
We talked about it at the Investor Meeting in December in terms of first of all strategically where do we see M&amp;A fitting in terms of the overall company's strategy.
The simplified version of that is we would love to bolt great assets onto these seven great businesses that we have.
The way I would describe it is we would be delighted to add a great company right now and that's not new news.
That's been true throughout.
What I would say the difference is is we're probably not as actively out in the prospecting mode around the opportunities to do that as we will be as we get further down the Enterprise Strategy.
But from the standpoint of would we have appetite for a really good bolt-on acquisition tomorrow if we had one become available to us absolutely we would.
But the criteria is pretty strict and it's pretty clear internally what fits and what doesn't.
And I would just add Deane if you look at the transactions that have taken place in our space over the last couple of years we've got a chance to see them all and we don't feel like we've missed anything.
And as Scott said given the right set of circumstances we'd love to bolt something on to one of our seven segments.
So that two-thirds one-third is still a healthy target? Yeah.
All right.
Good.
And then second question would be maybe if you could provide some comments and specifics around that North American Construction number of 15%.
A lot of people have been hoping wishing that the non-res would start gaining traction.
So how much of that is on the non-res side how much is renovation housing and so forth? And what's the outlook? Yeah so the big improvement Deane in the quarter was really on the renovation/remodeling side up – that drove the bulk of the increase up 25% that's what led to North America being up 15%.
We did see some slight improvement in residential up mid-single-digits.
Last quarter we talked about that part of the business being flat.
And commercial was about the same so up low-single-digits in commercial construction.
Really the main driver renovation and remodeling and we feel good about the current trends in the business.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Mr.
Steven Fisher with UBS.
Sir your line is now open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
This may just be rounding small numbers but if I assume the midpoint of organic growth for Q3 it looks like you're anticipating a bit of acceleration in growth in Q4.
Is that the way you're thinking about it? And if so where might that acceleration come from? It's really back Steve to the comps.
And so Q3 last year was up 3.5%.
Q4 was up a little less than 2.5%.
And so it's really the way we model the guidance here is based on current run rates adjusted for typical seasonality.
And so that's really what's driving.
It's not an acceleration in the fourth quarter relative to the third quarter.
It's really the comps year-over-year.
Okay.
That's fine.
And then just a follow up on Deane's question on Construction.
I know you've been fairly cautious on Construction.
Obviously this was your best quarter of growth in a long time.
You talked about the North American trends.
Is there anything in the business that's making you think just a little more optimistically about the business broadly? And then related to the European construction you called out some softness in Continental Europe.
Was that any particular market France or Germany or anything else? Yeah so on the latter point in Europe the U.K.
and Scandinavia continue to be very good and then with some challenges in France and Southern Europe as you would expect.
I think we feel very good not just about the current kind of daily order rates in the business but just look at the margin performance and the improvements since we embarked on the Enterprise Strategy.
So think about how much more is flowing through the bottom line given all the work that's been done on the Enterprise Initiatives.
And so I think the team has done a really nice job positioning this business for growth and right now we're taking advantage of some lift seen (49:05) on the end markets and we feel good about the current trends and we'll see how it plays out.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's feeling a little more like it has some legs than it has in the past but I say that with a whole bunch of caution.
I'm talking about first of all just North America but we've been down this road before a number of times.
So I think we'll want to see another quarter or two before we really see it feel comfortable with the trajectory in terms of underlying end market demand.
But it does seem to be a little bit more consistent at least over the next two months or three months than what we've seen historically.
So we're hopeful but certainly not ready to call it yet.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Sorry to harp on the Construction again but just another follow up question because some other companies cited some weakness in the second quarter on the construction equipment side in particular May and it could have been energy it could have been weather.
But I guess within your North American Construction was the strength that you saw in North America consistent throughout the quarter or was it more I guess June weighted? And then I guess my second question is back to sort of capital allocation.
I know you've guided for share repurchase for $2 billion in the year but you bought back $180 million of stock back in the quarter which is the lowest number we've seen.
Given the positive or improving free cash flow generation in the back half of the year and given that there doesn't seem to be a lot on the M&amp;A side is there upside to the $2 billion in share repurchase if the cash flow generation is there? And if not what will the cash go towards? Thanks.
Yeah so let's start with the first question first.
So in the second quarter same as – and this is true for the enterprise – very consistent throughout the quarter by month.
June was our best month but it typically is in the quarter.
And so I wouldn't read too much into an acceleration in the quarter because we certainly did not see that.
This was out of the gate really good growth on the Construction side as we talked about.
On capital allocation as you know we did $1.6 billion in the first quarter.
We did $180 million here in the quarter so we have a commitment to do approximately $2 billion for the year.
Feel very good about that and if the company continues to perform as well as it is and nothing is going to change in terms of our view longer term of what this Enterprise Strategy will do in terms of the overall financial performance of the company.
And so given that and given the alternative of letting the cash sit on the balance sheet we will repurchase shares as an alternative to that.
All righty.
Thanks.
I'll get back in queue.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ms.
Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
Ma'am your line is now open.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Most of my questions have been answered but maybe you could give us some insight into your forecast for automotive builds by region for the back half? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah so we're still in the same kind of low-single-digit type global auto builds.
I think there's some seasonality here in the third quarter and some discussion around whether there will be shutdowns or not but I wouldn't really expect much of a change in the second half versus what we have seen in the first half.
So overall kind of in that low-single-digit range which is good enough for us to grow the business in the high-single digits and in some regions like Europe if you look at flat auto builds we are growing the business double digits.
So that's kind of what – more of the same in the back half of the year.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then on the Food Equipment side maybe some color on the segments institutional versus fast casual versus other sectors.
What are you seeing in the segment? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I think institutional fast casual which is – institutional is about 40% of our business.
It's still very good.
The growth here is not really – the end markets are not growing at 4%.
I mean the outperformance here I just want to be clear is really the focus by the team on driving organic growth and it's the new products that are being launched and the Service business side that is performing at a higher level than what we have seen historically.
So that's how I would describe it.
So that's kind of the landscape there.
Okay.
And just one philosophical question.
One of your competitors is very proud of the fact that they have hired a few ITW folks and that they're now going to become an 80/20 company.
Could you just talk a little bit about the barriers to implementing 80/20? I mean you are unique and you have been doing this for a long time.
How easy or how difficult is it going to be for somebody to replicate 80/20? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I don't know what they're going to do.
All I can talk about is our company and we have been applying 80/20 for going back to the mid 1980s.
It is something that continually evolves.
I'm not sure who you're referring to but in general the way we practice it today is pretty unique and it's very different than we practiced it two years ago even in terms of the way it continues to evolve inside our company.
So I guess that's all I can say.
Okay.
I'll leave it there.
Offline I'll tell you who it is.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Mr.
Stephen Volkmann with Jefferies.
Sir your line is now open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Just one quick one.
I thought the Welding margin was pretty impressive given the organic growth there and I guess it sounds like Scott you're telling us that Welding isn't showing any signs of recovery.
So can we assume that these margins can hold in Welding or was that one sort of special item I think Michael might have mentioned did that have a margin impact? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
I think one of the things embedded in the 80/20 process and the way we run the company is we have a very flexible cost structure and I think – I appreciate you actually pointing that out because I think our Welding team has done a terrific job of certainly continuing to invest in their long-term growth potential while at the same time on a tactical basis doing some really nice work minimizing the overall earnings and margin impact on this contraction in sales that they've been seeing over the last couple of quarters.
So nothing special about it other than it is core to how we run the railroad here.
Great.
Appreciate it.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Mr.
Eli Lustgarten with Longbow Securities.
Sir your line is now open.
Thank you very much.
Good morning everyone.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Most of the questions obviously have been asked at this point.
Can we just step back a moment and see whether you have seen any noticeable change either in segments or regionally that you could identify for the second half of the year lookout (56:56)? I mean you're pretty much saying everything will continue second half first half but is there anything noticeable? Second part to that I'm sure this is probably because you're not big in Latin America can you talk about your exposure there and what's going on down in that part of the world which is (57:11)? Yeah we didn't call out Latin America specifically this time.
It's less than 3% of our sales.
It's down about high-single digits 9%.
And then most of that is driven by as you might imagine the Welding in the oil and gas business in that area.
In terms of the second half of the year anything unusual by segment or geography I can't really think of anything to be honest with you.
I think the second half will look to some extent similar to the first half in terms of top-line growth and then continued progression on the margin front and strong cash flows.
And I can't really think of anything that we're different.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I was just going to add to that just to reinforce what you said earlier and what we've talked about along is we're not in the business of trying to forecast economically.
So our forecast is basically taking the current run rate.
It doesn't mean we're being pessimistic or optimistic.
We'd love for things to get better.
And when they do we're in a position to react but ultimately we have no crystal ball out there embedded in any of our numbers expecting things to go one way or the other.
That doesn't mean that we have a particular view on that.
It just means that the way we operate the company that there's really no advantage for us doing that.
And as far as this whole chaos in Greece and what's happening on you haven't seen any real dramatic effect on business conditions across the enterprise for you guys? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
No.
I think we continue – look at the performance of the company in Europe and I think that answers the question.
Still very good so.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Investor Relations</strong> And I think that takes us basically to the top of the hour.
So that concludes our call.
We appreciate everybody's time this morning and we look forward to talking to you again in about three months.
Great day.
Thank you sir.
And that concludes today's conference call.
Thank you all for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome and thank you all for standing by.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Questions will be taken at the end of the presentation.
Today's conference call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
And now I will hand the call over to Mr.
Aaron Hoffman Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Hoffman you may begin.
Thanks Anna.
Good morning and welcome to ITW's third quarter 2015 conference call.
Joining me this morning are our CEO Scott Santi; and our CFO Michael Larsen.
During today's call we will discuss our third quarter financial results and update you on our earnings forecast.
Before we get to the results let me remind you that this presentation contains our financial forecast for the 2015 fourth quarter and full year as well as other forward-looking statements identified on this slide.
We refer you to the company's 2014 Form 10-K and second quarter 2015 Form 10-Q for more detail about important risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.
Also this presentation uses certain non-GAAP measures.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures is contained in the press release.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Scott.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Aaron and good morning.
In Q3 ITW delivered another strong quarter of margin expansion and earnings per share growth.
In the quarter ITW achieved 9% earnings per share growth operating margin of just under 23% and after-tax return on invested capital of 21.5%.
In addition free cash flow in the quarter was very strong at 126% of net income.
We were able to deliver these results despite the by now well known list of near-term headwinds confronting just about every U.S.-based industrial company: currency sluggish business investment and CapEx spending the slowdown in China et cetera.
The key driver of our performance in the near term continues to be strong execution on the margin and return improvement focused elements of our Enterprise Strategy which contributed to more than 100 basis points of margin expansion and 140 basis points of ROIC improvement in the quarter.
Since we began implementing our current strategy a little over two and a half years ago we have expanded operating margins by 570 basis points and after-tax return on invested capital by 540 basis points.
As we look ahead to 2016 and beyond activities across the company associated with our Business Structure Simplification initiative are tapering down with significant incremental benefits still to come.
Strategic Sourcing is now fully embedded in our operations and is delivering consistent above-plan benefits and we're in the final stages of the portfolio management component of our Enterprise Strategy as product line simplification activities will start to moderate in 2016.
As a result and as we planned beginning in 2016 we will be well positioned to shift our focus increasingly toward leveraging our much more differentiated higher quality business portfolio for accelerated organic growth.
Similar to the way we implemented these initiatives we are in the early stages of applying a clearly defined and rigorous two-step growth framework to every one of our 84 (3:26) divisions that is designed to first prepare them for accelerated growth and second to have them deliver on it in a very focused 80/20-like way.
Our Automotive OEM and Food Equipment segments are the farthest along in implementing this framework.
Their success in accelerating organic growth through applying our growth framework is encouraging as we look to bring the rest of the company along over the next 12 months to 18 months.
We will cover our growth framework and our transition to focus on growth in more detail at our Annual Investor Day in December.
Despite the long list of near-term external challenges we continue to focus on positioning the company to take full advantage of the performance potential that was (4:06) within our highly differentiated business model over the long term.
To that end we have invested approximately $420 million in our businesses thus far in 2015 as we add capital equipment to expand capacity launch new products and simplify our businesses in order to focus them on our largest and most compelling growth opportunities.
ITW's business model is not capital intensive and as a result we have plenty of flexibility that allows us to both make significant investments in our businesses and return a meaningful share of our cash flow to our shareholders.
In the third quarter the board raised the dividend 13.4% and year-to-date we have now repurchased $2 billion of shares.
As a reminder we have more than $5 billion remaining on our share repo authorization.
Moving forward we will continue to be highly disciplined in our approach to allocating capital to both share repurchases and strategic acquisitions.
As we move through the back-end of year three of our Enterprise Strategy we've made substantial progress in executing our strategy to position ITW for solid organic growth with best-in-class margins and returns and we remain solidly on track to meet or exceed our 2017 performance goals.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Michael.
Michael? Thank you Scott and good morning everybody.
As you saw this morning ITW delivered another strong quarter.
EPS was $1.39 an increase of 9% versus prior year driven once again by strong execution on Enterprise Initiatives as Business Structure Simplification and Strategic Sourcing exceeded our expectations and contributed to record operating margin performance and helped offset challenging end market conditions in some of our businesses.
Operating margin improved 180 basis points to 22.7% with 110 basis points of that improvement coming directly from our Enterprise Initiatives.
Revenues were down 9% primarily due to currency headwinds and a 1% decline in organic revenue.
Keep in mind that as expected the organic decline includes 1 percentage point of PLS.
As you may recall we're comparing against a pretty good organic performance of plus 3.5% in the year ago quarter.
When we look at our diverse business portfolio it's a tale of two economies: industrial and consumer.
We continue to see solid organic growth in our consumer-facing businesses such as Automotive Food Equipment and parts of Specialty and Construction which represents about 60% of our total revenues.
In the quarter and year-to-date these businesses are up 5% organically so 60% of the company is growing at 5% in a tough environment.
On the other hand our industrial-facing businesses like Welding Test &amp; Measurement/Electronics declined in the high single digits organic.
That said we continue to invest in all of our businesses including those that serve the industry (7:06) economy as we're confident that the CapEx cycle will eventually turn in our favor.
Strong cash generation is a hallmark of ITW and this quarter was no exception with free cash flow of $644 million 126% of net income.
We expect a solid fourth quarter and remain firmly on track to meet or exceed our 100% cash conversion target for the year.
Good progress on after-tax return on invested capital now solidly above our long-term target of 20%-plus in the quarter and year-to-date.
So in summary with revenues down 9% ITW delivered 9% EPS growth along with record operating margin performance record ROIC and strong cash flows.
And just as important we fully expect this positive momentum from Enterprise Initiatives to continue to contribute about 100 basis points of margin expansion going forward including in 2016 and 2017 independent of volume growth.
Needless to say this positions ITW very well in the current environment and gives us confidence in meeting or exceeding our 2017 performance goals.
Revenue by geography on page five reflects the environment we just talked about.
North America was down 2% as declines in Test &amp; Measurement/Electronics and Welding offset strength in Construction up 7%; Food Equipment up 6%; and Automotive up 5%.
EMEA was down 1% despite another strong double-digit performance by the Automotive team.
Asia Pacific was down 4% as China which is less than 5% of revenues was down 8% this quarter.
Declines in Welding Test &amp; Measurement/Electronics and Automotive were partially offset by solid growth in Construction products.
Finally South America was down 4% as Brazil which represents about 2% of total ITW sales declined 7%.
Our emerging market exposure is fairly limited and while the environment globally is a little more challenging ITW is well positioned to offset end market conditions with strong margin performance as you will see on the next page.
On page six operating margin is once again the highlight of the quarter with 22.7% being an all time high for the company.
Margin performance was strong across the board that's four segments improved by 200 basis points or more.
Construction was up 420 basis points; Food Equipment up 320 basis points; Specialty Product up 270 basis points; and Automotive up 200 basis points.
Volume declines in Test &amp; Measurement/Electronics Welding and Polymers &amp; Fluids led to lower operating margin in those three segments on a year-over-year basis.
That said these businesses are still operating at best in class margins particularly Welding which maintained 25% operating margin in the face of significant volume declines.
On the right side of the page the number one driver of margin expansion this quarter was once again Enterprise Initiatives contributing 110 basis points slightly better than expected.
Price/cost was favorable 20 basis points and lower restructuring versus prior year drove 70 basis points of the 90 basis points in the other category.
As Scott mentioned the restructuring costs associated with Business Structure Simplification are starting to moderate and we expect to spend $60 million to $70 million on restructuring this year.
So overall very good progress on sustainable margin improvement so far and clear line of sight to further incremental margin opportunities going forward.
Turning to page seven on the left side you can see the operating margin by segment on a year-to-date basis with 150 basis points of sustainable margin improvement so far this year.
For some additional color by segment let's start with Automotive OEM which had another strong quarter as organic revenue was up 5% on worldwide auto builds that were flat.
Europe continued to outperform auto builds with double-digit revenue growth.
North America was up 5% in line with auto builds but excluding PLS this region would have outperformed auto builds by approximately 300 basis points.
As expected China was down 5% as global automotive manufacturers where ITW has higher content declined 15% significantly more than domestic Chinese manufacturers.
This implies about 500 basis points of penetration gains very much in line with our past performance.
And operating margin was 25.4% an increase of 200 basis points.
In our Test &amp; Measurement/Electronics segment organic revenue declined 11% in the quarter in a challenging demand environment for capital equipment and in the face of a good year ago quarter above 5%.
Lower volume caused operating margin for the segment to decrease 210 basis points to 16.6% in the quarter.
Adding back the non-cash charges from the amortization of acquisition-related intangibles operating margin is above 20%.
Food Equipment also had a good year ago quarter but organic growth was still up 3% as North America led the way with equipment up 8% and service up 4%.
The team continues to do a very good job achieving above market growth across the portfolio through customer backed innovation.
Internationally equipment revenue was down 1% compared to strong 8% growth in the year ago quarter.
And record operating margin of 26.3% was up 320 basis points.
Polymers &amp; Fluids on page nine was down 3% with polymers down 8% partly due to a decline in the European offshore wind business.
Fluids down 4% due to weak industrial MRO trends while automotive aftermarket which is more oriented towards the consumer was a bright spot of 2% due to successful new product launches.
As discussed earlier a tough quarter on the top line in Welding down 10% organically compared to a strong quarter up 5% in the year ago.
Weakness in North America which represents about 75% of the segment's revenues was broad based and organic revenue was down 8%.
International was down 17% primarily due to oil and gas and PLS of low margin business in Europe.
As you can see from the margin performance the team continues to do a very good job maintaining best in class margins supported by the 80/20 focus on highly differentiated equipment which represents approximately two-thirds of the business.
On slide 10 Construction Products had another good quarter on the top line with organic revenue growth of 4%.
North America which is about 40% of this segment was up 7% due to continued positive momentum in the renovation/remodel hard and to some extent commercial.
Europe was down 2% as we continue to focus on PLS and restructuring activities that in the near term position the business for accelerated organic revenue growth with much improved margin performance.
Asia Pacific increased 5% with strong performance once again in Australia.
Operating margin came in at a record 23.1% an impressive 420 basis points of improvement.
In Specialty Products organic revenue was flat with growth in consumer packaging offset by PLS.
North America was flat and international was down 1%.
And operating margin improved significantly by 270 basis points to 24%.
On page 11 let's turn to the guidance.
And we've updated the organic outlook for the demand levels that we're seeing in our businesses today.
And as a result we expect the year to be flat to down 1%.
Due to the reduced revenue assumption we're lowering our full year EPS guidance by 1% or $0.05 at the midpoint to $5.05 to $5.15 which is 9% year-over-year growth at the midpoint despite the long list of external headwinds we talked about earlier.
We also expect record operating margin of 21%-plus and record after-tax ROIC of 20%-plus.
Turning to the fourth quarter our EPS guidance is in the range of $1.15 to $1.25 which includes $0.08 of negative currency impact.
We also saw some (15:29) last year that we don't expect to repeat this year.
Based again on current levels of demand we expect organic revenue growth to be down 1% to 2%.
We're confident that the positive momentum on our Enterprise Strategy and our proven operational capabilities position the company for continued strong performance.
In fact looking forward we have good visibility to a significant portion of our total shareholder return target of 12% to 14%.
With about 100 basis points of margin improvement from Enterprise Initiatives in each 2016 and again in 2017 along with disciplined cap allocation behind an attractive dividend and buyback and/or acquisitions we are more than halfway to our target without the benefit of organic growth.
With that let me turn it back over to Aaron.
Thanks Michael.
We'll now open the call to your questions.
Please be brief so as to allow more people the opportunity to ask a question.
And also please remember one question and one follow-up question only.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question and answer session.
Our first question will be coming from the line of Joe Ritchie of Goldman Sachs.
(16:55) your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning.
Hey Michael I like the way you broke out your business and that 60% of your business was growing at about 5% and 40% of your business was down about 10%.
And clearly from an underlying market standpoint you guys expect the negative 1% to negative 2% trends to continue.
But if we get into 2016 and underlying trends continue to deteriorate say your business is down 2% to 3% can you continue to get 100 basis points in Enterprise Initiatives in 2016? Yeah so I think Joe.
So we're not going to get real specific in terms of guidance for 2016 as you would expect.
The 100 basis points of margin improvement from Enterprise Initiatives is really independent of volume so we would expect to get that even if revenues continue to be down in the 2% to 3% range.
And I think you saw again this quarter that the decremental margins which you would apply to those 2% to 3% revenue were once again really good in the quarter in that 30% range so that's how I would think about it in the scenario you just laid out.
Okay.
Now that's helpful.
And I guess maybe just a follow-on question digging into one of the segments.
Auto OEM for example was still really strong this quarter but also noticed that the outgrowth in builds in North America and China didn't happen as we've seen in prior quarters.
Was there any noise in the quarter that maybe drove the outgrowth lower? Or does your view on outgrowth in Auto change at all longer term? No Joe our view hasn't changed.
I mean historically we've outperformed auto build to the tune to 400 basis points to 500 basis points which we did again at the global level.
What you're not seeing in the numbers in North America is that we actually have 300 basis points of product line simplification so this is revenue that came out.
If you add that back in we outperformed auto builds by 300 basis points in North America.
In China what you're seeing is that about two-thirds of our business in China is with the global auto OEMs and that's where we have significantly higher content.
And their builds were down about 15% in the quarter but our business was only down 5%.
And so we continued to outperform to the tune of about 500 basis points in terms of continued penetration gains in the quarter.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah and what I would add in terms of just additional color on China is that given the sort of slowdown on build rates what you see in the quarter is as the OEMs lower order rates you see a bit of a elevated level of the brakes coming on which is sort of flowing through the supply lines and people adjusting to the lower build rate.
So all in all we were pretty happy with how we tracked in auto in the quarter in China given all that was going on over there.
Got it.
That makes sense.
If I could maybe sneak one more in.
Scott just a broader question on...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
The backdrop just getting a little bit worse here and clearly the next step of the story for ITW is really kind of positioning the portfolio for growth.
And so any additional color that you can give us on the two-step program and your ability to really from a timing standpoint start to see some growth in your portfolio in light of a pretty tough economic backdrop? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah we will spend some more time on that in December as we talked about but I think in general I actually feel really good about – Michael talked about we have 60% of the company net of the PLS is growing 5% this year-to-date and it's a combination of starting to do the kind of work we're talking about.
So I think it's a real mixed bag as you look at the diversity of the portfolio right now primarily because of some real pressure on the CapEx side in Welding and Test &amp; Measurement.
I think if you sort of net that away we're actually throwing up some pretty good progress in terms of organic in the other parts of the company.
I think if – with a view that says oil and gas is probably not going to get a lot worse and may not recover for a while but the negative goes away next year we just hold those businesses where we are and we get the rest of the portfolio to continue to grow at the rates we're growing at it may be accelerating a little bit.
I think we're set up to certainly generate some incremental improvement next year.
And I would just add Joe that the other thing and Scott talked about this that we expect our product line simplification activities to moderate really beginning in 2016.
And so that reduced organic growth rate by 1 percentage point and that will be less of a headwind on organic growth next year.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
I'll get back in queue.
Thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Deane Dray of RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Scott you touched on this in your prepared remarks but maybe if you can give us a bit more color on these industrial headwinds.
And ITW is so broad-based you do see so many different end markets.
People are calling this an industrial recession.
You wouldn't see it in your margins but just in terms of the key verticals any changes in customer behavior or project pushouts? It would be interesting how you are characterizing the slowdown.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I actually think – going back to earlier in the year I think the underlying demand trends have been pretty steady – had been down so again we're talking about – in oil and gas piece of it we're talking about more broadly from the standpoint of what we're experiencing a slowdown in CapEx investment generally.
I think currency has a lot to do with that at least in North America.
We haven't seen a lot of let's say things getting a lot worse over the last two quarters two and a half quarters.
I think things are sort of holding where they are at the bottom.
They're certainly down a significant degree.
Some of the change in the relative performance is a function more of the comps.
We actually had two pretty strong quarters in those businesses in Q3 and (23:31).
So we're not seeing a lot of what I would describe as further erosion but a lot of sluggishness on the CapEx side.
Yeah I would just add if you look at the revenue numbers and the double-digit declines in Welding and Test &amp; Measurement/Electronics this quarter I mean that is typically what we would expect to see in a recessionary environment.
So I would just say what Scott said it's hard to see that we continue to deteriorate much further from where we are right now.
All right.
And then just to switch gears over on the Construction Products side and again I will always use your data points and weigh those higher than I would let's say the ABI [Architecture Billings Index] which was back up over 50 how are you characterizing your opportunities across non-res today? And then I just have to call out those are very impressive margins for this quarter in that segment.
Yeah thank you.
I mean I think the Construction team has been working for the last two and a half years on implementing BSS in Sourcing and you're seeing some terrific progress.
If you had told that team two years ago margins are going to be solidly in the low to mid 20%s I think everybody would have signed up for those types of margins.
So just on Construction specifically what you saw in the quarter North America up 7% really led by renovation/remodel up double-digit.
So again back to the consumer-oriented consumer-facing businesses residential was flat to down slightly in the quarter and commercial was up slightly; but really the big driver here was on the renovation and remodel side.
And just quickly globally Europe the focus there is still very much on restructuring; so quite a bit of PLS again in the quarter.
France was actually positive.
You don't hear those two words combined too often France and growth; but France was positive.
And then in Asia Pacific Australia another really solid performance up 5% in the Construction business.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> But non-res overall flat to a little bit better (25:54).
Yeah.
Correct.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Mig Dobre of R.W.
Baird.
Sir your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey good morning everyone.
Quick question on margin and I think someone tried to get at this earlier as well.
Pretty impressive performance but what I'm kind of looking is to where margins are expanding they're in really the segments with pretty strong end markets: Automotive Food Equipment Construction et cetera.
As we look forward what sort of needs to happen in terms of your own internal action in order to drive margin expansion in some of the segments that have been lagging? Are we sort of reliant still on these segments that have been driving margin expansion to continue that process into 2016 or can we actually see some of these other segments work as well? I think Mig if you go back to the last earnings call I think we showed the progress on margins since we started the Enterprise Strategy and there really are no laggards here.
I mean we've made substantial improvement across all of our businesses.
What you saw this quarter was a little bit of an anomaly with some volume pressure leading to lower margins in three of our businesses.
But if you look at – underlying that there's still 100 basis points of margin expansion from the kind of the self-help from the Enterprise Initiatives in those businesses.
And we would expect that to continue.
Obviously volume helps but we're not counting on it and we feel good about still having another 100 basis points of margin expansion across the company in 2016 and 2017.
And I'll just point out this quarter 180 basis points of margin expansion with more than half 110 basis points of that coming from things that are largely within our own control.
So we would expect all of our businesses Mig to continue to make progress over the next two years here just the way we had planned it out when we embarked on the Enterprise Strategy three years ago.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
I appreciate that.
And then maybe sticking with Welding going to your North American commentary mentioning broad weakness there.
I guess I'm trying to maybe get better clarity in terms of what you're seeing by end market and also potentially the cadence if you can comment on that in terms of demand or orders through the quarter.
Yeah so Mig nothing unusual in terms of the cadence through the quarter.
So we didn't see trends deteriorate or improve.
I think if you look at Welding down 10% in the quarter about half of that decline came from oil and gas.
About 4 points of that came from the industrial side so that's where you'll pick up heavy equipment some of the mining agriculture.
And then the commercial business actually held in there down 1 percentage point out of the 10%.
So nothing surprising and very consistent with what you're hearing across the board.
I will just point out that – and I made the point in the script that two-thirds of our business is equipment because that's where 80/20 will tell you that's where the margins are.
It's a much more differentiated product.
And so when you are in this part of the CapEx cycle you will see at least in the near term some larger declines on the equipment side than on the consumable side.
But I think if you look then at the margin performance of Welding again in the quarter and year-to-date it really shows why we're focused on the equipment side.
But you will see some different growth trends in consumables versus the equipment side.
So I just wanted to point that out.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Sure.
Is there any way you can comment on consumables specifically in terms of volumes there? So it's about a third of the business and consumables were flat in North America down slightly outside of the U.S.
and Asia Pacific and Europe.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> I appreciate it.
Thank you and good luck.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Nigel Coe of Morgan Stanley.
You may proceed.
Thanks.
Good morning.
And Scott I think you put it quite well when you mentioned two-speed economy consumer versus industrial.
But I thought your comments about relatively steady trends was interesting because given that it looked like broader industrial activity stepped down in September versus the trend line for the quarter.
So I'm wondering did you see a significantly weaker September versus what you normally see? And perhaps you could make some comments on what you're seeing so far in October.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah we did not see any change in order rates in September relative to the overall quarter and October it's a little too early to tell.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Haven't heard anything.
If there was something major going on already we'd have heard about it but...
Okay that's...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> (31:18) this early in the quarter.
Yeah sure.
I understand that.
But it just seems that the trend you're referring to is a little bit different to what we're hearing elsewhere but understand that.
And then on obviously very strong margin in light of the volumes so congratulations on that.
Just maybe Michael on the SG&amp;A.
SG&amp;A stepped down quite a bit from 2Q to 3Q so I'm wondering was there something that drove that? Is that just Enterprise Initiatives kicking in or is there some elements of discretionary savings in this quarter? It's really all of the above.
A big part of it is currency but also a continued impact from Enterprise Initiatives and then just discretionary cost management are the main drivers here.
Okay.
I'll leave it there.
Thanks guys.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Joel Tiss from BMO.
You may proceed.
Hi guys how is it going? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning.
Good.
Just two ones quick.
I wonder is less PLS going forward is that going to stunt the rate of margin improvement a little bit? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
Unanimous.
No I mean I think PLS certainly has contributed in terms of improving the margins of the portfolio...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> But less in terms of the cost takeout that we get...
Yes.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> By taking these lower profit product lines.
Right right.
And we take out the lower margin product lines and all the costs associated with that so it helped.
but as PLS moderates it doesn't impact margins in a significant way.
And then I guess as you get more organic growth the incremental margins on that are much higher than other businesses? Yes that's correct.
Yes.
Can you also give us a quick comment if you're seeing acquisition prices are they starting to improve? Is that setting up over the next couple of years to be a more attractive use of capital? I don't know if I could say Joel that things have changed in terms of pricing.
If I can just make a broader comment on capital allocation I think as you saw this quarter this business model generates a significant amount of free cash flow and we have a strong balance sheet and we continue to be very disciplined.
Our priority number one is invest in our businesses for growth and productivity and we're doing that in a significant way.
We raised – the board raised the dividend 13% this quarter and then the balance which is a significant number is available for external investments acquisitions and/or share repurchases.
And our view of acquisitions has not changed from what we laid out at the investor day a year ago.
They still play an important role.
I would just make a comment that we're looking at a number of things nothing imminent on the acquisition front and we'll continue to keep you posted on that as we go forward.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Andy Casey from Wells Fargo Securities.
You may proceed.
Thanks a lot.
Good morning everybody.
Morning.
First on price/cost it was in line with your expectations.
I'm just wondering within that is it really as stable as it seems or did you see some price erosion that was offset by lower costs? No I think Andy it really is in terms of our ability to maintain and get price nothing has changed.
I think on the cost side we're starting to see a little bit of favorability on the material costs side as well as in resins and in metals.
And some of that gets passed on to the customer but some of that is flowing through.
And we've been very steady in terms of 20 basis points I think every quarter this year and we would expect to be able to maintain that going forward.
Okay.
Thanks a lot Michael.
And then I'd like to ask a little bit of a bigger-picture question here.
Welding operating margin performance even though it's stepped down a little bit on steeper organic decline it's holding up pretty well.
Does that give you any increased confidence that maybe the margin performance for overall ITW might be a little more resilient in the next recession than what occurred in the 2008-2009 with the 400 basis point drop (36:09)? Yeah definitely.
I mean I think you look at the decremental margins in some of our businesses that were down this quarter and the really strong performance out of Welding I think that suggests that as we go through this Enterprise Strategy we have a really high-quality highly differentiated diverse business portfolio and I would argue we are as well positioned if not better than ever before in the event of a more significant downturn or even a recession.
Okay.
I'll pass it on.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Jamie Cook of Credit Suisse.
You may proceed.
Hi good morning.
Two questions.
One on the material cost back to that I know you had the 20 bps tailwind which was what you expected but the price/cost was it more pronounced the benefit was that equally spread across the different segments or was a couple of the segments more pronounced? Because I look at some of your margins in some of your businesses and they're just like Food having a 26% and change margin.
That's just relative to your peers it's impressive.
And then I guess my second question is more bigger picture again you talked about your mix between consumer and industrial 60%/40%.
I guess when you're evaluating acquisitions right now do you sort of think the consumer/industrial mix is the right mix? And also in your evaluating acquisitions is there any appetite for acquiring businesses with more of a recurring earning stream or longer cycle type businesses? Thanks.
Yes so why don't I do the price/cost and maybe Scott if you want to comment on the M&amp;A question.
I think what we're seeing including in Food Equipment that a big driver of price here is the ability to launch new products that solve some challenging problems for some pretty sophisticated customers and I think you're seeing that certainly in Food Equipment.
You're seeing it in Welding you're seeing it in Automotive across the portfolio.
So that's really more a driver than anything else.
I'd say across the portfolio really good performance from a price standpoint and nothing unusual in the quarter.
And then maybe Scott on the M&amp;A side.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think the question relates again to our thinking around portfolio construction.
I think the way we think about it is our most important job is to make great choices about owning and investing in businesses where this business model has great potential to generate long-term sustainable competitive advantage so we're not trying to think a lot harder beyond that.
We own great businesses that really fit our business model.
We generate great margins great returns on capital.
Those businesses then based on the margin profile are very resilient when they're under pressure.
So we have no targets in terms of industrial versus consumer.
The 60/40 mix is today a function of the seven businesses that we obviously went through a very rigorous portfolio review concluded that those seven are great fits with the portfolio strategy that I just talked about it's 60/40 today in some respects because of the declines in those industrial businesses so that mix is probably more like 50/50 when it's normalized but that's more a byproduct of the decision-making process than necessarily any specific target.
So we're well balanced.
I think if you look at the resilience in terms of the overall company and we're still growing earnings through a time when there's some real challenges and pressures out there.
So there's some real strength in having the ability to select from a number of different industries that have different attributes.
And then on the recurring revenue I think we're very comfortable in businesses where we have great recurring revenues with the Food Equipment with service and equipment but we also have other businesses where we're largely playing one side or the other.
Automotive is an all consumable business.
I think again it goes back from our standpoint to the margin profile and how differentiated those businesses are how well they fit our business model.
And we have no sort of requirement around trying to mix recurring versus nonrecurring as much.
So we want to be in industries where the products we make really do something meaningful for the customer and are areas where we can really do something unique and special for those customers.
Okay thanks.
I appreciate the color.
Congrats on a nice quarter.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Ann Duignan of JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hi guys good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning.
Most of my questions have been answered but I just wanted to ask you on the Automotive business your European exposure.
Can you talk about who your largest OEMs are there? And do you have any exposure to VW? And what's your outlook or your assessment of what might happen in the automotive sector in Europe going forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well they are – VW's a customer.
It's a nice relationship.
It is not a dominant relationship by any stretch and any share loss there.
We're pretty broad based among all the globals so to the extent they have run into some – there's some things that happened as a result of what's going on right now we're certainly well positioned to the extent other OEMs pick up any share that they lose.
I think we're pretty agnostic overall.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
And then can you just talk a little bit about Welding and Test &amp; Measurement your long-term growth targets for those businesses? Are those under review right now? Are you still confident that you can grow those businesses as you thought you could two years or three years ago? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I think we still like the fundamentals a lot.
We've talked about Welding in the past.
That's a business that we've grown at right around 9% organic compounded since the early 1990s when we got into the business and whether from here forward that's 7% instead of 9% we'll see as we go forward; but I think we have a lot of conviction in the fundamentals there.
And likewise on Test &amp; Measurement there's some positions we have there that are really tied to global manufacturing – in quality in global manufacturing that on a long-term basis we still believe very much have the potential to generate organic growth at or above the overall Enterprise target.
So I think we're still very bullish on the long-term prospects in both.
I think this currency – this short-term change in relative currency rates as you would expect it to the extent you're a U.S.
manufacturer exporting any meaningful percentage of your output from your plant either that's gone to Europe or you're worried about it going to Europe.
So I think there's a lot of sort of logic around the fact that the spending environment right now is very sluggish.
And I think frankly on the European side there's enough surplus capacity over there where you're not seeing that investment pick up yet given the kind of recessionary environment they've been in for the last two years or three years.
So all that will shake out over the next 12 months or 18 months and I think we'll be certainly seeing much better performance from those two businesses.
Both are – look at the margin profiles.
You can barely differentiate it; great niches in great industries.
So we'd love for them to be doing better right now but we're certainly not any less enthusiastic about their fit and their ability to perform for us at a high level long term.
Okay.
I appreciate it.
I will turn it over.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of David Raso of Evercore ISI.
Hi good morning.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Just a quick question trying to think of the parameters around the balance sheet usage in cash flow; obviously been drawing down the shareholder equity a lot the last couple years.
It's been cut in half.
The net debt is obviously up a bit as well.
So I look at net debt to capital of 37% but that said your net debt to EBITDA – trailing EBITDA is only 1.4.
When we think about use of balance sheet maybe even above and beyond obviously just using the cash flow what are the parameters we should be thinking about where you start to get a little uncomfortable with the leverage either be it debt to cap or trailing EBITDA? Just give us some views around cash flow (45:23) Yeah I think Steve (sic) [Dave] I'll go back to what we said earlier is that as you pointed out this is a company and a business model that generates a lot of cash.
I think we are very comfortable with our current leverage at 2.3 times debt to EBITDA.
It supports a really strong top-tier credit rating; gives us access to credit at very favorable terms under current conditions.
And it still gives us some flexibility in terms of being opportunistic around the things we talked about which is M&amp;A as well as share repurchases which obviously we've leaned in to quite a bit as you mentioned.
So I think we're certainly not nervous when we run these scenarios in terms of what a recession might look like and the performance of the company.
As you know we generate even more cash flow in a downturn and so we feel very good about where we're at in any scenario here with our current capital structure.
And going forward as we said earlier we'll continue to be very disciplined in terms of capital allocation.
I guess more pointed though I'm not necessarily even looking at the downside scenario.
I'm just thinking if you're looking to utilize the balance sheet maybe add a layer to the story here that 2017 on the margin improvement isn't that far away now right? So (46:51)...
Yeah okay.
I mean I think as you see – what will certainly happen if you look at our overall debt levels will continue to go up as our EBITDA grows right if that's what you're trying to get at.
And so we're very comfortable with that and at this point we don't have any plans to here in the third quarter change the way we think about our capital structure and that we're comfortable with the leverage we have on a gross and on a net basis.
And we review it frequently and if things change we'll certainly keep you updated on that; but for now I wouldn't expect any significant changes.
So just think of it as – and you were using total debt I was using net debt but the idea's whatever leverage you have now just think of that as how you'll look to run the business over the next 12 months to 18 months? Yeah I think that's a good way to think about it.
Yes.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Mr.
Steven Fisher of UBS.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Morning.
Scott and Michael you both mentioned that you're on track to hit your 2017 performance goals.
Should we assume that that still includes 200 basis points of organic growth above global GDP? And if so how much of that outgrowth do you expect to come from your end markets growing faster than GDP versus your internal initiatives? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well the answer to the first part is yes and the answer to the second part is it's our business is outgrowing their underlying markets.
So we've got in the markets that we are operating in across all seven of our businesses in every case we think the fundamentals in terms of are they at least GDP growers at the market level? Absolutely.
Some will certainly grow faster than others.
But the real work is on the positioning that we've been doing the last couple of years to get in front of the highly differentiated pieces of these larger global end markets and position ourselves to really leverage these highly differentiated positions with additional penetration.
So Auto's a good example Food Equipment's a good example and also crank up the new product pipeline which is what we've been in the process of doing for the last 12 months or 18 months.
So we're going to generate that result more from us growing faster than the underlying markets that we're in if that – hopefully I'm saying that clearly – than we're trying to pick markets that we think are going to grow faster than GDP.
Yeah.
I was just trying to get a sense of whether you're assuming that you have some sort of confidence that your markets are not going to be declining that they'll maybe be at least kind of flat; because I would expect (49:45)...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I think that was a big part of our portfolio review going back to the beginning of this Enterprise Strategy is we wanted to be in – we didn't want to certainly be investing in markets where there was just fundamental pressure in terms of shrinking – pressures on the underlying markets.
And I think across all seven businesses we feel really good that we're in industries that have certainly some really solid long-term support in terms of growth rates of at least GDP.
Some of them may be a little bit better over time.
And then our job is to grow faster than the underlying market growth rates.
Okay that's helpful.
And then North America has slipped into a decline year-over-year as you mentioned due to the industrial side.
What indications or signals do you receive from your businesses about the direction of North American demand broadly? I mean should we be assuming that the industrial side and maybe some tougher comparisons are going to keep North America in negative territory for a few quarters or can that flip back around? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I don't think so.
I think ultimately right now we're going through the year-on-year comps the underlying demand rates if you break it down to kind of daily average order rates even in the industrial businesses have been relatively steady now for two and a half quarters.
So I think at a minimum we take – next year we take the negative away of the contraction.
We're not necessarily seeing anything yet that's saying it's going to start to turn the other way.
But certainly the declines this year and Michael talked about even we're running into some comps in the Q3 and Q4 where we actually had pretty good performance in those businesses last year on a relative basis that is on a year-on-year percentage comparison probably making it look like it's getting worse but underlying the demand has been pretty flat.
So I think things seem to be holding pretty steady right now and as we move into next year the comp issue goes away and if nothing else if we're flat instead of down 10% in the industrials obviously that's a net positive and we keep the commercial side going.
There's another as Michael said earlier 60% of the company growing at right around 5% gross.
And then we get at least 0.5 point pickup from the decline in product line simplification.
So I think if things hold where they are we're in a pretty good spot to start to see some positive movement on the top line next year organically.
Great.
Very helpful.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Walter Liptak of Seaport Global.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
My question is in Test &amp; Measurement.
I think in your presentation you called out the purchase accounting charges.
I wonder if you can help us quantify those.
And do you see any of those recurring in the fourth quarter? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We had a bit of an industrial accident.
Could you repeat the – we missed the second half of your question.
Sorry.
Okay.
Yeah.
Do you have purchase accounting charges in Test &amp; Measurement? How much were they this quarter specifically and next quarter do we get (53:10)? Yeah so I think if you go to well the last page the appendix page in the earnings slides you'll see that we lay it out for each one of our seven businesses and also at the total ITW level.
And so you can see there Test &amp; Measurement/Electronics 410 basis points and then the other significant one due to recent acquisitions is Polymers &amp; Fluids.
So if you add that back that's 490 basis points.
And at the ITW level there's 180 basis points here of non-cash charges included in the operating margin of 22.7%.
Over time as we amortize the intangibles that will go down.
Q4 will be a lot like Q3 but over time over a longer period of time you would expect that impact to continue to go down as it has done this year.
So that's a good way of looking at it.
Okay.
Okay great.
And then sticking with Test &amp; Measurement you mentioned that these businesses were part of a global capital spending cycle.
I wonder if you could tell us where you think we are? Are we bottoming out now? Or is it similar to some of the other industrial where – that you should be steady and easier comps as we head to 2016? Yeah I think Scott gave you kind of the broader view of that.
I would just – tying it back to the guidance I mean as you know we assume current demand levels with some adjustment for seasonality so we're not expecting in the near term a pickup in the CapEx cycle.
On the other hand we're also not expecting it to further deteriorate from – when we look at current revenue per day inside these businesses that's what we're using to project forward so hopefully that answers your question.
Now I will just make the point that since you asked about Test &amp; Measurement that business was up 5% in the year ago quarter and the comparisons get a lot easier here in the fourth quarter so you wouldn't expect as steep a decline in Q4 as you saw in the third quarter for Test &amp; Measurement and Electronics.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Eli Lustgarten of Longbow.
Your line is open.
Thank you very much.
A quick question on the guidance change.
Can you indicate when you took down the top line and the earnings of where it's impacting the numbers I mean can you give an idea what changed to cause you to take down the guidance fourth quarter? I know it's a current business run that's going on but can you give us some indication of what across the board changed? Or anything specific cause the change? And whether – if it continues into the first half are we going to be talking 2016 first half – second half comparison to the first half will be continuing a weaker run rate and then have some improvements as the comparisons get easier? Yeah so the guidance change for Q4 is pretty straightforward.
So it's basically when we update the revenue for the current demand levels that leads to a lower revenue number and applying a decremental margin to those revenues leads to $0.08 of EPS impact and so if you look at the...
Where is that? I understand the current run rate but is that broad based across all the businesses or is there something specific that changed that causes the reduction? No that's broad based across the business.
Every business we look at it the same way and then at the enterprise level it adds up to a lower organic growth rate and then with the decremental margin on that that's the $0.08.
So that's really the only change here.
As you'll see currency gets a little bit easier here in Q4 and then hopefully next year we won't have as much headwind on currency next year.
Certainly at current rates that's the case and so that will help out next year.
But again we're not ready to talk about demand in 2016 and organic growth in 2016 yet.
We'll have to save that for our Analyst Day in December.
I guess what I'm looking at if you're adjusting the things downward in the fourth quarter I mean it's unlikely to have much of a change at least in the first part of 2016.
So I mean the emphasis of growth has to be back-end loaded.
That's really what I'm asking for next year.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Not necessarily.
All right.
I look forward to December 4.
Anyway thank you.
All right thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Joe O'Dea with Vertical Research Partners.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
First just on inventory conditions through the channel and general assessment on kind of how lean those inventories may be and whether or not as destock has been an issue over the course of the year whether you see that starting to ease or you have line of sight into when that eases.
Yeah in the business where we go through distribution we don't have a really good handle on inventory levels across our very fragmented customer base and so I don't think I have a good answer for you on that one.
Okay.
And then maybe I guess shifting over and as you talk about the business on the industrial side and the consumer side if you can talk about price trends within those kind of two splits of the business.
And whether or not maybe the consumer side in holding up you've seen some pricing there that's been (59:23) offsetting any recent pressure on the industrial side.
Yeah there's really no significant difference.
I mean again back to what I said earlier with – the big driver of price here is new products that get launched that solve some pretty challenging problems for sophisticated customers and then you see that – Food Equipment's a good example and Automotive and others.
That's really the main driver of price here.
And it's very similar trends across industrial-facing and consumer-facing businesses as we sit here today.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Sure.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Great.
And that concludes our time right at the top of the hour today.
Thanks everyone for joining us.
And we'll look forward to talking to you all real soon.
Have a great day.
That concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome and thank you all for standing by.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Questions will be taken at the end of the presentation.
Today's conference call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
And now I will hand the call over to Aaron Hoffman Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Hoffman you may begin.
Thanks Anna and good morning and welcome to ITW's fourth quarter 2015 conference call.
Joining me this morning are our CEO Scott Santi; and our CFO Michael Larsen.
During today's call we will discuss our fourth quarter and full-year 2015 financial results update you on our 2016 earnings forecast and discuss the acquisition that we announced on Monday.
Before we get to the results let me remind you that this presentation contains our financial forecast for the 2016 first quarter and full-year as well as other forward-looking statements identified on this slide.
We refer you to the company's 2014 Form 10-K and third quarter 2015 Form 10-Q for more detail about important risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.
Also this presentation uses certain non-GAAP measures.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures is contained in the press release.
With that I'll turn the call over to Scott.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Aaron and good morning.
Overall we were pleased with our performance in the fourth quarter and for the full-year as we continued to execute on our Enterprise Strategy and deliver strong results in a challenging but stable environment.
In 2015 ITW grew earnings per share 10% expanded operating margins by 150 basis points to a record of 21.4% and improved after-tax return on invested capital by 140 basis points to a record 20.4%.
Free cash flow was strong in 2015 at a 106% of net income and we invested roughly $560 million in our businesses for growth and productivity.
In addition we returned more than $2.7 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
In 2015 we continued to make significant progress on the execution of our Enterprise Strategy as evidenced by more than 100 basis points of margin improvement from our self-help enterprise initiatives.
As a reminder we expect an additional incremental 100 basis points of margin expansion from our Business Structure Simplification Sourcing and 80/20 Excellence initiatives in each of 2016 and 2017.
In 2015 we also began our pivot to focus on our organic growth agenda and we made meaningful progress with 60% of the company's revenues achieving ready-to-grow status and 45% growing at 6% in 2015.
We continue to execute the various elements of our Enterprise Strategy in a well-planned and logical sequence as we position ITW to deliver solid growth with best-in-class margins and returns and we remain firmly on track to deliver on our end of 2017 enterprise performance goals.
I'd like to close by thanking all of our ITW colleagues around the world for the great job that they continue to do in serving our customers and in executing our strategy.
I'll now turn the call over to Michael and then I'll be back to discuss the acquisition that we announced earlier this week.
Michael? Thank you Scott and good morning everybody.
As you saw this morning ITW delivered another strong quarter.
EPS of $1.23 increased 4% versus prior year 11% excluding currency.
Our results were driven by strong execution across the board as operating margin improved 110 basis points to 20.7% and our self-help enterprise initiatives contributed 110 basis points of improvement.
Organic revenue was modestly better than our guidance with some credit challenging comparisons in a few segments.
While demand for capital equipment remains sluggish underlying demand trends were stable across our business portfolio.
Adjusted for seasonality demand in our industrial businesses improved 4% sequentially in Q4 versus Q3.
Free cash flow was very strong at 140% of net income and as you can see we made meaningful progress on our return on invested capital metrics.
In summary stable demand across our business portfolio and solid execution drove strong Q4 performance.
Turning to revenue by geography on page five let me just remind you that the organic revenue number includes a one percentage point impact from Product Line Simplification as organic revenue declined 0.6% with some fairly challenging comparisons in the prior year.
By geography North America was down 1.6% with our consumer facing businesses up 2% and the industrial businesses down 5.6%.
International was positive up 0.6% with Europe Middle East and Africa up 1.9%.
Our consumer businesses grew 4.6% with strength in Automotive OEM up 10% in Europe and Food Equipment.
Asia Pacific and China were essentially flat and it's worth pointing out that China automotive was up 14% in the fourth quarter.
So overall stable end-market conditions across the portfolio and slightly better-than-expected organic revenue performance in the quarter against a fairly challenging comparison.
On page six strong operating margin performance once again in the quarter.
Operating margin of 20.7% improved 110 basis points and four segments improved between 220 basis points and 420 basis points driven primarily by our self-help enterprise initiatives and lower restructuring.
Pricing was solid in the quarter.
Price/cost was favorable 30 basis points.
So strong progress on operating margin and as Scott said we're on track to realize additional incremental margin improvement as we go forward.
On page seven we listed full-year 2015 operating margin by segment and you can see the strong progress since the launch of the Enterprise Strategy.
Turning to the segments starting with Automotive OEM another strong quarter.
Organic revenue up 5% and up 6% for the year outpacing worldwide builds of 1%.
Europe was up 10% organically in the quarter and up 11% for the year.
North America was up 4% and China was up 14% in the quarter and up 8% for the year.
Consistent with global industry growth rates our 2016 guidance assumes a 1% increase in global auto builds versus 2015.
Solid quarter in Test &amp; Measurement/Electronics as margin improved 300 basis points to a new fourth quarter record of 18.1%.
Demand trends in this segment improved in the quarter.
Sequentially from Q3 to Q4 revenues were up 6% up 2% adjusted for typical seasonality.
Also another solid quarter in Food Equipment up 2% organically facing some challenging comparisons from last year.
You may recall that Equipment was up 6% worldwide in Q4 last year.
Operating margin improved 220 basis points to a new fourth quarter record of 23.9%.
North America service was up 4% and underlying equipment demand remained solid particularly in bakery healthcare and lodging.
International equipment was up 4% on continued strong demand in warewash cooking and refrigeration.
Polymers &amp; Fluids was down 3% due to soft demand related to industrial MRO with North America down 4% partially offset by Asia Pacific up 9%.
Operating margin expanded by 70 basis points to 18.2%.
Welding was down 11% organically in a tough environment and against some challenging comparisons.
You may recall that in the fourth quarter last year North America was up 10% and oil and gas was up 20%.
The 11% year-over-year decline breaks down as 6 points from oil and gas 3 points from industrial and 2 points from commercial.
North America overall was down 8% with consumables essentially flat.
International as you can see was down 20% due to oil and gas primarily in onshore pipeline and offshore.
But as we've talked about on the last earnings calls the year-over-year numbers can be somewhat misleading in terms of understanding the underlying trends.
On a seasonally adjusted basis the underlying demand trends have actually been fairly stable since the first quarter of 2015.
On a seasonally adjusted sequential basis we saw a significant step-down in demand in Q1 last year followed by slight declines in Q2 and Q3 and then in this fourth quarter demand actually improved 2% sequentially from Q3.
Consistent with current demand levels our 2016 guidance assumes a single-digit decline in the Welding segment.
On slide 10 Construction Products had another strong quarter on the top line and bottom line.
Organic revenue was up 3% and margin was up 420 basis points.
North America was up 2% with high-single-digit growth in the renovation and remodel channel.
Residential was essentially flat and commercial was down slightly.
Asia Pacific was strong up 7% due to Australia.
In Specialty Products organic revenue was flat with solid growth in consumer packaging offset by the impact of Product Line Simplification.
Operating margin improved by 400 basis points 23%.
Turning to slide 11 as you know one of the core strengths of ITW is our diversified portfolio and in the current environment the fact that about 60% of our revenues are consumer facing.
As you can see in a tough environment our consumer businesses Automotive OEM Food Equipment portions of Specialty Products and Construction are growing at an organic rate of 3% in the fourth quarter and for the full-year and the seasonally adjusted sequential trends are stable.
Our industrial businesses Welding Test &amp; Measurement and Electronics were down 6% in the quarter and down 5% for the year.
However if you look at the seasonally adjusted sequential trend from Q3 to Q4 revenues are up 4%.
In simple terms based on typical seasonality you would expect these businesses to be down 2% sequentially but they were actually up 2%.
It may be too early to call this a trend but certainly an encouraging data point as we look ahead.
Quickly on 2015 you can see that we continue to make significant progress on all of our financial performance metrics.
EPS growth operating margin improvement return on capital and free cash flow all reflect the strength of ITW's differentiated business model and our strong execution in a tough environment.
Going back a little bit further to the launch of the Enterprise Strategy on slide 13 the same holds true.
More than 500 basis points improvement in margin and returns 17% EPS CAGR and solid progress in our pivot to growth.
As Scott said 60% of the company's revenues achieved ready-to-grow status and 45% grew at 6% in 2015.
We fully expect that 85% of the company's revenues will be in ready-to-grow status by the end of 2016.
In summary over the last three years really good progress and we've done everything we said we would do.
And we're on track to achieve our 2017 performance goals.
On slide 14 we are reaffirming the guidance as discussed in New York on December 4.
Our organic revenue growth expectation of 1% to 3% is in line with Q4 demand levels and includes 90 basis points of Product Line Simplification impact (12:55).
In 2016 we expect 100 basis points or more of margin improvement from our self-help enterprise initiatives independent of volume and operating margin is projected to be a new record of approximately 22.5% earnings per share in the range of $5.35 to $5.55 and 6% growth at the midpoint and 10% growth excluding currency.
Turning to the first quarter our EPS guidance is $1.20 to $1.30 and the midpoint of $1.25 represents 23% of our full-year earnings right in line with historical patterns.
Again we expect 100 basis points from our self-help enterprise initiatives and based on current levels of demand we expect organic revenue growth to be flat to up 2%.
Finally a quick update on capital allocation given the two recent developments and then I'll hand it over to Scott.
Earlier this week we announced the acquisition of the Engineered Fasteners &amp; Components business from ZF TRW for $450 million.
From a capital allocation standpoint approximately 70% of the purchase price will be funded with non-U.S.
cash.
And we expect the acquisition to generate returns on capital in the 16% to 20% range by year seven.
In addition we see significant potential to improve the performance of the EF&amp;C business through the application of ITW's 80/20 business management system and we expect margins to improve from approximately 10% to 20% by year five.
The acquisition is slightly accretive to EPS in the first 12 months and based on the expected closing date we expect very little EPS impact in 2016 with accelerating benefits into 2017 and beyond.
Finally we're maintaining our end of 2017 performance goals.
Second based on our ability to tax-efficiently accessed $1.2 billion of non-U.S.
cash this month we're increasing our share repurchase expectation by $1 billion to approximately $2 billion.
The associated EPS benefit for 2016 is largely offset by recent currency moves but this additional $1 billion of share repurchase also positions us very well for earnings growth in 2017 and beyond.
With that I'll turn it Scott.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Michael and just now a couple of words on the acquisition that we announced earlier this week.
On slide 17 let me start in terms of foundation and just talk about the business that we are holding on this acquisition to our Automotive OEM segment.
As many of you know we have a very focused niche strategy in this space.
We are essentially a high velocity serial problem solver for OEM and tier suppliers.
The segment in 2015 had $2.5 billion of revenue and an 8% organic growth CAGR since 2012.
As we have talked on a number of occasions we see very attractive long-term growth opportunities in this space within ITW's very focused niche positioning and have demonstrated some real ability to execute on that strategy over the last four years or five years as we've talked about on a number of occasions.
And we've outgrown global auto builds by over 400 basis points on average since 2012.
So the addition of the ZF – the Engineered Fasteners &amp; Components business from ZF TRW essentially gives us some additional leverage on that strategy broadens our market positions on slide 18.
A very complementary business in terms of strategy and focus this business is a leading global supplier of engineered fastening systems and technical components largely focused on the interior of the car.
Business is headquartered in Germany 13 manufacturing facilities and 3 500 employees globally.
Very strong solid business excellent customer relationships very capable operating team and a very strong proven track record around quality and delivery execution throughout their history.
On slide 18 (sic) [19] in terms of what does this business do in terms of adding to our current position a couple of key points in that regard.
First of all it adds several new strategic product platforms that have similar characteristics through the core product platforms that we support today certainly have very demonstrated track record in terms of innovation.
The business is bringing with it over 500 active patents.
And from the standpoint of the manufacturing customer support footprint very tilted towards Asia so it supplements our position in Asia.
The overall business is standpoint of revenue by geography is 45% Europe 20% North America 35% in Asia Pacific so very complementary to our geographic footprint which is a little more weighted towards North America.
So it gives us better global balance overall.
And certainly the last point is we see significant potential to leverage our 80/20 business management process in terms of helping the EF&amp;C business continue to improve its operating metrics.
Operating margins on the way in (18:52) are about 10% and as Michael talked about we think we have line of sight on at least doubling that rate over the first five years of ownership.
From the standpoint of the transaction components purchase price is roughly one times sales.
Michael talked about the near-term accretion certainly modestly positive in the first 12 months including all non-cash acquisition accounting related costs certainly expect to generate returns on capital well within our target over the first seven years to 10 years of the acquisition.
Michael talked about our ability to fund 70% or so of the purchase price with non-U.S.
cash which is an acquisition from a strategic and operational and return standpoint that we would have done regardless of funding sources but certainly the ability to use a significant portion of the purchase cost the ability to use cash overseas is certainly an added benefit here but didn't drive the deal.
And we expect to close in the second half of – or this first half of 2016.
So with that I think we're – that's all for our prepared remarks and we'll be happy to take your questions.
Thank you.
Are we going to proceed with the question-and-answer session? Yes let's begin the question and answer thank you.
You're welcome.
One moment.
Our first question will be coming from the line of Joe Ritchie of Goldman Sachs.
Sir your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning.
And nice quarter.
Maybe starting on the 2016 guide you maintain the guide and it seems like you've built some margin of error in the guide also with this $1 billion repatriation.
And so maybe talk a little bit about your opportunity to still hit at least the midpoint maybe even the higher end of the guide if in fact organic growth were to disappoint as we kind of progress through the year.
Yeah Joe I'd say on the organic 1% to 3% guide for 2016 is based on the demand levels we're seeing in the businesses today as per usual.
So we're not counting on improvement in underlying demand or in market conditions.
Based on current run rates we are solidly in that range of 1% to 3%.
I think in terms of margin of error what I would say is that we still have a lot of things that are within our control in terms of our self-help.
And number one on the list are the enterprise initiatives that we've continued to execute well on over the last two years.
And we expect another 100 basis points of margin expansion independent of volume from those in 2016.
If you translate that into EPS as we said in December that's about $0.30 of EPS growth.
Certainly in addition to that the $1 billion increase in our share repurchase program gives us some additional EPS benefit.
Unfortunately some of that is depending on the timing is offset by recent currency moves.
Not so much in the euro but primarily in Canadian and Australian dollars the pound but it does give us a little bit of room here.
So overall in terms of the guidance we feel very good about maintaining where we're at in the $5.35 to $5.55 range and we feel really good about continuing to make solid progress on organic growth.
You saw some of that in the fourth quarter.
And just based on what we're seeing in our businesses today we'd expect that to continue in 2016.
That's helpful color Michael.
Maybe as my follow-on question there's a lot of concern in the market regarding what's happening in the auto end market.
Clearly that's an end market that has been incredibly good for you guys.
You continue to outpace global auto builds but it looks like this past quarter we saw a little bit less outgrowth in Auto OEM.
So maybe some color on your ability to continue to sustain outgrowth in that end market and how you think about that end market over the next 12 months.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes sure Joe this is Scott.
I think the story for us remains one of penetration.
Michael made a comment in his prepared remarks that our planning scenario essentially is for 1% increase in global auto builds next year.
I think most of the sort of external forecasters and pundits are in the 2.5% to 3% range.
So in our own planning assumptions I think we're taking a much more conservative approach as a baseline.
It is also as we talked about before the one area of our business where we have a significant amount of forward visibility vis-à-vis.
We've sold programs into production plans going on this year.
Those programs were sold two years and three years ago.
So I think we've got a pretty stable outlook on in terms of what our expectations are for 2016 with respect to auto built into our plans.
It doesn't mean that builds if we see some inflection in – or some change in overall builds relative to our 1% that's not going to have an impact but ultimately I think the potential impacts are pretty modest.
I think we've got our plan set where there's an appropriate level of conservatism and have enough new penetration and new content in 2016 coming online that we ought to be able to be all right regardless of – pending any sort of major crash which I don't think anybody thinks is going to happen.
I think we're in pretty good position in 2016.
Okay great.
Thanks Scott.
I'll get back in queue.
All right.
Thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Andrew Kaplowitz of Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey good morning guys.
Nice quarter.
Scott so can you talk a little bit more about the pivot to growth? How much more challenging do you think it could be to get your businesses that are preparing to grow to get ready to grow by the end of 2016 as you talked about in the Analyst Day if the global economy is a bit weaker? And maybe you can talk about what these businesses are.
If I look at it it seems like it'd be businesses like European construction parts of polymers and fluids parts of specialty products.
But that's what I think.
What do you think? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I think you've hit – in terms of those three areas of the company I think you've hit three that are still in the preparing to grow mode.
The agenda is pretty much within our own control from the standpoint of what we have characterized as moving from preparing to grow to ready to grow.
It's largely a lot of 80/20 work a lot of product line pruning a lot of customer focus and a lot of – as we talked in December a lot on really lasering in on where are the best opportunities to grow.
So I don't think there's much impact on the preparation part from the standpoint of the external environment.
That agenda is pretty well mapped out.
The timing is in terms of the sequencing of various parts of the company from that prepared to grow to ready to grow just a function of how big the agenda was to get from A to B.
And in some cases we had further to go than others.
So the 60% we've gotten in that mode to this point had a slightly less deep agenda.
And we're working our way through the rest.
So I don't think there's much impact in terms of the external environment in terms of the objective that we have laid out to get 85% of our businesses in that mode by the end of this year.
That being said certainly the external environment from the standpoint of yield on that investment is certainly going to have an impact in the short run.
A little bit of tailwind at some point here would certainly help us showcase the progress we're making but I think I'd also make the other point that the fact that we're able to grow 45% of our sales in this environment at a 6% clip in 2015 is a pretty good indicator of at least some progress in that regard.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks for that Scott.
And Scott or Michael can I ask you about price/cost? You had a minor improvement in price/cost from 20 basis points to 30 basis points.
But as you know raw material costs do seem to be coming down maybe a little more significantly now.
So can you actually improve that price/cost from 30 basis points that you had in 1Q or at least maintain it for the year? Yeah so I think obviously Andrew it's not the main driver of our margin performance here.
That's really enterprise initiatives.
But we were pleased to see 30 basis points in the fourth quarter.
That was our best result in 2015.
And the average for the year is 20 basis points.
And that's what we modeled for 2016.
I think we were all encouraged to see solid price across the portfolio again a lot of it driven by the launch of new products as we've talked about before.
And we're starting to see the deflation come through on some of the key raw materials that we're buying.
In some cases we pass those on to customers; we're contractually obligated so obviously we'll do that.
But there is a little bit more of sort of an improvement in the overall equation here in the fourth quarter.
Hopeful that we can maintain that.
We're certainly working very hard on that.
And we're counting on 20 basis points in the guide for 2016.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks Michael.
Take care guys.
Okay thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of John Inch of Deutsche Bank.
Sir your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah thanks very much.
Okay so I want to – good morning everyone.
I want to pick up on this auto thematic.
I mean let's be blunt.
It was very clear your stock was shorted earlier this year because of this perceived exposure your Auto business is going to fall off a cliff.
And I understand your confidence based on your track record and your ability to continue to penetrate it.
My question is do you see anything Scott or Michael based on your operations that give you a little more comfort than simply the trend? In other words do you have – and I realize you've got a little bit of a backlog look forward but are there initiatives that you're working on that may be derivative of say CAFE standards or vehicle electrification or you're working on a big something in Indonesia or something like that that you think maybe give you – maybe not dramatically but like a point or two of step-up help over the coming cycle? I wouldn't put Indonesia on the high priority list.
Inc.</span></strong> I just meant – that was the only thing that came to mind but you know.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> But other than that I think we have – I think I get it your question.
If I don't answer it let me know.
But what I would say is we have a very full pipeline over of engineering and product development activity related to Automotive that's certainly driven by some of the things you talked about and just other changes in the need profile of our OEM customers in terms of new features new technologies new things that they're looking to add.
So I think we have a very solid view of the next 10 years in the space in terms of what the opportunities are for our particular niche in the space.
And I think that's – this is not – we don't manage any of our businesses for the next two quarters we manage them for the long haul.
I think this is an area where we remain as we've talked before very optimistic about our ability to continue to increase our content per vehicle focusing on a very narrowly defined strategy in terms of what we do.
And so all I can tell you is that the pipeline in terms of the amount of activity in terms of projects we're working on that are going to come to fruition two years and three years and four years out remains very healthy.
We track it we monitor it so I think we are on top of sort of what the future might hold in terms of opportunity for us here.
And John maybe I'll just add that for those that are maybe a little more short-term focused we have not seen any signs of a slowdown in the fourth quarter or year-to-date in the automotive space or across our business portfolio.
Inc.</span></strong> Let me just ask kind of a follow-up.
This German company you've bought right it's going to give you a leg up into Asia.
And obviously ITW as you're pivoting with cost and simplification you're going to be doing more M&amp;A.
Is there runway to do other kinds of deals like this perhaps to extend what clearly is then a successful M&amp;A – or excuse me penetration track record in auto into other markets like I don't know for example Japan or something.
I mean just I realize you can't talk specifically but maybe the question was more the deal that you did was it more one-off? Or do you think that there are other things? And just as a follow-up I mean having a little bit of experience with German companies I'm assuming that company has a lot of potential productivity or cost efficiency opportunities.
Can you still grow it at that cadence and expand the margins? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Trying to think about where to start with that one? Inc.</span></strong> Sorry.
Multi-part second part.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes so I think our overall story in Automotive is largely an organic one.
I think this particular business from the standpoint of complementary fit with our strategy is a unique opportunity.
I would certainly not rule out other opportunities like this.
But I think it's not a matter of – it's not the scale we're after here.
It's really about sort of auto opportunities where we can extend our access to the key OEMs and extend our ability to play across a range of different product platforms that we think fit the overall screen in terms of high value-added content.
So we talked about the organic growth rate in Auto OEM.
I think that's largely that remains the thrust here.
So that's the overall focus and the story is we have significant opportunity to continue to grow and add content per vehicle and do it in a way that's certainly consistent with our overall enterprise performance goals.
That being said would we look at something that gave us a similar opportunity to extend our reach in some other geography? Sure.
Inc.</span></strong> Or technology perhaps? I mean I won't – Mobileye comes to mind only because it's been so topical.
I'm not talking about that company specifically but maybe break-through technology.
Is that a possibility? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'm not sure I heard who the company was.
I wouldn't comment on it.
I don't think it's – I think we'll assess each opportunity on its own.
I don't want to overplay this.
I think our primary thrust is – and focus continues to be on leveraging and executing the strategy that we have.
So we don't need any more M&amp;A to continue to generate really strong organic growth at really nice incremental yield.
So I would say our thrust here would be more opportunistic than any view that we have to do anything more here.
So if opportunities present themselves that we think that will certainly do it but we have no particular view of we're deficient we need this or we have to have that in order to be very successful here over the long haul.
Inc.</span></strong> No I got it.
And Mobileye was the company I called out.
Thanks very much.
I appreciate it.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Scott Davis of Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> I'm new to your story so I'm allowed to ask dumb questions for a couple of quarters.
I hope you guys forgive me.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Inc.</span></strong> But can you give us a sense – you seem to have a fair amount of confidence in the 0% to 2% 1Q guide.
I mean January is a fairly important month in the quarter.
We're already on this 27th.
Are you tracking in that range in January and that gives you the confidence? Yeah Scott we're on track in January for the guidance that we gave for the first quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then second question just following up a little on what John was saying.
I mean this TRW deal looks like just a fantastic deal.
I mean if there's other stuff out there like this would you be willing to – I mean would it make sense at least to think about not doing the share repurchase and adding the higher return profile instead? I think Scott we really – absolutely we will continue to look at acquisitions where we can – that meet the criteria that we talked about in December.
So really the primary purpose here is to support or accelerate our organic growth rate and we're looking for businesses where we can have significant impact from an 80/20 standpoint.
And so to the extent that we see those we'll certainly continue to work on that.
In terms of overall capital allocation nothing has changed in terms of our structure and strategy.
As you know we have a strong balance sheet we have strong liquidity.
We generate a lot of cash flow.
You saw 140% in the quarter 106% for the year.
And so we have a lot of options.
And so for us it's not a question of either/or we can do all of the above.
And what we've said is to the extent that we don't identify acquisitions that meet the criteria that I just described then we make a choice to return that cash to our shareholders through an active share repurchase program.
And as you saw we just raised that today from a $1 billion to $2 billion for 2016.
So that's how we think about it.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That seems to make sense.
And then just a quick one.
How much of the 150-basis-point margin of the year you think was price/cost related or LIFO accounting related or something related to that? So price/cost was 20 basis points and the primary driver was 110 basis points from the enterprise initiatives.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Perfect.
All right thanks guys.
Appreciate it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Operator; Thank you.
And our next question will be coming from the line of Deane Dray of RBC.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Hey.
I just want to circle back to the ZF deal.
Scott it's pretty clear this is a natural fit for you guys but I didn't hear any specifics regarding what the products are.
There's a vague description of strategic product platforms but if you can get down to the level of the 80/20 the 20% that really matter compared to like lift-to-sits handles fuel caps what is it adding to the portfolio and are there any redundancies? So this is Michael Deane.
So if you think about it $470 million in revenues half of that is what we would describe as fastening systems.
And that not to get too technical here certainly I'm not the right person for that but they're described broadly as fasteners for trim pipe and hose hole plugs and wire harnesses.
The other half is what is described as technical components.
So this is again in the interior of the vehicle – air registers interior ventilation systems lighting and other interior products.
So there's a really nice fit with what we know really well and do very well inside of our current Automotive business.
Just in the description Michael there are overlaps the way it sounds in terms of the fasteners and even some of the air handling.
Do you have a sense of how much specific overlap there is? I think overlap is not a good characterization.
Every one of these products is custom-designed around a particular model.
So we're sort of describing them in broad category so they're areas that we know.
We know fastening very well in Automotive but there are hundreds of fastening applications on every car.
So every product line here is a specifically designed and engineered solution to a specific problem on a specific model for a specific OEM.
So these are sort of areas that we're very familiar with in broad terms but from the standpoint of are there any exact like-like products? Minimal to none.
That's great to hear.
And that's a good perspective.
And then just my follow-up question would be for Michael.
On the repatriated cash what's the effective tax rate that you paid on bringing this cash back? And maybe are you netting it against any tax losses? But just when you say it's tax-efficient what did you have to pay? Yeah.
So we paid very little.
And you saw that in our tax rate last year.
We had a similar transaction in the quarter last year.
Our rate for the last year was 30.2% for the year in that 30% to 31% range.
And for 2016 we expect to be in that same range 30% to 31% including in the first quarter.
So like we said this was done in a very tax-efficient very simple transaction.
It makes a lot of sense operationally and a really good outcome for the company.
And Michael I'm sorry to try to pin you down on this.
When you say very little what tax rate – effective tax rate are you paying to bring this cash back? Essentially zero.
Terrific.
Okay thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Mr.
Mig Dobre of Robert Baird.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yes.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
I guess my question relates to slide 11 in the deck looking at industrial and consumer sequentially.
So for your industrial businesses you're up 4% adjusted for seasonality.
Maybe kind of nitpicking a little bit if Welding was flat and Test &amp; Measurement were up 2% can you give us a sense for what else sort of grew to get you to the plus 4%? And then related to this I'm trying to understand if this is just something that's specific to the company either through new product introduction or your exposure? Or are you trying to signal that there's something bigger going on in the environment? It's a little different than what we're hearing from other industrial companies in terms of what happens...
Mig all we're saying is that as we talked about on the last earnings call is that what we have seen in our businesses on the industrial side is that trends stabilize really starting in the second quarter last year.
And so if you just take Welding to maybe illustrate this so if you look at the sequential demand trends in Welding what we saw in the first quarter was a 8% decline in the demand rate into the second quarter into the third quarter we saw 1% all seasonally adjusted.
And then in the fourth quarter we saw flat.
And so that means that we would expect typical seasonality in Welding.
We expect that business to be down 2% and the business was flat.
So that's certainly an improvement in terms of the underlying demand trends.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And part of what I would add to that is there's a lot of volatility in the comps given just the volatility in the end-market.
So we talked about fourth quarter last year.
So what we're trying just communicate is not any big change in trend as much as when you look at the year-on-year comps quarter-by-quarter because of the volatility over the last eight quarters to 10 quarters those aren't necessarily indicative of what's going on currently.
And essentially what we're seeing is relatively stable demand on a orders per day basis.
So we're not calling it a trend we're not calling it a pick-up but what we are saying is things have been relatively stable.
Yeah and Mig a point on the consumer side is really that -this is a little bit different as you were saying relative to maybe some of our peers that 60% of our revenues are tied to the consumer.
And that in the current environment where there's some pressure on the industrial side particularly CapEx into oil and gas and we have 60% of the company growing at 3% at a very stable rate for the quarter and for the year.
So those are the points we're trying to make on slide 11.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
I appreciate that.
And then I know you commented on price/cost but if we can focus on just price specifically in your industrial businesses are there some parallels that you can draw between the current environment versus maybe prior downturns where things were challenging? How's pricing behaving versus history here? No change here Mig.
I mean we saw across the portfolio the ability to get price based on offering value-added products and solutions.
We saw no change in the quarter.
So really nothing different here.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> All right.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of David Raso of Evercore ISI.
Hi good morning.
Your line is open.
So two questions one positive I guess one negative.
But first a clarification.
Maybe I missed it.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks for the warning.
The guidance does it not include the auto acquisition just so we're clear? No the guidance today does not include the acquisition.
But what we did say is that we expect minimal EPS impact in 2016.
This is really more of a 2017 and beyond EPS growth story.
And so when the transaction closes which we expect will happen in the first half of the year we will update revenue margin guidance.
We expect some but very little impact on the EPS side and we'll give you all that once the transaction closes.
All right.
Thank you.
On the positive side the organic growth guidance for the first quarter was stronger than I would have thought.
Is it fair to say the tone at the December meeting when you thought about the cadence for 2016 organic to get to the full-year midpoint of up 2% that the first quarter organic guidance you just gave is maybe a little better than you were thinking a month or two ago? I'd say not really David.
I mean I'd say the fourth quarter here was a little bit better than our guidance at the beginning of the quarter but that wasn't really a big surprise to us.
And again what we're doing is we're taking typical seasonality run rates from Q4 adjusted for seasonality into Q1 and that gets you into that 0% to 2% range so there's nothing really different about it.
Okay I have to admit I was thinking that it was a very back half loaded guide in the sense of first half organic maybe down a bit second half would have to be up a lot.
But it sounds like now the cadence sounds a little more 1% 1% 3% 3% is kind of the generic base case of the cadence to get the full-year 2%? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah yeah but again it's much more about the – because of the comparison to the comps we're taking current daily run rates and applying basically what we're saying in 2016 is – no change in current run rates gets us 1% to 3% for the year.
And so based on that I mean the way you're looking at it David I mean this is not a back-end loaded plan in terms of the organic or the EPS guidance.
Yeah I mean I will say I left the meeting thinking it was even more back-half loaded than the setup you're describing today.
On the negative side obviously a lot of positive commentary you have on Auto versus the concerns but still end of the day the quarter the outgrowth wasn't quite as great as we've seen and the margins still were down so maybe I missed it in the prepared remarks.
But can you help us understand why the margin was down and how do you see Auto margins for 2016 versus 2015? You're saying worldwide builds up 1%.
I assume you expect to outgrow so call it 2% 3% 4% kind of revenue growth for Auto.
How do the margins play out in that scenario? Yeah.
So our margins I mean it can vary a little bit on a quarterly basis.
I would point to 24.2% operating margin in Auto for the year great progress.
That's how I would think about 2016 with some progress on the enterprise initiatives.
For the year 6% organic growth on builds of 1% 5% in the quarter.
There can be some mix issues like we talked about in the third quarter.
And so I wouldn't read too much into David the one particular quarter but really encourage you to look at it kind of on an annual basis.
And we'd certainly expect something very similar in 2016.
Scott walked through the penetration and the auto build dynamics but it should be another solid year for the Auto business.
That's helpful but just so I make sure I heard you correctly the 24.2% and then you made a comment about enterprise initiatives.
The 24.2% includes enterprise initiatives or is that base and then whatever you can provide (50:22).
The 24.2% is the performance for the full-year in 2015.
Correct.
And like all of our businesses we would expect some progress on margins in 2016 some more than others.
Okay.
that's helpful.
Helpful.
Just wanted to clarify.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Joel Tiss.
Your line is open.
Hey guys how's it going? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good.
Just quick for Mike just a clarification.
You said the consumer facing businesses are stable.
Does that mean that they're up 3%? They're stable at an up 3% run rate for 2016 or they're stable closer to flat for 2016 versus the up 3% in 2015? No when we say stable what we mean is the underlying demand trends adjusted for seasonality from Q3 to Q4 we saw stable demand in those businesses.
So...
And you said – oh go ahead sorry.
Now it doesn't mean that we expect the consumer businesses to be flat in 2016.
We're certainly not giving guidance for consumer and industrial for 2016 but if you think about what's in there so Automotive we talked about Food Equipment we talked about parts of Construction and Specialty we'd certainly expect those businesses to grow again in 2016.
Okay.
And then just a strategic question on the debt.
You were saying in December that you were hoping to use the free cash flow to pay down debt.
And I see that your cash is coming down a little bit and your debt's going up.
And I just wondered if there's any change in that thinking going into 2016? I think Joel I think you were saying that.
I don't think I said that at the December meeting.
So we have like I said earlier I mean we have our current debt to EBITDA is in that 2.2/2.3 range and we expect no changes to that.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Andy Casey of Wells Fargo Securities.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
First question on the acquisition.
Could you help us kind of frame the historical growth rate over the last three years? Was it even close to the 8% CAGR achieved by your Auto business? And then also based on your initial meetings with the organization over there so far is your impression that they have the embedded skill-set right now to drive both margin improvement and ultimately above market growth kind of in line with corporate goals? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So the answer to the first question is the growth rate has been solid but not at the rate that we've been growing over the last four years.
We expect to have some – offer some help in that regard.
And then the second question is that we've been very impressed with the management team in the organization and feel like we're getting a really solid quality team that runs a great business today and through some additional tools that we can provide around our operating system I think can certainly leverage those tools to their full potential.
Great.
Thanks Scott.
And then last one back on Welding your comments about that being one of the businesses that stabilized during at least the second half of last year.
Did you see any difference in trends through the year between CapEx and consumables? And then also did you see any change within the second half in some of your bigger customers maybe machinery OEM behavior versus if you will the general distributor base.
Yeah no so we didn't really see anything other than what I described earlier right? And so on the equipment side certainly down a little bit more than the consumables that have been fairly stable throughout the year but no significant changes as we've gone through the year or the fourth quarter.
Okay.
Thanks a lot Michael.
Thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Nicole DeBlase of Morgan Stanley.
Yeah thanks.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Sorry about the last name there.
It's okay.
I'm used to it.
It's DeBlase.
So the first question is on Construction.
So the North America Construction Products core growth I think it decelerated a bit to 2% this quarter.
It was more like 7% in 3Q.
I'm just curious on the drivers is it a comp issue? Are you seeing some slowdown in North America Construction on an underlying basis? And then I guess what are your thoughts on the North America non-resi construction side goal into 2016? Yeah.
So if you look at the fourth quarter up 3% organic like I said residential was flat which was slightly better than expected.
On the renovation remodel channel that's really where the growth up 12% for the full-year and then commercial down slightly.
Those trends we've been kind of bumping along those same numbers in 2015.
We feel good about 2016 and we would expect that business to grow in 2016 at a rate similar to what we saw in 2015 which was up 4% organically.
Okay got it.
That's helpful.
And then for my follow-up just looking at the T&amp;M/Electronics business it was pretty strong this quarter stronger than we had expected.
And I would say that the margin performance there was a bit of a standout.
So is that just enterprise initiatives? Or is there anything else to highlight from a margin perspective? And do you also think that T&amp;M/Electronics can show positive margin progression in 2016? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Absolutely.
I mean we think we'll continue to make progress on operating margin in Test &amp; Measurement.
And in the fourth quarter really nothing unusual other than what we've been talking about for almost three years now in terms of really strong execution of the enterprise initiatives including 80/20 in that business.
So very sustainable.
More progress to come in 2016 and 2017.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
I'll pass it on.
Thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Jamie Cook of Credit Suisse.
Hi.
Good morning.
Just two quick follow-ups.
One again the comments you made about the sequential improvements in some of your industrial businesses was interesting.
Can you comment on if that trend continued into January? And then I guess the second question is given the incremental lag-down we've seen in oil prices what have you sort of baked into your guidance in 2016 in terms of risk because you could see a lag effect there? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So like we said earlier no change in the month of January.
We're on track to the guidance for the quarter.
Oil and gas demand while certainly down year-over-year has remained stable.
And like we said earlier the primary impact there is on the Welding side and we expect that business to decline in the single-digits in 2016.
All righty.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Ann Duignan from JPMorgan.
Well it would be helpful if they could get my first name right.
Morning.
Just following up on the acquisition of ZF as they would call it in Europe how did that deal come about? For decades companies have been trying to get out of automotive supply.
And it hasn't been deemed as a very attractive sector to be in.
I'm curious was this an auction process? ZF was trying to get rid of this business? Or did ITW approach ZF? I'm just curious how it all happened.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I'm not sure that it's probably our place to comment on that.
I think we're – it's a business that we've known about for a long time.
I'll put it that way.
Okay.
So you're not willing to comment on whether it was an auction? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You can ask them.
Okay.
No problem.
And maybe you could just talk about the backlog then on the acquisition front? What are you seeing out there in terms of buyers versus sellers? Are we still looking at high expectations from sellers? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well my answer is we remain very much a niche player on the acquisition space.
As we've talked about our primary thrust remains on focus on making this pivot organic.
So I'm not sure we're your best barometer.
In terms of pipeline we have a few segments that are in the ready-to-grow mode largely who are now enabled to start to think about what might be complementary to what they're doing but I would say from a standpoint of our overall level of effort here we wouldn't be a good barometer in terms of what's going on in the overall market.
Okay.
I'll leave it there in the interest of time.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Steve Fisher of UBS.
Great.
Thanks.
Just two regional outlook questions.
On Europe we're seeing some mixed data points.
What are you seeing and expecting for your overall business in aggregate in Europe in 2016? And then similarly with China obviously roughly flat in the fourth quarter but you had some big moving pieces with Automotive quite a bit something else was down.
How do you see China going forward in 2016 overall? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah so I think Steve kind of big picture here.
I mean Europe was up a little more than 1% in 2015.
We expect that to stay at the current run rate to be – in that range.
Maybe a little better than that driven again by strong presence in Automotive growing double-digits or a big quarter in 2015 and more to come there.
Food Equipment should have another really good year in that region.
So more of the same maybe a little bit better in Europe based on current run rates.
China was flat essentially in the quarter flat for the year.
And we expect a similar environment going into 2016.
Okay.
Thank you.
Great.
And that brings us actually just past the top of the hour.
So we're going to conclude the call there.
Thanks to everyone for your time today and participation.
And we'll talk to you of the first quarter in three months.
Thank you.
That concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.