Welcome to Invesco's First Quarter Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to speakers for today Mr.
Martin L.
Flanagan President and CEO of Invesco; and Mr.
Loren Starr Chief Financial Officer.
Mr.
Flanagan you may now begin.
Thank you very much and thank you everybody for joining us.
In addition to myself Loren Starr Invesco's CFO and also Mark Armour is on the call with us today who leads our Institutional business.
We'll be speaking to the presentation that's available on our website.
And this morning we'll do what we typically do and do a review of the business but we thought it would be very very helpful to have Mark provide some perspective on our Global Institutional business and highlight the capabilities where we're seeing the greatest interest from clients and consultants.
Loren will go into the financial results in greater detail and then the 3 of us are more than happy to answer anybody's question.
So on Page 3 let me just hit a few points to highlight the quarter.
Invesco's commitment to investment excellence continued to yield strong long-term investment performance for our clients.
Investment performance across the enterprise remained very strong in the first quarter with areas of exceptional performance.
Our strong investment performance continued a trend of positive long term net flows for the firm.
And during the first quarter we saw strong long-term net flows across all distribution channels.
Also during the quarter we continued the share repurchase program purchasing 2.1 million shares for $53 million.
The fund consolidation related to the acquisition of Morgan Stanley's Retail Asset Management business is nearly complete.
We've experienced no merger-related outflows year-to-date and the combined business has demonstrated strong momentum.
And consistent with our 6-year track record of progressively increasing the dividend and reflecting the firm's continued financial strength we're raising our first quarter dividend to $0.1225 per share an increase of 11.4%.
Now let me hit the summary of the financial results for the quarter.
Assets under management ended the quarter at $641 billion versus $616 billion at the end of the fourth quarter reflecting the improved markets and also the strong momentum across our business globally.
Adjusted operating income for the quarter was $272 million and the operating margin was 36.2%.
Net flows for the quarter were $9.2 billion including net long term flows of $6.6 billion.
This continues the positive trend we've demonstrated over the past several quarters.
And again Loren will go into greater detail when he review the financials.
If you take a look at the quarterly flows what you'll see is the strength coming from strong gross sales in the first quarter led a continued positive momentum into long term flows.
And as I mentioned earlier the long term flows for the quarter was $6.6 billion driven by continued strong interest in our traditional Invesco PowerShares ETFs and the UIT business also.
If you look at the different distribution channels again strong growth sales across Retail and Institutional channels contributed to positive net flows for Invesco as a whole during the quarter and we saw positive flows into the Private Wealth Management business.
And this is now 4 years in a row that we have had positive flows into that business.
As you all know key strategic priority for us is to generate strong long-term investment performance for our clients and our commitment to investment excellence has lead to a continuing significant improvement in our investment performance across the enterprise.
The key reason we've seen improved stability in our flows has been a strong investment performance of the firm.
And if you look at the firm as a whole 77% of the assets were ahead of peers on a three-year basis at the end of the first quarter and over a 5-year period 79% of the assets were ahead of peers.
We also saw improvement in the one-year number with 55% of the assets ahead of peers during the first quarter versus 48% in the prior fourth quarter.
And we have detailed charts in the appendix if you would like to look at that at your leisure.
As I mentioned earlier we saw strong investment performance across the enterprise with pockets of exceptional performance.
The U.S.
value capability remained strong with 94% of assets in the top half of peers that were 3 and 5 years; 94% of U.K.
Equity assets beating benchmarks of 1 3 and 5 years; 86% of the global fixed income assets in the top half of the peer groups are 1 3 5 years; 95% of Asian Equity assets beating benchmarks over the 5-year period and Morningstar ratings for Invesco in the U.S.
remain at near all-time highs with 61% of the assets rated 4 and 5 stars.
And also Invesco received 9 Lipper awards for 6 Retail Funds across a broad range of capabilities including convertibles non-US equities sector value and growth.
And now on Slide 9.
Just an update on the acquisition-related milestones.
As we have discussed previously late last year we undertook the consolidation of the number of funds related to our acquisition of Morgan Stanley's Retail Asset Management business and to highlight a few of the areas: In the area of cost synergies the actual results were meaningfully greater than our initial estimate; we achieved $85 million over a 5-month period post-close and against an estimate of $70 million which we thought we would achieve 12 months post-close; and in line with our expectations we have not seen a spike in the redemption rates in the funds that were a part of the consolidation; we also experienced no meaningful merger-related outflows year-to-date; and with 92% of the assets having received the required votes the fund rationalization is on track for completion in the second quarter.
So I'm going to stop there and hand the meeting over to Mark who will highlight Invesco's Global Institutional business.
Mark? Look I'm going to start on Slides 10 and 11.
And what I'd like to do is to leave you all with 3 basic thoughts if I could.
First thing you can see this on Slide 11 globally we do have a sizable Institutional business.
Secondly we have achieved group [indiscernible] (13:13) momentum globally over the last couple of years.
And for reasons that I'll touch on briefly we do believe that we've got further significant growth opportunities in the Institutional space.
So if we look at Slide 11 you can see that the relationships we have with the Institutional clients globally account for approximately 1/3 of Invesco's total AUM.
And the breakdown by region is shown here on this slide.
And you'll also note that we've got something like 60[ph] styles services and consultant relations professionally professionals globally supporting our clients.
That number to us seems about right it's not so much the number of people that we've got it's the quality that's important.
As you can tell these teams are organized regionally all by country and the reason we do this is so that they can better understand clients' needs being local and then work with our investment team globally to meet the needs of those clients.
And I probably should put it to sidelight here that even though I'm talking about them all not all of these people formally report to me but rather to our business heads around the world.
While broadly the focus that we've got in Institutional space is really in 3 basic areas: First and foremost having top-quality people; secondly looking to -- with those people to live with the investment excellence that we've got within the firm by better understanding and meeting the needs of our clients and frankly consultants who we think of as clients.
So overall our aim is to match up the investment capabilities of about more than 600 investment professionals and Martin talked to you already about the good position our investment performs across the globe meet the client needs so that we can deliver if you like a compelling solution for their problems.
Let's now move on if we can to Slide 12.
And what I want to do is really talk to you a little bit about some of the investment capabilities that we're seeing gain a lot of traction globally.
And these are the ones that are typically getting large investment made.
So first and foremost Real Estate look we have a very highly regarded capability here.
We've been investing in the markets since the early 80s and we're in about the direct Real Estate business as well as Real Estate securities or REITS.
And I think as most of you are aware we just recently strengthened our platform with an acquisition in Asia late last year.
The strong team is designed from the strong position we have in the models to maintain very low staff turnover which in turn has enabled us to continue to fine tune the capability that we've got.
And this in turn relates frankly to very good results for our clients in both the REIT space as well as the direct Real Estate space.
Right at the moment we're seeing terribly strong interest in Real Estate globally and in contrast to what we saw a couple of years ago it's not in REITS but rather now in the direct Real Estate space.
And what's interesting not just in the U.S.
but also in other parts of the world including Asia-Pacific and Europe.
Moving on something that's a little bit different is our Risk Parity capability what we call a Premia Plus.
This is managed by Global Asset Allocation space in Atlanta.
We're doing this as you know since 2001 with [indiscernible] managing about $10 billion.
You should be aware this capability's aim is to give sizable returns through a cycle and so it's more about not losing money rather than by gaining a large amount.
Right at the time it looked a bit silly but we did actually launch this capability in the peak of financial crisis back in September 2008.
But it turned out to be good because the returns we got early on were very strong and that group performance is being continued.
In terms of interest what we see is that globally our retail client is going to be most interested in the traditional Premia Plus capability which is investing in cost asset classes.
And that industry is very strong in North America so U.S.
and Canada but also in Europe.
By contrast we've seen quite an interest in the Premia Plus Institutional space but more so on the commodities only capability and this is something that we seem to be differentiated from our clients.
So strong interest there and frankly really strong growth over the last 18 months.
Stable value.
Look we've mentioned this before like Real Estate it's an area where we're seen as the market leader.
We've been managing this asset classes since the mid-80s.
I think people were aware we did have some issues here a few years ago.
Clearly they're well behind us.
Asset growth has been strong $42 billion right at the moment.
The strength of our structured credit team I think is a differentiator and hopefully outperformance in 2009 too but also to us two other things are important.
First and foremost we've had an equal focus on maintaining good value not simply on getting returns and I think that helped us through the crisis.
And then we are unusual even unique [indiscernible] managers to the extent that we do as part of our process use other managers and that gives us some nice diversification.
So overall we've had very strong close in recent years and in fact we having to sort of control the way in which we take any money on right at the moment and frankly believe that we're well positioned given the changes that are going on in the industry [indiscernible] position to continue to gain share.
Finally and if you can excuse the pun we do want to talk about something that's a bit of an emerging capability.
Mainly our Emerging Markets Equity.
We've got 2 capabilities one based in Austin in Texas it's already at capacity so we can't take on any new business there.
So what I want to talk about briefly was our Global the capability managed by our Global Equity team in Atlanta.
We've got a track record here of just over 6 years and that performance combined -- with which -- and the performance has been good well ahead of benchmark that combined with the fact that we've got capacity means that we are seeing quite a bit of emerging interest in this capability as we become better known.
So these are some of the ones.
There's obviously other areas where we've seen growth but those are 4 of the key ones.
So if I can move to my final slide which is Slide 13 I think this sort of amply highlights that we have made good progress over the last couple of years in terms of engaging quality consultants and that we are seeing meaningfully better outcome as a result.
And these are coming up in terms of better flows and greater consultant advocacy.
On the consultant side we're seeing a broad range of activity across a wide range of a very stable value bank loans U.S.
Value Equity Asian Equity including importantly Chinese Equity Global and Global ex U.S.
Equity Global estimates return fixed income Real Estate Commodities and Risk Parity.
And so that means to say these are translating into quite an advocacy better rating in that in turn is the harbinger in my mind for proof of better flows in the future.
At the same time we are continuing to work hard to upgrade and better train our sales teams.
The capabilities of the people here is critically critically important.
And so all this work together with a strong investment capability that we believe we have in the firm gives us reason to be optimistic for even better outcomes in the future.
And I think maybe just to finish Marty this potential in terms of future is reflected in the top line.
I'm not in a position where I want to quote exact numbers but I think I can say that on a revenue basis today it's something like 30% up on where it was a year ago.
And obviously happy to take questions at the end of the session.
So thank you and I'll now hand it over to Loren.
Thanks very much Mark.
So let me turn to the assets under management slide.
During the quarter you'll see that market gains added $12.9 billion long term net flows added $6.6 billion FX added $3.3 billion and net inflows into the Institutional Money Market product added $2.6 billion.
The increase in AUM quarter-over-quarter was $25.4 billion or 4.1% resulting in our ending AUM of $641.9 million.
Average AUM for the quarter increased 2.3% to $630.2 billion again largely due to the market gains and the long term inflows during the quarter.
Our net revenue yields in Q1 came in at 47.7 basis points.
That was down 1.8 basis points versus the prior quarter.
And I will cover this in some more detail later in the presentation.
Let's now turn to operating results.
You'll see that net revenues decreased $9.9 million or 1.3% quarter-over-quarter while favorable FX rates added $6.6 million to net revenues.
Getting a little more specific into net revenues you'll see that investment management fees grew $17 million or 2.1% to $816.1 million.
The increase was primarily driven by higher average assets under management and also to the fourth quarter with favorable FX contributing $9.1 million.
Of course day counts came into factor as it always does.
Two fewer days in Q1 relative to Q4 reduced our Retail Management fees by $13 million and our management fees from alternative asset class investments were also reduced by an additional $7.5 million as one of our larger funds became substantially invested in Q1.
And as is frequently the norm for such products when a fund enters the new stage of its lifecycle the management fees will step down to reflect this transition.
Importantly in terms of guidance I would say that we expect the impact of this step down to persist through the second quarter.
Service and distribution revenues decreased by $3.3 million or 1.6%.
This decrease was a result again of day count but also included $2 million in the reduction in 12b-1 distribution fees.
And this is a result of fewer B-shares sales and a continued conversion of existing B-share fee structures to A shares that's a theme that will continue as well going forward perhaps not at the same amount though per quarter.
The performance fees were a big factor in terms of the revenue difference.
During the quarter we had $3.8 million compared to $18.7 million in the fourth quarter.
You'll remember in the fourth quarter we had a $12 million performance fee that came from our Private Wealth Management group.
The $3.8 million in performance fees this quarter came from Real Estate our Australia business as well as our Bank Loan area.
Other revenues decreased $1.9 million or 5.5% relative to Q4.
That was due to lower Real Estate transactions fees in the quarter.
UIT revenues were flat relative to Q4.
Moving on down you'll see the third-party distribution service and advisory expense which of course we net against our gross revenues increased by $6.8 million or 2.3%.
That increase was consistent with the increase in investment management fees as well as average AUM.
Foreign exchange added $3.6 million to these expenses in the quarter.
Now looking at operating expenses that came in at $479.7 million that was a decrease of $1.8 million or 0.4%.
You'll note that foreign exchange increased total operating expenses in the quarter by $5.4 million.
Employee comp expenses decreased by $5.4 million that's 1.8% versus the fourth quarter.
Base salary increases seasonally higher payroll taxes and higher severance costs in the quarter were offset by reduced variable compensation including bonuses associated with the performance fees.
Foreign exchange also increased the compensation expense in the quarter by $3.5 million.
I'd also like to point out that in terms of guidance that we do expect the second quarter compensation expense to be somewhat higher approximately $5 million more than in the first quarter assuming of course markets are flat and no foreign exchange changes.
And this reflects a few things: one we have a full 3 months worth of base salary increases in the second quarter share based expense as well which is granted in February.
You'll see 3 months instead of 2 months in the second quarter.
And we'll also see compensation expense show up fully in line item from the Hyderabad operation which came over in the first quarter.
Previously that was in the Tech area and so it moved up in the P&amp;L.
It's really a geography point.
So the salary increases and the new compensation awards as I mentioned went to February 28 and so that's just a natural thing.
If you look back to prior quarters you'll see a very similar trend in terms of how we manage compensation first quarter to second quarter.
Marketing expense increased $1.9 million or 2.7%.
This is largely due to the higher level of advertising activity in the U.S.
and again we've discussed this in prior calls.
Property office and technology decreased by 1.7% or 2.6%.
Additional property cost again associated with the opening of our Hyderabad office during the first quarter were offset by reduced outsource administration costs as we are no longer paying the third-party provider and FX added $0.6 million.
G&amp;A expenses came in at $61.6 million in the quarter that's up $3.4 million and this increase was driven by greater irrevocable VAT expense in the U.K.
with FX contributing another $1 million in the quarter.
So continuing down the page important note non-operating income declined by almost $7 million quarter-over-quarter this was due to lower mark-to-market valuation changes on our partnership investments as well as lower realized gains on fee capital versus Q4.
I'll say a hard thing to predict but it certainly stepped down a bit in the first quarter.
Our effective tax rate actually came in right in terms of guidance that we'd originally suggested our tax rate was going to be between 27% to 28% and came in at 27.6%.
Adjusted EPS ultimately at $0.41 and again we're pleased to see net operating margin holding relatively flat to the first quarter coming in at 36.2%.
Moving on to the next page.
Let me just take a moment to walk you through a reconciliation of the net revenue yield quarter-over-quarter.
Our Q4 2010 net revenue yield was 49.5 basis points.
Late in the fourth quarter as you know we had an $18.6 billion low fee mandate redeemed and the result of which you would expect to see an increase quarter-over-quarter in terms of net revenue yields.
In fact the calculation would be about 0.9 basis points as you see on this chart.
However there are many other things that offset this increase none should have been terribly surprising.
First is quarter-over-quarter decline in performance fees which reduced the yield by 1 basis point.
Again that was the high net worth business or high net worth performance fee in the fourth quarter which did not repeat in the first quarter.
We have a day count issue too fewer days during the quarter resulted in 0.7 basis points reduction.
The one thing that was hard for anyone to actually forecast but it's important to factor in was the step down in fee rate in terms of this large alternative investment fund that became substantially invested during the quarter.
That had an impact of 0.5 basis points.
The reduction in B-Share revenues and Real Estate transactions fees in combination resulted in a negative 0.3 basis points.
And then finally in terms of the net inflow impact we saw obviously as Mark mentioned great strength in our Stable Value business.
You saw Money Market come in and then some of the ETF products.
So that coupled with actually a 0.5% decline in our Equity AUM as a percentage of total Invesco AUM resulted in about a 0.2 basis point impact.
Moving on to the next page just to sort of adjust the point which I think is prevalent and we really want to clarify really the point is that low net revenue yield does not necessarily mean low quality or low margin.
We've seen significant inflows into our Stable Value products in the PowerShares and over the last 12 months and more recently in our Money Market business.
While inflows in these products may actually reduce our aggregate effective fee rate this does not mean that the flows are detrimental to the overall firm operating margin.
We have attained sufficient scale in all of these products to achieve incremental margins on inflows that are higher than the firm's total operating margins.
And so we are very pleased and we hope you would be pleased with the growth in these asset categories and you will also see our firm's margin being positively impacted by any future inflows that we see across these products.
And with that I'm going to turn it back to Marty.
Great Loren and Mark thank you very much.
And let me just summarize the quarter before the questions.
First of all strong investment performance in the first quarter contributed to a continued trend of positive long-term net inflows for the firm.
We're very pleased with the progress we've made in consolidating the funds related to the Morgan Stanley Retail Asset Management business combination with no merger-related outflows year-to-date.
And given the firm's continued financial strength we're raising the first quarter dividend to $0.1225 per share 11.4% increase.
And all in all we think it was a very very strong quarter.
But why don't we stop now and the 3 of us will address any questions people have.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question does come from Michael Carrier of Deutsche Bank.
First question just on the flow side.
It looks like long term flows you're gaining some traction.
And I just wondered if you can provide any other color because I think the one pocket that people will tend to focus on is just the active equity and that tends to be a bit weaker.
Given that the segments that you guys provide like we can see that the Canadian outflows that weighs on that number a bit.
But if you can provide any other minute details whether it's Quants products I think in the U.S.
business just even though you're not seeing much from a dis-synergy standpoint I mean from what we can gather you still see some outflows in the business and that's not too dissimilar from industry flows it hasn't been like a strong equity flow market in the Retail channel.
But I guess just any other color on that.
And I think in the past you've given some stature details just on some of the sales momentum particularly in the U.S.
Retail channel.
So any updates on that would be helpful as well.
Mike I'll start with the active equities question.
You're right obviously in terms of the areas you mentioned really the theme is mostly concentrated in the area of Quants which has been a theme for I think the entire industry where Quants has really not played large in terms of consultants' playbooks right now and we've seen industry-wide outflows.
We do feel cautiously optimistic about the category.
It's one where performance has certainly come back and it's one where we think ultimately we'll see a resurgence.
But that has been by far the way the majority of what has affected our active Equity category.
And again I would just point out that that tends to be at a lower fee too.
So it's certainly is not active equities in U.S.
Retail Mutual Funds that we're talking about here.
That's helpful.
And have you guys ever sized that up just in terms of the size of that business? Yes I don't think we've ever gotten to great specifics.
Mark I don't know if you want to comment on that.
Yes thanks Loren.
Maybe a couple of comments.
I think the first one is that actually we have seen pretty meaningful outflows over the last couple of quarters.
I mean if you look at the Slide 6 excuse me you can actually see that in terms of inflows and outflows on the Institutional side of the business.
You can see that by size both in and out.
It's a quite a big number.
So I think what's pleasing from our side is that not withstanding the fact we've seen these big outflows we're actually generating big inflows on the other side so the net numbers become positive.
Look two other comments on the Quants side not really sure when this will come to an end.
I think we are seeing though a return on the performance side which I think is a necessary pre-condition our European strategies have been performing well ahead in terms of ahead of benchmark but for some quarters now and that's now translating into like a global capabilities and also some of the U.S.
ones.
I think the other thing though is that -- what's important to note is that the asset consultants themselves not all of them follow the comp strategies but those that do are still rating our capabilities quite highly.
So I think a combination of improving performance the markets returning to more normal in terms of their behavior gives us some sort of reason for cautious optimism as we go through 2011.
But we're certainly not to be fair we're not seeing a return to massive inflows in the Quants for the time being.
And Mike just in terms of the Retail question absolutely we're tracking our plan in terms of the sales.
I think we've been really pleased with sales and we're seeing quarter-over-quarter growth in sales and we're seeing expectations of future growth begun barring any market disasters.
So the sales story has been very very strong.
Obviously the things around that flows had somewhat to do with the redemption rates.
And we still are seeing high redemption rates generally as with the industry in terms of the muni products and some other areas.
So that's the theme that is a little harder to control.
But in terms of kind of hitting the targets that we're looking to achieve I'd say we're right on track.
That's helpful.
And then maybe just a few things on the P&amp;L.
So on the revenue side you gave the one detail on the $7.5 million in terms of the -- I'm assuming that's on the all side the private Equity side we've seen that meaning just in terms of the structure of those products and how that works.
Now if there's a future fund launch then obviously we'd expect that fee to come back in line I just want to make sure I'm thinking about that right versus do you think that's...
Mike you absolutely are.
I mean that's the way these types of products do work and so future fund launch would clearly offset any reduction.
Because the future fund launch would start at the normal fee again and so you basically recover that plus there's a clawback typically for these things were things have closed over multiple quarters.
You'd actually claw back the prior quarters worth of revenues too.
So it's a little -- I don't want to call it a timing thing but there is an element exactly to what you're saying.
Okay.
And then on the comp definitely came in a lot lower than expected.
And then in the first quarter you have I think you guys mentioned in the last quarter just the seasonal increase for like payroll taxes.
So when you're saying $5 million up sequentially is that a net number including all the different I guess factors that whether it's the Equity comp the Indian operations the payroll tax go down? It is.
I mean there'll be some payroll declines.
That will be offset by obviously the 3 months of salary and share-based comp and some other slips in terms of bonus pools being up given the fact that we're ending the quarter at a higher asset level than the average for the prior quarter in Hyderabad.
So again I think we managed -- and if you look back to prior quarters the way we've operated it's been a somewhat similar kind of situation in terms of how we've managed through the first quarter.
Our next question does come from Robert Lee of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Quick question.
Could you maybe drill a little bit deeper into the ETF UIT and Passive flows? I'm just trying to get a little better handle on the mix of flows and also AUM there because obviously I think creating at least for me a little bit of confusion.
You had about $2.7 billion of flows into PowerShares products excluding not including QQQ Passives and UITs could you kind of size up the other flows and maybe asset levels there in the other product categories? Sure.
Well I think in terms of the flows I mean UITs I think came in at roughly $1 billion in the quarter which is again somewhat consistent with prior quarters.
Other Passive elements we've got the Deutsche -- so yes there's the Deutsche Bank probably the rest of it is really around the DB PowerShares products.
As you know we have a relationship that was historic with the Deutsche Bank in terms of the commodity types of products.
That's we act as a distributor of those products as opposed to the manager of the products.
But we generate a revenue that really goes directly to the bottom line.
And so the majority of the rest of that number is coming from that product.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> And maybe just -- I mean since you include all of those assets I believe in your AUM calculation I mean you can take this as a suggestion maybe just -- I think may be helpful to kind of break out those things that don't generate asset-based fees.
Are you thinking about it down the road? We'll certainly take that into consideration Rob.
I think obviously we're providing huge amount of disclosure already in terms of breaking out Passive and Actives and it's getting complicated.
So for us to cut it into yet more slices is obviously another level of detail and look I take your point.
We'll definitely consider if there's another way for us to show that.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> I appreciate it.
And maybe going to the alternative flows on the Active side you certainly have positive flows there and listening to the comments around the Risk Parity products where there any -- I'm assuming that's what drove most of those inflows could you update us at all on any fundraising activity that may be going on on Ross or whatnot? I know there's a limit to what you can say but are they in the market raising the fund right now? Well I certainly I'd say that broadly and Mark you can feel free to chime in.
The themes the products that Mark put up on that page are the ones that have really been driving a huge amount of the flows and it's something that Real Estate and Stable Value are major contributors there's other elements in terms of the emerging markets smaller but growing.
We certainly we'd love to be able to say something on the Wilbur Ross but we cannot for the reasons that have been very clearly articulated in the past.
So unfortunately I do -- the most that you're going to be able to take away is what I mentioned around to date on the topic.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> And maybe one last question on Capital Management raised the dividend bought back some more stock.
I mean obviously your rate of share repurchase I guess has I don't know if picked up is the right word but it has remained at decent levels the last several quarters or so I mean at one point you had talked about there being a corporate goal to actually build liquidity more liquidity within the firm in a more consistent basis whether it's to be opportunistic maybe pay down some of the outstanding line I mean how shall we be thinking about your use of cash from this point forward? Are you at a point where maybe you want to start chipping away more of the outstanding credit facilities building up that cash reserve or should we expect kind of more the same going forward as compared to the last couple of quarters? I will answer Rob one point.
First quarter is always the most cash intensive in terms of outflows because of the bonus payments and taxes.
So in terms of being able to do a whole lot with free cash where most of that cash was going to those things I just mentioned.
Going forward I think again you'll see a balance between opportunistic stock repurchases paying down the credit facility and also ultimately getting some more excess cash on the balance sheet.
We feel very comfortable in terms of kind of where the firm is from a financial strength perspective.
It's something that we're going to be generating significant amount of free cash flow coming off of the acquisition and also the growth in the asset base that we're seeing.
So we feel we can achieve all those objectives in a very balanced way.
And again in terms of kind of how it all pans out quarter-to-quarter I think that will have a lot to do with where markets are and where opportunities are.
Our next question does come from of Ken Worthington of JP Morgan.
Just to follow up on Mike's question earlier.
For the fund that was substantially funded that did not collect any management fees in the first quarter.
Is that correct? No that would be incorrect.
It's really just a step down that takes place -- there's 2 elements to the step down.
For funds that are launched that are based on committed assets if you get the full commitments and then you get a higher fee.
At the point where you become substantially invested the fee is applied only to the invested assets.
So that's a difference.
And then it also steps down almost by 1/3 of what it was.
I understand that for Fund IV but the substantially funded products for the quarter that did not collect any management fees.
So you step down on the old fund but you haven't collected anything on the new fund.
Right.
So I think in terms of the nomenclature when we're talking about substantially invested that's the Fund IV that we're talking about right.
So just to be clear became substantially invested and that's when the fee stepped down.
I can't really talk about anything else related to the future fund.
Understood.
I try to be vague enough to...
No I know.
Listen we're dancing around the topic.
So...
Perfect.
And then in terms of expanding distribution maybe for Mark and then a follow up with Loren can you talk about the progress made during the quarter in terms of getting more funds rated by the consulting channel during the quarter? And any new entrées into other distribution channels? And then on the Retail side was there any progress made in getting Retail Funds or more Retail Funds into model portfolios? Mark do you want to talk a little bit about the consultant side? Yes.
Happy to do so.
Look I think in simple terms I sort of touched on this very briefly.
But if we look around the world on the consultant side and with this trying to be more broad based not simply Institutional we have seen a lot of consultant interest and activities stable value bank loans U.S.
value equity Asian Equity and that both Asia is [indiscernible] Japan typically but also Japanese equities Chinese equities Global and Global ex U.S.
equities Global absolute return fixed income Real Estate Commodities and Risk Parity and so will give us sense as to the trend here Ken.
I mean what we saw is that in the 5 most influential consultants globally just during the first quarter we saw 4 of those 5 increased the ratings on a number of products including Real Estate and with fixed income non-US Equity product Private Equity and Risk Parity the rate of change that we saw in terms of a number of increases to buys and so on frankly it was a pretty strong rate.
So I think on that side we are actually making some real progress.
So the implication there is future sales are going to get better.
And then can you quantify the -- one not funded or high probability pipeline for the Institutional business? Look Ken we haven't historically put any numbers out on this.
Look it's something that we're talking about internally in terms of doing so.
We've been keeping a track of our sales pipeline for a bit over a year now and we're just trying to get a sense as to how reasonable or frankly accurate it is.
I think the one thing I can say in terms of the prospects is that right at the moment the pipeline and we look at it both on a revenue as well as an AUM basis it is on the revenue basis something like 30% bigger than this time a year ago.
I think the other comment I'd make is that we look at it as the base or the basis of that pipeline is also broader I mean just not as concentrated as it was a year ago.
So I think all of that adds up to if it was to be if it was to translate into reality [indiscernible] directly then we'd have reason for optimism that the sort of current trends we're seeing should be continued.
And then the Retail side getting into model portfolios progress there? Ken it's Marty.
Yes it's just -- what Mark talked about really continues through the Retail channels too.
Getting more model portfolios continuing to get deeper broader access relationships to key distributors within the United States.
And again all the -- if you want to call it preconditions for continued success increased net flows are very very much in place.
And the other area that we think we're very focused on as a firm too is right now we're probably in a top 10 position in Continental Europe.
We're not happy with that and we think we can be just much more successful there.
So that's another area of our immediate focus over the next 6 12 months.
We're expecting to see some incremental strength coming out of that part of the world too.
Maybe just a final comment Ken.
You said we had over the last couple quarter or 2 started to see some I think quite good broad-based momentum in the sort of more positive fund [indiscernible] channel.
So I think that's been quite pleasing for us.
Our next question does come from Craig Siegenthaler of Crédit Suisse.
Just first question I was thinking about Mark's prepared comment on the international growth fund.
And I'm wondering what percentage of active long term AUM is now at capacity and maybe what percentage is near capacity.
And maybe kind of rough ballpark numbers to make it easier.
Yes.
There are very few products that are at capacity within the firm.
As Mark talked about one emerging market's capability is at capacity couple of the small caps are at capacity but there really is just an awful lot of capacity left within the firm.
So we don't see that as a headwind for us as an organization.
I got it.
And then just on kind of your commentary on the incremental margins from the Passive ETF and UIT business you said they're higher than you're kind of existing business.
Can you also kind of ballpark on average where those 3 areas are? Because a lot of these products it's not really kind of a incremental comp expense.
It's more of maybe an incremental kind of non-comp expense.
How do you think about the incremental operating margin on another dollar that you gained in these buckets? Yes.
It's a great question.
I mean they range -- as I said very similar to our existing products and we've talked about incremental margin of 60% to 65% for the firm as a whole.
I would say they fit in that range.
Again striking the fact that you're not having to pay compensation but you do have other variable expenses whether you're licensing an index or PowerShares products or you have to pay for VAT and other things.
But when you put it down on paper they are coming in at those types of incremental margins.
So we feel really good about continuing to grow those flows and feeling good that that is only helping on margin expand as we bring that stuff in.
And that will be true for Money Market as well.
Our next question does come from Bill Katz of Citigroup.
Just with the flows a little bit if you could mention a little bit some of the trends that's going on in Canada the U.K.
and Europe where you've seen some attrition is it sort of macro-driven just in terms of the things going on in the marketplace or is it performance issues any sort of qualitative there would be helpful? Maybe start with the U.K.
there one of the macro environment in the U.K.
has been a topic.
But within it again we're just in very very strong position as a firm I think probably recognized as probably the top money manager there somebody had mentioned the relative performance of the Equity Income products.
I feel very very good about them.
If you look over beating peers over any relevant period absolute returns during any relevant period and again just really really tough what hurts arguably the absolute top money manager in the United Kingdom by one of the top money managers in the world and just feel very very good about where we're positioned there.
So I feel very good about that.
If you look at Canada by 2 topics: one there is a -- it is different than anywhere else in the world right now.
Actually Australia probably the same but the banks are very very strong and they've done very very well in money management with regard to vis-a-vis independent money managers.
So that's a current trend within that our Relic [ph] performance in Canada is improving in the core product but I think very very importantly where we are seeing traction beyond that sort of traditional core retail businesses in ETF market in Canada is a competitive advantage for us there.
And also looking we have very little positions in the Institutional market in Canada and we have just started in the past 6 months going into that market.
And early days we feel very very good about the prospects for us in Canada.
So in total we think Canada is a very important market for us and will continue to do very well in time.
The one thing I would also just mention on U.K.
is if you look at the U.K.
there was an Institutional outflow in the U.K.
and if you strip that out in the sort of large I think on the order of magnitude of $1.5 billion the Retail business is actually not doing badly at all.
And so it's a little bit of noise in the U.K.
domicile flow number that should not alarm you.
Okay that's helpful.
And the second question is maybe for Mark.
just going back to that slide on Page 13 which is very helpful so thank you.
You mentioned earlier that sort of Quants some sort of out of phase is it sort of reasonable to conclude then maybe ask it like could you just talk a little bit about the step up of redemptions in the  fourth the first quarter and the outlook over the next couple quarters as an offset to the gross sell opportunity? Yes.
I think I mean you can see it in the chart the first problem that the nature of the Institutional businesses is that the flows can be very lumpy.
They can be -- individual mandates can be very deep both coming in and going out.
I think having gone through the period where our redemption rate and outflows were lower than we would normally expect the last couple of quarters have been a little bit higher.
We've had capital mandates has been some on the comp space but there's also been some strategic asset allocation changes by some clients that have resulted in some big outflows.
I think in simple terms we would not expect this to continue whether it turns around the next quarter or it's a quarter later I think it's unclear.
But on the other side I think the first one is we would expect that redemption rate to come back to more normal levels.
So if you're looking at the chart there where we've been running 4 to 5 I think that's probably a little bit below leverage.
The 10 is above average.
So we'd hope to get back to more normal maybe 5 to 7 top numbers for the third quarter going forward.
I think what we do need to do though is to continue to make sure that the inflows continue to be strong and broad based.
And as I said that's the top line indicates there should be reasons for optimism on that.
Okay that's helpful.
One last one for Loren and maybe just geography as I said before but with the headcount additions I guess for the end of the year you sort of highlighted the Hyderabad.
Any incremental cost savings as a result of the step up in this area? Yes.
Over time I think you'd expect to see roughly $5 million over the course of the year kind of savings as a result of going from the third party provider to having that on our books managed by ourselves.
Again that may be something that will be hard to see in the sense that we're growing Hyderabad generally and so it's an expense base it's growing but it's also reducing that's probably the biggest impact to the extent that we continue to smartly allocate sort of our operations and resources in locations like Hyderabad.
It will have a bigger net cost savings for us than what I just mentioned in terms of the transfer.
Our next question does come from Michael Kim of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.</strong> First just to kind of follow up on the flows.
I understand it's still early days as it relates to kind of fully leveraging the combined Invesco and Van Campen franchise.
But at the same time some of your competitors continue to put up strong flows on kind of the actively managed side despite less than ideal macro conditions.
So I guess the question is where do you see the greatest organic growth opportunities in the near term? And do you really need to see retail investors coming back to equities more forcefully in order for your flows to really pick up here? Yes a couple of points here.
We're as focused on this as you are.
And my point of view is this: You start with broad deep range of products that are performing well and we absolutely have that.
I mean it is really very very strong.
And we now find ourselves in a position that we can be very very helpful to the main distribution partners in multiple ways whether it is the UITs the ETFs or the open-ended mutual funds.
And again the strength of the performance is really important for us.
The other reality though that I think is just clear is the truth of the matter is Invesco as a name brand has not been in the Retail channel.
It has not been known to the same degree as another firm that has been in it for 15 years.
So we as I've said in the past from a standing start with same relative performance somebody's been in the channel with the name brand for 15 years is going to outpace us at this time.
We're working very very hard to close that gap.
And again I feel we have all the talent on the ground.
I feel we have great relations and the client base and people are also very very strong.
So I think again I think we're in a very strong position to do very well in time.
The other thing I just want to point out I think we'll be even better positioned once we complete the fund mergers.
Because right now obviously there's still a lot of noise and a lot of product out there that no one's going to sell or buy into because it's clearly is an orphan thing that's going to get moved in.
And so I think there's going to be some benefits when that happens that you'll be able to see.
Absolutely.
And then maybe if you could just give us an update on kind of the ETF business in terms of growth prospects both here and outside of the U.S?  And then also any updates on where you stand as it relates to actively-managed ETFs? Yes.
Right now the global franchise ETF business is about $60 billion.
It's the fourth largest ETF provider and I think it's all obvious to everyone on the phone that we're the big asset base that has historically been in more of the Passive area.
We feel that we have absolutely been the first mover and the leader in the value-added ETF products.
And if you look at the relative asset classes that's where our flows are going in recognition of fundamental indexing and the like has been a very very powerful trend.
We're rolling into 5-year track records good 5-year track records with those and I think that's some of the things that you're doing in this flows up here in the United States.
I mentioned Canada they've exceeded $1 billion in ETF flows in a matter of 6 or 9 months.
So very very strong.
We've been in Europe probably 4 years now.
But again from a standing start we're not where we want to be.
We think the prospects are good for us on the continent and we'll continue to push that very well.
So I think we're positioned very very well we like the ETFs that we have we like the let me call the construct of them very much.
And I'm sorry I forget what was your other point? L.P.</strong> Just on the actively managed side.
Yes we did -- it's quite a topic isn't it? We did launch an active ETF actually 3 of them now I want to say it's 2007.
And I should know the date off the top of my head.
And with great fanfare and not a whole lot happened.
And there's an industry discussion about the role of active ETFs and the like and we'll see.
My personal opinion right now is that not all asset classes are appropriate in the ETF wrapper.
And if you think of most equity investors that are building positions they're just not in a position to have their portfolios published everyday.
And so I just don't think that you're going to see that be a very successful category within active ETFs.
Now on the other side fixed income and very very liquid type portfolios and an active portfolio does make sense.
But again I come back to what we have and these value-added ETFs it's further up the food chain away from beta products if you would like to call it that.
And we think that's a real sweet spot.
It is for us now and we think it probably is for the industry for a period of time.
Our next question does come from Roger Freeman of Barclays Capital.
I guess just come back to a couple of topics that have been discussed here.
On the Retail side I mean it sounds like at this point given you've had no meaningful outflows related to the fund consolidations that the $2 billion number from last quarter's you don't think that's going to happen at this point.
Correct me if I'm wrong in that but then secondly how do you think about -- and Loren you sort of mentioned noise how do you think about the lack of sort of growth sales on these funds and what that might have been? I mean is it just do you think that at least anecdotally where you pick up to the channels that net flows might be closer to a push on those funds rather than the negative numbers we're seeing? When you talk about these funds you're talking about the ones that are to be merged? Yes I'm just looking like the top -- your top 10 equity funds some of which are now Invesco Van Kampen funds.
And really 7 of your top 10 equity funds are negative flows and if you look at gross income of the Equity income I guess there's the performance has fallen off a little bit.
Maybe that's part of the issue there but I mean I'm just trying to get a sense of how much do you think of lack of selling is actually contributing to the negative flows right now? We think it's not a lack of selling at all.
We think the #1 driver of any redemption rate is going to be the demand for the products.
And so to the extent that people are not wanting Muni products we're going to suffer that as well as anybody else in the Muni space.
In terms of domestic equities sort of coming back but I think it's still not as much as what we've seen in some the other equity categories or the hybrid categories where we don't have as strong a footprint as others do.
So I think it's just where we're positioned.
It's probably the biggest element in terms of our outflow picture right now combined with what Marty mentioned in terms of we're still building the name of the brand.
But I mean again I think we have every reason to be very hopeful going forward because we don't think any of these elements are going to persist.
I mean it's just going to get better and better.
So it's hard to point to it other than say -- but in terms of our plan in sort of hitting the sales targets that we thought were realistic we are tracking that very well now.
So we're not at all uncomfortable with the results we're seeing on the sales side in terms of the redemption.
That's where we look at us versus the industry rate and we say are we somehow an outlier.
Are we doing something that's clearly different then and I think we don't see that.
But within just to tie a couple of points together it sounds like you're not getting redemptions as a result of the fund mergers.
You're not suffering from a lack of selling.
So I'm trying to figure out what the noise is that when you get past June that things will necessary look any different? I think it's an issue of underperformance of the funds that are currently going to get merged into some of the better performing funds.
Clearly if you're an underperforming funds sub-scale and that's going to get merged away you're probably not going to get a whole lot of flows and it's going to be in highly redemption rate.
I think the good news is that one's those assets are merged into the better performing more redemption rate funds that we'll see those assets actually take on a lower redemption rate.
That would be our hope.
And also because the performance will be better and it will be a better experience for those clients.
That's helpful.
And then just lastly I mean as you think about your sales targets and some of the anecdotal comments you've made over the past year and change about expanded distribution agreements et cetera how good do you feel about that pipeline and when that starts to come on? And do you think post-June you are able to paint that picture for us a little bit better? The best that we can do I can tell you the feedback that we're getting across the distribution from head offices through the people in the field we are positioned very very well.
The relationships are very very strong and I believe we are doing all the right things.
I think Loren's made a very important point.
The more investors start to move into U.S.
Equity funds the better we will do.
We're positioned very very well against that as a firm.
And again Ken asked earlier we're getting into more models.
And during this process you get on hold when you go to your post merger process of the on-hold statuses.
I think they've probably all have been eliminated right now which is also very important thing.
So we would think post all the mergers in the second quarter we just have to be in a very good position to see increasing flows and participate in the industry in a real way.
Next question does come from Jeff Hopson with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> So you talked about Continental Europe a little bit.
Which products there would you expect to kind of spur...
[Technical Difficulty] Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Sorry about that.
In terms of Continental Europe you spoke a little bit about the potential first in recovery there which products could lead that? And then in Asia better quarter this month in terms of flows which are the products there that are getting well? I think I got the question so let me just talk about Europe.
We're very very focused in Europe.
We got through C Cap products like everybody has purchased across the border market.
And where we think we're very very strongly Invesco European corporate bond fund has been a very strong product our European Equity products are very strong.
Actually the PowerShares EQQQ actually is getting some real traction there also the Invesco Asian Equity funds.
So it's really quite broad based.
And historically over the years where we have played more is not necessarily in the core.
What would be core in Europe would be things like a Euro corporate bond fund or really a European Equity fund and now our Equity products are -- our European Equity products are good strong performing and again that will put us in a good position on the continent.
And I think you asked the same question on Asia? Asia.
I mean just I know one of our biggest successes has been around our U.S.
REIT products.
It's actually been selling very very strongly in Asia particularly in Japan.
We've got a balance fund that's one of our top performers and then within our joint venture small and mid-cap funds are selling as well.
So again it's hard to point to one particular product but I think the REIT piece again on the strength of the Real Estate and our capabilities there is playing very heavily in Asia.
Our next question does come from Marc Irizarry of Goldman Sachs.
Just on the performance fees it looks like this quarter is seasonally lower you can say.
Can you give us some help Loren in terms of what the sort of seasonal patterns should look like for flows -- for performance fees? Are you seeing more AUM coming in with the performance fee features? And then also how should we think about realization from Wilbur Ross now that the fund looks like it's sort of more on harvesting mode rather than investing mode? Yes.
I think in terms of the seasonality that people may have historically seen with our performance fees that came from the U.K.
and from the Quant group.
Both of those areas I would say for the near term we wouldn't expect to see performance fees coming from either of those areas.
So the performance fees that we've seen has been a little bit more episodic for the high net worth business which has been actually paying out at year end over the last couple of years.
It's been mostly coming from an MLP type of fund which has just been one of the top funds in that space.
It could potentially do it again this year.
And so I don't want to forecast it.
It's off to a very strong start but again it would be something that would be a year end type of calculation and not -- we would not recognize anything in any of the prior quarters.
You could see performance fees showing up from bank loans and Real Estate and other places and in smaller levels but generally I don't think there's going to be anything that I could point to that would say you should expect something.
The Wilbur Ross on forward type of products obviously just finished substantially investing this product as I've mentioned.
And so in terms of kind of the realizing of carry and performance fees for us there's a watermark that it has to get over.
And so it's going to take some time I think before we would begin to see things show up on the performance fees.
So that probably my guess is more of a 2012 type of event and beyond than it is a 2011 event.
And then just on the servicing and distribution fees relative to the distribution expenses it looks like you have this somewhat of a drag given lower transaction fees.
Is that going to continue? Should we expect sort of the margin between the servicing and distribution fees to continue sort of outstrip the expenses there the same rate? I think the theme that about B-share role-off is something that throughout say U.S.
B-shares have a higher rate in terms of the distribution revenue.
I'd say many outfits are no longer doing B-shares and it's really changed the mix of what they're selling.
And we're not different in that respect.
So that roll-off is something that will continue over probably several years in the sense that there's a big book out there that that goes.
It's not going to be dramatic though.
It's not something that's going to move around quarter-to-quarter.
I think the $2 million step down may be a little bit more dramatic than what you should expect going forward.
It's probably under $500 000 really quarter-over-quarter going forward.
And then Marty I think you touched on this earlier.
But can you talk about the growth in sales that you're seeing in U.S.
Retail ex the Passive product? Just are you seeing an acceleration or pickup sequentially in sales in U.S.
Retail Active product? Yes we absolutely are.
And as Loren has said consistent with our -- our plan has been very consistent with that.
But what we -- and I think some of the questions that people have had part of the question is do we think we're operating at peak growth sales the answer is absolutely not.
We expect it to accelerate and increase gross sales in the quarters ahead as one investors come back to the market and our positioning -- U.S.
equities in particular for us come back into the market and our position against that we think we're positioned very very well.
Our last question does come from Jonathan Casteleyn of Susquehanna.
LLLP</strong> I appreciate the disaggregation of investment management fees quarter-over-quarter but just wondering year-over-year how does that look? And are you seeing any core fee pressure from Passive or lower fee products? Yes I mean I think the management fee element is going to be affected by mix.
And so in terms of our mix I think we've certainly seen equities expand.
We have the acquisition which was probably the biggest element at I think roughly 49 basis points 47 49 basis points.
So those are going to be the elements that will reconcile year-over-year more than anything else.
I don't think there's -- there's not been any sort of pressure to reduce management fees because of competitive reasons.
Again I think when you talk about ETFs and there's been a lot of discussion in the market about ETFs reducing fees we've not seen that same pressure because we're not sort of in a commoditized type of ETF products.
So I would say overall to the extent and certainly to the extent that we've grown and we hope to grow outside the U.S.
so that we would hope to see that fee rate increase.
I don't have any more detail.
If you wanted any it may be something we could capture off line if you'd like.
LLLP</strong> No that's fine that's helpful.
Thanks.
And just on the buyback in the quarter can you help me characterize or understand if it was really -- is it related to reducing RSU expenses or did you -- did the stock screen well against your internal growth expectations? Definitely the answer is both.
We have a desire to reduce any RSUs associated with and it's really stock units or stock associated with our share grants.
And so we made some headway into that.
But we also saw the price was quite attractive.
And so again you should expect us to continue to still more to do.
And again it doesn't necessarily stop at the point where we finished that element.
We still will be active in terms of buying stock if the stock price warrants it.
LLLP</strong> Right.
And then any sort of forward expectation obviously of $0.5 billion in cash and then forward free cash flow any idea what sort of capital could be earmarked for forward buybacks? Well again our priorities are structured in a way that if we don't have any acquisitions and clearly if we don't have any internal needs which we generally don't have anything of any substantial amount our dividends are going to grow single digits.
We would expect to see over the long term a fair amount of cash being able to be returned in the form of buybacks.
So I would say that that would be the default in terms of where the cash will go.
We do have a desire to continue to build up some cash on the balance sheet in excess of the European subgroup cash.
And we also have a desire to pay down our credit facility.
So those are elements that we're going to balance against straight buyback.
Well thank you very much everybody for your questions and interest and again on behalf of Loren Mark and myself thank you very much and we will talk to you next quarter.
Have a good rest of the day.
Today's conference has ended.
All participants may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to Invesco's Second Quarter Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now I would like to turn the call over to the speakers for today to Mr.
Martin L.
Flanagan president and CEO of Invesco; and Mr.
Loren Starr Chief Financial Officer.
Mr.
Flanagan you may begin.
Thank you very much.
Thank you all for joining us today and Loren and I will be speaking to the presentation that's available on the website if you're so inclined to follow through with that.
This morning we'll do what we traditionally do and review the results for the quarter.
But also as we have traditionally done each quarter we'll focus on a different part of the business and today we want to give you our perspective on our European business and how Invesco's positioned against what we do as a very tremendous opportunity for us in that region.
Loren will go into the financials in greater detail and as always we'll open it up for Q&amp;A.
So I'm on Slide 3 for those that are inclined to follow the presentation.
If you take a look at the overview for the quarter long-term investment performance remained very strong across Invesco for the second quarter with areas of exceptional performance.
Our strong investment performance contributed to a continued trend of positive long-term net inflows for the firm.
And during the second quarter we saw strong long-term net inflows across all distribution channels of industrial.
And against the backdrop of what we all know are very volatile markets we achieved margin expansion and earnings growth during the quarter.
Also during the quarter we continue to repurchase -- our share repurchase program purchasing 11.3 million shares for $280 million.
And if you take a look at the summary results assets under management ended the quarter at $653 billion as compared to $641 billion at the end of the first quarter of this year reflecting strong momentum across our global business.
Adjusted operating income for the quarter was $285 million.
That's up from $272 million in the first quarter which represents a 4.7% increase quarter-over-quarter.
Net inflows for the quarter were $7.3 billion.
This includes net long-term flows of $3.8 billion.
This continues the positive trend we've demonstrated over the past several quarters of increased -- of positive inflows.
And again Loren will go into greater detail during the financial section of the presentation.
Moving on to investment performance.
I think everybody realizes that the key strategic priority for us to deliver consistent good long-term investment performance for our clients.
Our commitment to investment excellence has helped us maintain strong long-term investment performance across the enterprise.
If you take the firm -- take a look at the firm as a whole on a 3-year basis and a 5-year basis the numbers are extraordinarily strong with now 82% of our assets ahead of peers on both periods.
And again we have detailed charts in the appendix.
But let me hit a few of the highlights of those performance numbers for the quarter.
US Value Equity remained very strong with 88% or more of assets under management the top half of the peer groups over 1 3 and 5 years.
96% of our U.K.
equity assets are beating benchmarks for of over years 3 and 5.
99% of our Global ex US and Emerging Market capabilities are above benchmarks and peers over a 3-year period.
And now our Morningstar ratings in the United States U.S.
Retail business are at all-time high with 65% of our assets under management are rated 4 or 5 star.
Moving on to quarterly flows.
If you take a look at total flows on Page 7 you can see strong investment performance across the enterprise contributed to positive flows during the quarter and improving redemption picture contributed to the continued positive momentum of long-term flows.
And as I mentioned earlier total net flows for the quarter were $7.3 billion of which $3.8 billion in long-term flows.
If you take a look at flows by channel again strong gross sales and improving redemptions across the Retail and Institutional channels contributed to positive net flows for Invesco as a whole during the quarter.
Now let's focus on the U.S.
Retail flows for a moment.
And despite a very volatile market environment during the second quarter which we all realized by kick off in May which started with the Greek debt crisis exacerbated by the debt ceiling and financial discussions prices we're having here in the United States.
What you saw in the month of June was the industry mutual fund U.S.
mutual fund industry being in net outflows for the first time since December and only the second time over the last 12 months so clearly having an impact during that last month of the quarter.
But the depth and breadth of our investment capabilities are strong investment performance and a very focused client engagement effort resulted in solid momentum for our business during the quarter.
At Invesco's core U.S.
Retail flows and that's excluding UITs and ETFs or really just the core of Retail business improved 72% net flows since Q3 2010.
So really we're seeing quite dramatic increase over that period of time.
Our client engagement efforts are clearly paying off as we had 130 new platform placements since we closed the transaction.
And driven by strong investment performance we continue to see increased RFP activity and are winning mandates across a number of investment capabilities and asset classes including large-cap growth and US Value international equities and stable values.
We also completed the fund merger process successfully during the quarter with minimal transition issues.
And combined these efforts helps lower the redemption rate below industry levels despite these very volatile markets that we are now in.
So why don't we move on to some highlights of our European business and I'm on Page 11.
And as you can see here if you just take a look at the world and referring back to some of our previous comments in previous calls we believe one of our key competitive advantages is our global presence.
And we've said many times that to be a successful global asset management company you need to have a strong business in the United States because of it's just absolute size and significance.
And at the same time for a long-term success it's equally important to be successful in developed markets and developing markets around the world.
The U.K.
Continental Europe and the Middle East now comprise the world's second-largest asset management region coming after the United States with 36% of the world's assets under management.
If you take a look on Page 12 we have a very strong competitive position in the United Kingdom Continental Europe and the Middle East.
We have 150 investment professionals strategically located across the region supported by more than 1 200 individuals in 14 countries.
Roughly 1/5 of our assets under management are domiciled in this region.
As we all know we have a market-leading presence in the U.K.
and a strong competitive presence on the continent.
Our cross-border fund range of 71 open-ended products covers 16 of the top 20 asset categories on the continent.
Obviously we think we are very well-placed.
And if you look on Page 12 -- Page 13 and focus now on the cross-border market the global cross-border market right now is approximately $3 trillion and growing.
And it represents a substantial opportunity for Invesco.
The cross-border market funds is growing rapidly.
It's increased 2x since the year 2004 and currently represents 30% of European fund market.
But really what's very very important right now about 2/3 of the net flows are going to this cross-border market.
We obviously view this as the future in this marketplace.
Invesco's investment capabilities are very well-placed within the region.
We have a high percentage of 4 and 5-star rated funds on the cross-border range.
24 of our funds right now are 4 and 5-star rated by Morningstar.
And as we have done elsewhere we're bringing the best of Invesco to the European region.
We're focused on delivering strong investment performance and a comprehensive range of investment capabilities from all across Invesco to the European investors.
The U.K.
Continental Europe and the Middle East markets represent a tremendous opportunity for us.
We've undertaken a broad transformational initiative to build on our strong presence to accelerate growth in the European cross-border market Institutional market and the ETF market.
And right now we're clearly maintaining our leading position in the United Kingdom.
We continue to look to just continue to strengthen that in the years to come and we're working to further strengthen our position on the continent by leveraging our global strengths and our world-class capabilities.
And to achieve this we're investing resources to build momentum in key parts of this business and to strengthen our infrastructure ahead of some critical regulatory changes.
This will position Invesco very well as the regulatory landscape shifts over the next several years.
So combined we believe these efforts will strengthen our ability to deliver to our clients and enhance our share of the cross-border Retail Institutional and ETF markets.
Leading both revenue growth and efficiency gains will ultimately drive margin expansion.
So obviously we think it's a great opportunity for us.
We think we're well-placed in the region but we feel that we can just do -- be more successful in the years to come with this concentrated effort.
So with that I'm going to pass it over to Loren for his part of the presentation Thanks very much Marty.
So turning to the next slide you'll see that during the quarter our long-term net flows added $3.8 billion.
This was despite $2 billion of outflows that occurred between the PowerShares QQQs and the DB PowerShares products in the quarter.
You'll remember in last quarter the QQQs and the DB PowerShares products accounted for $3 billion of long-term inflows.
This quarter we continue to see positive net inflows into our Institutional Money Market product adding $3.5 billion and market gains added $3.2 billion and FX added $1.3 billion.
So the resulting increase in AUM quarter-over-quarter was $11.8 billion or up 1.8% giving us $653.7 billion of AUM at the end of Q2.
Average AUM for the quarter increased 3.6% to $652.8 billion and our net revenue yield in Q2 was 46 basis points in line with that of the first quarter.
So let's go on next to operating results.
You'll see that net revenues increased $26.9 million or 3.7% quarter-over-quarter while favorable FX rates added $5.4 million to net revenues.
Drilling down on this you'll see that investment management fees grew $28.2 million or 3.5% to $824.3 million.
This increase was driven by average assets under management growth relative to the first quarter but also favorable FX contributed $7.3 million.
Service and distribution revenues were up $7.5 million or 3.8% also moving in line with average AUM.
Performance fees came in at $7.6 million that was up from Q1 as a result of strong investment returns from both the U.K.
and our Private Equity Funds-of-Funds area.
Other revenues in this second quarter were $32.2 million largely flat with Q1 given a consistent level of Real Estate transaction fees and UIT issuance third party distribution service and advisory expense which we net against gross revenues increased by $12.1 million or 3.7% which was in line with the increase in investment management fees as well as the quarter-over-quarter growth in our average AUM.
FX added $2.6 million to these expenses.
Continue to move on down the slide you'll see that our adjusted operating expenses at $466.4 million grew by $14.2 million or 3.1% relative to Q1.
FX accounted for $4.6 million of this increase.
Employee comp at $310.9 million was up $11.2 million or 3.7% versus Q1.
As we flagged in our last call the second quarter compensation numbers include a full 3 months worth of annual base salary and share-based compensation expense increases as well as a full quarter of the Hyderabad staff cost that had previously been reported in the property office and technology line item.
These factors were partly offset by reduction in payroll taxes and in combination it amounted to approximately half of the increase.
FX increased comp expense by $3.3 million.
Invariable compensation linked to performance and growth in our operating income amounted for the remaining increase.
Marketing expense came in roughly flat to the prior quarter.
It's up $0.4 million really due to sale of overture [ph] costs.
Property office and tax decreased by $2.1 million or 3.3%.
Again this was due to the outsourced administration as we brought in our Hyderabad operation in-house.
FX added about $500 000 to this line item.
G&amp;A expenses came in at $66.3 million in the quarter up $4.7 million versus Q1.
About half of this increase was a result of greater staff recruitment costs as we continued to selectively upgrade certain of our distribution and investment capabilities.
The other half was due to greater levels of travel generally reflecting heightened levels of RFP and other business activity.
FX added about $500 000 to G&amp;A in the quarter.
Continuing down the page you'll see the non-Op income increased $2.5 million quarter-over-quarter.
This was due to an increase in mark-to-market of certain of our private equity and real estate partnership investments.
Now the firm's tax rate on pretax adjusted net income came in at 26%.
Going forward we expect the effective tax rate to be around 26.5% plus or minus 0.5 percentage point.
So our adjusted EPS came in at $0.44 an increase of 7.3% versus Q1.
And furthermore as Marty mentioned we continue to see our margins expand as our adjusted net operating margin came in at 37.9% up from 37.6% in Q1.
So before our turning things back to Marty I'd just like to provide a little more detail on the European infrastructure charges which is one part of our broader European initiative.
As mentioned in the press release that we're outsourcing our European TA [ph] and making certain structural changes to our both our product and distribution platforms all of which is expected to be completed by December of 2012.
And we believe that taking these steps today will allow the firm to better respond in the future so depending but still uncertain regulatory environment.
So right now it's obviously difficult to fully know the impact of the proposed and sometimes actually competing regulations such as the revised Markets in Financial Instruments Directive otherwise known as MiFID 2 in Europe and the Retail Distribution Review or RDR in the U.K.
But it's clear to us that either of these have the potential to significantly change the relationships between the distributors clients and investor managers in the region.
So regardless of whatever regulatory outcome ultimately prevails we believe that outsourcing our European TA will reduce both the cost and the risk of operations to us and allow us to react more swiftly to the changes in the marketplace and therefore further solidify and actually strengthen our competitive position.
So given this opportunity we anticipate incurring up to $40 million in total European infrastructure implementation costs which amounts to an incremental $34 million over the next 18 months.
The ongoing benefits of this project are well in excess of the projected implementation costs.
We anticipate the project will achieve a cash payback within 2 to 3 years and yield an estimated IRR of about 30% to 35% and add an estimated $0.02 EPS accretion to fiscal year 2013 and beyond.
And given the fluid nature of regulations and the potential future impact on our infrastructure transformation project we will provide you updated estimates on the implementation cost and benefits to this initiative only to the expense of course that it changes -- change in any material way.
So finally in terms of reporting and consistent with our past approach to dealing with material one-off types of expenses the $40 million in infrastructure charges will be adjusted out of our non-GAAP presentation but they will be detailed and tracked each quarter in our U.S.
GAAP reconciliation table within the earnings release.
So with that I'm going to turn it back over to Marty.
Great.
Thank you Loren.
And we'll open up the questions people might have.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question does come from Roger Freeman of Barclays.
I guess maybe first on Europe.
Can you maybe talk to how this restructuring/growth initiative is actually sort of split between for fixing issues you've had because I think there've been some performance inflow issues in the U.K.
versus growing the opportunity set? And I'm still trying to understand sort of the growth component.
Let me try to answer.
First of all in the U.K.
we're just -- no more play in the U.K.
very very strong.
It was very very successful quite dominant so we're looking to just go from strength of strength there.
In Continental Europe we start from frankly a position of strength too.
And there's less robust industry data in a consistent way than what you see in the United States.
But from the work that we do when we look at a peer group of what we defined as sort of the top 40 players on the continent we've been if you look at assets under management sort of the top 20 players or mid-teens.
And where we want to be is a top 5 player.
And if you just look year-to-date right now we're already in the top 10.
If you look at the investment performance across the product range it's very very strong right now broad range of capabilities as I said.
Where if you look at the largest categories the 20 largest asset categories on the continent we have product in 16 of them and it's all quite good.
So we're really starting from a position of strength on the Retail side.
Institutionally again we've been there any number of years.
We think we can just be much stronger in the United -- excuse me on the continent by bringing greater range of capabilities and we've been there with the European Equity product.
On account of real estates we've been recently very successful bringing in the Invesco Perpetual products onto the continent.
So it's really going from a strong position to something that we think we could be much stronger at.
So again that's what we wanted to get -- to make the point today of where we're starting.
Yes.
And Roger I would just make the point that there's really a couple of elements.
I mean one is the top line growth and the opportunity to generate greater market share capture and revenues.
Then there's an infrastructure piece as well which we feel is critical to support that success.
The $40 million that we talked about and which is primarily related to the outsourcing and the transfer agency but there's some other structural things within our product and distribution platforms that we need to work on really will support that success going forward.
So that's kind of how you should think about it that the $40 million has its own cost-base benefit kind of stream.
But that's not really what Marty was discussing.
I think it's really kind of us bringing to bear resources above and beyond what we've seen in the past.
Got it.
Okay.
And then I guess just with respect to the fund mergers having been completed I guess you've kind of have a month or actually about 2 months of absorbing the combined platform.
Can you -- any comment at all in terms of whether you've seen any sort of immediate benefits in terms of coming off model hold or any kind of inhibitions to selling the product before or even redemptions in some of the products that were merged into better-performing ones? Yes Roger.
We definitely are seeing the benefit of the transaction.
One thing is just despite the fact that we have obviously a predominant number of our assets sort of located in categories within the industry that has been in outflow we have seen our redemption rate improve better than industry by several percentage points.
And quarter over quarter over quarter just going back over the last several quarters our outflow situation has been improving significantly almost an accelerating way in terms of doing better each quarter as we come into the next quarter.
So I think we're seeing it in the numbers for sure.
And then in terms of I think the opportunity in the second half of the year we've been actually very focused on all the fund mergers and it's been a discussion with the distributors about what's going on with the fund mergers.
And it's been hard to really get into the next leg of the transaction which is really talking about we're done with that and now we can start focusing on the opportunity and being even more proactive with sales.
So I really think going forward is where you're going to see the real sort of benefit of the transaction.
And in the last half of this year or the first -- first half of this year I mean to say it's really been a little noisy because we've had to deal with all the fund mergers.
Okay.
And just last question on share repurchases.
A fairly sizable pick up this quarter.
I don't have a bunch of prior quarters in front of me but I'm just not sure how the size [ph] this is.
But how do you think about cash requirements and you guys have $600 million I think on hand now and the opportunity around buying stock going forward? Yes Roger I think we're going to maintain sort of an opportunistic approach to our stock buyback given where our stock is and then value our stock and you saw that.
I mean some of the buying I think we've discussed is in line with us eliminating dilution associated with the share grants the deferred stock grants that take place at the beginning of the year.
We definitely did above and beyond that this first half.
We are going to be balancing our approach though and so we are going to continue to focus on paying down debt.
So we don't want to lose sight of those capital priorities.
But we are not again in anyway sort of tying our hands in terms of what we'll do with the stock buyback.
Hopefully that gives you a sense of our approach.
Our next question does come from Michael Kim of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.</strong> Just first can you maybe give us some color on the Quant business? It sounds like interest in these sorts of products is on the rise as maybe performance has started to come back so just curious if you're seeing the same things.
And any color in terms of flows during the second quarter would be helpful as well.
Let me make a couple of comments.
You're right.
If you look at Quant performance ours in particular has been very very strong all year.
And it was probably maybe the neither of what was going with Quant third and fourth quarter into the first quarter of this year where it was the favorite child in 2005 and '06.
And it just really as an industry most under severe pressure.
And what we are now seeing is because of the model's coming back and better performance that it feels like that pressure's off and you're actually starting to see inquiries RFP inquiries around Quant.
We're seeing it in particular with some of the Global Equity Quant portfolios in particular.
And so we think we're going to see brighter days ahead probably for the Quant sector but in particular for our group base which is the investment performance has been very strong.
L.P.</strong> Any color on the kind of flows in the second quarter? Yes I think if we look at the Quant's it was probably somewhere a little bit north of $1 billion outflow just over the last of what we saw in terms of sort of determination.
So we feel that we're largely past that at this point.
So we're drying the corner.
I think you're going to have the right point.
It's an inflection plan.
I mean those are -- people are opportunistically going back to Quant.
I think there are still people that haven't confirmed their commitment to Quant yet but it does feel like you're now moving at that uptick area.
L.P.</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just kind of turning to the Money Market fund business.
You've been able to generate some pretty good growth the last couple of quarters at a time when maybe the industry has been suffering some outflows.
So just wondering what the drivers might be in terms of the market share gains.
And then also any thoughts on the regulatory environment and maybe the likelihood of potentially transitioning to floating NAVs for some of those products? Excuse me.
Just for us in particular as you saw the flows coming in and it's really just on the back of it.
As you know very well it's a very very good team.
They do superb credit work.
It's highly recognized by the clients in the industry.
And I think whenever you get pressure points you tend to see separation.
And again I think that was the main driver of it.
At a more macro level if you consider where rates are in the money fund industry it just proves thoroughly that there's an absolute need for the money fund vehicle in the industry.
It's done very very well even during a low rate environment and then frankly another "crisis period" in the marketplace.
And the regulators have been clear that even though there've been very very good changes put in place by the SEC that make the industry just that much stronger than where it was previously and again with already a very good track record of success that they want more done.
And if you look at some of the suggestions out there the floating NAV is still out there I would venture to say that's not the likely outcome.
If you just look at all the reaction to the idea of a floating NAV all the users of money funds concluded that it just really -- it does not make sense.
And so there'll be something different other rather than a floating NAV would be what I would say.
L.P.</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just do you have an end of quarter share count for us? Yes I do Mike.
Just bear with me one second.
It is 6 -- sorry 461.4 million.
Our next question does come from Michael Carrier of Deutsche Bank.
Just focusing on the U.S.
Retail business and I don't want to get in into too much month-to-month but you guys have that chart on Slide 9 where you provide like a redemption rate and you had that decline into the second quarter.
Any clarity? And granted like the industry flows and redemptions are probably a lot worse in June but just any color from like an April May to a June level just given post the fund mergers? Let me try to answer as best I can.
We don't have -- we don't publish monthly information but so let me speak to industry-type topics and less in the context of that and I think the answer will be pretty quite clear.
If you looked at the first quarter you could see where the trends were for us on the Retail side up and up.
And once the uncertainty in the marketplace started as I've said in May really from the European debt crisis and then some of our challenges fiscal challenges here in the United States you just saw something very dramatic a change happen in the month of June.
And if you look at Equity flows in particular in the month of June for the industry what were the 3 categories that were in the biggest outflows? You saw U.S.
equities go from what was $4 billion out in the prior month to $15 billion out in the month of June alone.
You saw net inflows in international equities of $3.2 billion to out of $0.9 billion.
And you saw some outflows in sectors.
So if you again where did the money go and what's in the mid-year fixed income and again it's -- we've seen this movie before and that's really what you saw happening.
So as investors got scared of the outlook for the markets they went back into fixed income.
And if you look at our assets under management our relative strengths you can understand why you saw that quarterly hit although we still were in net flows.
And as Loren pointed out if you just look at the quarter-over-quarter relative net inflow improvement in light of this market environment it's really quite amazing.
Yes.
I mean just within the month I think the flow pattern was sort of degrading through the course of the quarter.
I mean if you have to think about I mean April was good.
May was not as good and June was the worst month.
And so it was sort of a downward trend which again we're hopefully seeing some stabilization but it definitely was in line with the industry in those -- in that trend line.
Okay.
And then the alternatives.
You guys have mentioned in the past that the real estate business continues to do well.
The flows this quarter just seem very strong.
So I guess any granularity around what's driving that and maybe even the outlook just in terms of the pipeline on the institutional side? Maybe I'll make a couple of comments and Loren can too.
So it's interesting if you look at where investor appetite is right now institutionally and what's driving it for us in particular it's probably broad.
Real estate is a very very attractive asset class around the world and we are benefiting from that with a very very strong team.
The other thing that is -- where we're seeing traction is in what we -- the premier plus S allocation capabilities has really been gaining traction.
And in particular a sleeve of that has gained traction which is the commodity sleeve which is probably not surprising again recognizing where many people think where the world is right now.
Those are probably 2 of the bigger alternative asset categories for us that we can speak of and it seems to be something that is continuing.
I mean I think the other point is probably just we're having a huge success with our REIT products in particular and especially in Japan.
This has been a very positive trend for us.
That's not slowing down in fact so that's an element.
And again the U.K.
positive Europe positive flows so it's broad based.
It's not just fixed income and it's not equities.
I mean I would have been really pleased to see the crossover variety of those products on the retail platform outside of the U.S.
Okay.
And then last one Perpetual if we look maybe a year ago performance was under some pressure.
In the past 6 months performance has done really well.
When we think about the seasonality of like performance fees when we start thinking about near the end of the year are the odds increasing that performance fees will be more in line with this quarter and ramp up? Or is it still too early to tell? Yes.
I think Mike it's unfortunately too early to say.
They've only been halfway there and it's -- it is definitely a point-in-time kind of calculation that takes place.
And we've seen there is a fair -- can be a fair amount of volatility in the short-term numbers and the discipline that's been run out of the U.K.
So obviously right now year-to-date doing very very well.
So I say if you just extrapolate yes there's hope but I wouldn't want to be able -- I don't want to just extrapolate because we still have 6 months left of a fairly unclear time ahead of us.
So I'm sorry.
It's not very helpful for your model.
But again when we think about our plans we tend not to assume any performance fees and then just because it's so hard to actually forecast performance.
Our next question does come from Glenn Schorr of Nomura.
So question.
I mean I think it's an obvious statement about how you feel about your stock as you keep buying it back but debt-to-EBITDA loose calculation 1.4x up from 1.2x.
Just curious on how you think about the comfort zone there and buying back along the way.
Glenn I think we have a definite plan in place in the state of our capital priorities.
I think pretty clearly we certainly needed and wanted to buy back some shares related to the share grant that were issued as part of our year end awards.
In terms of the incremental stock that we kind of brought in through the quarter as they call it around 200 million-ish was the amount that is in no way sort of going to change the nature of our financial strength.
And so we're very focused on -- continued to bring down debt.
We have a lot of flexibility with the new credit facility to do that.
And again there was a little bit of just timing because we had -- and leverage because we had our -- we bring back dividends from the U.K.
on a periodic basis and we need to get all the financials in order to do that.
And so again I think you'll see through the course of the year all that kind of smooth out very nicely.
Okay.
Cool.
And the last one is when you look through the ETF UIT Passive businesses it's predominantly U.S.
business still and it's growing nicely.
Just thoughts on expanding.
You have a great distribution network especially in Europe.
How hard or easy is that to take that product and manufacture things more geared towards some of the other markets that you're already in? It feels like you already have the distribution.
Yes in -- that's a great question.
And it is we think one of the great assets of the company the ETF capability that we have.
And it is a fact we're just getting stronger and stronger in the United States.
The area to look right now is -- and then if you just start to look at different parts of the world we launched ETFs in Canada about a year ago.
It's probably approaching $2 billion in ETFs.
We just got some of the U.S.
list of ETFs listed on the Canadian Stock Exchange and we think that's going to be a very very helpful thing in that marketplace.
Europe we launched probably 3 years ago if I'm getting the timing right.
You can think of the launch in the marketplace environment that we've been in.
So it's been a difficult market.
Part of this European initiative we're looking at the ETF market in a very real way.
And I will say market-by-market they're different.
The European market right now we classify much more as a institutional market and has been tied more to larger banks.
In particular yes some of our traditional competitors are there.
But if you look at the impact that some of the banks have had with exchange-rated notes and some of the investment banking capabilities tied to it it is a different market.
That said it's a market that we intend to pursue and we think in time we will be successful on the continent also.
And again we just think there's opportunities around the world.
We've listed in Mexico.
We used it as another way to get into other markets and again we are continuing to look market-by-market to see where it makes sense for us.
I appreciate that.
And if you go the ETN route do you need someone to play the role of guarantor? Yes it's just not an area that we're focused on.
Our next question does come from Bill Katz of Citi.
Just a couple of questions Loren perhaps for you in terms of the expense guidance.
And then sort of curious if you will what's the underlying revenue and expense saves and/or growth to get you to that 30% 35% IRR as well as the accretion on earnings? Yes.
So the -- there's no revenue growth assumed in that IRR.
It is essentially an ongoing cost save that will occur at the end of the completion of the project which is somewhere between $13 million to $15 million per year.
And I think there's a small growth across -- maybe 5% of growth associated with that as the business assume to grow.
So that's where the 30% to 35% IRR gets calculated.
That's very conservative.
Very conservative.
So those saves then are just beginning at the end of the restructuring? Yes because we're going to have parallel activities going on.
And so it's really when the project is complete that you're going to see the full phase come to fruition.
Okay.
And second question is within the alternative business there seem to be a pretty sizable allocations going to that platform.
Could you give us a little sense of sort of what's happening with Wilbur Ross from 2 levels? One in terms of harvesting of previous gains and I think that's now been almost about a 5-year investment for you guys.
So I'm wondering on that score.
And then secondly just in terms of the fundraising backdrop.
Yes.
I mean on the harvesting again I think as we mentioned in the last call it became substantially invested in Fund IV.
And so it's at the point where you can actually begin to start sort of harvesting and so that is the page we're in there.
And so you'll continue to see activity and we've done some of it that I think is notable in public note in terms of some of its holdings.
So moving ahead well the -- on the fundraising I really cannot comment unfortunately Bill as we've said in the past just because we're in a position where the fund is still in a position of fundraising.
I would say one thing though that I mean generally with private equity fundraising we're seeing industry-wide sort of a lengthening of time to raise funds at sort of an 18-month cycle now is what our sales force is telling us for most private equity managers.
And so I think we're in that same space in case you're wondering what's going on.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And just one last one.
In terms of your U.S.
retail you mentioned earlier -- I apologize if I missed the number -- a number of sort of new installments on platforms if you will.
What's the historical lead lag between sort of getting on those platforms and then sort of seeing a more powerful step-up of organic growth? Yes that's a good question.
I really don't think that I can quantify it.
But let me -- and again that's not very helpful to the question that you're asking.
So the way that we look at it is once you're on if you maintain your performance you're on for a good long time.
And what this is doing this is broadening very very much our depth and breadth within these different platforms.
And I think somebody might be more helpful though quite frankly if you -- again if you look at our investment capabilities they are heavily-oriented towards equity products right now.
And so what we've been saying and what we really need is a movement back to equities.
Yes U.S.
equities but also international equities and we should play really quite well.
But the big big driver is going to be when people start to put money back into the U.S.
equities.
I think it's going to be a very very different outcome for us in this organization and these are the important elements to have in place.
Our next question does come from Ken Worthington of JPMC.
To follow up on Bill's question it's been about a year since the Van Kampen merger.
You've gotten on a 30 -- 130 additional -- well there's been 130 platform placements but placements doesn't equal sales.
So where are you at driving sales through the distribution channels that are new to either Invesco or new to Van Kampen? And maybe a way to address that is to talk about what percentage of retail sales are coming from the new or enhanced relationship to this point.
And then to maybe help us size or better think about the opportunity what inning are we in? Are we in the first or second inning? Third inning? Or is it later in the game there? Yes good questions.
So let me try my best to answer those.
From -- let's take the baseball analogy.
From the inning that we're in I think that we're very very early innings in the results category.
But that if you recall the foundation building the quality of the team the capabilities of the team the capacity of the team is very broad and very very deep.
And that's what you're seeing with the RFP activity the placement activity the investment performance that right now at each percent on a 3-year basis is just strong.
That's the foundation element of it.
The -- what I would say on where are we not like us to be and it's nothing new I would say it's the public awareness of the Invesco brand and through all the FAs throughout all the system.
Has it been a focus? Has it been increasing? Yes it is.
But again I think we've said that's going to be a multi-year effort simply because it's a new name in the channel.
And I don't have the gross numbers in front of me but I still think what a very very good indication of what are the relative changes during this period recognizing the lineup's just gotten completed which is hard to believe but that's how long it takes to get through that.
And from our point of view we did it as fast as can be done.
But again going back since Q3 of 2010 net flows in that core channel not ETFs not UITs has improved 72%.
And if you put that in the market environment that we're in and where the flows have been going within this market environment against where our investment capabilities are matched I think that's quite a darn good thing.
So hopefully that's helpful Ken.
And Loren would you add? Yes.
I mean again I think I mentioned it in one of the other questions.
But clearly now our conversations are being centered on product solutions and not the fund mergers and the capital gains from mergers and all this noise around the products.
So I think we have that in place going forward.
So we have not seen that historically.
And also when you think about we're inning we're in I mean we're actually being rained on.
It's hard to actually say when you're seeing kind of Armageddon and you have that feeling and other things happening.
So it is a little hard for us to sort of anecdotally give you some sense of how it's going because we're in sort of an unusual time other than I'm looking at the numbers and we're ahead of plan on sales across the U.S.
and in the channels that we're looking at.
And so I do believe we are executing exactly the way we would and even better than we thought we would.
And really when I think about the opportunity and then according to our plan it's really the second half of the year is what we've been seeing consistently after the fund mergers that we're going to see the real benefit of the transaction.
I think Ken in a funny reverse sort of way the continual sort of 2 years in a row as far as I'm concerned May a year ago that sort of lack of confidence in the market.
May this year the lack of confidence in the market which were perpetuating.
It slowed down really what I have thought and probably all of us thought would be sort of movement out of cash and fixed income into equities.
And each time there's been a blow back when investors have lost confidence.
That's actually probably helped us longer term right? It has allowed us to have the wholesalers get in other territories because they were -- more than half of them were new in different territories and for us to get more capabilities on the platforms and the like.
So longer term is probably a better thing but again you've not seen that turn.
And again I think as Loren talked about a very concerning thing I think probably for all of us in the United States and probably other parts of the world.
What's going on in Washington is just not very helpful right now and it has definitely negatively impacted investor sentiment.
You can see it in the marketplace.
And the good news is what a great buying opportunity but that said I do think once it turns we just continue to get better and better positioned against the capabilities that we have.
Just a little bit more color.
I mean the one thing that we have working for us very strongly even with most of our mutual fund product being centered on equities UITs and PowerShares products are more balance between fixed income and equity capabilities and those have been consistent.
We have seen flows positive flows in each of those areas for every single quarter for I don't know how many quarters in a row.
So that continues to be a very strong theme.
And again we know both of those products are -- and I'm talking about traditional PowerShares products very profitable for us.
And then in terms of the mutual fund and some advice and SMAs as I mentioned earlier every quarter that we've seen since Q3 our redemption or our net outflow number on that product has been improving significantly where it's almost gone in half from going from Q1 to Q2 of this year.
So we do see the trend.
It's very obvious to us in terms of the net outflow improvement of the trajectory on some of those core things despite all this volatility that we're seeing on equity products.
And Ken again -- and I'm just understanding your question but -- and I can't remember how you phrased that one point.
But if you look at the building blocks of the organization if you look at the breadth of the investment capabilities; you look at the performance of the capabilities; the placement of the U.S.
core retail business what the ETFs UITs are doing; what's happening to the institutional business in the United States; the success of alternatives quite frankly moving around the world; the progress we're making in Europe; the strength in the U.K.; what's happening in Japan; what's happening in the greater China for us; Canada really quite frankly the investment performance really starting to turn in a very real way which has kind of positioned us differently there; and the ETFs in Canada and frankly some emerging early day success in Canada too very strong building blocks.
We do need a market environment to help us but that said I think the company has positioned itself very very well for some real good success.
Our next question does come from Craig Siegenthaler from Credit Suisse.
Representative Berkley is introducing a bill to allow Invesco and other multinational companies to repatriate foreign earnings at a lower tax rate.
I'm just wondering how much excess cash do you actually have outside of the U.S.
And is this something that you could use? I guess Craig good question.
I think it won't really directly affect us because of our Bermuda domicile.
So we have no constraints in terms of tax considerations about bringing dividends back in terms of worrying about what that means for the dividend being taxed.
So it's helpful probably for U.S.
global asset managers but not relevant to us.
We continue to bring back dividends from the U.K.
from Europe from Asia.
And again we get taxed on our earnings based on where those earnings are generated so not really a topic for us.
Okay.
Then just real quick on capital management.
Given the increase in debt this quarter should we really view this as kind of peak debt for Invesco and looking kind of future cash flow probably some of it being diverted to reduce these levels? How should we think about the -- kind of the mix versus debt and excess cash? Yes.
I don't want to commit entirely but I'd say yes.
I mean generally that's the right approach.
We have temporary spiking up the leverage due to as I mentioned sort of this timing of when we bring back the cash from the U.K.
and so that will bring down the ratio.
And again I think we are still quite focused in wanting to have the balanced sort of approach to paying down the credit facility.
So I would say in principal absolutely.
Our next question does come from Jeff Hopson of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So first question stable value can you give us the flows for this quarter? And then Europe you did see improvement in flows in the quarter.
Can you give us any background on that? I believe I saw that in May Invesco on the equity side was particularly strong.
Can you confirm that? And just talk in general about flows this quarter.
Okay let's see.
I'm looking around for stable value here.
Hold on.
I think that probably we've got some but maybe not as quite as strong as what we saw in the first quarter.
Maybe a couple comments just generally in a more macro level.
Stable value we find ourselves in sort of a pole position and the gaining factor has been more the insurance wrappers than anything else.
The demand is high but the flows in the quarter were probably less than what they were in the prior quarter simply because of the wrapper element.
And again in these -- the more macro comments the -- we did see ourselves as I said as a net flows on the continent in the top 10 in the last quarter and where we are seeing a lot of the flows where the European equity product on the continent which has been a good performer in addition to what has been the European bond product.
So I don't have specific numbers but you're right.
Those are the themes and that's what's been driving them.
Yes.
And so in terms of stable value again I think you're going to have to take sort of a range right now somewhere between $500 million to $1 billion.
We're still looking to confirm because some of it comes through the DC side some of them institutional.
So we have that together some numbers that I just don't have in front of me.
Our next question does come from Dan Fannon with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Marty you talked about a lot of different growth opportunities.
And I was just wondering as you look at all your different businesses or products are there any that are subscale or potential brands that you might look at that have limited growth opportunities that you might look to exit at this point? Yes.
I wouldn't say that's the case anymore.
I mean there's always areas that you're -- but it's more on a product-by-product basis.
And if you look at what we've been sort of focused on and accomplished over the last 5 years it's -- we feel very very good about what's out there.
But again there's always areas in the product range that we will -- if we can conclude they're not competitive we will merge them and we're pretty well done with that in the United States.
There's probably a handful more that we might look at.
And in a year or 2 in the Continental Europe there's some -- that's part of some of the activity that's going on right now with the different domiciles that we have there one in Luxembourg one in Dublin.
And probably that range we'll do some more work on but again that's probably too much detail.
But we think we're in positioned very well that way.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then looking ahead Loren as we look at expenses on the non-GAAP side is there anything that you see in the second half of the year that might be a one-time or something we should be looking at in terms of for a modeling perspective? Nothing off hand.
I think Dan we're -- the ones that we highlighted are the big ones related to the outsourcing.
By far and away that's the big one.
Anything else is probably just noise and nothing that I can really tell you about.
Our next question just came from Robert Lee of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Let's see.
I guess kind of most of my questions were asked.
But real quick I'm just curious on the outsourcing of the European TA.
I mean it seems a little counter to I think my impression of what you guys have been doing the last 5 or 6 years with creating the centers in India and I guess up in Canada.
Yes.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> And since TA is usually a big chunk of what gets kind of outsourced geographically at least I mean why outsource in the European TA to I guess I assume to the third party? Does that somehow mean that the scale you can realize in the rest of the business isn't going to be at the margin? Is it a crazy thought? I'm just kind of -- it seems like a little -- again a little different than what you've done with other TA operations.
That's an excellent question and our view is this.
I mean our general instincts are we want to control -- make sure we do a great job for the clients and in particular the client interface side.
And again we'll continue to be very high quality in what we provide to the client.
So that's not changed.
But part of this is our read of what is some of the possible outcomes in the regulatory environment in Europe.
And again there's not absolute conclusions but if some of the proposed regulation goes through it will put enormous pressure on the existing business model and the business model of a relationship between -- of money management firm and a individual investor or through their financial intermediary which could put just tremendous pressure on that traditional per-account charge and who's going to carry the burden and who's going to take the regulatory responsibility for some of the know-your-client type activities and the regulatory environment that's coming with it.
So we did do -- we're down the path doing something different but we thought it was uncertain enough that we wanted to get ahead of the whole thing.
But again we're still committed to making sure that the client relationship is a very very good one and a positive one.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay.
Maybe not -- to back to maybe Slide 9 I just -- we talked about retail sales.
Just want to make sure I -- looking at this the Q2 2010 made in gross sales redemption net that's pro forma for the Van Kampen acquisition.
Is that correct? Because the spike in sales and redemptions is pretty dramatic year-over-year and I'm just curious how -- you kind of talked about this a little bit but how much of that kind of big jump in sales was driven by -- and redemptions is driven by the ETF business which seems like it's in there ex-QQQs or the retail business? Because the year-over-year jumps are pretty dramatic.
Yes.
I think -- so the 2Q 2010 has only 2 months of -- or one month of the pre-close situation.
So think about only one month of the Van Kampen Morgan Stanley products being included whereas 3Q has obviously 3 full months of it.
So sales will grow.
Obviously redemption will grow because the base of assets have grown at that point.
So it's really just more of a mechanical formulaic saying as opposed to sort of looking at it and saying "We're suddenly selling a whole lot more." It's just the franchise got bigger at that point.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay.
So it wasn't pro forma for the whole Van Kampen? No.
Our next question does come from Jonathan Casteleyn of Susquehanna.
LLLP</strong> Just wondering if you see any impact of a U.S.
credit downgrade on any of the money fund businesses either stemming some of the inflow trends you're seeing or anything at the fund level that could be troublesome? Let's see.
I -- at the fund level again I think ourselves and other providers are very much on top of that and we don't see that as a topic.
And with regard to the fund flows I think what we've seen and others it still continues to be a very highly thought of product and I don't see it being negatively impacted during this environment.
LLLP</strong> Okay and that's helpful.
And then just obviously you're cash flowing at a level you feel very comfortable buying back your stock.
Could you just remind us of your debt maturities? And then any prepayments scheduled? Does that apply to those if you were to early retire some debt? Yes.
So the next one is April 2012.
It's $215 million.
The next one after that is February and that's 2013 and that's for $334 million.
And then the final one is December 14 -- sorry December 2014 and that's $197 million.
And there is no provisions for prepayment so you should assume that they're going to be with outstanding through maturities.
Our next question does come from Marc Irizarry of Goldman Sachs.
Great.
Just on the institutional outflows for a second.
I know activity might have been a bit slower during the period but it looks like some of the momentum that built there might have slowed.
Marty anything going on regionally that you're seeing in the institutional business? Or is that just sort of a function of a more subdued environment? Because it looks like some of the gross inflows in the institutional slowed a little bit? Yes.
It's more timing than anything else.
I mean we just continue to -- as Loren talked about RFP activity continues to be very very active from RFP activity to success.
I mean it's at the lead time if you win in the finals or not.
So it's more of a reflection of the lumpy nature.
But again I would suggest that in the U.S.
I'm feeling we've got great leadership and really good good traction building.
We're very early stages in Canada from a standing start where we think we'll see success there.
Continue to do very well in greater China.
Japan actually received some very good activity.
On the continent again we continue to see activity in the U.K.
So it's really been pretty broad based so it's more timing than anything else.
Yes.
I think we got some real state wins in Canada after our big push there.
So that's encouraging.
That does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for participating.
Thank you very much everybody.
Thank you.
And we'll talk to you next quarter.
Welcome to Invesco's Third Quarter Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now I would like to turn the call over to the speakers for today Mr.
Martin L.
Flanagan President and CEO of Invesco; and Mr.
Loren Starr Chief Financial Officer.
Mr.
Flanagan you may begin.
Thank you very much and thank you for joining us everybody.
As we just mentioned I'm on the call with Loren Starr our CFO.
And we'll be speaking to the presentation that's available on the website if you're so inclined to follow.
And this morning as has been our practice we'll begin by reviewing the business results for the third quarter and then Loren will go into greater detail on our financial results and finally we'll open it up to Q&amp;A.
So let's get started.
I'm on Slide 3 again.
And to start with long-term investment performance remains very strong across Invesco for the third quarter with areas of absolutely exceptional performance.
And our strong investment performance contributed to a trend of -- a continued trend of positive long-term net flows for the firm in spite of very volatile markets.
And also during the quarter we saw net long-term inflows across all distribution channels.
And during the quarter we increased cash by $136 million and reduced long-term debt by $194 million further strengthening our balance sheet.
And looking ahead reflecting confidence in our fundamentals we expect to purchase $100 million of Invesco shares during the fourth quarter also bringing the total purchased shares during 2011 up to $443 (sic) [$433] million.
So taking a look at the summary of the results for the quarter.
Assets under management ended the quarter at $598 billion versus $653 billion at the end of the second quarter.
Invesco continued to generate strong long-term investment performance for our clients during the third quarter which contributed to net long-term inflows of $3.3 billion.
This continues the positive trend we've demonstrated over the past several quarters.
Reflecting the challenges in a very volatile market during the third quarter adjusted operating income for the third quarter was $256 million versus $285 million in the second quarter.
And again Loren will go into greater detail of these financial results in just a minute.
So now let's take a minute and look at the investment performance during the quarter and I am on Slide 6.
So as we've discussed many times the key strategic priority for us is to deliver strong long-term investment performance for our clients.
Our commitment to invest excellence in our work to build and maintain a very strong investment culture had helped us maintain solid investment performance across the enterprise.
Looking at the firm as a whole 68% of the assets were ahead of peers on a 1-year basis.
78% of assets were ahead of peers on a 3-year basis and 82% of assets were on the top half on a 5-year basis.
So let's take a minute and look at these long-term results across the firm.
We think the best way to highlight the depth and breadth of the strength of investment performance over long-term is looking at some key areas by investment objective.
And also what you'll note parenthetically next to each investment objective is the percentage of assets under management that's represented as a percentage of the whole Invesco assets under management.
So at the end of the third quarter 78% of U.S.
core equities were ahead of peers on a 5-year basis.
U.S.
value equities it was 96% of assets were exceeding peers on a 5-year basis.
94% of U.K.
assets were at the top half of peers on a 5-year basis.
And if you look on Slide 7 what you'll also see during the quarter 78% of our global ex-U.S.
and emerging markets' assets were ahead of peers on a 5-year basis.
For balanced it was 75% of assets and for global fixed income it was 78% of assets.
So again there's real depth and breadth of this very strong investment performance across the organization.
And if you take a look at the total flows on Slide 9 you'll see that this net flow was really driven by the depth and breadth of the strong investment performance.
And as I mentioned earlier that turned into net long-term flows of $3.3 billion for the quarter.
And if you take a look at quarterly flows on Page 10 what you'll see is there were strong growth sales across retail and institutional channels which contributed to the positive net inflows for Invesco as a whole.
And the private wealth management business again was in net flows during the quarter and continued this trend of consistent asset growth quarter-over-quarter for the past 4 years.
So again very strong results across the various channels.
Now if you turn to Page 11 I want to spend a minute and take a look at the result of the depth and breadth of our investment capabilities our strong investment performance and this very focused planned engagement effort that we've been on which has driven solid momentum in our U.S.
Retail business during the quarter.
And despite a very volatile environment we continued to gain traction in the U.S.
Retail franchise during the quarter.
Gross sales increased 9% quarter-over-quarter and gross sales were up 40% year-over-year.
Additionally the redemption rates for Invesco's U.S.
Retail business have been considerably more favorable than the redemption rates in the industry over the past year.
And during the third quarter that gap widened again with redemption rates far below the industry average of 42% while Invesco's rate was 28%.
During the third quarter and continuing into the first quarter we are seeing significant wins broadly across a number of capabilities vehicles and channels.
And we attribute this to the good investment results and the good efforts that I highlighted previously which is giving us improved access cross many different platforms.
And the best way to calculate that is just an ever-increasing RFP activity.
And again it's resulting in greater penetration in these different client key platforms.
From our key perspective we're very early still in the process of achieving the full potential of our U.S.
Retail business but the combination of solid performance and a number of high-demand capabilities are driving good momentum.
And we're pleased to see the results so far.
Before I turn it over to Loren I'd like to turn your attention to Slide 12.
And to highlight one of the capabilities that we're seeing strong demand in and we think there's quite a bit of potential as we look forward.
If you look at total assets under management around the world it's up $54 trillion 8% of that total is represented by balanced portfolios or what other people refer to as multi-asset portfolios.
This obviously represents a $4 trillion global opportunity of which $1.8 trillion in the U.S.
and the balance of $2.2 trillion obviously outside of the United States.
And what's happened during the last number of years during this crisis period and very volatile markets is that investors are increasingly focused on recognizing the need for downside protection in addition to being able to participate in enough markets.
We're early participants in this market space and Invesco has an industry-leading capability in what we called Premia Plus.
And what you'll note on this is that if you think of traditional balanced portfolios risk allocation is really driven by the weight of bonds and stocks in the portfolios.
I think traditionally 60% equities 40% stocks.
Our strategy is different and it is a strategy designed to win by not losing and to avoid large drawdowns while participating in good markets.
And we do this by focusing on risk exposure as opposed to asset allocation or class weights.
The approach allows us to hedge against the equity on framing [ph] the outcome such as inflation and the recession.
And if you take a look again on the next page and you can see the results of this approach.
From our point of view it provides good upside participation but just as importantly very strong downside protection and a tremendous advantage in the various volatile markets that we've seen.
And since inception Invesco's performance has ranked within the top 3 percentile of similar capabilities worldwide.
And for 2011 the strong performance of our capability has ranked us in the top 1%.
And if this strong performance that has enabled us to grow this balanced risk asset allocation strategy from nearly 0 in the fourth quarter of 2009 to approximately $3.2 billion at the end of third quarter.
We've also applied the same approach to a broader set of strategies that brings the total closer to $5 billion.
Not going far we will continue to look to expanding this application to areas where we think it makes sense.
We continue to have a number of these strategies ready for investors in the not-so-distant future and the strength of the industry-leading capability is helping us win the business obviously and broadening the appeal for the whole Invesco product capabilities set.
And additionally we've enclosed 2 additional pages of disclosure that are required as we talk of something so specific like Premia Plus and again you can read through that at your leisure.
But for now I'm going to stop there I mean and turn it over to Loren to go over the financials.
Thanks a lot Marty.
During the quarter the long-term net flows that we discussed added $3.3 billion while Money Market funds had net outflows of $1.1 billion.
The big story of course is the declining markets and the unfavorable FX that reduced our AUM by $57.5 billion during the quarter.
So the resulting reduction in AUM quarter-over-quarter was $55.3 billion or 8.5% leaving us with $598.4 billion in AUM at the end of Q3.
Average AUM for the quarter decreased 3.1% to $632.7 billion and our net revenue yield in Q3 ended up at 44.6 basis points and that's a drop of 1.4 basis points.
This was really due to 3 factors in the quarter: The first was lower performance fees and other revenues.
The second was the impact of a full 3 months worth of fee waivers that were associated with the U.S.
product realignment and that was as you know largely completed in early June of this year.
And the third is the market impact on product mix and our Equity AUM actually declined from 46% to 42% of total AUM again largely due to the market.
Next turn to operating results.
You'll see that net revenues in the quarter declined $45.1 million that's 6% quarter-over-quarter while unfavorable FX rates lowered net revenue by $4.3 million.
If we drill down onto this you'll see that investment management fees fell $40.2 million that's 4.8% down to $804.1 million.
This was mostly due to the drop in our average AUM although once again the fee waivers are related to the U.S.
product realignment and the mix shift also contributed to the fall.
Furthermore FX reduced our investment management fees by $6.1 million in the quarter.
Service and distribution revenues were down $17.1 million or 8.3%.
This was caused once again by lower average AUM but also by a decline in some of our TA fees from the U.S.
product realignment.
Performance fees in the quarter came in at $3 million.
That's a drop of $5 million versus Q2.
You may remember we highlighted that we had some performance fees from the U.K.
in Q2 that was about $3.5 million and that did not reoccur in this current quarter.
Other revenues in the third quarter came in at $26.7 million that's down $5.6 million.
Again this is primarily explained by lower retained front-end load fees as sales declined in Europe during the quarter.
Third-party distribution service and advisory expense which we net against our gross revenues decreased by $22.3 million or 6.6%.
This was in line with the movement in investment management and service and distribution fees over the quarter.
And foreign exchange has an impact of $2.5 million reduction to this line item in the quarter.
Moving on down to the slide you'll see that our adjusted operating expenses at $450.4 million declined by $16 million or 3.4% relative to the second quarter.
In this case FX accounted for $2.4 million of this decrease.
Employee compensation at $306.3 million fell by $4.6 million or 1.5% versus the second quarter.
FX contributed to $1.5 million of that decline.
Marketing expense decreased by $2.3 million or 8.6% to $24.4 million.
This was due to reduced sponsorship costs as well as the lower levels of advertising in the quarter.
FX marginally impacted that with decline by $0.2 million due to FX.
Property office and technology expense was $62.8 million in Q3.
That was a minor increase of $0.3 million.
FX reduced the expenses by $0.3 million in the quarter.
And then general and administrative expenses came in at $56.9 million in the quarter that's down $9.4 million.
This was due to a variety of cost management and discipline activities.
Lower travel recruitment and professional expenses contributed as well.
And FX amounted to about $0.4 million of that decline.
Going down to the bottom of the page you'll see that nonoperating income decreased $2.5 million quarter-over-quarter.
This is due to mark-to-market of certain of our partnership investments as well as due to lower level of realized gains on the disposal of seed capital during the quarter.
Our effective tax rate came in on pretax adjusted net income at 22.5%.
The third quarter's lower tax rate reflected a FIN 48 release for uncertain tax provisions.
Going forward we like to guide you to effective tax rate that we believe will fall in the range of 25.5% to 26.5%.
And so finally our adjusted EPS was $0.42 a decline of 4.5% versus Q2 and our adjusted net operating margin came in at 36.2%.
So before turning it back to Marty let me just quickly comment on our capital management.
During the quarter our net debt declined by $330 million which was resulting from the $194 million repayment of our credit facility and $136 million increase in balance sheet cash.
We do continue to believe that our stock is attractive at current price levels and therefore we intend to purchase $100 million during the fourth quarter making our total buyback of $433 million in 2011.
With that I will turn it back to you Marty.
Great Loren.
Thanks very much.
And I think you can get the sum of the quarter.
It's led by continued good very good investment performance across all of Invesco.
And really we think the trend of -- continued trend of long-term net inflows across all the channels was very strong in spite of a very very volatile quarter.
And with that Loren and I will answer any questions anybody might have.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Michael Carrier with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Maybe 2 questions on the revenue side.
I think the other bucket a little bit more volatile this quarter than what we're used to.
I guess you mentioned some of the drivers of that in terms of some of the weaker European sales.
But just wanted to see is there anything like seasonal in that line item when we think about the fourth quarter? And then the other line would be just the performance fees.
Obviously it's something that's hard to predict but just given the improvement that we're seeing across the franchise on performance some of the products like Perpetual EMLP [ph] PPIP Real Estate just trying to gauge any expectations as we head into the fourth quarter relative to the $3 million we're at today the bias for performance fees at least for the fourth quarter and maybe in the first quarter? Michael let me try to address that.
In terms of other revenue it was really predominantly driven by the front-end load.
The retained front-end load sales were down significantly in Europe and the U.K.
So that had an impact there.
Again that was really I think in the height of the concerns around Europe.
So I'd hope we'll see that abate and then we'll begin to see that number come back in Q4 and beyond.
In terms of performance fees I think you're right.
I mean performance is very strong as we highlighted.
We do have some seasonality around performance fees as you've seen particularly in the U.K.
and in Atlantic Trust.
There tends to be a Q4 opportunity for performance fees in the U.K.
also in Q1.
That's kind of very short term.
But I'd say generally we think performance fees we would expect to see more across all of the platform of products that generate them.
And I think in the near term we'll expect to see certainly some improvement also at this current level even into Q4.
Hard to quantify I feel sort of uncertain about giving you real numbers on that one.
But again I think given the performance that we're seeing in our products it would certainly be a good expectation to see it go up.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just on the expenses maybe the G&amp;A just seemed much lower.
Anything unusual in there that we shouldn't expect to continue? Obviously if the environment improves then travel and those types of expenses will go up but anything that was unique in the quarter? Based on our forecast we think the G&amp;A line item is sort of a good run rate.
It's not even the potential for less going into Q4.
We're very focused on managing our cost in this current environment a lot of uncertainty.
And so it's a major theme internally to make sure that we're prudent in how we spend certainly the discretionary line items.
So again I think if you look at our current numbers there's nothing unusual in terms of thinking about it into Q4.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just final one on the flow side.
The Alternatives Fixed Income continue to see some strength in line with the industry the Asset Equities were a little bit weaker.
Just any color whether it's the Canada business the Trimark any additional outflows on the Quant side? Just trying to figure out on the Asset Equity side what was driving that during the quarter.
Michael just picking up on that.
So if you go back a few quarters sort of the topics were what's going on in the Quant world and what was happening with us.
And I'd say again if you look at the performance of our Quant team it's actually been quite strong now.
I mean it literally I think as I talked to a couple quarters ago as the world looked at fundamentals more is really -- October November of last year where it started -- the performance had started do what it was meant to do and continue to generate out for the portfolio.
So it feels like that headwind has left us from the standpoint of clients moving totally away from Quant to an area where it went sort of flat.
But frankly you're starting to see some interest coming back in Quant and I wouldn't want to get anybody too excited but you're starting to see that in Europe in particular.
So that's a nice change from what was a year ago early this year.
Also see when you look at the investment performance of the Canadian investment teams it's really strong.
So I mean it's just very very different than what we've had in the past couple of years which is a very important topic.
And also when you look at Canada a handful of things are going on.
One good investment performance a broad view of what's available in Canada the ETFs are really -- early days starting to make a difference.
Also the Institutional business where we had our focus previously again early days.
But again you're starting to see some indications of rising RFPs in the marketplace.
So we're feeling much better about where we are there.
And again so the level of confidence that is increasing for us is in Institution.
The next question comes from Ken Worthington with JPMC.
Research Division</strong> On the Institutional side of the business on Slide 10 you should at gross sales pick up our  gross receptions fell again so you've got a nice trend there.
Can you talk about both sides of the net flows picture? So what's going rates on the products and regions in terms of what's getting traction? And then what has fallen west out-of-favor than it had in the past in terms of products from regions on that Institutional side? I assume Real Estate is one that continues to do quite well but what are the others? So Ken good question.
The earlier few quarters in last year it was really Quant that was really the institutional topic on the redemption side.
And I just said it feels like that's really changed.
What we continue to see on the RFP side throughout different parts of the world really I'd say sort of across the spectrum it's Real Estate direct real estate global REITs.
This combination of Premia Plus asset allocation multi-assets strategy products are really taking hold institutionally.
I'd say that's pretty broad in different regions of the world.
Bank loans is another area that you continue to see continuing activity.
And then in different parts of the world the merchant markets you're actually seeing people look at the Japanese equities you're actually seeing people look at some of the core U.S.
Equity portfolios but more dividend related-type op products.
So it's ever broadening I'd say and I think that's a good sign frankly for the industry also.
And actually I should add one.
I did mention bank loans but credit-related Fixed Income continues to be sort of topical.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
In terms of Premia Plus when does the retail version of that get its 3-year numbers? And what distribution platforms open up to you when you get those 3-year numbers? And this is -- Is this a big deal or is just kind of not that big a deal the 3-year Retail side? So I think it is.
So it's June of next year that you get the 3-year number.
But you're already seeing as I mentioned the results into it even without a 3-year number aren't really quite surprising.
I mean that's usually sort of the starting point to get a 3-year number.
But we're -- even without that we're seeing some very good results.
And I think it's the result of a couple of things: One yes the team has a good long history high-quality team.
There was an institutional track record exits to 3 years I think in November December this year.
So people have looked at that.
Again it's getting traction ahead of its time but again just the fundamental theme of downside protection is something that is very broad.
So we would expect just even when you hit that 3-year number just continually broadening of the mandate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The last question is just on REITs.
REITs have been incredibly successful for you and I think you'll continue to just blow it out in terms of getting new assets.
At some point there's something like too much of a good thing.
Where do you stand in terms of being able to deploy all the REIT assets that you're getting in the front door and is there any validity to this being getting more difficult for you guys to manage the big numbers coming to Invesco? Yes that's a quick question so let me make a couple of comments.
One the investment team is absolutely superb.
And they are very good managers long long-term track record been together for a very long time.
And first and foremost with them and with any team as soon as they get to a period where they say "We can't " if they don't think they can handle anymore we shut the doors.
We absolutely stop it.
And it's a team that is very dedicated to their clients.
So I don't have that concern.
Again they're also very conservative on how they manage the portfolios.
But there will be a time when they will probably say we've talked out and we'll just have to see how much longer that is.
And I don't know Loren if you would add anything from your conversations.
I think everything you said is what I -- has been reflected-to me too.
So there's definitely more room to go but there is a point where it flows and so again that's something that we're not at the point to quantify.
And Ken just to underline a point here we don't want to be one of those place where too much of a good thing becomes a problem.
So we'll be telling you that we're stopping it before that happens.
The next question comes from Bill Katz with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to the U.S.
product realignment could you quantify how much in sort of foregoing revenues or earnings might be from any of your plans and then what might be the timing for the fee waivers to roll off? So Bill I think I got your question.
The fee waiver number is about $30 million per year.
And so that was put in place with the combination of the funds.
And clearly when you had higher funds merging with lower-priced funds for the rising [ph] for clients was to waive fees down.
It's a discussion that occurs at the fund board level so it's not something that we directly control.
And so again in terms of what could happen in terms of those fee waivers it would be presumptuous for me to sort of talk about what the dialogue is going to be around the fund boards.
But again there is the potential for the fee waivers to drop and that would create some relief off of that run rate.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And just my follow question just on comp sort of you think the overall cost control relative to the revenue environment.
As we look at comp relative to revenues on adjusted basis that was a 43% ratio the highest ratio in well over a year.
I'm sort of curious why you did a good job on the G&amp;A side what's your outlook for comp? What are some of the drivers we should be looking at from a modeling perspective? So Bill yes I think -- I mean a couple points on comp though one I think we've mentioned it several times during the presentation our investment performance continues to improve.
And so we have a direct linkage between compensation and investment performance with our teams.
And so that's one element in our story in terms of what is driving our comp numbers.
The other again is we try to forecast and provide a very smooth compensation picture as we for -- every month every quarter we forecast where assets are going to be and we accrue based on that estimate.
And so we really I mean we try to avoid having any sort of catch-ups or things that happen in the quarter or something that's not sustainable.
So we try to give you that smooth view.
So the number that we showed on compensation are a good sort of proxy going forward.
I mean again given the fact that there's probably 3 quarters of lower assets as opposed to one month you could see further decline in that number into the fourth quarter.
But again it's something we manage closely but it's very much aligned to investment performance as well.
Research Division</strong> Actually just one follow-up.
Marty share us your view on 2 areas just sort of regulatory change.
One maybe an update on the Money Market business.
There seems to be a lot of flux on where that is right now.
And secondarily could you talk a little bit about any kind of risk to the regulatory environment on the ETF business? Yes I see.
On the money fund side of the focus on regulators they have still -- yes 2 comments I'd say.
I mean this is probably what -- 6 months ago they were happy with the regulatory changes put in place for the money funds.
But they still wanted something else to be accomplished something more to ensure that there is further ability to mitigate any runs in the market.
And the first point that I would make about that is that during this European debt crisis -- we'd like to refer to it as that -- from what March on of this year I think the regulators actually feel very very good about the outcome of money funds during that period.
It was a very stressful period on money funds and they did extremely well.
So the changes put in place were a good thing.
And I think you'd probably expect -- yes but I think the goal is at the end of the year and the first quarter of -- yes one more change to money funds.
And my sense of it it would be something that is very manageable for the industry that ensures that you'll continue to have a very broad group of people in the money fund industry and not frankly ruining what has been a very important vehicle within that sort of ecosystem of the financial world.
So I think right now the outcome could just be a very positive one for all parties concerned.
But again it can change on a dime but that's where I'd say we are right now.
And then with regard to ETFs I think obviously there's a lot of focus on volatility in the marketplace and what is driving that.
There's probably 2 areas that I think are getting a lot of attention.
Most recently it has been ETFs but it's really -- high frequency trading is really I think a very very very important area where there's a lot of focus.
From regulators' point of view is that -- yes the question is is it contributing to what in fact you're supposed to accomplish which is a capital market environment that is for long-term investors and capital formation.
So that's the question around that.
And then with regard to ETFs the issue of -- really I think the focus is on leverage ETFs in particular and I think that is going to continue to be a topic in the focus.
But the conclusion on that would be the absolute broader ETF market the vast majority of the ETF market will not be impacted by that conversation.
And I would see the ETF participants are very focused on making sure that it continues to be a very viable and strong industry going forward.
So I think that regulatory outcomes in both of those areas could be good for investors and good for participants.
The next question comes from Michael Kim from Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
First just to follow up on capital investment it looks like you opted to kind of focus more on deleveraging last quarter and then maybe more of a focus on share repurchases this quarter.
But in this type of environment it does seem like there might be some opportunities to take advantage of some attractive M&amp;A opportunities.
So can you just kind of talk about how you're thinking about using capital going forward and then maybe if you're starting to see some more distressed or more motivated sellers looking to dispose of their embedded asset management businesses more recently? Yes.
Let me make a couple of comments.
I think Loren will talk also in addition to capital management but I'd say our broad strategy has absolutely not changed that first and foremost we're going to look to reinvest in the business and improve the business that we have.
And again I think if you look across the business it looks  very broad very strong good performing so fewer gaps.
We do look at opportunities as they emerge from time to time.
But it is a very very high bar for us and that will continue to be our focus as we go forward.
But Loren you want to? Yes actually I mean one of the points is probably worth just pointing out is as Marty said time to time we'll see opportunities in the market and in fact that was one of these cases this last quarter.
And when such things happen we are restricted from continuing on with our share buyback program.
The fact is we didn't do anything in terms of this opportunity.
And so we are out of that restriction clearly given our announcement.
But in case you were wondering why we weren't actively buying shares in the last quarter it was really due to us being tied up in this restriction.
But again I just Michael to your point and I want everybody else here -- it's extremely high bar for us.
And I think some of the properties that are coming on the market or rumored to be on the market they frankly -- headline level look are more distressed than what we're interested in.
But again we'll just continue to pay attention.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just secondly given the lower AUM base and assuming markets remain under pressure are there any specific areas where you can or you're looking to may be further cut back on some costs or some expenses just to maybe defend the margins to some degree? Let me make a couple of comments and Loren can chime in.
Again I think if you look back over the years we are very very focused on ensuring that we run on a good effective business and very focused on cost management.
That said where we are probably like many firms looking at where the environment is and unsure of what it might look like.
There's sort of a two-pronged focus for us as an organization.
First of all we're looking at -- we feel we're probably better positioned as an organization than I can say at least the last 6 years that I've been here and that clearly we are slowing down some areas where the opportunities slowed down when the market slowed down but there's still many opportunities for us and we're trying to strike the right balance on those that are still filled closer that we are continuing to move forward on it.
But we're doing the right things and yes we focus on discretionary spending in particular.
That said if the world falls apart we will respond accordingly.
But we think it would be unwise to literally shut everything down right now.
We just think it would be not the right thing to do.
We just want to make sure that we can run with the opportunities in front of us but those that are less opportune because the market will slow down or just put on hold.
Yes.
I don't think I have much more to add.
That's exactly the process we can go into the market now.
The next question comes from Roger Freeman from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Marty I guess I just want to follow up on that comment you made about M&amp;A opportunities.
I guess some of the potential ones may be more distressed than you'd like.
Is that a function -- I assume it's a comment about Europe and it's that that if you buy an in-house proprietary platform that the parent institution is a risk to the customer base disappearing.
Yes I think it is more.
And again I because everybody -- it's sort of fundamentally thinking that where Europe sits right now many of the European asset managers might become available.
And there's twofold.
It has tended to be very proprietary distribution.
That becomes a topic and a very important topic.
It can sometimes work to your advantage and disadvantage.
But at the same time when you have duplicative platforms and you compare the duplicate investment management capabilities it's your investment management capabilities it really gets to something the industry has not done a lot of and that's just absolute consolidation.
And it's worked well.
That's with thanks to when they roll up sort of the deposit platforms.
It's different when you start to get to the clients out of the money management business and I think that becomes a bigger consideration for any firm that will be looking at those.
So I don't think it extends to the financial stability of what would be the selling institution.
I think there's always ways to protect yourself against that.
Again every situation will be different.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Maybe just on the Van Kempen speaking of your own prior deals has there been any additions to your model portfolios recommended list during the quarter as institutions or distributors that have been holding back have come back? Yes.
I don't have the specific numbers in front of me.
But what I can tell you is just if you just look at RFP activities that put you on platforms it's probably from a year ago despite there've been 100 additions to platforms.
And obviously some of those happened within the quarter.
So it just continues to get broader and stronger.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you also talked about with respect to the Premia Plus balance product and more new product coming can give us a sense for how -- kind of how active that pipeline is? Maybe number of funds.
Yes.
I have to be a little careful about that just because of yes where they are and sort of that process.
But again I don't think of -- it's going to be investment pieces driven and it needs to be long-term viable solutions and so it would be an extension of some of these ideas.
So don't think media investment needs as opposed to sort of run into the market with launches that's not our approach.
But again it is something it's a very strong team and it is a combination of needs that people want to be out there.
So it feels like it's probably going to be around for a while.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And lastly just on the expenses on the marketing piece how much of that decline sequentially was just cost coming off and maybe any seasonal changes in ads spending versus sort of the discretionary component of the cost management? Yes.
So I think the piece that's reflected it coming off -- it came off to the end of August till it got one-month of benefits it's sort of a $6 million run rate.
So that would be $0.5 million the benefit for non-[ph] sponsorship in the quarter.
The next question comes from Glenn Schorr Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on investor appetite on alternatives and just triple checking that the Wilbur Ross Fund is still in capital raising mode is that correct? So can't say too much rather? We can't talk about any capital raising activities as you know just from SEC regulations and the likes.
I hate to say it that's all I can say.
Research Division</strong> In general it's been sluggish in the industry on Alternatives.
Obviously the market got cratered in the third quarter.
But is there anything more behind it than just slow markets because maybe the glass-half-full approach would be in markets where up 10% so far in October? Yes.
So let me talk about industry and investment opportunities how is that? So it is a fact fund raising in the Private Equity area the fundraisers are taking twice as long and they have been raising about half of what they did sort of the prior round.
And one of those is this numerator- denominator effect with the institutions that you've seen where some plans are less interesting alternatives others just because of the markets working against them they've sort of hit their quota.
That said the investment opportunities that the WL Ross &amp; Co.
the team there the pipeline is extremely full.
They are finding fantastic set of investment opportunities.
The team could not be busier and more excited about what's in front of them.
And that's a very very good thing and they're very active they'll continue to be very active.
And there's going to be very very good results for the people in the existing funds.
That bodes very very well I think for ongoing client opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
A quicky on Premia Plus.
Just curious the Institutional product what kind of fee rate are we talking? Whether it be the actual number or relative to traditional balanced funds? And then follow-up would be how retail is going to be priced.
Glenn I don't think we have the ability to just kind talk about the pricing right now on this stuff but it is something.
The retail I think is public -- it's like 60 basis points something in that range.
So rather that I not get specific on the Institutional side of this point if that's all right.
Research Division</strong> No problem.
No problem.
The final one is just when you look at the fee rate or the revenue yield x performance fees it obviously comes down in the quarter when markets get beaten up.
Ending assets are below average assets so you expect more pressure.
However like I said October is up a lot.
So should we expect still 2 months to go but somewhat leveling off on that net revenue yield x performance fees? Yes I mean I hope so.
I mean again it's a great question and it really does depend entirely on where equity markets go from here.
And so yes sort of more of stability more recently sort of moving to the right direction would tend to allow me to agree with that comment.
But again we have to see how the rest of the year goes through and FX may have some impact as well.
So I'm hopeful that we'll see stability in that line item.
Right.
I think what I would do though confirming your point though so that was what the market is and the few rates are changing quarterly.
So the thesis is still in place as the markets respond positively.
The effective fee rate would run back so we don't want you to come away with not thinking that's the case.
Research Division</strong> I think I'm a little too positive.
The next question comes from Dan Fannon with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess Loren first what is the right level of leverage we should think about you going forward and maybe a little bit color on how you came up with $100 million thinking about the buyback for 4Q? All right.
Well in terms of I mean leverage going forward we've discussed some debt to EBITDA ratios at one or somewhat below.
We feel very comfortable at those levels.
We were at somewhat higher levels after the second quarter when we stepped up the buyback.
So again I think you'll see those ratios decline over time.
And so I'd say think about one-times as a general thought.
Beyond that the opportunity to delever further it's always the conversation doesn't makes sense or take on more leverage.
And you wouldn't take leverage on just to take leverage on.
It would be done in the context of some opportunity typically is why we would take on leverage.
And for such opportunities you could see a higher degree of leverage than we have today in fact.
So it is a dynamic conversation but sort of business as usual I think about one-times.
The $100 million really is really just looking at total kind of payouts of the cash flow and where we feel comfortable.
And we think $100 million makes sense.
It puts our sort of payout of cash flow and operating income at the higher end of the range that we've done historically but certainly not in an uncomfortable way and we think it makes a lot of sense given where the prices.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess on a quarterly basis what are you viewing as your kind of excess cash flow these days on your run rate? Well again quarter-over-quarter it will vary because every quarter we have bonus payments and then tax payments and then while dividend is back from Europe and others.
So it doesn't really work quarter to quarter.
I mean you can average it out for the year.
But I mean if we're generating about $100 million of free cash flow -- I'm sorry $900 million of free cash flow you can sort of calculate the dividends as already sort of baked to $200 million $250 million.
We have some need to build up some cash on the balance sheet as we've discussed and I think we're on our way to do that.
So we do want to continue to do that.
How much we would deploy for buybacks again it's sort of dynamic number.
But I think best way to answer that is if you look at our history and what we've done these payout ratios as if we're paying out maybe 1/3 of our cash and dividends.
And you could see 20% to 30% in buybacks another 20% to 30% in buybacks so $300 million buybacks per year take it divide it by 4 I mean that would be one way to do it just see that today.
The next question comes from Robert Lee with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is it possible -- I just wanted to maybe get a little bit more color on ETF business? In particular I know you had renewed efforts to expand the business outside the U.S over to Mexico I guess some time this past year.
Maybe some updates on the progress maybe you're seeing there in different markets and kind of what we should be thinking about that contributing to the business flows over the coming year? Just broadly again we I feel really really good about our ETF business and the way that we're positioned within that market.
And again largely more value-added ETFs in the marketplace we think is going to be a growing part of the ETF business in the United States or around the world.
And as you just mentioned risk in Mexico the Canadian effort which is probably one of the more recent ones and more broad continues to broaden for us where originally it was ETFs within the Mutual Funds than purchasing ETFs on the New York Stock Exchange and then more recently just getting TSE-listed ETFs.
And Europe is an area that we continued to -- we've been in it in a relatively small way but it's a market right now that is under pressure just broadly just because of what's going on there.
And also back to the question earlier there are some broader questions in Europe just around the structure of the ETFs with leverage within the ETFs and that.
But that's in longer-term we think Europe is an area that will continue to be an opportunity and probably longer-term different parts of Asia for us.
So again it is absolutely a principal focus of ours as an organization.
And again today has been a very focused conversation here largely on the U.S.
Retail business simply because of our most recent efforts there.
But the front and center for us is the ETF business and we think we're going to continue to purchase in that way going forward.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right great.
And Loren some couple of simple really kind of modeling questions I mean if you look at the adjustments your intangible amortization and the deferred taxation I mean that kind of well I guess the intangible amortization has been trending up.
Has that been just as you kind of finalized some of the accounting from prior acquisitions kind of what's been driving that? And for the deferred taxation that's kind of been bouncing around within quarter-over-quarter? Yes I mean that there's a variety of things that go into that.
It's probably a fairly detailed answer.
Maybe you'll just catch up later.
I'll give you kind of some insight into that.
But again there are a couple of factors driving those bits.
The next question comes from Craig Siegenthaler of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just want to start here with a P&amp;L question.
A few other guys asked from the comp and compensation expenses.
But I'm wondering how do the underlying components change? When we think about some of the more fixed cost items like based comp and healthcare costs and then we separate them from some of the variable items like bonus accruals and stock-based comp what was the rough kind of delta in those items quarter-over-quarter if the total comp changed about 1.5%.
That's a fairly specific question there Craig.
We generally don't breakdown into those levels of detail on our our compensation line items.
But I think -- I mean what we've said in the past is variable compensation is about 1/3 of our total compensation.
That didn't change quarter-over-quarter.
There wasn't any extreme sort of changes in hiring or sort of -- I mean I think you'd find the salary components and the fixed components to be fairly fixed right? So what you saw in the quarter was really just the flexing of the variable component.
And again that's the cash bonus fees is the one that actually has an impact in the quarter.
Whereas obviously we do provide some deferred compensation for our professionals at the end of the year.
That gets amortized over 4 years and that's a future expense.
So again hopefully I can just answer your question by saying there wasn't anything unusual happening in any of those line items other than the variable fees the cash fees flexing down.
Research Division</strong> All right.
That's helpful.
Then just moving over to Alternative flows.
I know there's a bunch of different asset classes in that group Real Estate fund to fund.
Can you kind of help us think about the sequential change in alternative flows and what really drove that? Yes Craig.
I think you're going to find it's going to be largely the Real Estate piece and it's both direct Real Estate and sold [ph] globally.
There's also the REITs that we discussed a little bit on the call.
There's been a strong interest in REITs in Asia.
And so that's been a big driver of that line item.
There have certainly been other elements within that -- bank loans and other things that Marty talked about.
But I think the largest piece certainly would be the Real Estate component that drove the quarter.
Research Division</strong> And there's nothing from the Private Equity side? Not at this point.
The next question comes from Jeff Hopson with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the U.S.
Retail business September flow is positive obviously helped by the allocation products.
Do you think that you've turned the corner in U.S.
Retail or is it the environment too volatile to suggest that? You're asking the question we all want the answer too.
It's a hard one.
I mean so let me leading the way for us for the least is this Premia Plus type products there's little question about it.
But absolutely factual what you're seeing within the channel disproportionate interest in Equity income-type products whether it's the RFPs placements on the different platforms flows into the products.
And if you look at what you have where the flow is going it tends to be those products.
And I'd say if you're on the sideways the bias-up market I think you're going to continue to see real interest in that range frankly across the industry because at some point once people think that they've sort of limited their downside they're going to get out of cash products.
And that's probably the next range of where they're going to put the money and that has been consistent with what we've seen.
And it was pleasantly just surprising to see some continued flows into those areas.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a follow-up.
On the U.K.
flows were a little bit weaker.
Is that all macro environment? That kind of performance has been good on key products.
Anything to update there? Yes.
I think -- I mean Jeff I think it's macro.
There's really nothing that was within the portfolio that would indicate that the product is less attractive than it's been in the past.
So then people have just been running to the hills generally.
But even then we didn't see sort of a dramatic reduction in flows.
The next question comes from Cynthia Mayer Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just maybe a quick flow question follow-up on that.
Looks like the Fixed Income flows were lower this quarter than in the last couple of quarters.
And I'm wondering if that's a function of particular products like munis or maybe an area like U.K or is it a function of the performance which if you look at Page 24 is a little bit off in the last year? Or are there any large lumpy institutional impacts? Any color you could give would be great.
We've continued in the -- money funds money funds excuse me.
Muni bonds continue to be sort of an area that have been more net outflows.
It's less than where you saw it earlier in the year when people were so scared but that would probably be the bigger area of...
I mean the other thing that I would point is I mean we had a lot of growth and stable value in the early part of the year and there was a lot of wrap capacity to accommodate the demand.
Wrap capacity continues to be a scarce commodity and sort of put a little bit of a capacity constraints in terms of how much stable value we can do.
So that's probably the other elements within the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then maybe just on the FX.
If you look at the FX impact revenues and the FX impact on expenses what would be the net impact on operating income this quarter? Yes.
So I think it's just those 2 numbers [indiscernible].
It's a couple million bucks right? $4.3 million.
Research Division</strong> $4.3 million? Well I'm sorry.
$4.3 million was the impact on revenue and operating expenses was $1.9 million? Yes $1.9 million.
Is the net number a year ago? Yes.
All right.
$1.9 million was the impact on operating income.
The next question comes from Marc Irizarry with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Marty it looks like the U.S.
fund flow picture is doing well and maybe the rest of the world seeing a little bit of pressure particularly in Continental Europe.
Can you just give us some perspective on how flows are tracking in Continental Europe so far this quarter? And then Asia strong.
How much of that is really driven by the REIT story out there? Let's see.
Just thinking of -- starting in Asia.
REIT has been very very positive in Asia but I would say just our position Asia is very very strong.
And in Japan now very strong.
Greater China very very strong.
And I just think that's going to continue to be an ever-growing positive part of Invesco's long-term success.
So again anybody that’s been out there again even recently.
It's just a very very different environment than if you're in Continental Europe.
So that's going to continue and probably just continue to broaden.
And Asia was one of the areas as I was speaking earlier that you're literally seeing greater mandates and things like Japanese equities even into greater China interest in U.S.
equities in Greater China.
So things that you wouldn't necessarily think are top of mind actually in the region so very strong.
And obviously the continent in particular I mean it's been an area that people consumers investors have rightfully become worried and that makes sense.
That said it's such a huge part of this.
We talked about it on our last conference call.
It's such a huge part of the asset base in the world that you have time to continue to focus on and make sure you're positioned well for a time when it improves and we're not giving up on that.
And we think this is a time to make a difference.
It's no different than our approach in the United States where we look to strengthen the U.S.
business during a very difficult time and I suggest that that's worked out very well for us.
We expect the same in Europe.
Research Division</strong> And then just on the continent what have you seen in terms of maybe the progression of flows as you moved through the third quarter and then maybe early in the fourth quarter? Yes.
So -- I mean sales were down a little bit maybe 10% quarter-over-quarter.
But redemption rates were the story.
And so not again surprisingly people were moving cash into riskless assets.
We've seen some -- obviously some turnaround in the market and in the environment.
And so again it's too early to say whether we're reversing that trend fully into this quarter.
But again I think given the breadth of the products and different types of products that we have we have a Premia Plus type of product in our European line office well that we think we can continue to really generate some very good performance and flows for our clients there even if they're not necessarily wanting equities which again has not been a huge piece of our picture and continental European equities where we don't do -- we haven't done a lot of that in Europe.
It's really been around other types of products Asian equities and other elements.
The last question comes from Jonathan Casteleyn with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Just a question.
As everyone works their way through the European credit crisis just wondering what additional processes or risk checking you had to instill within your Money Market business to ensure liquidity and et cetera? We've not made any changes but let me put that in context.
I mean yes it's a very very very strong money fund team.
It's a very very strong credit team.
And during the crisis here in the U.S.
maybe you've heard me say we didn't have a single credit that was downgraded in the portfolios that we had.
So again we just continued the processes that have been in place for many many years and it's worked just fine during this period for us.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just one follow-up on that a technical question on the fundraising for Wilbur Ross.
Does the fund have to be raised before October to qualify for the earnout or is there -- it cannot be extended on the earnout side? Yes I'm sorry.
We just can't talk about any fundraising activities.
It's not that we don't want to it's just the SEC prohibits us from doing it.
But what I will say the team is very very strong doing a very very good job of finding great investments.
And I think that the existing clients and the existing funds are going to have a very very good outcome again.
And again I'm sorry we can't be specific.
We're just prohibited from doing it.
And just again thank you very much everybody for joining us today.
And again it was a good set of questions.
And again we thought it was a very strong quarter on the back of good investment performance and ever-improving flow opportunities for the organization.
And we appreciate it and we'll talk to you next quarter.
Thank you for participating in today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to Invesco's First (sic) [Fourth] Quarter Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now I would like to turn the call over to the speakers for today to Mr.
Martin L.
Flanagan President and CEO of Invesco; and Mr.
Loren Starr Chief Financial Officer.
Mr.
Flanagan you may begin.
Thank you very much and thank you everybody for joining us.
First of all there's a presentation that's on the website if you're so inclined to follow it.
As is our common practice I'll go through the business results for the fourth quarter.
We'll hit some highlights of 2011 since it is the end of our year.
And Loren will go into the details of the financials and then we'll open it up to Q&amp;A.
So those that are following the presentation I'm now on Slide 3.
So taking a look at the fourth quarter and some of the overview points.
Long-term investment performance remained very strong across Invesco for the fourth quarter with again some areas of exceptional performance.
Our strong investment performance contributed to the trend of positive long-term flows in spite of what continued to be a very volatile market.
During the quarter we saw long-term net inflows across all distribution channels.
Also during the quarter we reduced long-term debt by $105 million further strengthening our balance sheet.
Reflecting the continued confidence in the fundamentals of our business we purchased $436 million worth of Invesco shares during 2011.
In looking ahead we plan to take advantage of the many strengths of Invesco continuing to invest in the business and further enhancing our relative position in the marketplace.
We also remain focused on providing our clients with solutions to help meet their needs and their financial objectives regardless of the market environment.
We believe that important parts of the global economy are on the road to recovery over the long term but expect that the road will remain bumpy in the near term.
And consequently we will continue to be very disciplined in our approach to our business and the markets while investing for the long term.
The steps we've taken to enhance our business in 2011 positions us very solidly.
As we look into 2012 we expect solid results but again as markets improve our results in 2012 could improve on the back of those markets.
Taking a look at 2011 on Page 4 now.
If you take a look at the accomplishments over the past year it really provides some insight into the long-range plans of the organization.
First and foremost we remained absolutely focused and committed on delivering strong long-term investment performance to our clients which will continue to drive growth in the core business.
And in spite of the volatile markets we further enhanced our business in key areas.
As you all know we've had a focus on Continental Europe.
We advanced that business there.
Fixed income continues to be an area where we have great strengths but further strengths our areas of focus of the organization.
And again our very very strong real estate team continued to see success and we continued to expand that business in parts of Asia during 2011.
We'll continue to invest in capabilities we see where we see strong client demand or future opportunities by continuing to develop that talent or where necessary hire world-class talents upgrade technology platforms launch new products or provide the necessary resources.
Bottom line we'll continue to do whatever is necessary to continue to improve our competitive position for the benefit of our clients.
And also during 2011 we increased the number of PowerShares products available to clients in Canada.
That continues to be a nice growing part of the business there.
We continued to expand our industry-leading balanced risk allocation capability in different parts of the business around the world different channels as that continues to be something that is very much desired by clients.
And really the ability to leverage capabilities such as balanced risk or real estate capabilities around the world or different investment management teams that we have is a key differentiator for us as an organization.
We expect that to continue to develop over 2012 and in the years to come.
Taking a look at the fourth quarter results on Page 5.
We ended the quarter with $625 billion in assets under management versus $598 billion at the end of the third quarter.
Invesco continued to generate strong long-term investment performance for our clients during the quarter which contributed to the net long-term inflows of $5.6 billion.
This further extended the positive trends we've demonstrated over the past several quarters of net inflows.
Reflecting the challenges the volatile market adjusted operating income for the fourth quarter was $250 million -- $256 million consistent with the third quarter.
And earnings per share was $0.42 during the quarter also consistent with the prior quarter.
And as I've mentioned Loren will go into greater detail in just a minute.
I'd like to turn to investment performance.
And on Page 7 you can see our investment performance over 1 3 5 years at an aggregate level.
It continues to be very very strong.
And the 1-year performance being 71% of assets beating peers that's the highest percentage since August '09.
And on a 5-year basis 80% of assets beating peers again very very strong.
The relative softness in the 3-year number is reflective of some very strong performance rolling off of the fourth quarter 2008 and the brief period where we trailed the market during that -- the beta rally after sort of March '09.
But based on the strength of the recovery subsequent to that we would expect the 3-year numbers to solidify by the middle of 2012.
And again looking at the underlying performance it really is quite strong.
A small number of funds represent some of this underperformance they're literally only a hundred -- less than a hundred basis points off the 50 percentile.
They continue a positive returns for clients during the period.
Half of them continue to be in net flows.
So again it's something very very -- we feel very good about.
Taking a look at quarterly flows.
Again on the back of the strong investment performance the enterprise contributed to positive flows during the quarter in spite of the markets.
And as I mentioned earlier net long-term flows totaled $5.6 billion for the quarter but also $24.5 billion for the year.
So during the quarter and the year in total quite strong from a flow basis.
Taking a look at sales across channel.
Gross sales in the retail and institutional channels contributed to the positive flows for Invesco as a whole and we continued to see positive flows in nearly every part of the global business during the fourth quarter.
Turning to Page 10.
Let's take a look at U.S.
retail redemption rates and how we continue to do relative to the industry.
And reflecting a very challenging volatile market gross sales in the U.S.
retail business dropped 15% quarter-over-quarter.
Redemption rates however continued to outpace the industry reflecting the differentiation we're achieving with our strong investment performance the depth and breadth of our investment capabilities and a focused client engagement effort.
In spite of the volatility we saw we believe the combination of solid performance the number of high demand capabilities will continue to drive good momentum in the business.
And by our internal calculations we're seeing market share increases in gross mutual fund flows increasing relative to the market of course but also trending positive over the long term.
One of the goals that we've talked to you all about is building brand recognition within the U.S.
And during 2011 we got after those efforts and our brand awareness in the U.S.
intermediary and advisory market advanced considerably.
A recent third-party study showed that among mutual fund companies Invesco achieved the most significant 1-year gain in brand penetration in these markets and is now among the top 10.
We're not where we want to be nor do we think we are where we need to be.
We'll continue to focus on this and we expect further improvements in 2012.
As always I remain very focused on making further progress to achieve the full potential of the U.S.
franchise.
All the indications all the trends look quite positive and we feel very good about where we are going with that part of the business.
I'm going to stop there and turn it over to Loren.
Thanks very much Marty.
So turning to Slide 12 you'll see during the quarter we generated total net flows of $6 billion with $5.6 billion being long-term and there was $0.4 billion from Money Market.
And similar to Q3 the aggregate flows reflected continued strong client demand for ETFs and other passive products.
If you just look at the actively managed assets within the mix we saw demand grow for the balanced risk and other income-oriented products in the quarter.
And that was offset by outflows and active equities again as market volatility generally kept clients on the sidelines for these riskier assets.
With that said however we are pleased to see the markets and FX working in our favor as we approached year end.
And we added $20.9 billion to our assets under management.
And this quite honestly is a very stark contrast to Q3 where we lost $57.5 billion in AUM to these same factors.
So the resulting increase in AUM quarter-over-quarter was $26.9 billion or 4.5% leaving us with $625.3 billion AUM at the end of the quarter.
It is interesting to note however that our average AUM for Q4 ended 1.7% lower than Q3 since we started the quarter at $598.4 billion in AUM which is in fact the lowest AUM level we had seen all year.
Our net revenue yield in Q4 came in at 46.1 basis points and that was an increase of 1.5 basis points versus Q3 driven by larger performance fees and other revenues relative to the prior quarter.
Let's now turn to the operating results and the P&amp;L.
You'll see that the net revenues in the quarter grew $10.7 million or 1.5%.
And that included an unfavorable FX rate impact of $6.1 million.
Drilling down onto that you'll see that the investment management fees in the quarter fell $3.3 million -- I'm sorry $33.3 million to $770.8 million.
And that was due to lower average AUM but also the market impact on our asset mix and the fee rate during the quarter.
The FX reduction accounted for $7.7 million of the $33.3 million.
Our service and distribution revenues were down by $8 million or 4.2% and this was in line with our lower average AUM and the investment management fees.
And FX accounted for just $0.8 million of the decrease.
And truly again the 2 line items that came in pretty big this quarter were performance fees and other revenues.
You saw that performance fees came in at $24 million and that was an increase of $21 million versus Q3.
And these were generated from our private wealth management business but also our real estate business.
And in other revenues in the third quarter -- sorry in the quarter came in at $44.9 million and that's up $18.2 million.
And this increase was due to a step-up in transaction fees in both our private equity business and also real estate businesses.
Third-party distribution service and advisory expenses which we net against gross revenues fell $12.8 million or 4% and that was in line with a decline in investment management fees and service and distribution fees.
And FX reduced these expenses by $2.6 million.
Next going to operating expenses.
These came in at $460.5 million and that was an increase of $10.1 million or 2.1% relative to Q3.
The foreign exchange impact for this was $4.2 million quarter-over-quarter.
Looking at the pieces employee compensation came in at $312.3 million and that was an increase of $6 million or 2%.
And that increase was largely due to the bonuses that were linked to the increase in performance and transaction fees earned in the quarter.
And the FX decreased compensation expense by $2.7 million.
Marketing expenses fell just by $2.3 million to $22.1 million that was a 9.4% decrease.
And FX was just a modest amount on that $0.2 million.
Property office and technology expense came in $61.9 million in the fourth quarter and that was a decrease of $0.9 million.
And FX accounted for most of that that was $0.6 million.
G&amp;A actually came in a bit higher than our normal run rate this quarter at $64.2 million.
That was up $7.3 million quarter-over-quarter.
Roughly half of that increase was attributable to a general step-up in the level of business activities in the quarter which included travel but also in particular professional services costs associated with our increased marketing and IT initiatives.
The remaining half of the increase was what I would characterize as one-off product-related costs in the quarter that we don't expect to continue going forward.
And FX had a $0.6 million reduction on G&amp;A during the quarter.
Continuing on down the page.
Non-operating income decreased $1.7 million and that was due to the mark-to-market on certain of our partnership investments as well as to a general lower level of realized gains on some of our seed capital disposals during the quarter.
The firm's effective tax rate came in on pretax adjusted net income at 22.9% again a little bit lower than we had originally thought.
But going forward for 2012 we continue to see the tax rate drop.
There are many regimes around the world that are seeing their tax rate drop.
So we forecast that to be around 25% next year but again this will move around based on the mix of our businesses and where profits are earned.
So overall EPS came in at $0.42 basically flat to the third quarter.
And our adjusted net operating margin was 35.8% which was a small decrease from the prior quarter.
And that concludes my section.
I'll turn it back to Marty.
Great.
Thank you Loren.
And just really to sum up the quarter we thought it was a very good quarter in light of the environment that we've been in.
We continue to see strong investment performance across the organization and we continue the trend of net long-term inflows across all channels of the company which we think is again very very strong in light of the market that we have been operating in.
We do remain cautiously optimistic about the markets and we will continue to be very disciplined managing the business while at the same time continuing to look forward for organic growth during that period.
But first and foremost we'll continue to be very very focused on delivering excellent investment performance for our clients.
So let me stop there.
And Loren and I will answer any questions people have.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question does come from Michael Kim of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> First you've clearly benefited from the growth of the Premia Plus strategies but my sense is that it's still relatively a small piece of your overall AUM base.
So just curious given demand for multi-asset class strategies continues to be high and how scalable is this business? And what are some of the initiatives that are in place to further penetrate different markets? Well first of all as you point out it's a spectacular product.
I mean it has a very good track record.
It's now -- this one in particular depending on the channel you're in it's over a 3-year track record right now.
The team has been together 12 years so highly respected.
And this is an example of something that is being introduced in different markets and has been introduced in different markets around the world whether it be retail or institutional.
And there are varying different subsets of the capability that clients are interested in.
There's commodities focus and very different elements that way.
So it is just one of the different multi-asset strategies that we have.
We think we're very very well placed in doing it.
And again we have a long track record in different markets.
So it's very scalable and we think we're on a good path.
And it's early days to where we think it could be.
I think we have what about $6 billion in that class from nothing essentially.
So I mean $6 billion in a year and that's without the 3-year track record fully hitting in.
So I do think the idea that this could continue to move at the pace and maybe even accelerate into 2012 is quite feasible.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe can you just talk about how the sales and redemption sort of progressed through the quarter? And then any early read into trends thus far this year particularly as it relates to any pick-up in contributions from retirement accounts? Sure.
So I think probably not just for us but for everybody in the asset management industry context is important.
And let me just use the most public data.
And it's -- for us it's only a subset of our business.
But if you look at U.S.
mutual fund flows as somewhat of an indicator of investors I think we've all seen it.
You ended up 2011 with $62 billion in net inflow.
And that is -- if you go back to 2003 it's really 1/4 of the net inflows you saw during that period of time but for 2008 where it was almost $170 billion out and we all know what that was.
So it was really a very very difficult environment.
And then again within that the flows 2011 was almost $90 billion in equity outflows.
And the only other period that you saw anything close to that was 2008 which was $152 billion.
So if you use that somewhat as a proxy of how investors were thinking around the world and to some degree in the institutional market although recognizing it's a slower period having net inflows having gross sale market appreciation increasing penetration as we did we feel very very good about where we stand.
And again I think it's on the back of first and foremost just broad deep investment management capabilities and our ability to move around the world with these capabilities and into multichannels.
So again I think our relative success in what really was a very difficult market I think we feel confident about -- as we look forward into 2012.
If these markets stay where we are we expect we're going to have a -- quite a good year.
Our next question does come from William Katz of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just in terms of free cash flow obviously you took down the credit exposure a little bit and bought back a little stock.
Just looking to this year someone mentioned sort of manage the business prudently but could you sort of maybe highlight your priorities for free cash flow? And then secondly as you're looking at the business are there any product gaps or areas that you might be able to shed to further hone in the story? Yes Bill I'll try to handle the first part and maybe Marty will take the second one.
I think they are somewhat linked clearly.
But in terms of free cash flow we certainly took more of our free cash flow and used it for stock buyback this year.
Our general interest to continue to return capital when we don't see a clear need for it is there.
And certainly when our stock is trading at a discount which it continues to do and certainly when we see the fundamentals improving and maybe it not being reflected in our stock it's far more interesting for us to be buying our stock now than ever before.
We do also clearly buy back our stock to eliminate any dilution associated with year-end grants.
So again I think you can certainly assume by looking at our history as to how we're going to be thinking about things going forward.
There isn't really a change in our capital priority.
We want to continue to have dividends to be ever-increasing.
I do think the topic about the certainty of dividends and the use of dividends is one that we're still looking at in terms of what's the right level.
But between dividends and buybacks I think it's largely business as usual.
And really the only thing that comes into play other than that is largely acquisitions.
And maybe Marty you want to talk to that.
Yes.
So maybe picking up on your point Bill just about product gaps.
I think we'd maintain we don't have a lot of product gaps but there are areas where we're always looking to improve relative to performance within an area or success within an area within the product gaps.
So our focus will continue to be on really organic development product development.
My other personal opinion is the depth and quality of our investment teams is really -- I've been here 6.5 years it's really strong.
I feel really good about them.
And -- so as we look forward we think that we're going to be able to meet our needs largely through continued organic product development.
And as you look at and hear about some of these big transactions that might be in the marketplace it just -- we've been very clear about what our acquisition strategy is.
I would suggest that that's inconsistent with our need or our strategy at this time.
Research Division</strong> Very helpful.
And just sort of a follow-up question.
I think and maybe it's just sort of seasonal but I noticed that headcount was down about 30% or so quarter-to-quarter.
So I'm intrigued by your comment about sort of leverage to improving market.
So as you think about the incremental margin for the business where are you if the market sort of continues to sort of trend a bit higher? Is it still 50% 60%? Or is there room for that to be a little bit higher as well? So Bill I think to the extent that the markets are strong and charging forward we'll definitely see the incremental margins be at the higher end of the range.
And so I think when you think about 50% to 60% it's probably closer to the 60% side.
When it's flatter and we're really growing through organic methods it's harder to sort of generate those same incremental margins and they tend to be sort of in the -- closer to the 50%.
So depending on the markets that's probably how you're going to see things pan out.
Yes.
And I think what I'd add to it too I think what you -- again if you just look at it's really the asset mix element too which has been a driver in the effective fee rate.
And I think that's again not just for us but for everybody in the industry if you have those positive equity markets.
And for us if you have relative flows into that again that's going to drive to the higher end of that range too.
Alex Kramm of UBS.
Research Division</strong> First of all maybe a little bit of a numbers question.
But Loren you just walked through all the volatile items in the income statement i.e.
performance the other and G&amp;A.
Can you talk a little bit about what you expect there for the next quarter given what you see out there in terms of spending but also in terms of realizing performance fees in the U.K.
and things like that? Yes I think -- great question and one that is particularly difficult to answer.
So I mean just -- when we think about our plan and when we think about what we're going to spend and do we generally don't assume performance fees are coming in.
We are very conservative because they're very hard to forecast and it will be very dependent on the market environments in a particular -- for a particular product.
We'd say generally we'd see performance fees be higher or higher in the first quarter and the fourth quarter.
And that's a trend that has been in place for a while.
The one place where we've seen higher first quarter performance fees in the past has been the U.K.
and that will be very dependent on -- how much we get will be dependent on the market environment that we're in when that's calculated.
And if you look at our U.K.
product and the performance it's very sensitive to what is happening in the U.K.
whether the banks start performing or not as an example.
And so that's something that is hard to forecast and it can swing quite a bit.
So I do think there's the potential for a nice performance fee given the strength of the performance of the U.K.
generally.
So I'll just put that out there.
But it is something that is hard to bank.
I think the other part that I do feel better about is real estate and the transaction fees and the performance fees that we continue to see coming from that activity.
As Marty mentioned real estate has been a very strong product for us and we've seen a lot of client demand.
And we've seen a lot commitments to new products.
And as those get invested we are able to generate some transaction fees on some of those products.
And certainly we have a fairly large pipeline of investment activity in our real estate business that should produce pretty good transaction fees.
And then as well performance fees will also be -- will come in because it's a well-performing product.
So I'm generally quite hopeful.
I think the other parts of the business where you've not seen performance fees whether that's in our private equity business or some of the PPIP products for example those are the things that are probably going to be more weighted towards 2013 and later because we can't recognize those performance fees until there is virtually no opportunity for call back.
But there is a lot of built-up performance fees I would say in those products as well quite significant.
So I'm pretty hopeful overall the next couple of years we're going to see the stepping up certainly off of the 2011 levels.
Research Division</strong> And in terms of the other and G&amp;A line? And the other and G&amp;A line so we definitely called out half of the increase call it roughly $4 million that was nonrecurring.
And those were really related to sort of the step-up in some of the costs of some of our products dead deal costs and other cost of correction type of items that again were really unusual in the quarter and would not recur.
So I feel pretty comfortable that $4 million off of that would be kind of the right thinking in terms of run rate going forward.
Again it's sort of hard to predict quarter-to-quarter exactly what happens but that's the one  that I feel pretty good about.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then just maybe as my follow-up following on what Bill just asked around capital deployment.
I mean you didn't call out any sort of buybacks in the -- for the first quarter and you did that in the fourth quarter.
I know you didn't do much in the third quarter.
So is your hesitation to actually give us a number related to maybe you're looking at a couple of opportunities out there? Or is it just not something you want to communicate at this time and that flexibility? And then just related to the M&amp;A question again you said maybe not anything large scale right now.
But do you think some of the uncertainties out in Europe in particular give you opportunity to maybe get little pieces out of some of the assets that are for sale or maybe even as some people are -- don't know what their future is pick up some teams? Or do you think we need to hold off a few quarters for that? Okay.
I think I can probably answer.
I mean the sort of number of what the buyback could be again I think it's a little hard because the market is moving -- is volatile.
And so laying out a specific number is one that people will remember but it will definitely shift depending on what sort of market you're in.
So it's probably more a percentage of cash flow or something like that metric that is more important.
And I'm saying between dividends and buybacks I think you should look at what we've been doing is sort of roughly in line with how you should be thinking about us going forward.
There may be a topic just between the split between dividends and buybacks that we're going to want to look at how much to dividends how much to buybacks.
But that's really kind of the only science that I think we want to spend a little more time in.
And in terms of the acquisitions no there isn't any sort of hidden agenda here in terms of holding some offer or -- I think you can take us literally what Marty said that there isn't any grand plan or sort of money being hidden off to the side because we might be doing something.
That's certainly not the thought process now.
Our next question comes from Glenn Schorr of Nomura.
Research Division</strong> So definitely take it in this weak environment but all the flows are on the more passive product side.
That's the trend of the world and I don't know if you see that accelerating.
But maybe if you could remind us the fee differential of your passive versus active products.
I know the margin held up.
And then maybe an additional comment on there about incremental margins on the passive new money because my gut is is that's even better than the overall firm.
Yes Glenn I think we do provide some of that detail in our number of pages on our quarterly asset roll-forwards.
And so if you were to look at the passive products for let's say Q4 you're going to see something around 10.6 basis points.
And you're going to see our active being closer to 52.
So that's the general spread.
It can move around a lot depending on what's happening in a particular quarter because the passive products can really generate some pretty good fees.
Some of the ETFs in Canada so far I mean you could definitely see higher fees in some of the ETF products than in the past.
And I'd say the incremental margins are probably very similar to both products it's just you need to generate a whole lot more because it's a lower revenue fee generation level for it to really move the dial.
So we don't really look to sort of grow products that are going to dilute margins.
We really think all our products need to be contributing positively with similar incremental margin characteristics.
So again I think we -- we like our passive products we think they're great.
We're very pleased that we have great capability there.
And it is a trend that I'd say probably has some legs to continue.
But I mean certainly early days are showing some of the active product beginning to take hold.
Too soon to call it a trend but January has generally been I think more favorable to active products than passive.
Just adding to that I can just tell you what we're seeing.
So where our client is interested in and as you would imagine the risk -- the balanced risk asset allocation products multi-strat very very interested in that.
Our real estate products globally whether they're global REITs REITs direct real estate very very interested in that.
Bank loan products.
And then on the equity side you're seeing a lot of interest in our equity income type products quite broadly whether it be DC plans or traditional retail.
And so you're starting to see people move more into riskier asset classes which is a very -- I think it's a very positive and hopeful trend for the market and frankly for us as a company.
Also looking at our -- just the institutional business I mean we're actually seeing a growth in the amount of interest in equity products.
And actually I think it's about 30% of our unfunded -- one but unfunded business is in equities now.
So we're actually beginning to see I think some of the smart money coming back into active equities.
Yes.
And adding to that also the international growth products also seem to be getting quite a bit of interest.
So as Loren said early days but it does feel like investor sentiment is moving towards what does look like very attractive valuations and return characteristics in those products.
Research Division</strong> Good to hear.
One quickie follow-up on the capital usage.
It's great to see the share count shrinkage over time.
Is there anything special on issuance front in the first quarter that we should have in our models that there would be even if you do buy back some stock no net shrinkage in the share count? Well I think we will try to work as quickly and diligently as we can to reduce any impact.
And generally that's been the case in terms of how we've operated.
In terms of the amount of equity issued it can -- you can look to our past history it ranges around somewhere between -- it can be 130 to 180.
I mean it's in that range.
So you can sort of think about that range in terms of equity coming in.
Easy enough for us to go in and eliminate that pretty quickly without it having a major impact on EPS.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just a last quickie is if you look at the full-year operating leverage your adjusted revenue is up 15 and your comp and other expenses 12 to 13.
Is that the right operating leverage thought process in a okay market backdrop as you continue to still build out the capabilities? I mean again it depends.
I mean some of the revenue impacts are performance fees-related.
And there's different payouts for performance fees than there are from management fees.
So again it's a little hard to sort of nail exactly what the right sort of relationship between revenues and compensation.
That's not the way our plans work.
It's not really the way we do it.
So I think the way -- the best way to think about it is sort of broadly year-to-year this incremental margin concept as to how we manage.
Again that's more a result than anything but it is one that's sort of held up in terms of sort of 50% to 60% incremental margins depending on how much revenue is coming from markets versus organic growth.
Our next question comes from Ken Worthington of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> On the direct real estate side it seems like you put a bunch of money to work in 4Q.
So the questions there are how much money did you put to work in 4Q? How does the market environment look for putting more money to work in say the first half of the year? And if you can what's the pipeline the amount of money that's funded but not yet invested or maybe collected but not yet invested? Ken it's Marty.
Let me try to take -- make a couple comments there.
I don't know that we've disclosed all those details or Loren is going to see what he has handy.
But let me just make this comment.
As you probably know it's just a spectacular team.
Our point of view it's one of the very few global real estate teams in the world now literally on the ground around the world with clients around the world.
There continues to be an awful lot of client interest in the direct real estate capability quite broadly and you're even seeing clients in Europe interested in the Asian capability.
[Audio Gap] hoping was going to come out of the transaction the AIG transaction that was done a year ago.
So -- and again the global reproduct the reproduct in particular continues to have a lot of interest and is consistent with the commentary I was making earlier where people are seeking income.
And that's at the institutional level too not just at the retail level.
So it's probably been one of the most active areas in the company.
So I know that's very high level responding to your question without the details but...
I mean I think without getting into specifics I mean it's billions of dollars is what we've got in terms of what is to be invested.
I do think our real estate team is very disciplined.
And so in terms of how quickly they deploy it will be very much is this in the best interests of the clients? And so it can take time.
And I don't have a clear line of sight quite honestly in terms of what's moving and what's not.
That's really in the heads of our real estate team and sort of transactions that I'm not even privy to and shouldn't be.
So it is a little hard to answer exactly how quickly it's going to get deployed Ken I apologize.
But that's...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Worth a shot.
And then on the management fee rate in terms of the fee rate on the active assets excluding the performance fees what are kind of the dynamics that are moving the fee rates around? Obviously like Stable Value has been a big big source of success for you but what are the other kind of dynamics that are impacting that active fee rate? You're hitting exactly on an important question.
So if you go back and look at sort of the effective fee rate at the end of 2007 and compare to the end of '11 it was probably 50 versus 45 during that period.
And the vast vast majority of that movement in the effective fee rate is driven by the asset mix shift as you're highlighting.
There's probably -- so you would then ask the question: so could you expect it to go back to that level? I don't expect it necessarily to go back to that level.
At one point when we did the Morgan Stanley/Van Kampen transaction some of the important long very long history funds have lower effective fee rates.
So there is a little bit of a cap to where we'll get to but that doesn't stop the organization from being able to generate the margins that we have talked about in a growing market environment.
So that's the main dynamic.
Jeff Hopson of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was curious on Europe where there was improvement quarter-over-quarter.
What's been helping you there? And then in Asia it looks like that was -- the flows were primarily on the passive side I guess institutional.
Is that right? All right.
So I mean I think Europe it's a similar topic quite honestly as it is in the U.S.
where we've seen great strength in certain products and we have a multi-asset risk -- balanced risk product in Europe that is flowing very well very strongly.
And so it is really the strength of that.
We've also seen sort of lower redemption rates generally.
So that's been helpful for the flow picture quarter-over-quarter.
What was the second part of your question? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On Asia it looked like most of that was passive institutional.
Right.
So that was largely real estate.
We actually have certain situations where we manage individual properties which we put into passive.
So it's not really a portfolio management function it actually gets into an individual property management opportunity.
And so that's why we put that in passive.
But it's actually got a decent fee rate.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I got you.
Okay.
And in Europe is that -- the sale of that product is that retail or institutional? Both.
Both.
It cuts both ways.
Our next question does come from Dan Fannon of Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess Loren my question would be on the comp.
I'm just trying to get what the normalized level of comp would be x the payouts from performance fees and the real estate.
I think you might have said flat quarter-over-quarter but I just want to get a sense if we think about going into the first quarter next year.
Yes I mean the first quarter has got some interesting dynamics as you know.
We've got payroll taxes that come into play.
We're going to have some of the stock grants and other deferred grants coming in in February that begin to roll in.
We've got some things that are expiring too.
We have some modest increase across salary.
So in terms of thinking about Q1 I think if you look at our Q4 obviously the $6 million performance fees you might have some of that again recurring in Q1.
So it's -- I think if you look more to Q3 as sort of a starting point level it's probably easier to think about what the run rate is into Q1 and forward.
But again it can be very market dependent as to if we continue to see assets do what they're doing it will obviously flex some of the variable parts of our comp which will be helpful.
But again if you're sort of thinking flat markets to end of year Q4 no asset increases sort of modest performance fees I think again sort of the Q3 level is sort of the general right run rate for thinking about comp.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And then the comment around the backlog and 30% being equity base is that quantitative products? And if not maybe give a sense talk about what those products are.
And then also the outlook for kind of the demand around the quant products would be helpful.
Yes it's actually spread across many different equity capabilities so it's not just quant.
Quant does factor in.
Particularly European quant is doing very very well.
But I think there are strong interest in some of the global products emerging equity -- emerging market equity products Asia equity products.
So it is a spectrum of equity offerings that we have that's featuring there.
There's no one  that I'd say points out as dominating.
Just on the quantitative capability again as we've said we've had a very very strong team been together for a long long time highly qualified.
And that was an area just in the marketplace where quant fell totally out of favor '09 '10.
But you've seen with our team in particular the performance has come back quite strongly.
It's done exactly what it's supposed to do.
And there's actually a fundamental bias underneath it so it's not -- it's different than a lot of the quant capabilities out there.
And we are actually -- as Loren said the global quantitative capability in particular is starting to get a lot of interest again and we're seeing net new clients into that capability.
Where if you were asking that question a year ago I don't know that you would have thought that you'd be saying that a year today.
Our next question does come from Roger Freeman of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions on the retail business.
Just looking at flows gross looks like gross redemptions decreased more than gross sales.
And can you talk to whether or how much of this is coming from increased benefits off the Van Kampen deal? And did you move higher on any of the broker platforms this quarter or get into any of the model portfolios? I mean I think Roger the sales probably dipped down a bit.
That was in line with industry trends.
I think so much of our product is equities and equities were as Marty mentioned in significant outflow.
More than we've seen ever I think in this year.
Roger was just talking about the year.
But certainly the quarter was -- we did see a continued pressure on equities.
So I don't think the experience that we're having looked at in isolation is the right way to think about it.
You've got to think about it relative to the mix of businesses we've got.
So it's actually not a bad sales results and we're seeing as I said sort of the things that are really selling strong offsetting things that are sort of not selling as strongly.
And that would be in the -- again the multi-asset product some of the fixed income products.
And then off of that equities were down.
The redemption rate just continues to be a very good story for us.
I think we -- performance is a very important driver of that as well.
Obviously I think the depth of our relationships with our advisors and how we're selling it into those channels is also a factor.
We are very pleased with the progress that we continue to have in all the channels that we're in.
I don't know if there's anything in particular that I'd call out as sort of being fee changing or -- it's just progress steady progress that we continue to have in each of these channels that gives us confidence.
And again based on early results for 2012 again we're seeing -- and this sort of a thesis if people start coming wanting more equity products we'll see the benefit significantly to us is something that we're hopeful is going to continue.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess -- I think you mentioned in the G&amp;A commentary there was a piece of that that was marketing related.
Just wondering off the back of the survey work you were doing sort of measuring your advertising campaign around increasing penetration of the Invesco brand are you working on a new advertising campaign? What's your sort of -- where do you think you stand in terms of brand recognition? Yes.
So the -- we're continuing advertising.
We're continuing to sort of evolve the campaign that's out there.
And where it was -- and whatever the level of interest is.
But it was very much brand awareness.
There is actually now some very specific advertising around the strong investment performance of the organization.
So it's closing that perception/reality gap.
We've got now years of good performance and that is probably not recognized in the advisor channel to that degree.
So that's a focus.
And to be very specific the core -- we like to measure things right? So before we started this advertising campaign we measured where we were.
We didn't even show up on the -- they couldn't find us right? So there was no awareness is where we started.
And as I mentioned about 12 months later something less than that we were certainly sort of top 10 in recognition.
But again that's not where it needs to be.
I mean we think we really need to move up to get closer to 4 5 6 somewhere in that and that's probably going to be a good place to be.
And we would expect that staying on this path with continued focus in that area we should move up those categories.
Research Division</strong> What's your timeframe in terms of goal to get to that 4 5 6? Let's put it this way if you asked me if we would've gone from nowhere to 10 in 12 months I would have said that's not possible.
So I don't want to extrapolate that because I think we'll have a failed outcome.
So it's got to be probably who knows 3 years? And we should make some progress again this year.
Our next question comes from Michael Carrier of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick ones.
Maybe on the flow side you're still in an environment where for the whole industry flows are few and far between.
But certain products you guys have the passives the risk management products the real estate all doing fairly well.
Any like -- when you look at where those products are distributed any increased penetration or new distribution into channels over the next 12 24 months that you see? And then particularly on the real estate side because it seems like in '07 '08 a lot of firms pulled out.
So if you have a good franchise right now you're obviously benefiting.
But just anything from the distribution side where either you can continue to sell those products where you might have some traction relative to peers? You're hitting on -- the 2 areas you talked about are just absolute strengths of the firm.
I mean just pick up on the real estate side it is exactly the model that we've been talking about in the firm for as long as I've been here.
If you have a strong investment capability identify client needs around the world by channel.
And the real estate team whether listed or direct it is literally -- we have clients all around the world in those capabilities.
And the penetration is quite successful already and will continue to be.
So -- but maybe where you're going -- the next question is just this balanced risk capability.
I mean there is no question.
I think we all see it.
If the Fed is halfway correct in their forecast these ideas of balanced risk capabilities multi-strat capabilities over the next number of years and with an income bias in particular they're going to do quite well.
And that is a capability that started in the institutional market in the United States ended up in the retail market and is now in multiple places around the world.
So again you could just see that just continue to probably make greater incremental penetration simply because it's relatively new to the market.
But it's really these -- the equity income capabilities we have some of the fixed income capabilities bank loans et cetera.
I just think -- again we think we're positioned quite strongly for the market environment subject to it changing quite dramatically again.
But it's -- that's how we see it right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then Loren just on the performance fees and then the transaction or the other revenues just so we don't get too carried away.
When you start thinking about 2012 I guess in the first quarter if we think about the U.K.
based on today any type of range that you could give? Obviously performance could change drastically throughout the quarter.
But just in terms of the 24 versus a normal step-down versus what comes out next quarter that was just in the fourth quarter and what could come in.
And then same thing on the transaction side if the flows into real estate continue and so you have to continue to put money to work.
And then you also will have exits and realizations that will drive transaction fees as well.
We've kind of been used to that like 25 30 level but obviously from historical levels that's very very low.
So any kind of guidance or generalities there because I know it's volatile from any given quarter.
It is.
And you're exactly right.
So I think generally the step-up Q4 may be a high point.
So the idea of not extrapolating that I appreciate that because you probably would get it wrong.
I mean I think the idea of 25 is too low.
30 is probably still too low.
I mean 35 is probably the right sort of number.
But again this is sort of very generic forecasting on my part to sort of get you in line.
And then performance fees really I mean for the U.K.
it can have gone from 0 to 12.
I mean it could really move all over the place.
So that one is just binary up or down depending on kind of that day when they take that picture of that performance.
But there are some other things other than U.K.
that will continue to show.
And so I think overall performance fees for 2012 and it's hard to say exactly when and how they all come in could be sort of roughly in line with what 2011 is if not maybe a little bit better.
But that's really hard for me to lay out exactly.
Craig Siegenthaler of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Loren just a question again on performance fees.
Can you remind us what type of asset classes crystallized in the second and the third quarter so have the potential to generate performance fees? Yes.
Historically and again you have to go back a few years we had our quant group were able to generate pretty significant performance fees on a quarterly basis in the second and third quarters.
For us in terms of that particular product performance has significantly improved.
It's still I'd say away from the point where there'd be something I'd say you should start thinking about it for your model.
I think there's sort of things that might hit second and third quarter would be around some other capabilities that we have whether it's bank loans it could be real estate.
And again very hard for me to say exactly when that happens because it will have to do with what is going on in the portfolio at that particular time.
So again those are the harder quarters to really sort of forecast from my perspective.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Then just a big picture question for Marty.
Marty just kind of based on your perspective of what you're seeing in talking to clients in terms of future organic growth punch rates how would you rank client demand over the next several years in alternatives versus passives versus active equity versus balanced? I know it's a difficult question but where do you think demand will trend versus those asset classes? Well I think if you asked me 6 months ago I could have given you more clear feedback.
I think 6 months ago let me -- so institutionally you would have said everybody is going into immunization mode how can I limit downside but at the same -- sort of passive fixed income really locking -- at the same time topping growth because people are just so scared about a market depreciation.
You are now at least the feedback we're seeing you're starting to get the beginning of evolving thoughts.
And I was with one important client multinational client that literally we just -- of the 3 mandates 2 of the 3 were one was international capability one was equity income type mandate.
And the thought of these types of mandate 6 months ago going into pension plans I don't know that I would have thought would have been on the table.
So I think there could be movement again back to some risk assets which I think everybody would have said that was sort of off the table.
But where we are seeing it again back to what Loren said bank loans real estate commodities within it Premia Plus type things so those still are on balance the headline type things.
So I think there is a softening again towards equity products which I would never have told you that 6 months ago.
Research Division</strong> It sounds like really kind of improvement in a lot of alternative classes active equities but still maybe that doesn't catch up to maybe ETF growth.
Well look let me say this from this standpoint.
So we're happy to say we have very very strong ETF business.
We think it's excellent and growing.
So I can say this with -- I don't think the ETFs are going to take over the world.
And I don't think -- my history has been as soon as -- if you extrapolate that into passive as soon as everybody says the world's going passive that's probably the exact inflection point in the market where you start to see people going into active equity.
And that has been at least as long as I've been paying attention to the market that's what's happened.
So I think that's probably a hopeful sign not scientific but hopeful.
Our next question does come from Robert Lee of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Obviously most of my questions have been answered.
Just real one quick one Loren back to the capital management.
I guess the one piece that wasn't really touched on in that was managing the debt side of it.
And you obviously have about $500-odd million on the facility.
I think $260 million comes due in April if I'm not mistaken.
Kind of just update us on your thought about kind of managing the debt of the firm.
And I would assume given current rates there may be an opportunity to refinance the existing debt plus maybe add some of the facility debt to it at a pretty favorable rate? Great question Rob.
So I mean I think again we have articulated that we want to bring the debt down on the credit facility.
We've been doing that.
We've been chipping away at it I think reasonably successfully.
It is something that we will continue to work on.
So that's kind of one point.
I think there isn't sort of this fear -- I mean for us it's just we want to be -- have a strong balance sheet want to have a lot of financial flexibility.
It will allow us to actually take advantage of opportunities if they surface in the future.
And that's kind of the way we think about debt too quite honestly.
I mean it's not debt for the sake of debt.
Debt is cheap.
I mean certainly you go out and raise a lot of debt.
But we wouldn't really raise debt unless there was a reason to raise debt.
And so again I think it would have to be lined up with a reason to need to finance something if it was an acquisition that would be out there.
And for the same reason that debt that's coming due it's $250 million in April.
Probably all things considered -- we haven't made a decision yet we don't need to make a decision.
I mean it could be quite easy for us to let that just sort of retire it and let it roll on to our credit facility and continue to chip away at the credit facility.
So we are focused on definitely returning actively capital back to shareholders the buyback is quite important.
So again there's kind of this confusion about what comes first what doesn't.
I think again the message is a balanced something that's going to sort of work for all parties involved.
And so we would expect to see continued sort of work on bringing down the credit facility over time.
And probably that debt coming due we'd probably just retire.
Again if a transaction came up and it was -- again you heard us talk about there's nothing imminent.
But if something were to come up that could change the dynamics.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And maybe as an adjunct to that of the $730 million of cash and equivalents at the end of the quarter I know some of that you have to maintain for regulatory purposes.
But how much of that do you actually consider kind of available and free outside of kind of your normal -- what you like to have as kind of a backstop so to speak working capital? Sure.
We've said in the past and we still believe strongly that we'd like to see about $1 billion of cash in excess of what is in the European subgroup again to help us have the financial flexibility.
It's certainly in line if not even a little bit less than some of our peers in terms of what they've done.
And again we don't think it's an extreme position in the sense that we saw how uncomfortable it can be when you need capital if you can't get access to it then you're really in a difficult situation.
So having some cash that would be available.
So that would be over time we'd want to get to that level.
Right now we have about $440 million in the subgroup European subgroup of the $724 million.
So what's free and available is about $288 million.
So that's kind of where the number is right now.
But that number can move around quite a bit and actually in the fourth quarter is when it gets to be -- the European subgroup requirement is the highest in the fourth quarter and then it can actually drop down to quite a bit lower because that's really dependent on how the bonuses and the accruals for bonuses get paid.
Let me -- Rob it's a good question.
Let me step back and just sort of circle sort of the big point that we've talked about over the last couple of years in that first and foremost we're going to be good stewards of shareholders' capital.
And as Loren said we're going to in combination through dividends and stock buyback ensure that in a balanced approach continue to get that back to shareholders.
During this past crisis what is a business fact is that clients actually care about the strength of a business.
And if you asked 2005 if clients cared about how strong is the business how strong is the balance sheet it just wasn't a topic.
It is a topic these days.
And we've determined that over time if we get this excess capital or excess cash of $1 billion we think that hits it and we'll have some of the higher ratings ultimately by the rating agencies.
And again we just think it's a business necessity to get to that point.
And I think that's the other color.
But again we'll continue to do very very good things for shareholders so no one should feel that that's not...
Well in the end it's all for shareholders.
Right.
Exactly.
Good point.
Yes.
Our next question does come from Marc Irizarry of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Marty we're hearing a lot about convergence between traditional and alternative product.
Obviously with Wilbur Ross and his businesses there's probably an opportunity there.
How do you think about product in terms of both the convergence between traditional and alternatives? And are you seeing that in your business as an opportunity? There's no question about it.
And I think that's -- people call it different things but the current phraseology is multi-asset strategies.
And I think it's beyond what -- take off the phraseology it's meeting client needs and demands.
And probably for us probably the most interesting of that in most recent years was the combination when we became -- when the PPIP managers of Treasury it was our fixed income team it was our direct real estate team and it was our distressed private equity WL Ross that came together to meet the needs of the treasury.
And we've done versions of that for clients around the world.
So it's really putting together some of our different capabilities through the different strong investment teams meeting these needs.
So it's a realism.
I think it's out there and I think some firms are talking about it others are doing it.
And we have a long history of doing it whether it be having teams like that come together or again through this team that's been together 12 -- more than 12 years asset allocation team that's doing Premia Plus type product.
So it's real we're seeing it and we're doing it and there's probably going to be more of it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just maybe one for both you and Loren.
If you look at fee rates obviously moving lower just on investment management fees.
But the redemption rates I mean it appears that the assets are becoming stickier.
You had mentioned maybe it was performance maybe it was -- maybe it's related to mix.
Just wondering if you could address the sort of trade-off that you're seeing between the asset base that you have today and the stickiness and the fee rate.
And then Loren just in terms of the areas if we are in sort of a lower mix lower fee mix place if you will where do you think you could pull back in terms of distribution and alternatively where are you investing? Picking up on just the so-called stickiness.
I mean at a more subgroup you saw we continue to have a relatively low redemption rate against the industry.
We continue to have -- that sort of extends through institutional clients around the world and I attribute it largely to first and foremost doing what we're meant to do for clients and meeting their investment objectives and strong client engagement and service.
So as long as we're doing a good job we would expect that to continue.
And again I made the point earlier the lower effective fee rate if you look at maybe it was a peak around end of '07 and I think that was the year where the vast majority of that is explained by asset mix shift from equity to fixed income which you would understand with the markets that have been around with one caveat being as equity markets come back we would expect that effective fee rate would increase with that asset mix.
It probably won't get as high as it did just because of some of the very long history of Van Kampen funds that came overhead lower effective fee rates.
But again it's very very strong capabilities.
And I don't know if Loren has feedback.
I think you handled that one right.
Our last question does come from Jonathan Casteleyn of Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Can you talk to remaining capacity in the real estate business on the listed or direct side? I mean realistically should we expect some level of saturation over time or are these businesses that can still call it double from here? Is there still ample room to grow? Can you comment there please? Yes.
Let me make a comment then Loren can.
I mean I think first and foremost all of our investment management teams are driven by generating the returns for clients.
And when they say it's too much it's too much and they'll stop.
And I don't think -- there are natural limitations in different areas.
And again I don't have -- I have not had the specific conversation.
On the direct side there's probably some limitations.
On the listed side there's probably some  limitations too.
So I think extrapolating through the moon is not a good thing but I don't know if you...
Yes I think that's true and I think the good news is with our footprint in real estate in particular the fact that we now have a global capability I mean there is opportunity for us to grow and in certain types of disciplines within direct that we haven't had before as well.
So if we focus on core and value we're now looking at some other opportunity type of funds.
So I think our ability to grow is growing put it that way through some of the recent acquisitions that we did of AIG's real estate business at the end of the year and our success in the region.
So I don't think there's anything that's going to stop our real estate business from continuing to grow.
And I didn't want to leave that as a -- we're not near that story yet.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just quickly on the Canadian PowerShares business.
Can you remind us what percentage of the current PowerShare business it represents? And then maybe the contribution in the quarter was the delta solely contributed to Canadian business in the quarter? It was a very strong ETF result in 4Q.
Yes so I think the Canadian business ETF growth has been significant for Canada in the sense that they've seen a lot of interest in those types of products.
And we had listed some products.
So I think it's probably at the point of maybe getting to $1 billion.
So it's new.
And within the quarter that's not going to be all coming in that quarter because it started before so maybe it's $0.5 billion.
But that is the smallest piece of what's going on with the ETFs in the quarter.
I mean I know people asked and I probably should just let you know.
In terms of in the quarter we had in terms of the Qs -- let me just give you that.
But between the Qs the QQQs and the Deutsche Bank PowerShares product it was $2.2 billion of the flows related to those 2 products.
They can move around.
Just as a point of comparison in Q3 it was about $1 billion between those 2 pieces.
So the thing that's really moving the most would be in somewhat those 2 volatile categories.
Well thank you very much everybody.
We appreciate the interest and the questions and we look forward to talking to you next quarter.
Have a good rest of the day.
Today's conference has ended.
All participants may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to Invesco's First Quarter Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to the speakers for today Mr.
Martin L.
Flanagan President and CEO of Invesco; and Mr.
Loren Starr Chief Financial Officer.
Mr.
Flanagan you may begin.
Thank you very much and thanks everybody for joining us.
I'll speak to the presentation on the website if you're so inclined to follow.
And I'll go through business results and Loren will get into the greater detail on the financials.
And as always Loren and I will address any questions people have afterwards.
So if you happen to be following I'm starting on Slide 3 of the presentation.
To get started long-term investment performance remained very strong for Invesco across the board in the first quarter.
And again we continue to see some areas of exceptional investment performance.
And on the back of the strong investment performance we contributed to a continued trend of positive long-term net inflows for the firm in spite of the continuing volatility in the marketplace.
This is the seventh consecutive quarter of net positive long-term flows for the firm which we think is quite strong in consideration of the marketplace that we evolve and operating in.
And importantly during the quarter we're raising our quarterly dividend 41% to $0.1725 per share reflecting continued confidence in the fundamentals of our business.
And during the quarter we've repurchased 3.1 million shares for $75 million.
Taking a look at the summary results for the quarter.
Assets under management ended the quarter at $672 billion versus $625 billion at the end of 2011.
Invesco continued to generate a strong long-term investment performance for our clients during the quarter which contributed to the net long-term inflows of $7 billion.
This further extended the positive trend that we've demonstrated over the last several quarters.
Operating income rose to $269 million versus $256 million in the fourth quarter last year.
The operating margin was 36.6% during the first quarter again expanding over the fourth quarter operating margin of 35.8%.
Earnings per share for the quarter were $0.44 per share up approximately 5% quarter-over-quarter.
And again Loren will go into a much greater detail with the financial results.
Let's take a moment and look at investment performance and again it's our continued commitment to investment excellence and the hard work to build and maintain the culture.
The strong investment culture has generated this strong long-term investment performance across the enterprise.
And if you take a look over at the firm as a whole 65% of the assets were ahead of peers on a one-year basis and 77% of assets were ahead of peers on a 5-year basis.
And as we mentioned the last quarter the softness in the 3-year number reflects the rolling off of some very strong numbers in the fourth quarter 2008 and a brief period where we trailed the market during that snapback data rally in the early part of 2009.
Based on the strength of the recovery later in that year in 2009 we would expect that 3-year numbers to solidify in mid-2012.
Moving on to flows again strong investment performance contributed to positive inflows in spite of the volatile markets.
And as I've mentioned earlier net long-term inflows totaled $7 billion for the quarter.
During the first quarter we saw a strong client interest in the balanced risk allocation product real estate capabilities ETFs and also in areas such as international equity bank loans munis stable value.
So it was really some broadness in the interest across the organization.
Globally the ABRA suite of product is generating tremendous interest from clients who are attracted to what is a very effective investment capability in this very volatile market.
And also the top decile performance has been generated by the investment team.
And as a result of the strong performance ABRA flows were $3.4 billion during the first quarter.
And this represents a 40% organic growth rate versus just last quarter.
So it's an accelerating level of interest into this investment capability.
The ABRA suite of products that's closing in our 3-year track record.
That is during June that will happen.
And as a result we are seeing more clients add these capabilities to their platforms.
We also saw a solid uptick in ETFs during the quarter as more investors put equity and higher yielding Fixed income capabilities back into their portfolios.
And Invesco Perpetual corporate bonds continue to attract meaningful flows from the U.K.
and continental Europe.
And over the past 3 years assets have grown in the strategy from $4.2 billion to just over $12 billion a threefold increase during that period.
In China we saw increased interest in our Chinese equities capabilities real estate balance asset allocation.
In Japan the Japanese advantage strategy has generated top decile performance over 1- 3- 5-year and has generated strong net sales last year.
And again it looks like a strong pipeline there.
So the point is we are seeing in a really volatile challenging market some real interest in the investment capabilities.
Taking a look at flows by channel.
You can see gross sales across Retail and Private Wealth Management contributed to the positive net flows for Invesco as a whole.
During the quarter the institutional business saw a strong client interest in ABRA product the commodities [indiscernable] product real estate bank loans and stable value.
So again a strong and growing pipeline.
And we saw a substantial increase in the international growth product during this period too.
Wins in these areas were offset by the $1.4 billion liquidation of the PPIP program the treasury program and $1 billion in lower fee fixed income mandate that the client decided to internalize the capability.
The decline in gross sales quarter-over-quarter was largely a timing issue and our institutional pipeline continues to grow and be very strong and growing.
And I just would like to come back to the PPIP program.
It was from our point of view a great program.
We were pleased to be in it.
The team generated excellent results so very good news strategy.
The Treasury was very happy to get the capital paid back at the pace that we did.
And again we came out of it as one of the top managers.
And again what you'll see in the active -- the $1.4 billion out of our active asset categories but for that redemption the results would have looked that much stronger.
So in general we feel very positive about the flow picture.
And in spite of this trendless direction of the market things are feeling quite strong for us at the moment.
Moving on to Slide 9 I'd like to spend a minute talking about the U.S.
Retail business.
The depth and breadth of our investment capabilities are strong investment performance and focused client engagement efforts that resulted in strong momentum in this U.S.
Retail channel during the first quarter.
And in spite of the volatility we saw the combination of strong performance and a number of high-demand capabilities to drive good momentum into the business.
Early I mentioned ABRA and the ETFs.
We're also seeing demand for international growth products emerging markets munis high yields.
So again we're starting to see a broad interest along different capabilities in the Retail channel.
And as a result of the strong demand for these capabilities we continue to see our market share gross sales increasing relative to the market and trending positive over the long term.
The U.S.
gross sales were 32% quarter-over-quarter and redemptions were significantly lower than the industry average.
Ours coming in at 24% versus the industry at 32%.
We still believe we're in the early process of achieving the full potential for our U.S.
Retail business.
The combination of solid performance and the number of high-demand capabilities are driving good momentum and we're pleased with the progress we're seeing.
And before Loren moves on to the financials I'd like to take a moment to update everybody on our capital management priorities.
And a number of you have been long-term holders of Invesco and know the direction of the company quite well.
But it's really -- we have focused very much on the multi-year strategy to grow and strengthen our business.
Our commitment to investment excellence enables us to deliver strong long-term investment performance to our clients.
We worked to enhance the depth and breadth of our investment capabilities and have made successful strategic acquisitions that further expanded our capabilities.
We also worked to further enhance the effectiveness of our global operating platform.
And as a result of all of this progress the depth breadth and strength of our business has put us in a position to evolve our capital management priorities which you'll see on Slide 11.
And has been in the past and has not changed our first priority is to reinvest in our business in ways that enhance our ability to deliver strong long-term investment performance to our clients.
Now in addition the dividends are now featured more prominently among our priorities which should provide a more committed level of return to our shareholders.
This emphasis is reflected in our decision to increase our dividend 41% during this quarter.
We came to this conclusion after a number of discussions with some of our very senior investors here a number of our shareholders good conversation with the board.
And we feel very very good about this direction.
We think it's very positive and reflecting the strength in the organization.
We will also continue the program of repurchasing shares.
And as we've said in the past our goal is to achieve a cash buffer of approximately $1 billion in excess of regulatory requirements.
A key difference is that we have dropped acquisitions from the revised capital management priorities.
All the acquisitions we have made to date have been strategic and focused on enhancing our ability to meet client needs.
By revising our priorities I want to make 2 points very clear.
First we don't need acquisitions to be successful.
And secondly we are not and have not been the consolidator of asset managers.
These revised priorities reflect our confidence in our ability to meet our client needs.
And based on meeting our clients needs wwe're sure that we will continue to grow and further strengthen our capital position over time.
I'll stop there and turn it over to Loren.
Thank you Marty.
So moving onto slide on assets.
You'll see that during the quarter we generated total net flows of $8.1 billion $7 billion in long term and the remainder in money market products.
Similar to prior quarters the aggregate flows reflected continued strong client demand for ETFs UITs and other passive products.
In the category of actively managed assets so we did see demand accelerate as Marty mentioned for balanced-risk but also for other income-oriented products in the quarter.
These inflows however were offset by active equity outflows and also the previously announced $1.4 billion return of funds related to the liquidation of the treasury component of our PPIP fund.
We also saw markets and FX continue to work in our favor in this quarter and they added $39.4 billion in AUM.
And resulting increase in AUM quarter-over-quarter was $47.5 billion or 7.6% giving us $672.8 billion in AUM at the end of Q1.
The average AUM for Q1 was up 5.9% to $658.2 billion.
Moving onto net revenue yield.
I just want to spend a little time with that since it's been a focus.
Our net revenue yield in Q1 was 44.7 basis points.
That reflected a decrease of 1.4 basis points quarter-over-quarter.
The decline was due to the combination of 3 large factors.
The first was due to and the biggest lower transaction fees and other revenues accounting for 0.9 basis points of the decline.
We saw lower performance fees in the quarter and that accounted for 0.3 basis points decline.
And then we saw a reduction in our gross management fee yields.
Now this had a few things going on there.
First we saw our Invesco PowerShares QQQs increase from 4% to almost 5% of our average AUM.
And that accounted for 0.2 basis points of the decline.
And then we had 2 offsetting elements.
We saw a fee expansion through asset mix as equities expanded as a percentage of our AUM.
However that was offset by day count in Q1.
And those 2 effects were roughly about 0.3 basis points offsetting.
So next let's turn to operating results.
Our net revenue grew by $19.5 million.
That was up 2.7% quarter-over-quarter and that included favorable FX rate of impact of $2 million.
Looking further onto the line item you'll see that investment management fees increased $41.3 million or 5.4% to $812.1 million.
And this increase was roughly in line with the growth in average AUM we experienced from Q4 to Q1.
FX accounted for $2.9 million of that increase.
Service and distribution revenues were up $7.9 million or 4.4% also in line with higher average AUM.
And investment management fees and FX accounted for $0.4 million of the increase.
Performance fees for the quarter were good.
We came in at $21.2 million but that was a decrease of $2.8 million versus Q4.
The performance fees were generated primarily from certain of our investment trusts in the U.K.
but also from our real estate portfolios.
Other revenues in the quarter came in at $33.1 million that was down $11.8 million and this decrease was the result of lower transaction fees really due to our private equity business which had strong transaction fees in the fourth quarter.
Third-party distribution service and advisory expense which we net against gross revenues increased by $15.1 million or 5%.
Again this is largely in line with the increased investment management and service and distribution fees and FX increased these expenses by $1.2 million.
Moving on further down the slide moving to operating expenses.
They came in at $467.1 million.
That was an increase of $6.6 million or 1.4% relative to the fourth quarter.
FX increased operating expenses by $1.4 million quarter-over-quarter.
Again getting into the line items you'll see that employee compensation at $313 million increased $0.7 million or 0.2%.
We saw seasonally higher payroll taxes offset by reduced variable compensation cost relative to the fourth quarter.
FX increased compensation expense by $0.8 million.
Again just to remind people as is always the case every year at the end of February the firm provides for salary increases and new deferred compensation awards to employees.
The second quarter will therefore reflect a full 3 months worth of this impact related to these expenses versus only 1 month of impact in Q1.
However this increase should be offset by a reduction in payroll taxes in Q2.
Moving on down marketing expenses increased by $4.9 million or 22.2% to $27 million.
And this increase was a result of higher advertising expenses in the U.S.
and the U.K.
And FX had a marginal impact of $0.1 million on this line item.
Property office and technology expense came in at $66.3 million.
That was an increase of $4.4 million and that reflected higher property lease expenses as well as increased investment in portfolio management and client engagement technology initiatives in the quarter.
And FX increased these expenses by $0.3 million.
And then we got to G&amp;A.
G&amp;A came in at $60.8 million down $3.4 million or 5.3%.
FX had an impact on G&amp;A of $0.2 million but you'll remember in last quarter we indicated a roughly $3.5 million of G&amp;A would not recur and that in fact happened.
So continuing on the page you'll see that nonoperating income increased $8.3 million compared to the fourth quarter.
And this increase was due to the mark-to-market of certain of our partnership investments but we also realized some gains on the sale of C capital the during the quarter.
And then we had the firm's effective tax rate coming in at 25.1%.
That was in line with our prior guidance.
And again going forward through 2012 we'd expect that tax rate to be between 24.5% to 25.5% which brings us to our adjusted EPS which we grew by 4.8% to $0.44.
And then as Marty mentioned our net operating margin expanded about 80 basis points to 36.6% quarter-over-quarter.
With that I'm complete and I'll turn it back over to you Marty.
Great.
So we'd like to open up to any questions anybody might have.
[Operator Instructions]  Our first question does come from Ken Worthington of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> On the direct real estate business how much money have you raised but maybe not invested yet? And how quickly are you putting dollars to work here? Ken we have several billion dollars won but not yet funded real estate assets and that's a pipeline that continues to expand.
It does take a while for it to be invested so it could take anywhere between 0.5 year perhaps even longer depending on the opportunities.
They are patient in terms of looking for the right investments.
But it is something that has been sort of being put to work and continues to be put to work quite at a good clip.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the institutional business I know this is lumpy.
But can you talk a little bit about what happened in this quarter? It looks like redemptions were normal but the gross sales dropped off a lot.
And I think maybe is PPIP on the redemption side that give back to the government? And I don't think you make fees there but was that recorded in the Institutional gross redemption line? Yes all right.
So in terms of the first question there are a couple of factors.
One just generally sales and redemptions quite honestly are lumpy in Institutional and so it is hard to sort of be a straight line progression all the time.
But if you remember there was I think we've talked about it in the fourth quarter about $3 billion of real estate sales that took place.
It was in the Passive side of the business on the Institutional side and this has sort of separate real estate properties that we manage that showed up on the sales side in the fourth quarter.
And that wasn't something that recurs.
So that was about $3 billion.
You take that out it sort of becomes more flattish quarter-over-quarter at least comparing to the fourth quarter.
But in reference your second question yes absolutely the PPIP was and is reflected in the institutional outflows.
And again we think it's a good story.
It was sort of a planned redemption in terms of what we're looking for.
About $1.1 billion of that is in Active $0.3 billion of that is in the Passive category so again just to give you some color.
Overall I'd say in terms of the institutional pipeline just to give you some more color on that I do think it's one that we feel is strengthening and is in fact probably higher than we've seen in recent history and it's broad based so it's across many of our different categories of capabilities whether it's balanced-risk Real estate bank loans global equities.
It's a very very positive story for us at this stage.
And so we feel pretty good even though the first the first quarter didn't necessarily reflect it in terms of the absolute numbers.
We feel that it's looking pretty solid for us.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just lastly the Japanese REIT business obviously beginning of last year was a big big tailwind for you.
In the quarter how did it do? Is it a headwind now? Is it really not doing anything? Where does your Japanese REIT business stand? It's actually doing pretty well.
I would say in the quarter there was $470 million of redemptions related to that particular capability.
That was the net outflow number in the quarter.
The first month April I think it was about $50 million so it's actually at a better pace into the second quarter so we feel pretty good.
Again we don't think that there's this big sort of pent-up desire for redemption on this product.
And in fact we have been very successful in terms of providing this product through a variety of distributors to -- with stickier sort of time horizons than others in that space.
So we think that we have a pretty good situation there.
And quite honestly we're also working with the distributors in Japan to look at other products that ultimately if it makes sense could serve as a way to replace those assets if they wanted to redeem.
Our next question does come from Bill Katz of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First one on the marketing spend how much of that is tactical given the performance and some of the momentum of the gross sales versus more structural given the broadening of the platform? A couple of comments.
The vast majority has been a broad recognition-type marketing spend.
And that is in place it's going to continue.
And as we've said in the past we just know we have work to do to catch up there.
There has been some specific if you want to call it tactical marketing but largely around in the United States around the good performing Equity products the equity income products the International product and we'll continue to do that.
But the vast majority is really broad.
Bill there may have been about $1 million or something related to the U.K.
launches of the global Balanced-Risk product.
So a little bit of tactical and there probably will continue to be a little bit of tactical as we continue to roll out those products.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And so my follow-up question is just in terms of capital management.
So it seems you seems very clear that you're not looking to do anything of size that's not to your liking.
But conversely as you look at your footprint now and you see what's growing and what's not are there other areas that might be pruned that could be reinvested into faster growth parts of the business? Bill we continue -- I mean you've followed us for a long long time.
I mean that has been our history for the last number of years and we'll discontinue to do that and where we feel really good about the depth and breadth of the capabilities around the world.
There are just areas that we would like to get stronger in and we're just always looking at that and that's always what we try to do.
So we'll stay on that path.
Our next question does come from Robert Lee of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Maybe actually a follow-up to Bill's question and will be a little bit more direct.
I mean obviously there's been reports about Atlantic Capital and I've also seen some reports here or there about speculation about you're maybe even looking at the CLO business as a business you maybe no longer want to be in.
So I guess more directly given that you don't have a slide here showing that it had inflows should we be thinking that Atlantic Capital remains as kind of a strategic important business for you? And more broadly is it possible that we could see more businesses kind of be pruned like CLOs and things like that? Let me respond to a couple.
Again first we don't ever speculate on any of these sites' activity.
It is amazing to see the attention here.
But around Atlantic Trust I mean you have seen they have another great quarter of net inflows.
They've done a spectacular job for their clients.
It is a very unique well-run business.
And you can see why people are interested in it.
But again we're going to continue to stay on the path that we've been on with them and they've done a great job.
So we can't say anything more than that.
And again we continue to be very very committed to the bank loans CLO business.
It's done great things.
It's a great team and we see continued opportunity there.
Where CLOs in particular they literally dried up over the last number of years but it is something that -- it of looks like it'd be an opportunity again over the next -- in the coming years.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then maybe just one follow-up.
Would it be a positive on the kind of ETF business a little bit more the Passive ETF side of the business a little more granularity? And sense of how much of the flows there were kind of straight ETF products versus say some UIT products and maybe even the QQQs? No problem.
So of the -- we saw net flows on ETFs broadly of $6.5 billion in the quarter.
$2.1 billion of that was our traditional ETF products at the higher fee.
$4.2 billion of that was the Qs and $0.2 billion were the Invesco PowerShares DD product.
So that's the breakout.
Our next question does come from Dan Fannon of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess focusing on flows here.
If you could talk about first off it looks like Asia you had a change there in terms of going into outflows in the quarter.
And then also within Alternative's you also saw a moderate change and talk about what's the products that are redeeming in both those areas please? So Dan in Asia it was again largely the -- what we saw the U.S.
REIT product go out.
So there was some pressure there.
There was a little bit of institutional outflow we saw in Australia was a factor.
On the Alternative side it was really PPIP.
It was the $1.4 billion that you're seeing there.
And maybe there was what CLO that redeemed.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then it seems like a fair amount of moving parts that you walked through with regards to the revenue yield.
And so just want to think about it going forward all else being equal given the number of days going into the second quarter plus just kind of the movement of average assets.
As I said all else equal we should see the revenue yield kind of move higher here into 2Q? Yes.
I mean I think it won't have the day count impact affecting it again barring any further movement in Qs and so forth which can obviously have some impact.
There would be an uplift of some fee rate into Q2.
And then obviously we talked about the fee waivers falling off which is our expectation still in the second half of the year among some other things that we think will be helpful for the fee rate.
Our next question does come from Michael Carrier of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> First question.
Just on the expenses so it seems like maybe on the marketing and then on the occupancy you guys mentioned some of the drivers there.
But I guess just looking at where we're at currently going forward.
Any items one that will be coming out of there? And then probably more importantly any new initiatives that you're looking at to be picking up? Or are these fairly good run rates going forward? Mike I would say that they are fairly good run rates going forward.
The marketing at current levels I think is probably the right way to think about it going forward.
Property office and technology could see a little bit of noise here and there.
But I do think it's just one of these numbers that we'll be fine.
There's a big moving piece to this so I'll just remind people.
That we'll explain but it's offsetting which has to do with our European infrastructure transformation where we're going to see some properties being exited.
We're going to see an outsourcing of our transfer agencies so -- and then a reduction in salaries.
So you'll see that line item property office and technology increasing through the last half part of the year but it will be offset through some employee compensation as we really moved to the outsourcing arrangements which gets completed at the end of the years but we will explain that.
But again just so you understand there will be some sort of offsets there.
G&amp;A we feel pretty good about so I don't think there's any real need to point anything out there.
Again we continue to try to manage closely and it will depend on what sort of market environment we're in to some extent but based on where we are today they're pretty good.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Then when I look at your flows and going across channels adjusting for the PPIP it looks like you will had flows probably across all of them on products kind of the same thing.
You get inflows across each of the categories and then regions x the Asia you had some outflows in Canada but there's still inflows across.
And the only area that -- it's been challenging for the industry and you guys are no different with being on the active side just fixed income maybe not as strong in equities a bit but in line with industry trends.
But when you look at where you guys are and the products where you're seeing inflows versus where you're seeing outflows do you still categorize it as still just industry trends? Or are there certain products where you're seeing some momentum or you're seeing some improvement in performance where either you could start to see that kind of an inflection point? Obviously it's going to depend on the market and sentiment around outflows.
But just more specific to among your product lineup anything that's turning or changing either that you're seeing? Yes you're asking exactly the right question and we have a conversation all the time not just amongst ourselves but also with clients and I know you all do too.
And as we look at it right now we just start by looking at the depth and breadth of the capabilities.
It's broad.
It's deep.
We like what we have strong performance.
And what you're seeing is still the market unclear investors of what they want to do right? And it's -- we agree with the theme that fixed -- core fixed income is not the place to be in the next 12 18 months.
And the way that we look at this as the flows the asset allocation capabilities getting an awful lot of attention the risk parity in particular.
And that's very consistent in our minds that people starting to move away try to get some greater returns than what we've had while also trying to maintain risks.
And if you see where some of the other folks get the municipal bonds and sort of -- you can see why people are starting to do that for yield but also thinking where tax rates might be going.
Emerging markets we're starting to see some of that also.
And bank loans again very interesting real estate very interesting but that's very consistent with people moving -- trying to move towards generating greater returns.
We personally think the idea that world's passive from now until 30 years from now is just not accurate.
I think this is a very natural evolution.
It's slower than what you've seen in the past which is not surprising continued to the magnitude of the challenge that we came out of.
And if you'll look at our flows you're right.
They're broad.
They're-- we are in net flows across many categories.
But we are still in a position.
If you look at the -- where the net outflows have been it's largely been in U.S.
equity products and that is a real strength of ours.
And when you look at our assets under management we have disproportionate U.S.
equity more so than the industry.
So when people start to move into U.S.
equities we should benefit very very strongly from that because of the depth and breadth of the capabilities.
So again we think the right answer is very hard to pick markets but having a broad set of capabilities are performing well.
You should do well.
And I think that's what you're seeing right now from Invesco.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And this might be -- maybe it's a little too early but just on the -- your restructuring any update there timing just any color there? And like I said it might be too early? Yes I think it's really going to be a second half discussion.
So again I think it is a little too early to have that other than it's on track.
We're doing well.
Everything has been signed in so progressing.
So we do think it is going to help transform our business.
It is just sort of an operational part of the overall transformation.
We have talked about what we want to do in Europe generally and I think we're seeing good traction with the flows.
But I mean quite honestly we pulled back a little bit on some of the initiatives we were focused on because of the market that we were in and it didn't seem to make a lot of sense to significantly increase advertising for example in Europe when people were certainly as an industry not necessarily buying product.
So there is more to come I think on the European story overall that that we'll be happy to tell at the right time.
Our next question does come from Matt Kelley of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could talk a little bit more about your efforts on the Retail side working with different platforms and specifically what products financial advisers are most excited about offering at this point in your discussions with some of the different Wirehouses would be helpful? So let me go through it.
It's a little bit repetitive Matt so I apologize for that.
But what we are seeing as I discussed earlier I mean you can just see quarter-over-quarter gross flows are quite dramatically and it was 32% quarter-over-quarter.
What that is reflective of is the conversation we've been having over the last 12 18 months that lead indicators are getting more products on platforms that's been broadening very very much.
And one indicator might be if you take a look at our what you call it our top 10 distributors retail distributors a year ago 3 of the 10 were in positive flows us on their platform.
At the end of this quarter 9 of the 10 of our distributors were in net flows with us.
So that's a really positive trend.
We are seeing again where we're seeing the flows.
ABRA is this risk balanced allocation because of the marketplace and because of the performance is very very popular but we are seeing international growth.
Small cap adds some good flows during the quarter and municipal bonds high-yield bonds.
So it really is broad.
But disproportionately it's around real estate but it's been around the asset allocation risk balance.
But we don't -- it's just getting broader than anything that we ourselves have experienced.
So again as confidence come back into the market we think we are going to be positioned quite well.
And I just mentioned that we're seeing strength in terms of crossing the independent channel up 23% quarter-over-quarter in terms of mutual fund sales the Wirehouse Channel I think we're up almost 40% quarter-over-quarter in terms of mutual fund sales.
And the broker deal channel 34%.
So -- and then when we look at our sort of rankings within distributors it's pretty much across-the-board that we're increasing our market share in every single name that we sort of have a relationship with.
So again it's just very encouraging.
And then on the platform side the one thing that we're really looking forward to is when ABRA gets the three-year track record and actually get onto -- into models which is going to be an important point to help even further accelerate the interest in that product.
And I think if you step back strategically add some of the things we've been talking about with all of you in our investors is that what we were responding to was a marketplace where advisors were becoming much more sophisticated in dealing with their clients.
And so yes we have a depth and breadth investment management capabilities but they also are using different vehicles to meet those needs.
Yes mutual funds but also the UITs play an important role in some of the advisors that we work with.
As do the ETFs and it's really that broad range of investment capabilities with vehicles to meet the advisors' needs.
And that again is sort of the positioning that you're putting ourselves and we want the -- we want to help the advisors be successful with their clients and that seems to be -- it's gaining some traction.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
The other thing I'd ask you about is on the ETF business I think they're one of the things that I had wanted a discussions about is the revenue margin versus operating margin dynamic.
And I was just hoping you guys obviously there are a lot of moving pieces in your operating margin right now given expenses and flows into different products.
So could you give us a little bit of how you think about the business in terms of the underlying margin associated with the active versus passive side of the business directionally? And how -- what any sort of inflection points might be? Yes.
So I would say that we feel very good about the margin prospects for our ETF business in general.
And firstly the ETF business is sort of hard because there's all sorts of different pieces to our ETF business that we've talked about in the past.
I mean the one that is sort of misleading is I'd say or the Invesco Powershares QQQs right? So they have no management fee but they have a marketing rebate.
And the way I view that is is it's almost a margin accelerant to our traditional PowerShares.
And because it is something that we benefit from that in terms of the broad brand recognition that we get through the QQQs.
And so you put marketing sort of being helped with that product.
In terms of the infrastructure it's all there.
It's built and we're just getting bigger.
And so we've seen margin expansion as we see the operating leverage work for our ETF business.
And I think also importantly we're more focused now than we have in the past in terms of -- an all weather type of ETFs.
The ETFs that will be less sort of specifically thematic and probably will serve across a long time.
And that will help in terms of getting critical mass in those ETFs which is important for our profitability and margin expansion.
So again all those things I would say gives me a great sense that that business is -- it's certainly on par with the rest of our mutual funds business in terms of margins and should not -- we haven't seen price degradation or fee sort of squeezing unlike some of our competitors who are on very commoditized types of products.
So we haven't seen that activity on our products.
So we feel very good about that.
Some of the other products that are passive which would be our UIT business have very fine financial characteristics.
They are launched.
They don't have a management fee but through the launching process there's a very I'd say good fee associated with that.
And so you think about the margins on that.
They're among the higher-margin elements of our business.
So again we feel very good about that.
Some of the other parts of the business that I'd say are passive would really be related to maybe leverage associated with some of our structured products.
And again those can generate performance fees.
And so it's not a big part of the passive story.
It's a small part it's not one that tends to grow that much.
So really the QQQs and traditional products and the UITs and we feel good about those products in particular.
Our next question does come from Cynthia Mayer of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So on the expenses and I apologize if you covered this but how sustainable is the cut in the variable comp? And what drove that? We tend to see variable comp decline a little bit in the first quarter really as an offset to the payroll taxes.
It is not a -- something that we would say is a large number.
If you're thinking about compensation going forward I think it's going to be sort of roughly in line with this quarter based on current levels.
It can move around a bit.
We talked about the offsets of our payroll taxes going down but the a quarter worth of salary increases and deferred compensation.
The other thing that can move it around of course would be performance fees and those are sort of when they were done in the quarter it's reflected in the compensation in terms of bonuses.
And so that number will move around based on levels of performance fee.
And we hope they go up because we hope performances go up.
But again hopefully that's helpful for you.
Research Division</strong> Yes that is helpful.
And on the Retail flows it looks like the gross sales were up in the quarter but they were also up a year ago in 1Q.
So I'm wondering if you can tease out how much of that increase you think was seasonal versus greater traction? Yes.
I mean there's no question.
There's some degree of seasonality in the first quarter so you're right that that's a good comparison.
But just to remind people in the first quarter a lot of the sales that we saw were through stable value types of sales and so that was a much lower fee type of product typically 11 basis points maybe less.
The sales that we're seeing this quarter are not in that category.
They're more along the lines of 90 basis points so it's a very different revenue profile than we saw last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe on the stable value what were the flows to that? I couldn't put my fingers on that offhand right now.
But I mean they were significant in the first quarter last year billions if I remember.
But let me -- maybe one that we have to address offline with you Cynthia.
I mean maybe it's $3 billion is that -- I don't know.
We'll address it offline sorry about that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just lastly just in terms of the fee rates can you tell us maybe what impact fee waivers have this quarter and what the outlook is there? Well the fee waiver impact we had said related to the fund mergers is roughly $30 million on an annual basis.
And so we're obviously seeing that in this quarter.
We'll see it in the next quarter.
It's really going to be in the second half of this year that those we expect would fall away.
Obviously that's still a discussion that needs to be completed with the fund board.
And so I don't want to get ahead of the fund board.
Still things may happen there but that is our current expectation.
So again in the first quarter it would be obviously a part of that $30 million as being reflected there.
Research Division</strong> And money market fee waivers are those improving at this point? Those are not improving or getting worse.
Quite honestly it's a small part of what we see because we have institutional product which tends to be at a lower fee rate 11 basis points.
And so our waivers are not material.
Certainly I think across the year or maybe they're $5 million to $10 million in that range at most.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could just ask one last question just a very general one.
You have a lot of investors in the Balance Risk Allocation fund.
I'm just curious what you think their return expectations are? And what you think to the extent they're substituting it for something they already own.
Are they substituting it for an equity fund a bond fund or an alternative fund? And what do you think the best benchmark for that is? Cynthia I don't have that level of granularity.
I think the answer you're getting some element off the all of that.
And it's really I think how I'd really respond is that the financial advisers are looking at this balanced risk allocation product as just another important tool in the toolbox that they're meeting the investors' needs.
And one of the elements that's important is that there's less volatility associated with it.
And I think one things that's come out of the crisis is that people are less inclined to have the volatility that they've had in the past.
Now I'm sure as years go on and things stabilize that will probably be less of a focal point.
But you're just getting people that are seeking greater returns than what they're getting in the cash accounts and trying to get some greater equity-type like returns.
I mean and I think I'll only say there's a hypothesis which is maybe people who are in balanced products fixed balance products equity versus fixed income maybe going into this type of product which is more dynamically allocated across some more wider range of investment opportunities.
So -- but again that's it's a hypothesis.
It's hard to really sort of say who's redeeming out of what for us.
Michael Kim with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> First question you guys have been pretty good about identifying allocation trends and sort of getting out in front of them so that you have the right strategies in place when demand ultimately picks up.
So just wondering what sort of products or strategies are you currently working on or having the pipeline that you think could ultimately be meaningful growth drivers down the road? It's going to be the iPad 4.
No in all seriousness we're not in a position to have those conversations and we're always looking at -- really we respond to client needs and we really think really what we have out there right now is pretty broad.
And I think we're on the mark but I appreciate the confidence and the thought but no real magic.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then maybe if you could more on just talk a little bit about other revenues.
I know you mentioned the lower PE transaction fees in the first quarter.
But what is the outlook for the kind of deal flow there and how should we be thinking about that line going forward? Yes I think it's one that -- we knew there was PE stuff it's sort of one-off but the biggest piece in that line item or pieces are related to the real estate transaction fees which again we feel good about the growth there.
The UIT business the revenues associated with that business go in that line.
And the UITs had a very strong quarter.
In fact for the industry as a whole I think UITs had the strongest quarter they had in a very very long time.
And we saw that as well.
So I think that that's going to help continue to contribute to that line item.
And so overall I think we think somewhere between $30 million to $35 million is kind of the right run rate level in that space.
It will move around.
I'm not that good that I can actually tell you when the real estate Transaction fees happen and what quarter they happened in but we do think that sort of the overall level will be in that range.
Our next question does come from Jeff Hopson of Stifel Nicholas.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I'm curious in terms of the U.S.
Retail market what are your wholesalers out there talking about? So obviously they want to capture sales and see where the interest is.
But are they talking about equities trying to position for when there potentially is some interest? Yes that's a good question.
I'm really glad you sort of asked that.
I mean I'd say ourselves and I suspect the vast majority of the firms that are doing well are -- the ideas of product pushing is long gone.
I mean I think that's -- and it's much more going into a consultative advice engagement with the clients and is very broad very deep.
And we have not just recently but even somebody asked earlier about if you just look at some of the marketing materials even last year we were getting people focused on where we thought -- that the great opportunities in equities.
And international equities large-cap dividend-yield equity income-type products.
And so we've been on it for quite a long time.
And with the idea of just trying to understand investors' need and where we think the opportunities are and wanting them to be thoughtful moving ahead and not reactive to the market.
And we do it in multiple different ways whether it be through things even PowerShares Universities.
We have -- we came over with Van Kampen of Van Kampen Consulting team that actually is educational sources for different advisors in the marketplace.
We're doing it quite broadly with white papers investment buck pieces.
Having our investment teams in the markets talking to so maybe that's too much information but the real point is we really want to work in partner with the advice channel and having them solve the longer-term needs for their clients.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could follow up.
Your U.S.
Retail business if I assume that maybe it's not an ideal scale can you get there if equities continue to lag? Obviously the allocation products are helping.
But any thoughts on that? Our -- again our focus is on quality not quantity.
And if you look at all of our conversations and all of our focus has really been on generating consistent good long-term performance around a broad breadth of capabilities.
And that's really what and I think we have accomplished.
And if you do that there's no question in my mind in time you will meet client needs and you will end up serving more clients more broadly.
And that's what you're seeing.
And a little bit to the conversation we're having earlier investor preferences will move over time.
And having the depth and breadth of the capabilities it really matters.
And that's what we think we've accomplished and ready for multiple different market cycles.
And we think we're doing very fine right now in a very difficult market.
And if there is a greater sense of confidence by investors we'll just do that much better.
Our next question does come from Craig Siegenthaler of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just had a follow-up question on the economics of the Passive business.
So you did answer some of this earlier but I just want to kind of ask it very simplistically.
So if you have $1 of additional revenues going to Passive and $1 going into Active.
On average I know there's a lot of different pieces there but what is the differential between the incremental margin between the 2? Yes I think it's largely the same Craig.
That's a way to think about it.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And as you move across the passive and you did comment on this a little bit earlier but as you look at UITs Retail ETFs and Institutional passive what is the difference between incremental margin between those stories one higher than the other? So Passive within Institutional? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Again Passive within Institutional I think will be generally at a lower fee rate and perhaps a lower margin.
We don't have that much of it so it's not something that we are positioned for.
We have some but again it's really sort of leveraged.
That's associated with a real estate fund.
We could have some leverage.
We break out the assets associated with that fund into the passive and active pieces.
So it's a little unfair because you can't really have the fund without the two pieces together.
And we've broken it out just because we think it's important for you to see as those assets grow what the impacts are.
But you can't -- I mean it's not really something that we just have leverage right? It's always with the funds.
So passive for Institutional isn't all that relevant I think in terms of the conversation.
It's really the retail side that we've just been talking about which I think is a very fine business with excellent financial characteristics.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a kind of financial question.
The fee waiver step down on the merged funds I thought was June 15.
So roughly in 2Q you're going to have 15 extra days of higher fees and then the bigger step up is in 3Q.
Do I have that right? Because I thought when you were explaining that to Cynthia's question you actually referenced the first quarter? Okay.
So maybe -- I was saying in the second half is when you're going to see the fee waivers fall away and basically you get the pickup.
I was using rough sort of rough -- yes it's spread in so there's a couple of dates.
I think you've probably got those dates generally correct but I think in terms of the bulk of it it's sort of end of June.
Our next question does come from Marc Irizarry of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Marty can you talk just about ABRA a little more in terms of how it could evolve as a franchise for you if preferences remain the same in particular as you get past out of the 3-year anniversary here and you get your 3-year numbers.
Do you think that that's going to become more of an Institutional product potentially for you? Are you going to grow maybe in the DC channel with that product? Or maybe you can just talk about how you see that evolving if preferences stay the same for retail investors? Yes ABRA is a subset of really our multi-asset strategy and we can maybe talk about it more holistically next quarter if that's helpful.
But yes in that context I think it's important to note I mean this is a very attractive product in this market right? Sideways to up market it is obviously been very very attractive.
And as I mentioned earlier if you look at the punch ratio quarter-over-quarter it's 40%.
I mean we had net flows of $1.5 billion last quarter and $3.4 billion this quarter.
So I mean it's really quite dramatic.
And to your point from a franchise point of view if you look at it by channel it was really introducing the Institutional channel at the end of '09 and so recognizing much smaller assets but it was 60% in the Institutional channel 40% Retail.
If you look at it today it's 90% Retail 10% Institutional but it's really just been more of the pace of the uptake and it is through those different areas that you're talking about it makes a lot of sense in the DC plan.
It makes a lot of sense for an individual asset allocation plan.
And that's what you're seeing.
I think also what I would note just from a franchise point of view when we introduced to we're introduced in the United States.
So 100% of the assets is from the United States.
Yet today 30% of the assets are outside of the United States and that is a development.
It's and introduced in trailing the U.S.
And I think Loren mentioned earlier it's just been I don't know a month or 6 weeks ago that it's been introduced in the U.K.
Maybe I'm going to lose track of the time but some of them are months ago into Canada and into what we call our C Cap product that gets it into kind of all Europe and actually in some parts of Asia.
So it's a capability.
It is a global capability and that's what we've been doing with it and there's national extensions off of it as we've talked about whether it'd be a commodities leave which has been gaining some real attraction.
And also the same idea had been introducing an income version of it and that was introduced in the Retail market December of this past year.
So very early but that's exactly -- again this is a subset of the total mall passes strategy capability that we've been on for a period of time.
And it is making an awful lot of sense.
And I think I think it's importantly to note that we do feel we have the depth and breadth of the capabilities are very very strong.
This is a sweet spot at the moment and some of the -- what could you expect? If you have a bull market start to kick in this is going to slow down.
But the good news is where the -- where's money going to go? It's going to go into our various strong equity-type products.
So again it's back to the conversation we're having earlier just broadly being in position to meet investor needs around the world and within channels and that's what this is really representing.
Just know -- I mean it's too late for the U.S.
allocation as an asset class which this falls into is $820 billion in size.
The world allocation piece of that which is what this is classified in at the subset is $252 billion so it's a big pool of assets.
We're obviously I think just touching the surface now.
I think if you aggregate all our asset allocation across what we've got it's roughly $12 billion something like that and growing rapidly.
So we're still at a very small market share of the pretty big pool that is pretty exciting for us.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just Marty your comment on acquisitions sort of falling off or falling significantly lower on the capital priorities what does that say about maybe it's the fact that you do have all the capabilities you need? Or is it something regarding sort of the environment out there with the deals that are out there relative to what you're trying to accomplish? I'm just curious in terms of your sort of commentary around acquisitions sort of falling off the priority list for you? It's probably both of those right? I mean if you look at the company today as compared to 6 years ago the depth and breadth of the investment capabilities are just vastly stronger.
And much of it was done organically.
But by the way the combination of WL Ross or ETS [indiscernable] addition or Morgan Stanley/Van Kampen thing they're really driven by meeting strategically investor investment capability gap.
So there's just fewer gaps right? And yes that's a big message but I think also to your point for some reason it seems that there's a perception that's the bulk that were consolidated.
We've never ever ever done a consolidating transaction.
It's always been strategic and we just don't want anybody confused.
And always our first priority has been to reinvest back in the business and organically improve ourselves.
And -- but again we just want that very very clear in the marketplace.
Our next question comes from Roger Freeman from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just maybe a couple of follow-ups on other questions that have been asked and then maybe following on the capital allocation.
So as you reconsider the mix of dividends versus buybacks obviously your conclusion is dividends are more important.
But relative to one another not having the -- your cash flow statement in front of me last year the last few years as you think about what you spend to reinvest in the business? And then that excess capital -- that excess cash flow remaining how -- a how much of that do you see distributing out? And b the mix? So Roger I think in all honesty how much of our cash flow we use and return will vary depending on the sort of market we're in.
Obviously whereby upping our dividend we're committing -- to a more committed amount of sort of a payback outdoor cash flow.
In terms of what we've done in the past I think it's ranged from 50% up to 100% and it will vary.
But in terms of how we think about it I mean it's obviously within that range as the way you should be thinking about it.
It could be at the midpoint of that range or a little bit lower for us going forward.
But again in terms of just how much we do in a particular year we'll have a lot to do with ultimately how the year sort of plays out.
But I would look through our past history to understand what you should expect from us.
And really it's more business as usual.
All we're really doing here and the way you should be thinking about is just transferring a little bit of what we did in buyback into the dividend bucket.
I think it's all the magnitude.
It's pretty much the same.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay.
Yes that's what I was getting at.
So that's easier.
So okay.
And then secondly on the progress around the Van Kampen integration and new product sales did you have any new product additions on platforms? Or how many did you have during the quarter? And importantly was there anything of significance on the model portfolio front that you've added? Yes I think the ABRA [ph] -- all of the platforms have been marginally placed.
We're still waiting for the big impact on models.
And I think we're really thinking it was going to be one that is going to get into these models once we hit the 3-year number.
That's the one that should have the biggest impact in terms of moving the dial.
But we continue to make progress obviously in terms of the market share.
We've been very pleased.
And it's happening tomorrow.
It's just happening through our sales force effectively working with the advisors at sort of their office levels.
So again we're pleased with the impact in terms of the transaction the integrations done.
We are now really just seeing the benefits of that coming to fruition as advisors and home office really understand our products and us better.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly you made some upgrades to the Institutional sales force a couple years ago.
And it sounds like the pipeline is strong as it's been in a while.
Is that reflective of I assume the incremental penetration you're getting with the gatekeepers? Is that progressing as you thought it would? Yes.
We feel really good about the Institutional leadership and Eric Johnson and the team he's brought on.
And it's just getting stronger and stronger.
And it's a combination of investment capabilities that are meeting investor needs along with a really talented group of Institutional sales leaders.
And I think many of the people on the phone know that.
I mean it just makes a huge difference and they're making a huge difference for us.
Our next question does come from Cynthia Mayer of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to clarify.
I think you said earlier in your prepared remarks something about April flows $3.4 billion but I wanted to clarify that.
No.
No.
Was that from you Cynthia? That -- I mentioned that was the ABRA flows for the quarter.
Research Division</strong> ABRA flows okay.
That makes more sense.
I was going to say that would be unusual for you to discuss April flows.
Yes.
I don't want to break with history.
At this time we show no further questions.
Again on behalf of Loren and myself thanks very much for taking the time and we look forward to talking to everybody in the next quarter.
Take care.
Thank you.
Today's conference has ended.
All participants may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to Invesco Second Quarter Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now I would like to turn the call over to the speakers for today Mr.
Martin L.
Flanagan President and CEO of Invesco; and Mr.
Loren Starr Chief Financial Officer.
Mr.
Flanagan you may begin.
Thank you very much and thank you everybody for joining us today.
I'm on the call with Loren Starr.
And I'll be speaking the presentation that's available on our website if you're so inclined to follow.
And it's our practice I'll review the business results for the quarter and Loren will spend more time on the financials.
And then the both of us will answer any questions anybody might have.
So if you happen to be following on the presentation I'm on the Overview slide.
But before we go into the numbers I'd like to provide a sense of the macroeconomic environment that our business operate in in the second quarter.
Your clearly investor confidence was under pressure with deteriorating economic climate in Europe and sluggish U.S.
growth and even people's perception of the strength of China entered into the psyche of investors.
And in this uncertain economic environment investors naturally were seeking safe havens and acting very defensively like the difference from the first quarter.
We're spending a lot of time with our clients as many are trying to navigate the environment.
But given our broad range of investment capabilities we believe we're well-positioned to provide outcome-oriented solution to meet our clients' needs in this challenging environment.
But with that as a backdrop let me highlight the firm's operating results for the quarter.
I'm on Slide 3 now.
Long-term investment performance was strong across all time periods for the second quarter.
Our investment performance contributed to solid operating results despite of the challenging markets.
Invesco's quarterly dividend is now $0.1725 per share representing a 41% increase over last year's dividend and reflecting continued confidence in the fundamentals of our business.
Return of capital to shareholders totaled $153 million during the quarter.
Reflecting the challenge of the operating -- of operating in a volatile market assets under management ended the quarter at $646 billion versus $672 billion at the end of the first quarter.
Total net long-term outflows were $4.9 billion for the quarter.
Operating income was $249 million for the second quarter versus $269 million in the first.
The operating margin was 35% for the second quarter as compared to 36.6% in the first quarter and earnings per share were $0.41 versus $0.44 in the prior quarter.
Turning to investment performance.
A continued focus on investment excellence and our efforts to build and maintain strong investment culture helps us achieve solid investment performance in spite of the volatile market environment during the quarter.
And as you can see 73% of the assets were ahead of peers on a 1-year basis.
This is the highest number since August of 2009.
73% of the assets were ahead of peers on a 3-year basis and 77% of assets were ahead of peers on a 5-year basis so very very strong investment performance across the organization.
And as I mentioned earlier net long-term outflows were $4.9 billion clearly reflecting the challenges in the market during the quarter as investors reacted to a barrage of negative economic news.
But importantly in the first few weeks of July we've seen a sharp turnaround in flows and we'll talk about that in more detail.
Before I take a look at -- before we look forward let me highlight some of the movements of the flows in the second quarter.
After a very robust quarter for ETFs marketplace demand reversed and investors' sentiment turned towards risk aversion.
Retail asset outflows were composed largely of $2.1 billion and assets related to the PowerShares QQQs and another $900 million in PowerShares DB commodity products.
Traditional PowerShares ETF business continued to be less volatile and saw $736 million of inflows during the quarter at a rate of growth well in excess of our industry market share.
Institutional flows were marked by one-off outflows of $3.2 billion in low fees stable value fixed income assets and global equity assets reflecting the risk off behavior we saw during the quarter.
As I mentioned earlier we saw a turnaround in the direction of flows during July and we're confident of the future organic growth in spite of the challenging quarter.
Contributing to our optimism within the institutional channel is a sharp increase in the number of buy ratings amongst U.S.
consultants on a broad number of capabilities.
Buy ratings nearly doubled over the past year to an all-time high for Invesco and there's still plenty of upside.
We're also seeing very strong RFP activity with a 49% increase in momentum during the second quarter of this year versus the second quarter of the prior year.
Specifically during July we're already seeing strong demand with flows into real estate international growth bank loans balance risks and stable value.
We also saw strong demand in July for Invesco mortgage capital with an equity raise which will result in $1 billion of assets under management.
As importantly yields on the inflows are significantly higher than [ph] the assets that outflowed during -- from the business during the quarter.
Turning to Page 9.
Again the depth and breadth of the investment capabilities are strong investment performance and our focus on client engagement have resulted in solid momentum in our U.S.
Retail business during the second quarter.
U.S.
net flows excluding the PowerShares QQQs remained positive at $700 million were driven by continued market share gains in gross sales and below industry redemption rates were at 25% versus the industry's 32%.
Also very importantly 38 of our U.S.
mutual funds representing 60% of our assets under management are rated 4 and 5 stars by Morningstar.
These funds include U.S.
in International Equity fixed income alternatives and asset allocation.
The strong ratings for these funds combined with solid growth in platform placements are contributing to robust growth in our mutual fund and self-advised business.
While we experienced a modest slowdown from the first quarter our year-on-year growth in the first half continues on a strong positive trajectory after normalizing for the large stable value wins in the first quarter of 2011.
U.S.
Retail mutual fund gross flows were up 28 -- gross sales were up 28% in the first half versus the same period a year ago.
Moving on to Page 10.
Global multi-asset suite of products has generated tremendous interest in clients all over the world to a capability with strong long-term performance and survived high level of protection in a volatile market.
And you'll find the appropriate footnotes regarding the performance in the appendix.
The Balanced-Risk Allocation mutual fund in the U.S.
achieved a 3-year track record and a 5 star Morningstar rating on the load weight basis in June and as a result we're seeing more clients add this capability to their platforms.
As of June 30 1-year performance for that Class A share Mutual Fund in the U.S.
is top percentile and a 3-year performance in top decile.
As a result of the strong performance multi-asset suite flows have moved up very nicely over the period.
With assets growing steadily to nearly $16 billion.
And although we're pleased with the performance of our asset allocation capabilities it's important to note that they represent only 25% of the first half mutual fund gross flows -- gross sales while equities remained the majority at 60%.
And beyond ABRA we've been focused over the past year on broadening the penetration of the risk parity suite which includes the ABRA commodity product and also the ABRA premium income product; secondly strengthening our income suite of strategies in equities and fixed income; thirdly emphasizing our top-tier International Growth products.
And with this as a foundation we're very well-positioned for when the clients begin to move towards equities.
Given the activity we're seeing in July we are cautiously optimistic as it appears clients are easing back into the markets particularly in the United States.
There are a number of reasons for that.
One might be that the housing seems to be lifting itself off the floor.
U.S.
companies continue to perform quite well and there's a growing consensus that the Fed might be accommodative again in the third quarter.
More importantly clients realize that the low level of returns provided by safe havens like U.S.
Treasuries are not going to get them where they need to be earning nominal 1% equates to a real loss over the long-term and will provide growth that the pension funds need to meet their commitments or individuals' need for retirement.
And I mentioned earlier we're spending a lot of time with clients certainly our balanced risk capability is part of the conversation but we're also seeing strong interest across a broad range of asset classes and our very competitive investment performance is helping us win additional mandates from clients -- from current clients and is also attracting new clients to the organization.
So with that even though it has been a difficult backdrop we feel we're very very well-positioned in this marketplace.
So Loren turn it over to you Thanks Marty.
So turning to the financial part.
We'll look at AUM.
So you see that AUM declined $26.2 billion quarter-over-quarter or 3.9%.
That was a combination of the following: market and FX which contributed to $17.9 billion of the decline; long term net outflows of $4.9 billion; and then net outflows from Money Market products of $3.4 billion.
Our average AUM for Q2 was down 1.1% to $651.2 billion.
In addition our net revenue yield in Q2 came in at 43.7 basis points and that was a decrease of 1 basis point quarter-over-quarter.
And this drop was due to the combination of 3 factors: first is lower transaction fees in other revenues and that accounted for 0.4 basis points of the decline; lower performance fees and that had an impact of 0.3 basis points decline; and then the mix net of distribution resulted in the final piece which is a decline of 0.3 basis points.
Let's turn to the next slide and cover operating results.
We're seeing that net revenues declined $24.2 million or 3.3% quarter-over-quarter and that included a negative FX rate impact of $3 million.
Second it's a bit [ph] further.
You'll see that investment management fees decreased $10 million 1.2% to $802.1 million and this decrease was in line with the decline in average AUM we experienced from Q1 to Q2.
FX decreased our investment management fees by $4.1 million quarter-over-quarter.
Service and distribution revenues were down $1.9 million or 1% also roughly in line with our lower average AUM and investment management fees.
And FX decreased this line item by $0.4 million.
The performance fees came in at $15.5 billion.
That was a decrease of $5.7 million versus Q1.
The performance fees earned in the quarter were generated primarily from bank loans and also our Global Quantitative Equity group.
Other revenues in the second quarter were $26 million that was down $7.1 million.
And this decrease was a result of lower transaction fees from our real estate business as well as lower UIT revenues.
As Marty mentioned we saw a lot of uncertainty in the second quarter and this uncertainty adversely affected both of these revenue streams.
FX decreased the revenue in this line item by only $0.1 million.
Third-party distribution service and advisory expenses which we net against gross revenues decreased to $0.5 million or 0.2% and FX had an impact of $1.6 million on this line item.
Moving on down the slide you'll see that our adjusted operating expenses at $463.1 million decreased by $4 million or 0.9% relative to Q1 and FX decreased operating expenses by $2.4 million.
Employee compensation at $306.5 million fell by $6.5 million or 2.1% the first quarter as we talked about before includes seasonally higher payroll tax costs and retirement costs.
So the benefit of these expenses rolling off into the second quarter were offset by a full 3 months worth of salary increases in deferred compensation increases that took effect at March 1.
So the net reduction in the quarter was the result of variable compensation flexing down.
FX decreased compensation expenses by $1.3 million.
Marketing expenses decreased by $0.2 million or 0.7% to $26.8 million.
The entire decrease was due to FX.
Property office and technology expense came in at $67.8 million an increase of $1.5 million.
And that was due to a $1.7 million exit charge for leased space as we consolidated office space in the Chicago area.
FX decreased these expenses by $0.5 million.
G&amp;A expenses came in at $62 million.
That was up $1.2 million or 2%.
We've seen our professional services cost increase somewhat as we prepare for several new regulatory compliance requirements with the onset of new rules such as [indiscernible] ADR and [ph] to name just a few.
FX decreased G&amp;A by $0.4 million.
To continuing on down the page to nonoperating income you saw that that decreased $3.4 million versus the first quarter.
This decrease was due to a negative FX impact on our intercompany loans as well as the noncash write-down on certain seed capital during the quarter.
The terms -- the firm's effective tax rate on pre-tax adjusted net income in Q2 came in at 24.5% consistent with our previous guidance.
Going forward we continue to expect our effective tax rate to be somewhere between 24.5% and 25.5% which brings us to adjusted EPS at $0.41 and a net operating margin of 35%.
So before turning things back to Marty I just wanted to point out additional disclosures that we'll provide as part of our regular quarterly press release and which we hope you will find and our investors will find helpful.
As you've seen in this quarter's release we included a full balance sheet and cash flow statement that fully eliminates the distortive noise of consolidated investment products.
As you probably know U.S.
GAAP forces us to consolidate about $7 billion of our investment products consisting of many of the CLOs we manage.
The impact of these products that we consolidate ripple through all our financial statements and quite often provide a very misleading view of the firm's true financial position.
And we believe that deconsolidating these products from our balance sheet and cash flow will provide you our investors with a more accurate picture of our financial position and will allow for more appropriate comparison with our peers.
For example based on our U.S.
GAAP balance sheet you would think we're a highly levered institution with the debt-to-equity ratio of 70.3%.
In fact that's what Bloomberg fact set [ph] virtually all the other third-party data providers will show because they're using the U.S.
GAAP numbers.
Our ratio without the consolidated product is only 16.9%.
And in fact we have seen an almost 20% improvement in our true debt-to-equity ratios and debt-to-EBITDA ratios over the last year while our operating cash flow in the first half of 2012 has improved almost 200% versus the first 6 months of 2011.
So it's our hope that by going forward and going forward that these new disclosures will provide a more accurate picture of the firm's financial position and that the investment community will see this.
And then I will now turn it over to Marty.
Thank you Loren and we'll just open up to Q&amp;A please.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question does come from Michael Kim of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> First can you just maybe dimension the snapback and flows thus far in July that you mentioned earlier and then sort of talk a little bit about which products or channels are generating those flows? Hey Michael it's Loren.
The snapback has been pretty dramatic.
I would use the word.
I mean I don't like to use such a explosive [ph] hyperbole but it's been pretty dramatic.
So we're definitely seeing something that's much more like I'd say the first quarter than what we saw in the second quarter just to give you a sense of the size.
Obviously we're only into the quarter so many weeks in and so again we're cautiously optimistic that we're going to see a continuation.
It's across many different products.
So it's certainly the Qs you can see those numbers pretty clearly but it's not just the Qs.
It's definitely across some of the real estate bank loans RDR that we talked about so it's across many many different categories and geographies so I would say as well.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just thinking about retail distribution as IBR continues to broaden the fund's reach particularly with the 3-year anniversary.
Is there maybe an opportunity to showcase some of your other funds as you have these discussions with the gatekeepers? Or is this something your wholesalers are kind of already out there doing? Mike let's just say you're talking about the ABRA not the IDR right? [indiscernible] L.P.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's right.
I was trying to make that point.
I think very very importantly just come back to a couple of comments.
One if you just look at gross sales in the first half of the year the 20% of the sales are represented by the ABRA suite -- the 25% by the ABRA suite; 60% still are represented by our equities.
And if you then look at the ratings as I said 38% of our retail funds representing 6% of the assets are 4 and 5 star rated.
And we have for over a year been focused with our distribution partners a broad range of our capabilities our flagship funds the equity income products the international products the high-yield munis so a very very broad range of capabilities.
And I think that's very important just from I think -- by the way you're asking the question.
We think it's the right thing to do for clients.
And we have a very very strong range of opportunities for the different firms and we're very very focused on that.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally it seems like you're more focused on streamlining the franchise.
So just given the potential for regulatory reform and the outlook for rates how are you thinking about the Money Market fund business these days? What's the argument here for continuing to kind of absorb the fee waivers and the outflows? Mike I just -- one point I would say the fee waivers that we've had to -- now that we've had with our Money Market has been minimal probably about 5 maybe a little bit more million for a full year.
So because we really has been mostly institutional basis.
And in fact we're seeing repo rates improve.
And so the fee waiver topic has actually been a little bit alleviated generally for the industry I would say just in this -- coming into this quarter.
And obviously the outflow that you saw this quarter I think was a little bit of anomaly.
I think it was 1 client who -- there's a lot of specific sort of 1-client activity that caused some of the outflows.
Generally we think that the Money Market business will continue to grow x any regulatory overlayer topic that's still a very important product for institutions and they're using them.
And I would just add from where are we in this first and foremost it's -- the money fund product is an excellent one.
The other forms the SEC put in place in 2010 they are absolutely working.
There is clear evidence of that.
There is -- you could be responding to a lot of noise from the regulators right now about further reforms.
And again we and the industry continue to make the very ballad and accurate comment that the reforms are working.
It's a great product.
It should stay in place.
And as you can see from the other recent public comments from a number of the SEC commissioners they are also uneasy with moving forward with further regulation and something that seems to be working very well until you have to give these reforms more time to continue to improve make them successful and to have a robust cost benefit analysis.
So again if you could just come back to us specifically our money front team is very very strong.
And we think it's a great product and it's doing good things for clients.
So we're happy where we are.
Our next question does come from Michael Carrier of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Marty you hit on some of the unusual items just in the quarter when we look at the flow number.
And maybe a little additional color.
It just seems like when you look at the overall performance things are good and particularly just given this environment and relative to a lot of your peers.
And so when you look at where the outflows were coming from is it more product-specific? Is it more certain clients? And probably more importantly are there some of those trends you know that you're likely to continue to see or like you said in July you've seen a pick-back up in activity but just more like the outlook like is there still decent demand in some of the products versus what you saw in terms of some of these anomalies in the second quarter? Yes it's a good question so let me try to refine my comments.
So I believe that the world is going to exist.
I believe that the markets are actually going to ultimately be positive and that there will be greater clarity of confidence for investors to move forward.
Every time that we have these scares right we're still coming out of a crisis period where clients seems to be they get scared they stop.
And so you saw in the second quarter really this fear enter into clients again and not just retail but also institutional clients where they stopped a number of decisions or they would make a risk off move.
And so our basic view is you have to separate that from what we're trying to point out is the underlying growing strength of the business whether it'd be the broad deep investment performance of the organization the buy ratings the number of buy ratings being increased the number of RFPs that are being picked up.
So when you look at RFPs buy ratings there is definitely a movement towards people wanting to make decisions.
They know they can't be earning 1% in a cash product.
And so it's really when confidence is in place they'll move forward.
Then if you look just specifically for us and again I think it was an area where you had a big stable value decision where a firm decided to go to a Money Market fund from a stable value movement out of a big global Equity decision was a risk off type decision.
So again so they look exaggerated in a quarter when people continue to make these strong moves risk on risk off.
I personally think we have a couple of big topics whether it'd be Europe or our fiscal situation in the United States.
But I think frankly you can see the end of the tunnel in looking into next year.
Pretty good outlook.
Another thing I would add is -- I mean all these things are pretty chunky right? So things come in things come out.
They really do sort of create some noise within the quarter.
I think as Marty said when things get volatile things slow down in terms of coming in you'll tend to see more coming out but on balance the stuff that we see on the horizon big chunky things coming in by far outweigh stuff that might go out.
So I'm not saying things don't go out things will go out still but far and away the stuff coming in that we're seeing is well in excess of those elements going out.
So that's why we're confident.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Loren maybe just on a couple items just in terms of the waivers not in the money fund but just on the core funds that you're likely going to get that benefit.
Just wanted like any update on that.
And then just some of the items that tend to be more volatile like the other revenue line or anything in expenses that stood out this quarter that might not be recurring.
So our waivers I mean good news is that's going to happen and so you'd expect to see that starting.
Well it's always happening.
So we're looking forward to seeing that improve our revenue yields into the last half and then going forward.
The other revenues that you said was probably the biggest surprise.
Not -- it wasn't really a surprise in a sense that we've seen in the past and where when markets get volatile transactions slow down and sellers become less willing to sell and buyers become more cautious.
And that's kind of what we saw.
We think that that will recover somewhat.
But again I think we need to sort of be realistic that it could remain at somewhat lower levels into the last half of the year depending on what sort of market we're going to see.
But I would be hopeful that we'll see some left off of the current number being closer to high 20s 30s as opposed to mid-20s.
So that's something I think it's hard to model.
I couldn't tell you exactly what to put in there other than I'm hoping it's going to be somewhat better.
Given -- certainly given what we are seeing in July.
Generally there seems to be a lot -- slightly better mood in terms of the markets.
So I think that's the kind of one part of it.
In terms of the expenses I think we highlighted that we're sort of a one-off $1.7 million exit charge obviously that would not be recurring.
I don't think there's anything that I would say is particularly noteworthy in the quarter that I need to point out as being unusual or sort of falling away or coming in.
Your next question comes from William Katz of Citi.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First one just you mentioned that you're seeing nice pickup in both the RFP as well as some of the number of consultants that have you on their recommendation list.
Can you talk a little bit about maybe some of the dimensions that's driving qualitatively the increase obviously very good development? Let's see.
So from a qualitative point of view I think Bill it's a combination of consistent good long-term performance like that.
That allows you to have a conversation with consultants and clients right? That's the prerequisite to it.
Then at the same time over the years as the consultant team has now been in place probably 1.5 years and they are dramatically improved from what we've had in the past.
And they are very very capable and they are doing a very good job connecting with the consultants.
And then thirdly I'd say just from the RFP pickup separately from existing clients or new ones it's really frankly again just the combination of the performance of the firm the stability of the firm and the range of capabilities of the firm.
And I think those are really the quality the factors that are ultimately driving what we're seeing.
Now with the RFPs being much higher I mean obviously we still have to win them but I mean it's a very different -- and the same thing just gaining a buy rating doesn't mean -- buy plus rating doesn't mean you're going to get the business but they're absolutely prerequisites for success.
Research Division</strong> Just on that is there a way to qualify I mean what your win rate might be among those RFPs and what's the lead lag when you get onto a consult -- a new buy recommendation perhaps? So I don't have the win-loss ratio Bill.
But so and again this is probably from the lead times to conclusion.
I mean they just tend to be quite a bit longer institutionally right? And they can be a couple of quarters just because that's the timing that the meetings with the different consultants.
And again I just want to reiterate as important it is to have the buy ratings in place.
It doesn't mean necessarily that you're going to -- it's going to be a dramatic uptick in flows in the next quarter.
Research Division</strong> And then just one last question.
Obviously very well-positioned with the risk premium platform broadly.
Where do you think the industry itself stands particularly in U.S.
retail in terms of adoption of the product? It's obviously been a strong product for a bit of time now.
Is there any ease or letup that you're seeing in any of the distribution channels away from the allocation or is that still sort of full speed ahead? No it's full speed ahead.
I mean I think what we've talked about in the past Bill and I think everybody on the call would realize -- it's -- what's been abnormal about it is that it's usually you need it through your track record before you move forward and it's been great success prior to a 3-year track record.
And yes frankly because of quality of the team has been together so long I think was something but it was still very unique.
So even post -- look it's only a few weeks post the 3-year track record but all the negations are the platforms.
It was not because of it that they're going to go on and there just continues to be interest.
And I think even more broadly the marketplace the financial advisers are -- there is a broader movement.
I think going forward and I don't think it's a 3-month 6-month phenomenon but by a multi-year phenomenon that we're looking more to asset managers more and more to be solutions providers for them.
And asset allocation type capabilities are going to be here for a long time.
Our next question comes from Ken Worthington of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> You changed the head of the retail distribution with Peter Gallagher.
Can you maybe talk about what he brings to the table? And obviously the goals are better retail sales but what are maybe his more specific mandates in improving and growing the retail business? Yes.
So I wouldn't put it necessarily around an individual.
There are a number of changes that we made during the quarter and frankly what it was more of a response into the marketplace evolving.
So we just see a much tighter integration between marketing sales product development execution and so a number of the changes were much more reflective of trying to match up that way.
Peter is obviously a very important part of that driving the sales component very talented been with us for many many years.
And so we think again we're responding to strategic directive in the marketplace and we have -- it's really building on success and we think we've been effective over the last number of years and we think this approach will make us even that much more effective.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Kind of on the same line the Van Kampen performance numbers looked particularly good.
And as you think about kind of market conditions changes that have happened at Invesco and distribution over the last couple of years how do you capitalize on that? How confident are you that you can capitalize on that or is this just kind of a situation where market conditions are still really the real driver here and it's always nice to have better performance than worst performance but it's hard to have conviction that this can turn into a turn in sales even if it persists for -- a good performance persists for a while? That's a good question Ken.
So here's been our approach.
They are very strong performing.
There is a market condition that is adverse to equities generally.
That said what have we been doing and we have been doing it again for over a year is that what we're focused on what's the right answer for clients.
And looking at how should the clients be positioned into the markets going ahead.
And that we frankly are concerned that you could get -- a client could end up upside down they're -- have too much money and Fixed Income products and we really think a broader allocation into equities equity income-type products yes and Fixed Income and so we have had a program for over a year with head offices.
And again head offices understand this they're working it very hard but so are we.
So our conversation is not a single threaded [ph] fund.
It is a broad range of capabilities of which I will call our flagship funds.
And yes Van Kempen the Equity Income-value type products are an important part of that have been a part of that dialogue.
And again we are thinking that we are probably going to be closer to that being attractive again for individual investors than not.
So we're not going to let -- we are not ignoring it and we think it is the right thing for clients and we think it will ultimately do very well.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then for Loren just a little one.
For the bank loan performance fees is there a payout here or is there any component of compensation associated with that element of performance fees? There is Ken.
There's a small percentage usually performance fees could be 15% comp paid out but it can range up to 50 so it depends on the area.
I don't want to get specific about what our bank loan group gets paid.
But yes there is a comp element.
Our next question does come from Jeff Hopson of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Could you maybe drill down a little bit from a geographic standpoint and give us the highlight lowlights in the U.K.
Europe and Asia please? You talking about for the quarters? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Outflows in the quarter? Because we -- all right.
We certainly do provide some detail in the back and I think it's in the presentation.
So we saw sort of outflows across most of the regions other than Continental Europe if I'm correct here.
And we -- some of the one-off things that Marty talked about rippled through the geographic elements the stable values will be a U.S.
phenomenon.
There were certainly some -- we talked about in the past in terms of the U.K there was 1 placement 1 platform placement that adjusted the amount of corporate bond product that we had so that was probably the biggest piece of what was going on in the U.K.
Canada is actually an improving story.
I would say that the outflows continue to get less and we're seeing more growth in sales and the performance I would just highlight we didn't talk about it.
It continues to improve significantly across the time frames that people care about.
So I would say Invesco Canada Trimark product are all sort of really on the right trajectory to say that we're seeing improvement here.
The Continental Europe positive flows were off of a lot of the balance risk product and also some of the Fixed Income product.
And then in Asia we saw some outflow really was one capability.
That was really saw [ph] Australian equities an that probably limited.
So that's not something that's going to recur.
So it's a one-off thing around each region.
Generally good strengths across all the regions if you back those pieces out.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on Premia Plus in Europe and the U.K.
I think the U.K it was just more recently added.
So the question is how significant are the flows outside the U.S.? And would you say that that can ramp up? So outside the U.S.
the biggest elements would be in Canada and in Continental Europe.
I think within -- the biggest one will be Continental Europe out of the 2 right now.
I think that was probably somewhere around $500 million within Continental Europe for the ABRA product and that's one we think we will continue to grow and we do think that one on Canada will continue to grow.
The U.K.
is pretty new.
The introduction was just happened at the beginning of the year.
They've spent some time introducing the product.
I think that it'll take more time before it will take -- and get traction but it's one that I think if you ask the U.K.
team they're very optimistic that it has a lot of potential to grow but it just takes time.
It took a lot of time in the U.S.
It'll take time in the U.K.
Now we recently introduced it into Asia as well I think in Japan.
That's also pretty new so it's going to take some time there as well.
But overall I think there's a lot of demand for this product.
It's one that is our hope bowl [ph].
See [ph] what will happen in Continental Europe will also happen in each of the regions.
Our next question does come from Daniel Fannon of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess Loren first just in regards to kind of buybacks in capital and you paid down some debts this quarter.
I guess how should we think about kind of the mix going forward for the remainder of the year? Yes I think we did about half in buyback and half in dividends.
I think we have said we're trying to make dividends the bigger feature in terms of how we return capital.
So we didn't do that.
Dividends will be more of the future going to the second half than buybacks.
I'd say in the vacuum obviously we do pay attention to the stock price.
We do look at opportunities.
And so we don't have some sort of formulaic approach to how we would do buybacks so we will take advantage if we see an opportunity.
So again I think we're -- our interest is probably still pretty high in terms of buybacks just generally because the price seems depressed and relative to our level of optimism.
There's a disconnect there.
But we are obviously going to be disciplined in terms of how we use our capital and then return capital and we do have some desire to continue to work on the credit facility which picked up a little bit in the second quarter.
So I do think it's going to be a balanced approach through the second half.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then I guess one of the other segments you talked about was real estate in terms of pickup I think in July.
So does that mean you're basically deploying more capital in terms of investment activity picking up? Well I think in terms of the level of new fund launches and the things that were supposed to happen in the second quarter that didn't that got pushed in the third quarter that stuff is happening now.
And so I'd say we feel very optimistic about the pipeline there on real estate.
I think generally in terms of the speed with which they are deploying capital I think may still be at a slightly lower level than what we've seen historically.
But in terms of the interest of the products and the win rates and the RFPs that is going very strong.
Our next question does come from Roger Freeman from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I guess on ABRA.
I think I heard you say it's been about 25% of flows year-to-date.
I'm wondering if that curve is steep and I think the flagship one hit it's 3-year performance margin in June.
I'm wondering if you've seen any acceleration on that yet or is it too early? Roger well it's like the day after that 3-year record we got I think 2 huge -- 2 large platforms that came in.
So it definitely had an impact and I'd say we do think it's going to have continued impact going forward.
We obviously got the Morningstar rating too.
It took a little later after we got the 3-year record.
I think there is going to be some advertising promotion around the 5-year.
We've got a 5-star rating what [ph] waived on that product and so that probably will also help accelerate the knowledge of this product which is again pretty new on the scene.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And broadly on the U.S.
retail new equities mutual fund complex just the redemption rates obviously are still below industry norms but seems to pickup slightly versus the industry staying flat.
I'm just wondering as we think about the Van Kempen and they continue towards synergies around that and getting on new platforms.
Has that at all plateaued? Do you have new products that were launched or platforms that launched in the quarter? Or is it just more a function of product mix and how that played out? Roger I think it's going to be mostly a function of existing product mixes.
I mean we have merged a few new product -- a few -- there was some other fund mergers and there's definitely some closed and fund mergers that took place.
So I don't want to say that everything's completely done because we still have a little bit of activity that completed and needs to get completed by the Q3.
But I'd say generally it's not about new products and new positioning.
It's really just execution on the existing set of relationships that we have.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly on the institutional side you commented the -- as you look out the wins exceed the losses is that not almost always the case? And as the lead time obviously on new wins has to be a lot longer than what kind of warning you get when money is going to come out.
And I'm wondering if maybe you can answer that and somehow quantify like on a weighted basis thinking about what odds you think you have of winning in a business that you're prospecting right now.
How that compares to say a year ago? I mean how much is that up? So if I'm understanding the question as I said the RFP activity is up quite dramatically period-over-period along with all the buy ratings.
And to your point yes we -- probability weighs in all these different types of things and I would not have the confidence to publish those by any stretch of the imagination.
But I think you're also very much on the right point where we also like any good organization you're always trying to pay attention to the client.
And when you have a topic whether you're relatively underperforming or a client is going through a rethink of the asset allocation you're engaged in those processes.
But by the way the least transparent bits of information you get are when you're going to be terminated.
And they can literally happen and that's where we just said very imperfect information.
I think that's probably broadly across the industry.
We're trying to stay on top of it but it happens very specifically and that would happen again the sort of past quarter right? It's literally driven by 2 things.
Recently I'd say recently over the last 1.5 years it would be de-risking within portfolios and all of a sudden liquidity-driven-type reallocation.
So again we try to get better and better at it but again that is the hardest part of the whole thing.
Our next question does come from Craig Siegenthaler of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> As we look over into the third and the fourth quarter can you help us think about performance fee potential composition just in terms of seasonality because there some products that only payout in certain quarters.
So just which products have the potential to payout in the third and fourth quarter? And also maybe help us think about which of these products are at high-water marks or above high-water marks that could actually generate fees? So I guess in terms of things that would payout in Q3 I think there is an emerging hope I would say on our side.
That we're going to begin to see more Quant [ph] performance fees.
We saw some small performance fees.
Their performance is really dramatically turned and so I'd say they're moving closer into the territory where we might begin to see performance fees coming back on that capability.
Still too early I'd say to clear that but it's sort of if you remember it features a lot in our prior performance fees historically and then it stopped for a while.
So that's some kind of one element.
But Q4 you'd see the U.K.
and you'd see Atlantic Trust as 2 elements.
The products and our network business might trust that is generating performance to MLP product is doing well.
It's above its benchmark and so it certainly at this point if you were to stop the music and you see a nice performance fee there.
But it's very volatile.
So again it's hard to predict and hard to forecast.
The U.K.
would also have some amount of performance fees.
It tends to be more of a first quarter than a fourth quarter event.
And then real estate is another element that could definitely show performance fees.
We've seen some good performance fees coming from real estate.
I think we would hope to continue to see performance fees coming from real estate could be Q3 could be Q4.
But the performance is very good there and so that would be another place.
Bank loans can also generate it as I mentioned and we saw some of this quarter but that's usually it's is some [ph] sort of a wind down of an existing CLO sort of rolled into another one.
And so those don't happen all the time but when they do you can definitely see those fees come in.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Great color Loren.
And then just on the Van Kempen Invesco Inc.
[ph] Fund Mergers June 15 was one of the numbers you talked about previously but can you talk about the potential for pickup in fees and revenues in 3Q versus 2Q? And just help us think about if some of these actually close maybe a little bit later how we should think about the step up in fees.
Well I think we've said that fee waiver was sort of $30 million annualized.
That was kind of the impact and so we'd see sort of coming in $7.5 million a quarter in revenues Q3 versus Q2.
So that'd be the numbers I'd point to.
I think that's largely directionally correct plus or minus.
It's probably not much more complicated than that.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And if I can just ask one more.
How should we think about the run rate of alternative flows you've had kind of 2 weak quarters in a row here but then you have some potential drivers some areas that are actually raising assets.
How should we think about kind of how alternative flows should trend over the next few quarters here? Yes.
It's a good question.
So when we think about alternative flows we have to sort of pull into various pieces.
Some of the noise that you've been seeing in terms of the outflows have been related to the Deutsche Bank PowerShares products which are the commodity products.
And so commodities were [indiscernible] out as Marty mentioned I think $0.8 billion or something like that or $0.9 billion in the quarter.
So that can sort of run plus or minus depending on what people are doing with in thinking about commodities.
The real estate is another piece.
And as I mentioned I think that's one that will continue to run.
We did see a little bit of slowdown in terms of acquisition activity meaning the funds acquiring new assets just because the volatility in the markets.
We're hopeful that that will sort of lift a little bit into the second half which could help flows come in because we don't recognize those commitments until they translate into investments.
So we think that will help.
We saw some private equity come in this quarter.
That probably is not something that would continue.
Obviously that was related to just the fund 5.
And then bank loans it would be an area where I think we would hope to see more activity.
We've seen a lot of interest sort of emerged in Asia and other places for this capability.
It's one that has been put on buy-plus ratings with our consultants and so we think it is sort of in a good position because we are one of the market leaders in that space right now.
Our next question does come from Glenn Schorr of Nomura.
Research Division</strong> It's Kaimon Chung in place of Glenn Schorr.
I just wonder if could comment on the new rule by the Europe Securities Market Authority that's going to eliminate securities lending profits for funds operating in Europe.
What's potential impact for IBC and maybe additional commentary on other rules on the EPS? So for us it's obviously very European-focused topic.
And so 2 levels.
One we don't have a lot of exposure in European EPS so it's not applicable.
But secondly just as a practice that's not what we do.
So if we securities lend all the benefit goes back to the funds which we think is frankly appropriate.
So there'd be no impact to the firm if this rule took place in terms of lost revenues or P&amp;L.
Our next question comes from Robert Lee of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the Perpetual in the U.K.
I'm just curious big important business for you and can you maybe talk a little bit about some of the trends you're seeing there.
Are you seeing kind of similar trends there maybe you've talked about with some pickup in the U.S.
and the U.S.
retail business but maybe just give us an update on that business.
Yes so obviously a very very strong business.
We have a couple different factors going on so maybe the macro environment in the U.K.
being a little more pessimistic than the United States.
That is a driver on flows.
That said strong equity performance and obviously traditionally through the equity income products but also importantly the Asian products has been very attractive.
The global equity product is something that we're feeling very very strong about in the area too.
The Japan products there's a range of things emerging there.
Earlier we talked about in the beginning of introductions of multi-strategy asset allocation capabilities early days there.
We anticipate doing more in that area.
We think that same phenomenon is going to be emerging in the United Kingdom for a handful of reasons some of the same reasons here in the United States but also coming out of RDR the regulatory developments in the area.
So we feel we're positioned very very well in what is a difficult macroeconomic environment but also broad regulatory change in that area also driven by just the strong strong strong investment reputation of the firm.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I mean are at all much risk at that business -- you have a lot of good things going on in the U.S.
in the retail business.
I mean any concerns that that's going to somehow be like a drag on overall results just given the more pessimistic environment there? No.
Look I think it's in the strongest position I would argue in the U.K of almost any firm.
Worst case we're top 3 but I think again I think we just could not be better positioned.
I think maybe what you're getting into Rob is that the economic environment is so bad that people take their money and put it somewhere else.
And I don't know that the banks are -- I think it would suggest the opposite.
Actually people putting money into the funds away from the banks.
One thing I would just mention is that a lot of the teams in the U.K.
are now managing assets that are being sold into Europe actually into Canada into the U.S.
now.
So there is a flow of assets that are coming in not just from the U.K.
that is going to support positive flows for that team.
Our next question does come from Cynthia Mayer of Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just a couple of questions on PowerShares.
Could you talk a little bit about what you think ETF flows in industry-wide to slowed in 2Q given the volatility went up? And also there's been some discussion on other calls this quarter about ETF fees and market share gains.
So I'm just curious whether you see any fee pressure for PowerShares into the extent some of the bigger players in the industry lower fees would PowerShares feel a need to do that? So let's see.
Just on the more some of the macro things that you're seeing on the fee side so we largely do not compete in traditional commodity-type areas.
And that seems to be where there's a lot of the fee pressure.
We feel we're positioned very very well and really leading position.
We have a fundamental unique aspect-type alternative ETFs.
We continue to see our market share actually increase in those areas.
And it's going to continue to increase as best we can tell.
So we think we're positioned very very well there.
And again this gets -- it's interesting to watch ETFs from a sentiment point of view when I think what you saw in the second quarter was when the risk off element came on what you saw happened was much of the flow start to move into Fixed Income quite dramatically beyond the typical asset allocation into Fixed Income in the area and we are seeing the exact opposite happen in ETFs moving into July.
So again it's probably going to be for everybody the most volatile area because they're using such different ways and people responding to exposure.
I'll also just mention that what we saw in the Qs Deutsche Bank PowerShares tend to be lower fees lower economics.
So it's not one that I would say is totally material to our P&amp;L even though generally big headline numbers.
Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess just a quick follow-up to that is RDR an opportunity for PowerShares or do you think it's really more pertains just more to Perpetual and positioning Perpetual for that? Cynthia that's a great question and actually our team is actually spending time on that too.
And we just think again one of those strategic topical things that we are focused on.
That said at a more macro level we feel as disruptive as RDR is going to be a firm like us which from all the information we see is the most highly recognized investment firm in the retail market will do very fine in a move to RDR and brand recognition's going matter an awful lot.
And to your point Cynthia the fact is before -- advisors were not necessarily sell ETFs in the U.K.
because they weren't [indiscernible] -- there wasn't any way for them to get paid but to do so.
So with RDR which says that essentially the client is going to pay the advisor directly for managing their account.
There is a way now for the advisor to get paid to use ETFs whereas before it really didn't exist.
And so I think it is the potential for an opening of ETFs in the U.K.
that we have not seen in the past.
Our next question does come from Chris Shutler of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just one big picture question I know that you guys have said in the past that you'd like to develop a bigger presence in global and international funds and we obviously saw that you're going to be leveraging the asset allocation team to do that with the new fund in the next couple of months.
But just hoping to get a little bit more of additional color around what you're doing to increase your exposure to those areas.
Yes.
So again we have a range of existing very very good capabilities.
The one probably most well-known to you is -- and others is the International Growth capabilities into Emerging Markets also just world-class team that'll continue to do very very well.
Loren talked about the quantitative team and it's really a fundamental quantitative capability and their global capability.
It's long and it's a very good track record and it's traditionally operated in the institutional markets and frankly more successful outside of the United States than inside of united states so we see that as another opportunity for us.
And again when we talked about a little bit earlier the Invesco Perpetual Global Equity capability global income Equity capability is one that's coming on a 3-year track record and we think obviously a very very strong team very very capable.
So those are areas that we think we have a lot of room for us to be just much more successful in total as an asset class than what we have been.
So to your point we have very strong existing capabilities that we just need to be more successful with our clients.
Our next question does come from Matt Kelley of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So Marty you gave some good color on clients -- institutional clients and specifically pension funds.
So realizing the returns aren't high enough in treasuries and you said when confidence comes back in place potentially the outlook looks better heading into next year.
So I'm just curious to get a sense from you as to how you think the ramp-up in risk-taking will take place for these clients? Will they gradually increase risk or are these clients that you think could move from treasuries into alternatives? Or where on the scale of risks do you think they go first? It's great question because I think Matt it's sort of all over different right? And -- but let's talk about it.
I think where you can start to see it already and we've seen bits [ph] over the last 18 months.
It's broadly what you would say I'm talking about investors generally you see them first move into ETFs and probably risk on type ETFs then to equity [ph].
So that was something we saw probably over a year ago all of us as an industry.
Where we then start to see the natural progression so you're seeing in credit.
Actually you're seeing in high yields a U.S.
phenomena high-yield munis is another area strangely -- I shouldn't strangely but yes uniquely has an opportunity there.
But then again something we've just been talking about really we think is core for us our Equity Income-type capabilities.
We think that is -- there is a very strong bias towards a little bit back to the future Equity high-yield dividend-type capability.
So our diversified dividend products the Van Kampen value products we talked about having income.
So we see that as going to be an area along frankly with international and emerging markets within it.
So that's really the progression.
So then when you then get into the pension plan where our DB plan it's going to be slow-moving and quite frankly the consultants are advising clients to really de-risk I personally question that.
I think that's -- feels -- it's a day late and a dollar short and really missing the whole point of it.
That said what we are seeing -- that's not all consultants but some of them but what we are seeing actually within some of our DC plans are they are adding where we've seen and again this might be unique to us I don't want to suggest it's industry-type thing but yes we are seeing more additions of our international products and our U.S.
Equity products again with sort of the more dividend buys to them.
So I don't know if that's helpful.
But that's what we're sort of seeing.
Research Division</strong> Very helpful.
And then just one follow-up for me.
I understand the value proposition for Premia Plus and obviously you guys have a very strong performance track record there.
When you're talking to new clients there what's the explanation for how the performance has been as strong as it has and are they asking that question or do they fully understand the -- how the products been able to outperformed benchmarks by so much? Yes.
I mean this is just core to what we want to do as a firm and I think everybody as an industry it's absolutely incumbent upon us to make sure the clients understand what the product is and what it isn't and what type of returns you should expect in different types of market.
What clients are responding to in a very real way coming out of the crisis it's the fundamental idea of allocating risk.
And so it doesn't resonate right? So if you allocate risk they can understand that more and it resonates quite nicely with clients and it has a place and it has a nice place next to traditional whether it'd be loan only Equity products or more traditional asset allocation-type capability.
So it is -- we spent a lot of time on it but by the way this is where I'd say the home offices of the distribution channel is doing excellent job the consultants frankly doing an excellent job and we're focused on it too and I think it's a nice positive evolution for the industry.
The one point it's interesting I mean so the market we're in which is sort of [indiscernible] this product does very well because it really does have sort of a balanced approach in terms of its exposure and so it's not taking a huge outside bet [ph] on equities coming back or Fixed Income.
I think the point that we've said is there is big Equity rally we probably will see this product slow down because it will not perform like an Equity product.
And so I mean it is right now the perfect product in this type of market.
We hope we don't stay in this market forever but to the extent we are this product does seem to have the right legs [ph] to continue to appeal to people.
And let me just make one more point and I've said it earlier today and I'd said in the past but I think importantly it has been very strong performing product onto itself.
It is a suite of capabilities that we built out but also what we spent time with clients on is understanding what their needs are and putting forward a broad range of solutions of which this is one component and we have been for an extended period of time looking at the same combination with a diversified dividend capability or an international capability or if it's individual maybe a high-yield muni.
So I think that gets back to the heart of who we are of a firm with depth and breadth of investment capabilities.
And again we keep talking about performances.
If you look at the that that's the good performance 1 3 5 years those are really what we think are foundational for ongoing success for our clients which means we as a firm and then obviously very importantly shareholders will do very well by that.
Our next question does come from Marc Irizarry of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just on fees just given everything that you mentioned Marty about the institutional well it looks like more institutional strength than maybe a little more data [ph] on but maybe coming a bit more through some passive product.
How should we think about the outlook for fees? And maybe I don't know Loren if you can give us also an update maybe on Wilbur -- on Wilbur Ross and sort of what we should expect -- should we expect a step-up in the second half from fees from Wilbur Ross fund? So just generally on fees I think we as you and everybody if we can look at the effective fee rate as an indication of profitability.
But I think importantly effective fee rates doesn't necessarily translate to profitability.
So I think that's really getting to the core of one of the topics.
The institutional fees tend to be lower but there's awful lot less cost associated with the institutional capabilities so the profitability is still very very attractive to us.
So we don't see that being a topic and then frankly within maybe we're talking about using what ETFs for short and for passives as we just continue to grow profitability will be supported there and we would imagine increasing profitability if our ETF business continues to expand.
And on Wilbur Ross fund close just to be clear I mean we did see the fund closed this quarter so that the total raise I think it was about 2.2 but within that 2.2 there was the fund itself.
The partnership was about $640 million just to be clear.
That's the one that has 150 basis points in terms of what you're going to see on those things.
There was a separate account that was raised alongside that which was fee raising so total of about $1.2 billion.
There was about $1 billion that was coming in through co-investment that we're not going to see fees on.
So in terms of the modeling the biggest number that has an impact would be the 640.
Now not all that came in in the quarter.
There was about 190 that came in because some other of those assets had funded earlier.
So 150 basis points on the 190 is probably the biggest impact in terms of modeling for your purposes.
Research Division</strong> So does this core include the catch-up or is there sort of the catch-up in...
It's small catch-up a pretty minor because it was not a big coming in.
So I think about 1.5 million or 1.3 million something like that was the catch-up so not material.
At this time we show no further questions.
Well thank you.
And perhaps Loren and myself wanted thank you very much for your time and engagement and look forward to speaking to everybody next quarter.
Have a good rest of the day.
Thank you.
Today's conference has ended.
All participants may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to Invesco's First Quarter Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to the speakers for today to Mr.
Martin L.
Flanagan President and CEO of Invesco; and Mr.
Loren Starr Chief Financial Officer.
Mr.
Flanagan you may now begin.
Thank you and thank you for joining us today.
And for those of you in the Northeast I hope you and your families have made it safely through the storm.
I would like to recognize and thank our employees in the Northeast for going above and beyond to deliver for our clients throughout the storm.
And as always our focus is on their safety.
And as the case many of them had to work remotely because they couldn't get into the office and they did work very diligently during the storm for the benefit of our clients we appreciate that very much.
And I'm sure that this appreciation is the same for all of you within your organizations and I know it's been a difficult time.
So on the call today with me is Loren as was just mentioned our CFO.
And as is our practice first of all the presentation's on the website if you're so inclined to follow it.
I will review the business results for the quarter Loren will go into greater detail of the financials.
And as always the case Loren and I will answer any questions that people might have.
So I thought it might be helpful before getting into the numbers is to really provide a sense [ph] of the macro environment that we're operating in and that we were operating in within the quarter.
And although the markets during the quarter were generally positive lately we've seen signs that investor confidence is under pressure again.
And it's a variety of factors that are contributing to this.
It's the deterioration in the economic environment in Europe some continued softening in China although it continues to be a very rapidly growing part of the world.
But here in the United States uncertainty over the fiscal cliff negative news that's coming in from abroad is really keeping investors on the sidelines.
And again this week the weather in the Northeast did not help any of that investor confidence.
In this uncertain market environment what we've seen is advisors and consultants are focusing on managing risk as a major topic.
We recently completed a survey with advisors in the United States and 65 of them responded saying that managing risk and wealth preservation were the predominant philosophies for managing client assets.
So again people are in a very cautious position still.
And as you would expect the emphasis on risk management for preservation of wealth is driving them into yield-oriented capabilities and multi-asset capabilities many of which are continuing to see positive flows across the industry.
Invesco is well-positioned ahead of this trend and it's really the broad suite of income capabilities and multi-asset capabilities that we have for our clients that is responding well to these needs.
So moving on let's take a look at the third quarter and some overview comments.
Long-term investment performance was strong again across all time periods for the third quarter.
And delivering strong investment performance to our clients contributed very solid operating results.
And as we mentioned during the last quarter we saw early signs of a turnaround in flows in July.
And building on that early momentum net flows grew to $11.7 billion for the quarter.
And this was amongst the strongest net flows in the history of the company and most robust net flows since -- we've experienced since the second quarter of 2010.
Invesco's quarterly dividend is now $17.25 per share representing a 41% increase over last year's dividend and reflecting continued confidence in the fundamentals of our business.
Return on capital to shareholders during the quarter totaled $118 million.
And during the third quarter we did take advantage of a number of opportunities in the marketplace to further invest for the future of our business.
And let me hit on a couple of those.
And as many of you know we currently have a presence in India through the enterprise support location in Hyderabad and also with WL Ross &amp; Co.
having a location there also.
We plan to build on that presence and it was really by acquiring a 49% stake in Religare Asset Management and creating a partnership in India for us.
This move will enhance our presence in an important and growing market and will expand again our comprehensive range of investment capabilities with these investment capabilities that Religare Asset Management bring to us.
During the third quarter we continue to build out our market-leading multi-asset capabilities with the addition of a multi-asset team in the United Kingdom.
In the next year we look to introduce capabilities into the marketplace that again will very much extend and complement the multi-asset capabilities that we have across the organization globally.
We continue to invest in the brand in the United States.
And where our awareness and brand equity score is now among financial intermediaries has risen to 10.
And just 2 years ago we didn't even show up in the results.
And as we said we do think it is very important for us to generate a level of awareness and brand equity in that marketplace.
So good progress is being made there.
If we move on and take a look at the summary results let me start there.
And it's really driven by very strong net flows of $11.7 billion during the quarter.
Assets under management rose to $683 billion during the quarter up significantly from $646 billion at the end of the prior quarter.
Operating income was $250 million versus $249 million in the second quarter and the operating margin was 34.1%.
Earnings per share were $0.42 per share versus $0.41 in the prior quarter.
So a very key metric -- key metrics around investment performance and distribution were among the strongest they've ever been for the organization.
And as a result employee compensation rose in the third quarter driven by strong sustained investment performance and near-record flows.
And as we said for some time a major focus for the firm is to reinvest in the business and build on our strengths and to further enhance our competitive position which we think we've done during this quarter.
We also took advantage during this quarter of opportunities in the market continue to invest in our investment capabilities our brand global platform and in our people in ways that we think again strengthen our business for the long term.
Before I turn it over to Loren let's take a look at investment performance.
And as you know we have an absolute commitment to investment excellence.
And our efforts to build and maintain a strong investment culture has helped achieve solid investment performance in spite of a very volatile markets once again.
And as you can see on Slide 7 63% of the assets were ahead of peers on a 1-year basis 67% of assets were ahead of peers on a 3-year basis and 78% of assets were ahead of peers on a 5-year basis again very very strong.
And again we'd like to call out during this past quarter 79% of our U.S.
retail assets under management are currently rated 4 and 5 star by Morningstar.
And that is an all-time high for the firm.
So again a good investment results.
Taking a look at flows during the quarter.
As I mentioned earlier net long term flows totaled a near-record $9.4 billion during the quarter.
We experienced solid growth in our active assets under management with strong broad flows across ABRA high-yield munis alternative fixed income and others.
If you take a look at the passive flows during the quarter they again were very very strong for Invesco PowerShares excluding the Q2 Qs.
Flows were strong and product across low-volatility bank loans and other income-oriented ETFs again very consistent with what we're seeing from a macro point of view in the marketplace also.
But as an example of that of these flows in traditional Invesco PowerShares ETFs were $2.1 billion.
And that represents an annual growth rate of 39%.
So again very very strong results for Invesco PowerShares.
Taking a look on Page 9 at flows again.
And as you recall during the prior quarter we mentioned the very robust institutional pipeline.
During the third quarter we saw good momentum in institutional flows which totaled $2.9 billion.
And as a result a good portion of the pipeline rolled off during the quarter as some sizable commitments funded.
But in spite of these roll-offs we continue to see solid momentum in our institutional business recently that is rebuilding the pipeline to near-record levels.
And if you take a look at how we've done on Page 10 taking a look at flows we're very strong again during the third quarter for the U.S.
retail business.
Net flows excluding the PowerShares' Q2 Qs were nearly $6 billion up significantly from the prior quarter.
Gross sales were up 17%.
Flows into the complex were strong across ABRA munis International Growth and again a number of other capabilities so very broad and deep improvements there.
Redemption rates continue to be very very favorable relative to the industry.
We have a redemption rate of 20% versus 28% for the industry as a whole.
So again very good news.
Taking a look on Page 11.
Globally the multi-asset suite of capabilities is generating tremendous interest from clients.
We're attracted to the capability with the strong long-term performance it aims to provide a high level of protection in these very volatile markets.
The Balanced-Risk Allocation mutual fund in the United States did hit its 3-year track record and a 5-star Morningstar rating on a total return low-wave basis earlier this year.
And we are seeing a growing number of clients add to this capability and putting it on their platform.
As a result of this very strong performance of this capability the multi-asset product suite flows have moved up quite nicely.
Assets under management increased to $20 billion and flows in the third quarter were more than $4 billion up substantially from the second quarter.
So in spite of the mixed signals we saw in the market and the global economy during October we do remain cautiously optimistic about the quarter ahead.
We have a very robust culture that enables investment talent and delivers strong long-term investment performance to our clients.
Our market-leading asset allocation capability is enormously popular and provides a powerful catalyst for future growth.
And we offer comprehensive depth and breadth of investment capabilities that enables us to provide solutions to meet the clients' needs in a variety of market environments as we are proving.
And as you might imagine in this environment we're seeing strong demand for income products.
And Invesco is very well-positioned to meet these needs for clients seeking income with strong performance in these capabilities.
As a result sales of income products -- of our income products in the U.S.
are up 76% year-to-date.
So again I think it positions us very well for the market that we are in.
So with that let me turn it over to Loren.
And afterwards we'll come back to Q&amp;A.
Thanks very much Marty.
Moving to the slide on the asset roll-forward.
You'll see that AUM increased $36.4 billion quarter-over-quarter.
That was 5.6% growth.
It's a combination of the following elements: market and foreign exchange that contributed $26.4 billion of the increase; the long-term net inflows of $9.4 billion; we have net inflows -- the Money Market products of $2.3 billion.
And these increases in AUM were slightly offset by dispositions of $1.7 billion as we sold off some of our European CLO management contracts in the quarter.
Average AUM for Q3 was up 2.6% to 66 -- $667 billion.
And our net revenue yield in Q3 came in at 44 basis points.
This was an increase of 0.3 basis points quarter-over-quarter.
And the increase was due to a combination of the following factors.
The first is product mix and an extra day as well as the expiration of fund mergers related to fee waivers.
And that added 1.1 basis points in aggregate.
We also saw this offset however by lower performance fees in the quarter.
That reduced our net revenue yield by 0.7 basis points.
And also we saw lower other revenues which had a negative impact of 0.1 basis points.
I think the good news however is that our net revenue yield before performance fees was up substantially quarter-over-quarter and that obviously sets us up nicely for Q4.
Moving to the next page.
You'll see that net revenues increased $22.6 million or 3.2% quarter-over-quarter.
That included a positive FX rate impact of $3.2 million.
Looking at this a little bit more closely you'll see that investment management fees increased $37.8 million or 4.7% to $839.9 million.
This increase was in line with our higher average AUM but also in line with an expansion of revenue yield.
FX increased our investment management fees by $4.3 million.
Service and distribution revenues were up by $9 million or 4.8% also in line with the increase in investor management fees.
And FX increased service and distribution revenues by $0.4 million.
Performance fees came in the quarter at $3.4 million represented a decrease of $12.1 million versus Q2.
And other revenues in the third quarter came in at $24.4 million that's down $1.6 million off of Q2.
The decrease was the result of continued level of lower transaction fees from our real estate business.
And again obviously this was a little bit slower rate of transaction fee realization than we had previously hoped or anticipated.
Our third-party distribution service and advisory expense which we net against gross revenues increased by $10.5 million or 3.3%.
And FX increased these expenses by $1.7 million.
So continuing down the slide you'll see that our adjusted operating expenses at $484.3 million increased by $21.2 million.
That's 4.6% up relative to the second quarter.
And foreign exchange had an impact of an increase of $1.8 million on that line.
Moving into the detail.
You'll see that employee compensation probably was the biggest mover.
That was at $327.7 million also increased by $21.2 million and that was up 6.9%.
The growth in compensation as I mentioned required a little [ph] explaining that just given its magnitude.
The increase in the third quarter reflected an $8 million catch-up accrual for the first half of 2012 driven as Marty said by the sustained long-term -- strong long-term investment performance that our teams are delivering.
As you know there's also a certain amount of variability and performance in AUM in the first half.
But given where we are in the year today we're able to forecast our full year results with more confidence.
And hence that's why we took the adjustment now.
The impact of the first half catch-up was roughly $0.015 per share and approximately 100 basis points of operating margin.
There was also a step-up in the run rate of variable compensation in Q3 that reflected about $4 million of the increase.
In addition given the significant increase in sales and net flows in the quarter our commissions were up substantially approximately $4 million versus Q2.
We also saw some other expenses including medical insurance and relocation costs in the quarter that accounted about $3 million of the increase versus Q2.
And then finally foreign exchange increased compensation expenses by $1.5 million.
Moving off of compensation down to marketing.
You'll see that that expense increased slightly $0.3 million or up 1.1% to $26.5 million.
FX increased these expenses by $0.1 million.
Property office and technology expense came in at $69.3 million in the third quarter.
That was an increase of $1.5 million.
The third quarter increase included effects of technology expenses associated with continued investment in portfolio trading and risk management systems across the firm.
FX also increased these expenses by $0.2 million.
G&amp;A expenses came in down $60.8 million.
That was down $1.2 million or almost 2%.
So continuing on down the page.
You'll see that our nonoperating income increased $8.2 million compared to the second quarter and that increase was due to the realized gains of certain of our CLO products in the quarter.
The firm's effective tax rate on pretax adjusted net income in Q3 came in at 25.8%.
The rate was slightly higher than the previous guidance and that was a result of one-off adjustments to our tax reserves.
Going forward we expect the effective tax rate to be back down between 24.5% to 25.5% which brings us to the adjusted EPS of $0.42 and our operating margin of 34.1%.
So I'm going to turn it back to Marty now.
So why don't we open up to any questions people might have? [Operator Instructions] Our first question does come from Ken Worthington of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start with the sales question.
You had particularly strong sales into Fixed Income.
Maybe you can talk about why Fixed Income is flowing so well? And if you could mention Perpetual those products seemed to be performing particularly well.
How are Perpetual sales in particular for the quarter -- Perpetual Fixed Income sales for the quarter? So Ken I think the fact that our Fixed Income is doing well is probably consistent with what you're seeing in the industry.
It's nothing I'd say that's so unique to Invesco.
I think we are very well-positioned particularly around some of the alternative fixed income offerings that we have whether it's mortgage products or our bank loan capability.
Stable value continues to do very well.
The high-yield products and high-yield muni products doing very well.
So we are benefiting from the interest in those types of products.
And we have very good performance in those type of products as well.
And that's a trend that we see continuing into Q4.
And then in terms of Invesco Perpetual product we are seeing really good strength in sales in some of the Fixed Income products particularly as they're selling not just within the U.K.
but also across Continental Europe.
And then the traditional Equity Income products again a sort of mainstay in terms of what people are looking for in the U.K.
are doing very well.
And the performance is extremely strong as you mentioned.
So I think from a competitive position we are feeling good about where we are in the U.K.
in particular.
We're also looking at as Marty mentioned some of the multi-asset capabilities.
And so we think there's an opportunity to continue to expand offerings within the Invesco Perpetual sort of footprint.
And so that's work in progress still too early to say how that's going to go but that's pretty exciting.
And I think I'd add to it.
If you look at some of these macro factors as people are -- as I said it's a cautious environment still.
But if they move more towards credit-type products we do very very well and same thing with Equity Income-oriented capabilities.
Again we do very very well with that.
And if you just use the U.S.
as a barometer and look at where a lot of the Fixed Income flows go in the United States it was in intermediate bond category.
We're still -- that's not playing to our strength right? And so these results I'd say are really really strong when you consider that the world is just starting to move to really where our strengths are.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then management fees rose a bunch this quarter both on the active side and the passive side.
I know there's like a million things that influence it.
But as we look forward based on what you know what is the outlook on both the active and passive side? And obviously you don't know what the markets are going to do or how the mix is going to affect it but there's a lot of other things that you do have insight into.
So what's the kind of near- to intermediate-term outlook if you can share that? So again I think if you agree with the macro observation that people if they do start to move more towards this broad category of income capabilities and to me that's Equity Income capabilities but also you have more credit-type capabilities we'll do very well in that.
And our effective fee rates are higher in those products.
You move into -- if there's a continued appetite for multi-asset strategies which we think is not a short-term trend but a long-term movement in the market we do very very well in that area.
And again the effective fee rate is higher there.
And even within PowerShares where you've seen the movements where people were first starting to get exposure to the equity markets really using the QQQ capability which is a very good capability.
As you know it is -- for us it's really an expense reimbursement-type situation where we had tremendous growth.
And our traditional PowerShares capabilities I said up 39% with again much greater effective fee rate.
So if we agree with the macro theme we should do reasonably well in the quarters ahead.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just a little one Loren on the tax rate.
Usually 3Q is the best quarter of the year for the tax rate being low.
It actually perked up a little bit.
I think if my calculation is correct it was the highest we've seen this year.
What influenced the tax rate this quarter? And again what is the outlook going forward? So the historic sort of benefit we've seen in the third quarter were really sort of statute of limitations on certain sort of tax reserves.
And those got released and so that kind of wound down and there wasn't anything else left.
So it wasn't sort of something seasonally happening it was really specific to kind of certain tax positions that we've had.
This in particular went the other way.
So this was a sort of an increase in a reserve that we took related to Canada.
There's nothing specifically to point out but it was a one-off reserve adjustment.
So we'd say it's easy to -- I mean it's always hard to predict where the tax rate ultimately comes out.
But right now we believe the guidance we just gave at 24.5% to 25.5% is good for Q4 and going forward.
And Ken as I think about your question some more I think it's also very important for everybody to understand.
So this is a more short-term intermediate movement towards income.
We think that's going to be here for a long long time.
But also importantly if you believe the world is getting stronger we are -- again our asset strength are equity capabilities.
And if you look at the performance of our international capabilities and emerging markets capabilities and our domestic equity capabilities they're very very strong.
And that again should bode very very well for the organization.
Our next question does come from Michael Kim of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> First Marty just to follow up on some of your comments on risk management.
I guess one of the reasons behind the strong demand for the ABRA products has been sort of that phase increasingly looking to outsource asset allocation services.
So just wondering if the markets remain constructive and maybe retail risk appetite start to rebuild a bit could you see somewhat of a reversal in that trend as advisors maybe get more comfortable sort of picking their own strategies again? I find that not likely.
But I think what is more likely I do believe these multi-asset strategies are here for the long haul.
And I'd say we're still very early on what ultimately where they will go.
That said you could see the flows being less dramatic than what you've seen and movement much more into again as I was just mentioning international capabilities domestic equity capabilities.
And again I think that's fine.
I think that's -- if it's good for the clients that's good news.
And by the way we happen to match up very very well against that.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then you mentioned earlier kind of the institutional pipeline rebuilding.
Can you just give us some color in terms of where you're seeing the demand? Is it still kind of mostly centered in bank loan and stable value and maybe real estate? Or have you seen any signs that U.S.
or non-U.S.
investors are maybe getting a bit more willing to take on some more risk? So what we're seeing sort of globally it's still largely alternatives some multi-asset strategies fixed income it's broad categories and as you say some of the natural [indiscernible].
There are real estate bank loans and it's more preservation of capital income type.
That said we are starting to see and it depends on where in the world global equities within EMEA is actually getting quite a bit of attention I think which is a good thing.
But there is still an income appetite of really around the world.
Yes.
I would just say I mean we won $1 billion mandate in Germany.
It's a Quant mandate.
It's really very interesting to see that happen since Quant had been largely ruled out as a category for a long time.
And so clearly that's an equity exposure.
Japanese equity is still of interest.
We're seeing wins there.
And then maybe not institutional but Canada by the way just won a $330 million mandate which is across equity products which would include Canadian equities small Canadian stocks global endeavors as a broader equity mandate and then International Growth.
So I don't think equity is sort of a dead category.
It's still not where it should be and where it can be.
But it's certainly still making headway.
And again generally around the institutional pipeline it's been strengthening -- strengthened relative to the second quarter I think about more than 20%.
And then versus a year ago I think it's up substantially I think closer to -- just to get the number.
I think it's 30% off of last year.
So good growth in the pipeline.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just one final one to follow up with Loren.
How does the step-up in the bonus accruals this quarter potentially impact maybe performance fees looking into the fourth quarter and into next year? And then also just any guidance in terms of how we should be thinking about the other revenue line going forward as well? Okay.
Well I mean the bonus accrual was really reflective of where we are today in terms of this performance for the full year and where we think we're going to end up.
But it doesn't include any magic assumptions of the performance fees coming in I mean so it's just a pretty conservative view.
When we forecast forward it's really reflective more of where we are from an average asset perspective.
Generally in terms of performance fees though we do see in the fourth quarter and we have seen in the past good performance fees related to our high net worth business where I think people are all familiar with that they have an MLP product which as a category is doing very well.
And our MLP product is doing even better than the category.
So that could be of a similar magnitude that you've seen in prior years.
And then I think the transaction and other revenues that's one harder to predict.
We thought it would step up this quarter.
It's obviously did not.
We do see a higher level of transactions in the pipeline for Q4 which should mean maybe there's some pickup off of that line item.
But again I think it's real hard because of the timing of these things are very difficult to predict.
And so again I think the run rate of transaction fees and other revenues is probably safe -- it would be safer to sort of take where we are today and assume maybe there's a small pickup a couple of million off of that benefit into Q4.
But that's about as much as I sort of offer up.
Our next question does come from Dan Fannon of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess Loren just to clarify on the comp.
Is the $8 million accrual step-up is that the starting point we should think about 4Q? Or is it -- should that be backed out to kind of as a run rate? So take our current comp.
Obviously there's $4 million of sales commissions as well so hopefully we continue to perform so that might continue that would be good.
I think the $8 million you should back out.
That was definitely a catch-up for the first half and should not be seen as a recurring cost going into Q4.
So take the number and subtract out the $8 million and then you can sort of figure how that might increment up or down based on performance fees coming in or average assets up off of where we were off of Q3.
And again -- but the normal sort of operating margin operating leverage would be existing at that point.
So you'd begin to see margin increasing into Q4 if we stay where we are today in terms of asset size.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And I guess just a clarification as to why we didn't see that in 2Q just in terms of the timing issue the way you think about comp.
Yes I think it's just because of the volatility of performance.
I mean as you know we have risk-on risk-off.
And that actually has an impact on some of our teams in terms of other position from a performance perspective.
And obviously assets were rather volatile through the second quarter.
So again it's hard to really figure out when to make the move.
And then we saw such a large pickup in assets into Q3.
We felt it was obviously pretty evident to make it in Q3.
So again it's part of the difficulty of forecasting to know when to ease that in.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And I guess just thinking about the environment we're in and your guys' focus on margins in an environment where your sales are strong is it hard to think about margin expansion given the kind of the payouts and the way that just works with regards to the compensation? I don't think sales -- obviously the big factor was the catch-up in the quarter.
If you back that out you'd be back at 35.1% margin.
So you'd be back in the 35% and then you'd see step-off into Q4 with higher margins.
So again I think the sales was an element but it's not one that should depress margins normally.
It's just that was one element within the picture but not the biggest one.
Our next question does come from Bill Katz of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just sort of come back to that margin discussion for a second.
If I did my math right and I haven't adjusted for anything other than the $8 million catch-up it looked like you had a 60% incremental margin.
It seems pretty robust in the construct of spending on brand equity as well as the variable [ph] computation rate of sales.
Is that the right way to be thinking about the incremental margin on a go-forward basis? Or are there any other operating efficiencies probably to be kind of anticipated? So yes I mean we talked about incremental margins which again we don't manage quarter-to-quarter.
It's more of a sort of a result as opposed to something we manage to.
And again -- but generally the concept is you'll see a lower incremental margin.
If the market is not helping us you'll see a higher incremental margin.
If the market is helping us because it's increasing assets without having to do a lot of marketing and sales activity and new product development.
So it really will depend on what sort of market we're going into going forward.
I think the range of 50% to 60% is still probably a decent one for people to think about.
And we are still investing in the business and we have intentions to continue to invest in the business.
But again we're hoping to be able to offset some of those expenses by those efficiencies that you suggested we're doing.
And it's a continuing theme for us to look for those across the firm and position our operations in the best location that gives us the best unit cost so to speak of production.
And that's an ongoing dialogue.
We have been talking about outsourcing our transfer agency in Europe and U.K.
and that's going along.
That project is actually probably going to spill into Q1 of next year as opposed to ending this year just because of the magnitude of it.
But that has some nice run rate savings that we'd expect $10 million to $15 million in that range coming off of that.
So all those things are factoring into our thinking to try to develop and deliver margins that will expand even if the markets are flat.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then Marty a quick question.
If you're still curious perhaps a couple things sort of why you're gaining some share in the United States.
But just the conversation on the multi-asset being here for a bit of time can you tell me where that's coming from in terms of what's shifting within the retail distribution? Is it just a shift from product sales? Is it a specific asset class? Is it share gains? I mean what's your sense of what's driving that unit growth? Yes.
It's really very broad Bill.
I mean we're seeing it from retail to institutional and really around the world.
And I think really what it's doing is -- and again it's going to be different in different parts of the world why they're doing it.
But much of it is bringing that capability across different asset classes which is not necessarily inherent I'd say.
I would say it's also the repositioning of really the advisors in the channel where they are much more taking on a broader role and a very constructive role of broader advice and asset allocation and these really work within it.
And as we've been doing some of the capability extensions and to income elements around it and there's elements of commodities capabilities within it so you're really getting some asset class exposure and some constructions that meet the investment needs of the different clients.
So it seems it's going to be here for quite a while.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just last one I'm just curious any update on how [ph] Money Market performed [ph]? I guess there's been some movement to more of a select redemption gate at the board level just sort of curious.
And any thoughts of what you're hearing in the regulatory discussions? Really not so much at this time.
I mean I think yes there are -- there continues to be ongoing conversations within the industry as it had been for the last 4 years.
And again I think it's a very constructive set of dialogues.
And we'll just have to see what the ultimate outcomes are.
But again I feel that the money fund vehicle is a very good one and is going to remain one.
But it will continue to play out I think over the next months quarters and well into next year.
Our next question does come from Matt Kelly of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So I just wanted to come back to the margins sorry for beating a dead horse here.
But just looking at your operating margin versus the overall industry arguably you're at as strong of a point you have been in the recent past for flows and performance.
Do you think your margin relative to peers could substantially grind higher? Like if we're thinking about 35% now is 40% out of the realm of possibility? How do you kind of think about yourself versus the industry-wide margin? Yes so Matt we definitely would not view 35% as sort of the margin that we aspire to or where we're forced to be at.
We would absolutely expect to see operating margin -- our operating margins increase over time as our assets grow and as our net revenue yield hopefully begins to continue to increase and trend forward.
So it's been -- if you go back and you try to figure out what happened to Invesco why margins are where they are I mean we did have seen our net revenue yield decline substantially over the last several years.
And despite that we've kept the assets growing and so margins have probably stayed roughly flattish.
And so that has been the real situation.
For us to be able to see our net revenue yield increase over time will require obviously the continuation of some of these new products with higher fees that are in very significant demand.
And we are seeing that now which is a very positive trend for us.
And we also believe that if you do continue to see equity markets sort of stabilize and maybe improve from here we'll begin to see the net revenue yield increase.
I mean 1 basis point obviously is a huge topic right.
I mean it's $65 million in a year.
If we can sort of continue to see that trend on top of good organic growth margins will expand and we'll see them into the 40% and above.
Yes I agree with that.
And I would also add to it if you do look during this period that Loren talked about So I am going back to '05 and look at operating expenses as a percentage of average assets under management and I don't have the numbers in front of me you'd think I have them indelibly in my brain they have dropped quite dramatically during that period I mean substantially.
And as Bill was asking earlier and others we continue to be very focused on always be more efficient more effective all the time and we do that.
But we are not going to have that magnitude level of efficiency gains that we created over the past 5 6 years.
But again if the same time you just do the math and do -- watch the effective fee rate during that period it dropped dramatically.
And if we had not been as strong as operators as we were it really been a really bad outcome.
But to Loren's point we think there's no reason that we shouldn't start to see the effective fee rate increase based on the capabilities we have and where we think investors are starting to move make their asset allocation decisions and where we think they're going to go going forward.
And you get any wind at your back and it could be quite a good story for the margin.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I wanted to ask you guys about the team you hired from Standard Life GARS in the U.K.
I've seen the press releases about how much they were managing over there.
What are your plans for folding them into your multi-asset platform? Is it going to be more of a new fund? Or are they going to kind of dovetail off the balance risk platform? Or how do you think about that? I don't know if I got the question in total Matt but I think it's what are the plans ultimately.
So they obviously have a tremendous reputation and it's going to be some time before we're in the market with the capability in United Kingdom.
It will be into next year just for all sorts of various reasons.
Initially the focus is going to be a suite of -- around the existing Invesco Perpetual capabilities which again are very highly regarded as -- just your background in the United Kingdom.
And we think that's a very very strong complement to the existing multi-asset capabilities that we have.
And that's how we're looking at this really around the world what can be global and how do we meet some of the local needs.
And we think this is going to be a very powerful one in the United Kingdom.
And from there we'll just see where it goes.
Again they have a great reputation.
We think it's extremely complementary and a part of -- to what we have.
And again it's part of the overall plan that we're trying to accomplish.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one quick last one for me.
Just on the PowerShares platform be curious to get your thoughts for future expansion there.
Do you think you're pretty well set up with your current product lineup? Or any products you think you would be interested in adding or potentially subtracting from your existing platform? And how much associated operating leverage do you think you can get from that platform as well? Well if you look at the lineup over the last couple of years I think the team's done a very good job in sharpening it and both from strategically introducing capabilities and quite frankly winding down some that we didn't think were -- made sense anymore.
So that's from a U.S.
perspective.
And they'll continue to be natural product development over time but it probably will not be as robust as the activity you saw over the past few years in the United States.
What you've seen is an extension into different markets into Canada that's been very successful.
We have some recently good plans into Greater China area in particular.
We think we're positioned very very well there.
And Europe continues to be an area that we're looking at.
It's an area that's gone through -- we've been there for some period of time.
We've not made the inroads that we would have hoped.
But again it's a very very tremendously changing environment as you would know in that part of the world.
But we think we're still early days on where we're going to go with our ETF capabilities globally.
Roger Freeman of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I guess first on the ABRA [ph] products.
I think they were -- you said they were 43% of long-term flow this quarter 25% last quarter.
I think you just hit the 3-year performance benchmarks right before your earnings call in July.
Just wondering if this is a run rate reflective of that or still in the ramp process.
Probably still is right? Yes it's always fun to see exponential growth extrapolated.
We definitely view there -- I mean there's definitely continued demand for the product.
And we -- it's hard to sort of say whether it sort of stays at the same pace.
I mean sometimes we saw it sort of takes a breather and then it comes back.
And so there's probably some degree of seasonality in terms of even how the platforms take on these products in terms of their selection.
And I think October and May maybe times when they start thinking about these things.
So it is certainly something that we think is going to continue to grow.
And even globally we think it's got huge opportunity not just within the U.S.
So I'm not going to put too much cold water on the trend other than just -- I can't say fourth quarter is going to be exactly as strong as the third quarter because that was certainly a very exceptionally strong quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess Marty I think you had mentioned earlier that you have gotten up to sort of #10 on brand recognition.
I think you said that's where you were back on the 4Q call in January.
And I'm just wondering and you also said the hardest part is going up from 10 and really working the way up the ladder.
I'm just wondering where you are in sort of pursuing that.
Maybe you haven't done an updated market survey if you have moved up since then [ph] but just thoughts around that? Yes.
So again we've made great progress from frankly no recognition.
And our view is that we don't aspire to be #1.
We think that would just be -- we don't think we need to be and we don't want to spend the money to be.
We don't think you get that benefit.
10 is an important place mark.
Quite frankly if we were we'd probably think if we're sort of somewhere 4 to 7.
That's a pretty fine place to be.
And so we're going to continue to work very hard to build our reputation.
But again we think the reputation largely gets built by generating very good investment performance.
And it's really recognized leadership through investment performance and we're going to do it.
But don't worry we are not hell-bent on -- we're an investment management organization driving investment results and it's not -- we're not hell-bent on becoming Coca-Cola.
So...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess then just certainly maybe tied to that lastly in retail you pointed out the redemption rates came down a lot.
It did for the industry as well over a number of quarters.
Over the past year you've kind of widened the gap.
In other words your redemption rate has been lower by a greater degree sequentially.
They were again this quarter.
I'm just wondering if the moves are more sort of industry-related with a number of firms are kind of pointing this out.
Or if you're seeing any sort of incremental benefit to that Van Kampen combination in terms of some of the older funds that were underperforming seeing those redemption rates comes off as people move into stronger products.
Just anything along those lines? Yes so I sure hope it's an industry trend for decreasing redemption rates.
I mean I just think it's the exact right thing for clients first thing.
So that's the first place I start.
We have been very fortunate to have our redemption rate be quite low.
It is a combination of again starts with a very strong investment performance across the complex.
There's no question the Van Kampen combination has been a very important one for us bringing in investment talent into the organization and other talent generally.
So that has been a positive also.
And at the same time when you're growing and you have capabilities that are of interest to clients and investing in them those are all 3 add up to a relatively lower redemption rate than that of the industry.
But I would come back to that I sure hope there is an industry trend down because I think that's really good for investors ultimately.
Glenn Schorr of Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Loren are the Van Kampen fee waiver roll-offs fully in the run rate now? I just don't remember where we're at in that process.
Yes Glenn they are.
So that's $7.5 million per quarter is in there.
So that's part of the 24 basis points I think is what that translates to on an annualized basis.
So that's some of the benefits going from -- on our never [ph] yield before performance fees increase.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Cool.
I think you noted it before but there seems to be a real divide between real strong performance in U.S.
equity and then other outside the U.S.
I'm curious a I expect that flows kind of treat the same.
In other words you just have a little bit better flows going on inside the U.S.
versus out.
And more importantly is there a common thread on the investment theme across the non-U.S.
geographies that is leading to the underperformance? So you're looking at some of the charts that show some underperformance in some of our regions? Is that right? Some of our [ph] regional equity? Research Division</strong> Correct.
Slide 20 I think is the best one.
Yes I mean I don't think -- it's hard to say there's one basic theme that captures what's going on there.
I think when you look -- I mean we have some spots of underperformance but they're not connected or related.
I mean the Asian equity bit maybe some of our Chinese equity.
China has been depressed.
And probably the impact has been worse there than people anticipated with our investment team as one example.
But there isn't any theme and Marty jump in if you...
Yes there's one area in particular that there's -- we have a very very good Japanese investment team that in fact they came over from Morgan Stanley during that combination.
They have a very good long-term track record very good investors.
And a lot of their investment focus has been sort of an export-oriented theme.
And it's relative performance has been hurt over the last 12 18 months with some of the challenges in Japan in particular.
But again it's a very strong team but they're the ones feeling the relative underperformance at the moment.
Yes and I also say in Canada which is another example it's a great turnaround story.
You don't really see that in that chart but they're probably performance is going to increase as we get towards the end of the year.
Their whole performance profile has really dramatically improved.
So the 1- and the 3-year numbers look fantastic and the 5 years are going to follow.
So again these probably get everything equal performance to another [ph].
If you did it on the asset weighted basis clearly it's not as equal.
Research Division</strong> Yes it's a single-digit percentage to AUM.
It's just -- that's why I asked the question on if it's a heavier percentage on the flows.
Anyway last question a lot of people dance around the margin issue.
I guess if you decompose this this really comes down to comp ratio where you stand out towards the high end versus a bunch of peers.
And I just don't know if it's something related to pay out either a on the Van Kampen deal; or b just more broadly on how comp is structured.
When you comp yourself relative to the peers are there a few things that would tend you to be on the high end on the comp ratio side? And as this continues to bruise the way you did this quarter does that kind of abate over time as you I guess grow into your strong performance? So I mean what I'd say is I mean we -- the vast majority of our competition is driven by investment teams.
They're the heart of the company in terms of what they're ultimately delivering.
And I think we have a common philosophy that maybe more unique to Invesco than some of our peers in that we pay more on investment performance than we do on sort of a revenue share concept.
And so people who pay on revenue share will have a higher percentage of their comp directly tied to revenue have a different philosophy around how they want to pay their investment teams.
And we think ultimately it's the right thing for our clients to provide incentives that are linked to what the clients want as opposed to sort of something dropping out due to where the markets are going today.
And so that I think is maybe some elements of what's unique.
And perhaps the other element which is again the strength of the firm and one that we feel really good about is that we have many different capabilities across the globe that ultimately give us a better diversified offering to our clients than many of our peers.
And so we should be able to grow more effectively.
We should be able to provide solutions to our clients in a better way as a result of that.
But that's a more expensive proposition than just having one thing which again I don't say our peers just have one thing but we probably have more of capabilities than some of our peers.
Our next question does come from Cynthia Mayer of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I guess just briefly on RDR I think we're in the final quarter before it goes into effect.
And I'm wondering if you expect any impact to this quarter maybe front-loading of sales.
And then when it does go into effect would you expect -- what kind of impact are you expecting at this point in terms of sales and redemptions? If the share class for instance is grandfathered would you expect lower redemptions ahead? Yes.
I mean those are really good questions Cynthia.
We obviously have set up share classes that respond to the requirements to only have a management fee associated with the products that will be flowing.
And so all of the new flows coming in off of Jan 1 2013 will be in this new share class.
But you're right existing assets and products with clients are grandfathered.
So I think the real question that we need to see what the advisers the IFAs do in that context.
And in some cases they may rather just transfer everyone into the new share class as opposed to having the 2 share classes.
But we don't know yet really how that's going to work.
It doesn't have an impact on our business from a profitability perspective one way or another.
We're still netting the same management fee under both scenarios.
It could sort of create some activity in terms of people switching and exchanging but that should not do anything really in terms of ultimately the bottom line we don't think.
So we're watching it carefully.
We're so -- hard to predict exactly what happens.
But I don't think it's going to happen in a dramatic way.
I think it's going to be people are going to take some time to sort of think about how it's going to go.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then maybe just in terms of the revenue yield when you look at your near-record pipeline and you look at the mix of that is the mix of that any different from your current revenue yield? It's better.
It's improving.
So we are very pleased by the net revenue yield coming in at a higher rate and certainly and also the to be conservative [ph] redemptions those are the lower rate.
So we're seeing lower fee product coming out and higher fee product going in and a lot of these alternative products and certainly the balance risk types of products are at a fee rate that's sort of at or higher than our current rate.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just maybe finally I think you mentioned and sorry if you mentioned this already that G&amp;A stepped down a little bit.
Is that G&amp;A sort of a sustainable level for 4Q? We think it is.
I mean we're seeing some of the benefit of the Minerva -- I'm sorry that's the code name of it forgive me.
It's the outsourcing of our transfer [ph] business forgive me for using code names.
But that is -- we're beginning to see some of the benefit of that fall into our G&amp;A line item.
We'd expect to see more.
We said it is something that's going to move into the first quarter.
So the ultimate positive impact of run rate savings will sort of achieve as we get into 2013 but we're going to begin to see -- we're beginning to see some of it in this quarter and some into the fourth quarter as well.
So I think the G&amp;A numbers should stay.
Now the only offset to that is we and we talked about it last quarter regulatory requirements and legal and all these things associated with sort of positioning ourselves in the geographies that we're in is becoming more and more expensive.
And so that's sort of a counter theme to some of the savings that we're expecting to get from this outsourcing activity.
Jeff Hopson of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The balance risk product not sure if you gave us any sense of the geographic breakdown U.S.
versus non-U.S.
and any change in kind of the momentum of some of those products in Europe and the U.K.
All right.
Good question.
So they're going to be mostly U.S.-based at this point.
So as of the third quarter 75% is U.S.
domiciles.
We got 12% in Canada and about 13% in the offshore in the U.K.
So again growing piece outside but it is still the minority.
And that's why we think this opportunity is pretty large that we could -- we obviously do what we did in the U.S.
in these other regions.
It will be truly amazing.
And yes just back in the fourth quarter of 2009 it was all U.S.
So that just gives you a sense that it's beginning to grow.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so is it an issue of track records in those regions or just how long the product's been really focused on? Or what are the issues as far as why it isn't bigger over there and why it could be bigger in the next quarter or years? So I mean let's say for Canada for example obviously the market is only so large.
So it's -- but I mean it's been -- the take-on has been huge.
I think it's one of the fastest-growing sort of capabilities in that space that we're doing very well there in terms of caching a really good flow.
I think outside of the U.S.
it's doing well in Europe.
So I think that's one that is sort of getting fully sized.
The U.K.
is a pretty new concept.
And so there's still a fair amount of education which was the same as it was in the U.S.
And that takes probably a year at least and it was only launched I think in the beginning maybe February or some time.
So there's definitely time that needs to sort of go by for ultimate results to sort of take hold.
But we have good hope that it will and certainly some of the new hires that we have there will also help sort of expand our presence in the U.K.
in terms of all the offerings in the multi-asset sector.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you mentioned about the institutional pipeline.
But any other sense of kind of what has happened here in October in terms of flows across the regions what are investors doing any different I guess in October versus the previous few months? Yes I think it's a little hard to drill down in a particular month.
Probably much better to sort of look at it within core [ph] because what happens in a particular month has a lot to do with just sort of noise on timing and things of that nature.
So I'm just going to defer on that one if that's okay Roger just to sort of -- Jeff sorry to avoid sort of making a statement on the trend that doesn't really exist.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But have you seen any change in behavior I guess of investors generally would you say? I don't know.
I mean obviously there's the macro theme of coming up to election and people sort of being a little bit skittish about where to put their money because they don't understand what's the fiscal cliff going to mean to the market and so.
Yes I mean I think there's probably some sense of a little bit risk off relative to what we might have seen a little bit earlier.
But again I don't know what's going to happen after the election.
Maybe it'll be something else.
Our next question does come from Eric Berg of RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> You talked at length about repeatedly and in detail about the growth of the asset allocation product and the rise of your international business.
But it's also the case that the domestic business at least for the industry U.S.
equities has been an outflow for the industry for many many months.
Indeed if you look back for 10 years it appears that this outflow phenomenon from domestic equity funds is really not new.
It even predated the financial crisis.
So my question is what's your latest thinking on what it's going to take to get to reinvigorate U.S.
domestic funds? Or maybe this is a permanent trend away from them that we are seeing.
I'd like to get your thoughts.
Yes good question.
I wouldn't bet on the it's a permanent trend.
And I think what you have -- and again I think it's easy to come to that conclusion.
I think what you would do though if you look at flows into equities in total and in total meaning active and passive you get a different outcome.
I think an awful lot of people are extrapolating that to say active equity -- U.S.
equity investment [ph] in the United States is dead.
And I think it's a misread.
I think it is movement into passive is really a first step on to risk on.
But I think the more relevant fact if you look at what's happened in the marketplace post the crisis and if you look at the correlation of returns to market events as opposed to stock-taking events it's very very high.
And I'm going to forget that it's basically a 90% correlation of returns coming from macro events as opposed to stock-specific events.
That's probably 25 30 -- 25 percentage points higher than historical.
That is the same phenomena that you saw at the end of the '80s post the '87 crash into '90s.
And so when you get these correlation periods you don't get paid for -- active investors have a harder time generating alpha.
And so I personally think that is the thing to pay attention to.
And we would go to a -- I think as we look forward and if probably the United States is probably further ahead on healing itself economically.
And if that's the case I think active equity investors are going to generate alpha again.
You will see more broadly they will.
You will see money flow back into active U.S.
equity capabilities.
So yes that's my perspective and I think it is important and something to take a look at the correlations of returns.
Our next question does come from Robert Lee of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions were asked but one question.
I mean on the call a couple of weeks ago BlackRock's talked about merging their [indiscernible] the U.S.
retail sales force.
Could you maybe update us on how -- remind us that you integrate the PowerShares products into your retail distribution or if there's any need to change how it works out? We've been doing that for years so that's not a new thing for us.
When we bought the idea of ETFs we had made the observation in 2005 '06 that we thought the advisers were moving much more to a holistic approach and advising their clients.
And that it would be a common -- first and foremost it's meeting the investment objectives and then they would look at the different vehicles that did that.
And naturally asset allocations and meeting those needs for a combination of vehicles.
So we've been doing that really almost from the beginning of the combination with PowerShares.
So we say that's a good idea.
Next question does come from Chris Shutler of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just one  quick one.
It looks like the performance in U.S.
core growth remains challenged on both the 1- and the 3-year basis.
So I certainly recognize that it takes time to rebuild those capabilities but those categories certainly aren't in favor today.
But I just want to get your thoughts on performance there and how you're feeling about the teams and products you have in place.
Let's see 2 things and it's back to almost a question before 2 questions ago.
If you want to see where the bulk of the outflow is coming in the U.S.
it's large-cap U.S.
growth as a category.
For us specifically the team running large-cap mid-cap has been with the organization about 2 years we think they're really very very talented people and have good investment capability.
And this gets back to a little bit of my answer earlier where a lot of their investment philosophy is driven by stock picking and it's been challenged in this environment.
So that said we think the team's very very good and they have had a history prior to being with us that's having very very good results.
And we think they will generate them in time but this has not been the environment for their investment philosophy.
That said if you look at the small-cap growth capabilities it is very very strong and continues to be.
Our next question does come from Marc Irizarry of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Marty can you just talk a little bit about the alternative business for you guys how you think about building out strategies there sort of what's weighing on the flows where you're seeing some success? And how do you think about sort of building versus buying in that business? So again I think you have to go asset class by asset class and some will be repetitive.
But I feel very good with real estate.
We feel very good about private equity feel very good in bank loans feel very good about some of the extensions that we have through our multi-asset suite our asset allocation capabilities whether it be commodities or some other areas there.
So we just continue to look at it and look at where demand is.
And if we're capable of meeting client need we will respond.
In fact one of the turns that people have talked about and I won't get too excited about it but if you -- there are alternative capabilities that are appropriate and growing quite dramatically in the retail channel and we've seen that ourselves.
And we are continuing to develop that.
We've just introduced in the last couple of months another really alternative capability into the retail channel.
It is directed towards high net worth individuals qualified investors.
So just being very appropriate.
And so I think we'll continue to see those things.
But we think we're positioned really quite well to do strongly throughout the alternatives capability as a firm and we'll just continue to respond where necessary.
Our next question does come from Greggory Warren of Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I'm glad you guys touched on the issue with the U.S.
stock flows because I think it's an opportune or situation where people tend to focus on the headlines and just the active side.
And if you really roll up the passive flows and strip out American funds which has a heavy influence on that active side the flows don't look as dire as the picture that gets painted with the headlines.
So I'm glad you pointed that out.
And I guess my question follows on kind of where we are with the flows.
How do you guys from a sort of a longer term perspective think about allocating resources given what's going on now? I mean it's easy to sort of throw money at your Fixed Income or a multi-asset class products or structure products in an environment where those things are selling.
How do you think about allocating capital to equities? Because we've seen a few of your competitors year-after-year come out and do sort of marketing campaigns or other programs to sort of say hey equities are still here.
Yes so let me see if I can answer that in 2 ways.
One we just -- we start from a position of what are we trying to do for our clients.
And our view is that we're committed to having a broad very broad and deep capability across asset classes equities through fixed income.
We are very strong in equities in particular.
And to your point even if you as you were more articulate than I was describing sort of the U.S.
equity picture we have very good strong teams.
We're committed to the strong teams and we just know asset classes go in and out of cycle.
And so we're just absolutely committed to them through the cycles and we want them dedicated to delivering against the investment philosophy that they're known for and that they delivered.
So to your final point so what do we do about it.
And if you look at again our -- how we -- and I'll answer more from a [indiscernible] more from a retail channel point but it's not limited to that.
If you look for the last 2 years what have we been communicating with our investors with our clients is that we have been showing them the benefit and making very clear the benefit of a combination of capabilities whether it be a U.S.
equity capability dividend -- U.S.
income capability and international capability.
So we've been doing that for more than 2 years.
And we think it's -- you just want to be very thoughtful and appropriate in making sure that you're giving investment guidance that makes sense for clients over the longer term and not be responsive to where flows go because that gets you in trouble.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay.
And I guess sort of thinking about equities overall when I was looking through the flow data third quarter you saw outflows pretty much on par with what we saw last year in third quarter.
And a huge difference in performance in the markets and yet there's a fiscal cliff coming.
There's the elections but I don't think it was as dire a situation.
So when I started looking at the performance numbers overall for active funds it seemed to be that on a relative basis pretty much every category was underperforming this year like it was last year.
And I'm wondering do you think it's a matter of say performance getting better? I mean if you start having active management outperform the markets that's sort of is the catalyst to get people back in? Yes.
So I think the relative performance active versus passive is back to the comment I made earlier.
I just think it's really the market environment we are in is the 90% correlation to sort of macro events [indiscernible].
And to your point that you're appropriately pointing out earlier and I've talked about the point of it's much better if we are giving -- the advice channel is encouraging people to be invested for the longer term you take a 3- to 5-year time horizon I really want to be invested in U.S.
equities.
I think it's going to be one of those things you're going to look back 3 years from now and say "Why didn't I have greater exposure to U.S.
equities?" That said I would be going to the managers that again you all from what you do are committed to very good teams very good long track records very thoughtful investment philosophies and processes.
And you're going to do very very well.
And I think the reason why the money is not going into active equities is more it feels like a bigger commitment on an investor's part and I think you cannot underestimate still how nervous investors are to invest for the long term in the environment that we're in.
Matt Kelly of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick follow-up from me on the capital management side.
You have a pretty sizable amount of debt coming due in late February.
I just wanted to touch on it because I don't think we've discussed it this quarter.
What are your sort of thoughts there in terms of extend or retire or some of both? Or how are you thinking about it at this point? Matt it's a good question.
I think we are looking at it.
Obviously it's a unique opportunity in terms of you could issue debt and replace it at a very very low cost.
Or you could let it expire and just put it on the credit facility.
They both can make a lot of sense.
So I would just say it's something we're looking at.
We haven't committed to one way or another as to certainly where we're going to go on this one.
But we are -- definitely we've been looking at it quarter-by-quarter and we will continue to pay a lot of attention to that opportunity.
But overall we are committed to sort of keeping the debt levels sort of flat or declining over time as we want to continue to deleverage and show continued financial strength and certainly build up some more cash on the balance sheet.
So that is still part of our objectives on the capital side combined with of course continued dedicated return on capital through dividends and buybacks as we -- as you've seen us do and as you will continue to see us do.
At this time I show no further questions.
Well thank you very much everybody for the engagement and the dialogue in particular.
And I will be speaking with you next quarter.
Have a good rest of the day.
Thank you.
Today's conference has ended.
All participants may disconnect at this time.
This presentation and comments made in the associated conference call today may include forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements include information concerning future results for operations expenses earnings liquidity cash flow and capital expenditures industry or market conditions AUM acquisitions debt and our ability to obtain additional financing or make payments regulatory developments demand for and pricing of our products and other aspects of our business or general economic conditions.
In addition words such as believes expects anticipates intends plans estimates projects forecasts and future or conditional verbs such as will may could should and would as well as any other statement that necessarily depends on future events are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees and they involve risks uncertainties and assumptions.
There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from our expectations.
We caution investors not to rely unduly on any forward-looking statements and urge you to carefully consider the risks described in our most recent Form 10-K and subsequent Forms 10-Q filed with the SEC.
You may obtain these reports from the SEC website at www.sec.gov.
We expressly disclaim any obligation to update the information in any public disclosure if any forward-looking statement later turns out to be inaccurate.
Great thanks very much.
On behalf of Loren and myself thank you for joining us today and we'll be speaking to the presentation that's available on the website if you're so inclined to follow that and it has been our practice to review the business results for the fourth quarter.
Loren will go into greater detail around our financial results and then we'll open it up to questions.
So before we get into the numbers I thought it'd be helpful to give really a sense of the macroeconomic background that has been impacting our business.
During the fourth quarter the markets fluctuated with the news coming out of Washington and the looming fiscal cliff.
But in spite of the volatility late in the year we did see strong equity markets.
We have some PFs of 60% and the CIE were  up 80% and much of this really reflected a mood change where there was a view that there was a modest economic recovery in the United States improving situation in Europe and softer-than-expected landing in China.
In this environment we continue to see investors emphasize risk management when they were making their investment decisions and a continued focus on yield-oriented capabilities.
Many of which we all know very well so very very strong close.
At the same time prompted by the strength in global markets and this easing view of sort of the economic backdrop we're seeing early signs that investors are risking as a way to generate stronger returns for the long term.
We think with this dynamic in place we're very well positioned to accommodate these trends with a broad range of investment capabilities and we'll talk about that today.
So with that as a backdrop I'll highlight the operating results for the fourth quarter.
I'm on Page -- Slide 3 right now if you're following the deck.
Long-term investment performance was strong across all time periods for the fourth quarter and delivering strong investment performance to our clients contributed to solid operating results with adjusted operating income of 10% -- 10.4%.
In addition the operating margin increased to 35.6% 150-basis-point increase over the prior quarter.
Invesco's quarterly dividend is now $17.25 per share representing a 41% increase over last year's dividend and reflecting continued confidence in the fundamentals of the business.
Return of capital shareholders totaled $153 million during the quarter.
Taking a look at the results assets under management rose to $687 billion during the fourth quarter up from $683 billion in the prior quarter.
Operating income was $277 million versus $250 million in the prior quarter.
Again the operating margin was 35.6% and earnings per share was $0.45 versus $0.42 in the prior quarter.
We said for some time that a major focus for the firm is to reinvest in the business to build on our strengths and further enhance our competitive and financial position.
During the fourth quarter and throughout the year we took advantage of opportunities in the market.
We continued to invest in our products and capabilities our brand our global platform and our people and ways to strengthen our business and our competitive position for the long term.
Let's take a minute and look back at the achievements over the past year which will provide some insights and the long-range plans for the organization.
First and foremost a portion made very focused on delivering strong long-term investment performance to our clients which continue to drive growth in our business.
78% of the assets were ahead of peers at the end of 2012 up considerably from 2005 and 79% of our U.S.
retail assets were rated 4- or 5-star by Morningstar up considerably from 23% in 2005.
We also saw the best ever investment performance from our cross-border fund range in the fourth quarter by delivering a strong long-term performance to clients.
Long-term net flows to our business grew $12.4 billion during the year.
We continue to invest in capabilities where we see strong client demand and future opportunities such as Multi-Assets ETFs or entering the joint venture in India by hiring very talented people upgrading our technology platform launching new products and providing additional resources where necessary.
The ability to leverage the capabilities developed by our investment teams to meet client demand across the globe is we believe a significant differentiator for our firm and we'll continue to bring the best of Invesco to different parts of our business where it makes sense for our clients.
And finally we continue to further improve the effectiveness of our global operating platform.
We'll continue to invest in our people through expanded training development and opportunities and always looking to have the best talent available within the organization.
Before I turn it over to Loren to go through the financials let me take a minute to talk about  the investment performance which is on Slide 7.
Our commitment to investment excellence and our efforts to build and maintain a strong investment culture helped achieve solid investment performances in spite of the volatile market environment during the quarter.
As you can see 66% of the assets were ahead of peers on a 1-year basis 73% of assets were ahead of peers on a 3-year basis and 78% of assets on the top half on a 5-year basis.
These numbers are equal to or better than the prior quarter and among the strongest performance numbers we've seen.
And as I mentioned earlier 79% of our U.S.
retail assets are currently rated 4- or 5-star by Morningstar an all-time high for the firm.
Now our cross-border fund range is delivering very strong investment performance for our clients.
We continue to see positive net flows in our actively managed capabilities with strong broad flows across asset allocation capabilities real estate alternative fixed income and a number of others.
Offsetting this positive trend was the uncertainty in the U.S.
regarding the situation in Washington which resulted in higher redemption rates as investors awaited outcomes from the fiscal cliff discussions.
Net long-term flows totaled $1 billion during the quarter which was also impacted by a $1.6 billion outflow related to a CDO maturity during that period.
Asset flows for the quarter were down due to $2.5 billion in QQQ outflows.
Offsetting this were strong flows across low volatility bank loan and other income-oriented ETFs.
And as an example of flows in traditional PowerShares ETFs were $2.1 billion representing an annual growth rate of 33% so very very strong.
I'm on Slide 9.
During the quarter we continue to see strong institutional flows offset -- but was offset again by the CDO maturity that I mentioned a minute ago.
And as I indicated earlier retail flows were impacted by the $2.5 billion in QQQ outflows and as investors reacted to the uncertainty in the markets during that period.
Turning to Slide 10.
Gross sales for our U.S.
retail business remained strong at $16.1 billion for the quarter.
This was offset by higher levels of redemptions as we saw some tax selling and greater caution in the face of the looming fiscal cliff.
In spite of this gross sales were up 9% year-over-year.
Flows into the complex were led by continued strength in traditional ETF balance risk strategies domestic Equity and International Equity.
Note although the redemption rate rose they remained relatively favorable to the industry of the Invesco being at 26% versus the industry at 32% in that period.
Globally the Multi-Asset suite of products continue to generate tremendous interest from clients who are attracted to the capability with the strong long-term performance.
That means we brought a high level of protection in volatile markets which we did do.
We continue to see strong growth during the fourth quarter across the entire suite of capabilities with net flows of more than $3 billion during that quarter.
With 1 month into the first quarter of 2013 we continue to see very strong demand for the Multi-Asset capabilities.
Though in spite of the mixed signals we saw from the market in the global economy late in the year we are optimistic about the quarter ahead.
Early signs show a global economy looming in the right direction and investors are showing renewed interest in rerisking as a way of building the returns of a long term.
So maybe I'll put this into context because it seems to be sort of the broader question maybe the marketplace right now.
If you look at the U.S.
in the first instance in U.S.
retail market for us we continue to see strong interest in the asset allocation capabilities as I just mentioned and that would be consistent with this idea of people still being focused on risk.
We also continued to see steady fixed income flows as again people still seeking yield.
But really what has been quite striking in January is that the January gross sales of International Equity products for us are up 60% versus the Q4 average and maybe even more interesting is that the January growth sales of our domestic Equity capabilities are at 56% versus Q4 -- versus the Q4 average.
And also it's not unique to the United States we continue to see growing interest in participation in our Continental European base capabilities.
So again the big health warning is January is not a year.
It's not multiple years but it is a very encouraging sign and probably something very different than what we've seen in many many years.
We'll see where that takes us.
In 2012 we did make very good progress against our long-term strategic objectives further  invested in the business our investment capabilities our people and we feel very good about momentum within the business as we entered the new year and we'll continue to look for opportunities to strengthen our competitive position and our financial position.
So with that as a backdrop I'll turn it over to Loren.
Thanks very much Marty.
So turning to the slide total assets under management you'll see that our AUM increased $4.7 billion quarter-over-quarter.
That was up 0.7%.
This was due to $4.9 billion in positive market returns.
We saw $1 billion in net inflows but these factors were then negatively offset by FX of $1.2 billion.
Our average AUM for Q4 was up 1.8% to $680.2 billion.
And also I would like to point out on this page that despite gross sales being down 1.4% our active gross sales were up 11% quarter-over-quarter.
Moving on down looking at net revenue yield in Q4 that came in at 45.6 basis points.
That's an increase of 1.6 basis points quarter-over-quarter so that trend continues.
1 basis point of this increase was due to the higher level of performance fees that we earned in the quarter.
The remaining 0.6 basis points was due to improved product mix.
And the product mix improvement was driven by flows into Continental Europe flows into our balance risk ABRA products north of flows into our higher-yield in traditional PowerShares ETFs.
So now let me turn to the operating results.
You can see that net revenue increased $41.2 million.
That was up 5.6% quarter-over-quarter that included a positive FX impact of $2.5 million.
Looking a bit more closely you'll see that investment management fees grew by $25.1 million up 3% due $865 million and this increase was in line with our higher average AUM and the improvement in the revenue yield I mentioned.
FX increased investor management fees by $3.8 million.
Service and distribution revenues were up $3.3 million or 1.7%.
That was also roughly in line with the increase in our average AUM.
FX increased service and distribution revenues by $0.3 million.
Moving on to performance fees.
We had a good quarter.
It came -- performance fees came in at $21.1 million an increase of $17.7 million versus Q3.
The fourth quarter performance fees were primarily driven by our Private Wealth Management business.
Notably investment performance remains strong and certain of our products that can earn performance fees in Q1 of this year and should this continue we would anticipate performance fees around $15 million in Q1 just some guidance there.
Total revenues in the fourth quarter came in at $27.4 million an increase of $3 million versus the prior quarter and this pickup was driven by higher level of real estate transaction fees.
Third-party distribution service and advisory expense which we net against gross revenues increased by $7.9 million or 2.4% and FX increased these expenses by $1.6 million.
Continuing to move on with the slide you'll see that our adjusted operating expenses at $499.4 million increased by $15.1 million or 3.1% relative to the third quarter.
FX had a $1.4 million impact on that number.
Employee compensation at $3.2 million increased by $14.3 million or up 4.4%.
However you'll recall that there was an $8 million catch-up related to bonus that was booked in the third quarter.
Taking that into account we need to explain an increase in compensation of roughly $22 million quarter-over-quarter.
And I'll do that for you right now.
$15 million of that was due to incentive compensation expense linked to both performance fees earned in the fourth quarter but also the sequential increase in operating income.
We saw $1.5 million that was due to increased sales commissions primarily in Continental Europe.
And we also had $5 million in the quarter which is a result of miscellaneous staff expenses including the year-end benefit expense adjustment as well as some relocation and sign on expenses as we continue to make investments in our business.
And then finally we had $0.7 million of the increase was due to FX.
So again in terms of guidance looking into Q1 assuming no change importantly in year-end AUM levels we would expect compensation to remain flat quarter-over-quarter as seasonally higher payroll taxes offset declines in incentive compensation related to performance fees.
Moving on down the P&amp;L you'll see that marketing expense decreased by $2.7 million or 10.2% the $23.8 million due to reduced advertising spend during the quarter.
In terms of guidance looking into Q1 2013 we would expect marketing expenses will return to the prior quarter run rate of $26 million to $27 million.
In the quarter FX increased our marketing expenses by $0.2 million.
Property office and technology expense was $71.7 million in Q4.
That was an increase of $2.4 million.
The fourth quarter included increases in outsourced administration cost as we transition the U.K.
transfer agency to a third-party provider.
FX increased these expenses by $0.2 million.
And then G&amp;A expenses ultimately came in at $61.9 million.
That was up $1.1 million or 1.8%.
And the fourth quarter included additional professional services expenses associated with increased regulatory requirements in Europe.
Continuing on down you'll see that nonoperating income decreased $9.9 million compared to the Q3.
You'll remember that the third quarter included roughly at that same amounts related to gains from certain of our CLO products.
Our effective tax rate in the quarter came in at 25% and our guidance is that it will stay around that level until 2013 which brings us to our adjusted EPS of $0.45.
As Marty mentioned our adjusted net operating margin of 35.6%.
With that I'm going to turn it back to you Marty.
Yes thanks.
Now we'll open it up to questions please.
[Operator Instructions] First question does come from Matt Kelly of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So I wanted to start first on balanced risk.
I know you guys have -- you talk a little bit about it in the prepared remarks but just curious from here given that it sounds like channels actually would indicate that retail was buying those products like crazy in January.
So can you give us kind of your outlook on whether those funds are benefiting more from the current environment in January and also your potential growth outside the U.S.
and is there more legs for growth outside the U.S.
and in the U.S.
at this point? Maybe I'll hit on a couple of  and Loren can chime in.
So I think it's important to understand what the product is right? And it is being -- advisors are looking at it as really sort of core holding that is really minimizing volatility.
And so we think that's going to continue to persist in the United States for a good period of time.
It's been in the U.S.
market longer than anywhere else.
But -- so by definition there continues to be greater opportunity outside of the United States.
We are seeing it out of the C Cap out of Europe we're actually more recently now starting to see a pickup in United Kingdom 1 year later which we thought it was very early there so that's happening.
So we continue to see Canada continues so there continues to be interest outside of the United States.
I think also importantly that we talked about a year ago it is a broader capability and we have launched a premium income product a year ago and you are now just starting to see greater and greater interest in that kick in.
So again you have to think of it as suite of capabilities inside of U.S.
and out and we are definitely continuing to see that and there continues to be frankly institutional interest at the same time.
And Matt I think -- generally to your question in terms of investment performance obviously one of the Equity markets is going to be running strong or say really have a very strong beta movement.
The ability for that product to outperform other products that may be more Equity oriented is not going to be there.
It's certainly understood in terms of the product.
It's been a diversifying element within advisors' mix of products that they've offered their clients particularly because you don't want to have net allocation product that's so heavily weighted to Equity markets so it will create far more volatility.
And so I don't think and certainly our analysis of the product generally is that you won't see outflows in this category.
When Equity markets are running normally it will be at the expense of Fixed Income.
So it's more of a trade-off where Fixed Income products will outflow and moving to Equity products as opposed to this category of assets.
So we believe that this product will continue to grow and thrive in this environment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then follow-up for me would be on your operating margin.
How we should be thinking about moving pieces going forward in the 2013 given what's -- where you've been with comp in the third quarter where you had the true-ups.
This quarter you had some performance fee noise in the comp lines.
So how should we be thinking about that for 2013? So we gave you a little bit of a peek into Q1 in terms of the guidance there in terms of overall comp levels.
Obviously Q1 tends to be noisy because of the payroll taxes and some of the movements there.
But that's a pretty good sort of guidepost for you to be thinking about comp into the year.
The operating leverage and certainly the operating incremental operating margins of 50% to 60% should be something you will think you'll see and you should see going into 2013.
Clearly there was some noise around this.
This year really as investment performance was very very strong.
It's hard to imagine even though we'd love to see it that investment performance gets stronger than that it is today.
So I think in terms of where we are run rate this is not a bad place to be modeling.
Research Division</strong> Understood and then last one for me and then I'm done I promise.
Just on PowerShares given the strong growth the industry saw in 2012 and the first week of this year included how are you guys thinking about that? Is there more optionality there or chances to grow? Absolutely and I think importantly what we're seeing happening and what's more interesting probably to all of us is that of the different elements of PowerShares what we discuss as our traditional PowerShares in the commodity's bucket and so the QQQ builders the most interesting is the traditional and you are just continuing to see ever-increasing traction in that area and not just throughout last year but again and at the first quarter.
And again it's not limited to the United States.
It continues to grow in Canada.
Europe.
Again it's a different situation for ETFs for us right now.
We're in the market but there's a lot for us to do there.
What is more interesting quite frankly is Asia for us for ETF.
So we think it's important franchise.
It will continue to grow and we're seeing very good things coming out of it.
Next question just comes from Ken Worthington of JP MC.
Research Division</strong> Maybe first a follow-up on Matt's question.
Longer term is compensation an area where you think you can get operating leverage from and maybe in terms of the $4.8 million increase to comp from the I think it was just 10 in Life team.
How much of that is onetime and how much of that is recurring? You mentioned that some of it seem to be like sign-on bonuses and moving costs but is it largely ongoing cost of that team or is that onetime? Maybe let me make it the overall comment.
And so there's no question.
You will see operating leverage in this business and as these markets and I say important operating leverage in the business.
And at least we don't need fantastic markets but if you have slow steady markets you're going to see a very strong margin expansion and I think that's the overriding comment.
I don't want to speak of any specific team or the Life is  more complicated than as you would know just from all of your own situations.
All those things work but I think the most important thing is you will see operating leverage in this business.
I think I mean one other thing just to mention but I'm not sure how many people really appreciate but just in terms of going from 2011 to 2012 there's about $28 million that was related to just how our accounting for our deferred compensation where we went from a 3-year vesting cycle to a 4-year vesting cycle back in 2009.
And ultimately 2012 was the first year where we've actually seen 4 tranches of amortization hitting whereas in 2011 there were only 3.
So some of that increase is really just around the accounting related to some of the deferred compensation.
I would agree with Marty that there isn't anything in terms of our thinking or our plans that show that somehow operating margin is going to be the operating leverage as impaired going forward.
Certainly there has been some investment around the business and there will continue to be investment around the business.
But it's our job to sort of balance that against the growth and we certainly are going to strive to do that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
We could just move on.
The standardized team are they up and running? What kind of assets would you have expected to follow them to Invesco and where do they stand in terms of getting some of those assets that you might have expected? Yes so early days.
right.
They're all not here.
So of the 3 -- so I don't think you should expect much in the first 3 quarters of this year.
So it was sort of the transition over and the like and so they'll all be with us by the end of March and by the time you get something it's the markets can be the latter part of the year.
But again I think 2 comments.
It's a great complement to the overall Multi-Asset Strategy capability that we have in place and in the meantime Ken what we are seeing actually as I said earlier is that we are now with our traditional ABRA products seeing traction in the United Kingdom in the meantime.
So it's probably a little bit out this year.
Research Division</strong> And then last one.
You had a big marketing campaign in 2012 just talk about the outlook and the strategy from marketing as we kind of migrate into 2013? So it will be Ken as you know as well as anybody Invesco was much well known outside of the United States least well known in U.S.
retail channel and we've probably hit a level of consistency now that sort of from brand awareness to actually more specific around -- more specifically driven around campaigns and the like and so you'll probably see slight uptick in the marketing but we're probably much closer to a steady state now.
Research Division</strong> In terms of strategy if markets are coming back are you going to reposition? Is it about improving the brand like you kind of did last year? Do you start focusing more on specific products like strategy more than cost? So the strategy is we still have to -- we're not exactly where we are with brand recognition which we think strategically is very important now as you see.
The fundamental idea is very hard to separate the asset buckets in time so we've all known from DB to DC to DC to roll over IRAs and what we are clearly seeing and understanding is that even in the large institutions where you're managing a DB and a DC plan they actually do care that they are associated with a money manager that is in the advice channel.
That is recognized in the advice channel as their employees roll over from a DC plan into a financial advisor.
So that becomes very important and that is the fundamental strategic reason why underneath it all you need to have brand recognition.
So within it though Ken there are now specific programs and again it depends on what the topic is we think is important but it is much more investment-led type focuses as we spend time on that in the marketplace.
Michael Kim of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> First Marty you talked a little bit about what you're seeing on the retail side of the business thus far this year.
But can you just give us an update on what you're seeing in terms of demand trends on the institutional side of the business.
And then more broadly how are you leveraging some of your competitive advantages around scale infrastructure your balance sheet as well as other advantages you may have as it relates to kind of overseas markets? Okay.
Let me try to get a couple of those and Loren can chime in also here.
So the institutional business continues.
The pipeline is continuing to grow which is a good sign.
We are continuing to see some of the things that we have been seeing bank loans real estate and the like.
But there are the balance risk capabilities but you are seeing growing interest in International Equity capabilities in particular.
And so as the pipeline continues to build the quantitative Equity capability where if you asked 3 years ago you would have thought not just us but many people you would not have thought that that was a very strong capability.
It's also a global capability.
This is not just -- it's available globally.
But also the global capability of the Quant team is also very very strong.
So it just continues to broaden which is a very good thing.
With regard to what we continue to do as a business it is that would be an example just where we have strong capabilities that there's global demand you're just continuing to see greater outcomes and effectiveness of making those capabilities available around the world the Quant team would be an example of -- it has clients not just on the continent not just in the United Kingdom but in the United States and Asia.
Very similar to what you've seen in real estate capability you're are also seeing at the asset allocation capability and that really continued.
That is from our point of view.
What we think is a competitive advantage and also gets back to some of the prior questions that's also where you start to see scale advantages comp right? So that's the more we can do that the better off the clients are but better off as the business.
Loren would you? Yes I mean I think you've covered the big pieces.
I mean I think when you look at the pipeline which is growing it's really spread over a lot of different capabilities as you were mentioning Fixed Income large in there.
Real Estate continues to be a big piece of it.
Quant asset allocation.
So in order for the sort of primary elements to it.
And certainly the focus and where we want to make the biggest impact around the products that can go global and so when we think about our investment and what we've been serving local needs and we want to continue to do that but our greatest opportunity is creating product that have the opportunity to go global and that is where the resource the balance sheet the product development is very much focused.
I think maybe less interesting but it does gets so when your questions -- we continue to look at ways into how do you drive down your fixed cost structure and it tends to be around real estate and the like.
And so we'll continue to focus on those things.
They are harder to do and painful to do but we'll continue to work on programs like that also.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> And then as it relates to PowerShares.
I know you recently announced some fee cuts across a handful of specialized funds that I think was largely a function of kind of ran those fee rates more in line with other products but more broadly any signs of incremental pricing pressure that we've seen across the industry for more of the commoditized funds? Michael the answer is no.
If anything I think I've mentioned it briefly.
I mean we're actually seeing our effective fee rates for the firm as a whole improved because of what is happening.
A lot of interest in products with higher fees within our traditional ETF so bank loan is a good example where I think it's at $2.5 billion or some really staggering number and that had a pretty high rate.
I think it's well in excess of 60 70 basis points.
So we are not seeing fee rates being eroded due to ETF and certainly there are no expectations of any other fee cuts in the ETF space.
That -- and I was just recently talking to our head of our business so I think that was a really one-off episode.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one more quick one for Loren.
Can you just update us in terms of where you stand on kind of the European TA outsourcing just as it relates to kind of some of the different some of the moving parts on the P&amp;L going forward? Sure.
So -- glad you asked.
But -- so I think we've mentioned that in the last quarter we've already seen some of those savings come in.
I think it was about $1 million that we had talked about rolling into G&amp;A and unfortunately obviously we have seen some offsets to that as the regulatory environment continues to sort of increase requirements for us.
But with that said we would expect another $1.5 million to come in as savings into next quarter or next couple of quarters.
About 1/2 of it into G&amp;A the other 1/2 into compensation so sort of the run rate quarterly run rate savings of the project is somewhere in the $2.5 million frame and that's roughly the $10 million that we talked about.
So I do think we're going to get the savings we have wanted to.
Some of that project though has been delayed so there is where we want to finish it by year end.
It's sort of spilled a little bit into this year so we'd expect the completion to be done roughly mid-year 2013.
Daniel Fannon of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess first Marty you talked about January trends in terms of the growth sales.
I mean could you talk about what redemption rates are doing and you also talked about generally kind of the diversity between international and U.S.
but I guess it seems to be pretty broad-based and we're talking active strategies versus passive or a little bit of both? So let me start with that.
So when I had talked about the domestic and international capabilities those are active strategies.
So in addition to that we continue to see ongoing strength in the traditional PowerShares typically it's what Loren was talking about.
So I was focused more on the active again because that is sort of one of the big questions.
Was everybody just going to passive or not? So we're seeing continued participation in ETFs.
We are seeing active investments in our active capabilities which is I think a very good thing for the marketplace generally.
And I'm sorry what was the next part of your question? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Redemption rates versus you talked about growth sales just redemption rates.
I don't have the exact redemption rates but they're probably trending back from where they were in the fourth quarter.
Yes they're definitely lower level.
I mean we saw a lot of tax selling in the fourth quarter so our redemption rate was actually with the whole industries spiked up a little bit I think the graph kind of showed that so it's definitely coming back in line with the pre-Q4 levels.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then back to the ABRA product briefly just with regards to potentially capacity constraints in the bigger products that have been growing.
I think there's some issues associated at some point with some of the commodity exposures and what not just remind us kind of where they sit in terms of the bigger funds now and then where you potentially would see the capacity constraint? Yes so I think in terms of the capacity constraints we've said and there isn't a hard one but it's somewhere around $40 billion and that was related to the traditional ABRA product.
That's really U.S.-focused discussion and so we're still well under that number.
We're well under $20 billion there so we can definitely grow quite a bit.
The good news is I mean we've continued to focus on the suite of products and some of the other products like premium income which they're still small right now.
I mean they're seeing really nice growth just like we saw with the balance risk.
It took a while but if it continued at this kind of quarter-to-quarter growth rate it's going to be something that will be material at some point in the future.
And so that again it's important that we don't have everything based on one product and so I think we've done a good job of creating other products that will allow us to grow.
Mike Carrier of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just another question on the margin.
If I just look over the past couple of years like in 2010 you guys were kind of at this 35% level.
In 2011 it ticked up and now you're kind of back at 35%.
If I think over those years you had to be in camping[ph]  in acquisition.
You increased distribution.
You had some improvement on the product investment.
ABRA became a hit and you marketed that but it still seems like the operating leverage and the model isn't the same degree maybe some of the competitors or to where expectations are.
So I guess what I'm looking at 2013 like when you think about the things that you have invested in over the past 2 or 3 years was that level more elevated than what's going to be say the more normal run rate maybe over the next 2 years? Or is it just a combination of factors that have limited the leverage at this point? So Mike I'll just jump in and Marty I don't know if you want to -- the thing that's important to note until we see it.
And maybe it's a little different than some of our competitors our net revenue yield had dropped over that same period in time quite substantially to the product mix that we're offering basically satisfying client demands but in many cases that did call for a lower yield.
And I think if you look at how that affected us relative to some of our competitors it's probably more marked for us versus some competitors.
And with that despite that net revenue yields I mean yes I agree margins have been somewhat flat but that's not been the easiest thing to do because it means expenses actually had to go down as a percentage of assets was well and so a lot of work has been done.
The good news and this is why I do think we can and should be optimistic about margin expansion in the future is that that trend of declining net revenue yield is now seems to be reversing.
And we're starting to see net revenue yield actually improve quarter-over-quarter as the fee mix and the products that we're introducing are definitely at a higher yield than what we saw before.
The Morgan Stanley acquisition I think we've talked about it obviously a lot of those products were at a lower yield and so that obviously created a little bit of a challenge in terms of a counteracting a cost structure that was set for a little bit of a higher yield.
And so with all that said I think we are making good progress and I feel pretty confident in saying that it is our expectation that margin expansion and the operating leverage that you have -- expecting and we've been talking about quite some time is going to materialize assuming markets are flatter or improving right? So that is certainly something that I'd say structurally should take place.
We are -- we can and we will continue to invest in the business.
We have been doing that but with net revenue yield improving the margins will grow.
With the incremental operating leverage are at 50% to 60% that we think is important.
Yes look I would just reiterate.
I think the most important factor to the -- the macro factor is if you look at the effective fee rates go from '05 to now they've dropped quite materially but at the same time more impressively and probably harder is to drop the operating expenses as a percentage of assets under management between that period and we have continued.
They have not gone up.
They have for the last couple of years say flat to down.
But it will be a very powerful thing is an additional basis points and effective fee rate is very important to the organization.
But I do come back to you will see margin expansion in this business and we think we're set up very well for that right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And just follow up.
Marty maybe just on the retail side of the business you mentioned that the pickup in sales -- maybe if you look at normal Januaries does it feel like either you're seeing more momentum than what you typically see --  you compared it to the fourth quarter but fourth quarter was kind of challenging for -- hopefully that's not normal.
And then just when you look at where the money is coming from because it sounds like on the balance side you're still seeing some momentum there.
So within Invesco like are you seeing it come from fixed income from cash? Or is it new money coming in from either competition meaning other fixed income products to cash or just cash on the sidelines? That's a great question.
I think it's really the strategic question we're all asking ourselves right? Is the market broadening for real and what does it look like going forward? Or everything staying at fixed income and just going into sort of passive products? So I think the first point is no question first quarter of the year is the strongest quarter of the year right? So maybe the comparison of January to last quarter is not exactly the right one but it was such a unique period especially December I think that's really the highlight.
This -- again one month is not any extended period of time.
We all recognize that.
It is a very different start to the year than I can tell you that I've seen in the last 5 years.
And it starts to hit on some of the questions that people are asking.
We continue to see -- continued just for us specifically continued level of sales into our fixed income capabilities and resulting in net flows.
We continue to see strong interest and growth in the asset allocation capabilities.
Now my personal point of view I think that is not just for us but for an industry you're going to see for an extended period of time people continuing to divest invest in these allocation-type capabilities.
I think that's probably here for a good period of time.
We are seeing investment in active equities to a degree that we have not seen in a period of time and most importantly start it by growth sales in this -- The growth sales level in January I'm sure are quite a bit higher than they were a year ago and it is quite broad.
So I think those are all important trends not just for Invesco but probably for the market as a whole.
If we stay away from the shock for a period out of the system.
Jeff Hopson of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So curious what you think may happen on the institutional side.
Obviously many institutions are in a longer-term allocation trend toward alternative fixed income.
Do you think -- and some of those categories perhaps have disappointed but do you think there's going to be a relook so to speak on public equities? How long that might take? And then in terms of some of the regional trends it looked like Canada trended a little bit better U.K.
a little bit better.
Anything there that we should know that happened in the quarter that might be a trend? So let me take up the first part Jeff and then Loren can -- So I think you're asking the fundamental question.
I personally think and I've said this before institutions under the banner of code derisking I think are doing a huge disservice.
You can't have an underfunded pension plan and close the gap by alternatives in fixed income.
And I think part of it has been the extreme volatility in some of the experiences that the pension plans have had has been very difficult for them that have moved them that way.
I think right when everybody said it's over it's when things change.
And I do believe that you'll probably see greater participation in pension plans but where we're seeing it International Equity is probably our primary focus right now into emerging markets.
But I think also importantly as so many organizations have DC plans they are broad ranges of capabilities and we have seen a number of clients say a handful of clients add our international and domestic capabilities to their DC offerings.
So I just have to believe as markets become less volatile and the like to you'll continue to see -- or you will start to see some greater exposures to equities.
And I think when you talk about some of the specific areas like Canada I mean the performance has been just stunning in terms of the change.
And so I think in terms of the 1- 3- and 5-year percentage of assets bidding peers I mean it's as good as I've seen it don't know many years right? So I think it's 60% 70% bidding peers maybe even higher uncertain of the time frames.
So that is definitely helping the flow picture of the success in terms of the products that have been introduced in Canada over these last several years in terms of the asset allocation products the ETFs suites some other investment capabilities that have diversified relative to the traditional Trimark product have been quite successful.
So we feel really very positive about the prospects for Canada going forward in terms of the flows on both new products as well as the traditional Trimark products which as you know have really good feed characteristics and the whole structure is -- tends to have very good margin characteristics as well.
So that's a positive movement into 2013.
The U.K.
and Europe generally have evolved.
I think done well and better.
Europe is I'll just do that quickly I mean -- and that's been really really strong for us.
I think we came in #6 in terms of net flows for the full year relative to the cross-border flows.
So that's a very strong showing for us where I think historically we've been closer to the bottom of the Top 10.
We're sort of moving our way up.
And then -- so that's very positive.
And that's not just been asset allocation.
It's been fixed income and Continental European equities and so it's broadly based.
And then the U.K.
generally I think we're seeing some of the asset allocation products beginning to take hold.
And certainly corporate bond product and other products have done very well and continued to get good share of market.
So I would say we're feeling very good about our positioning in Europe generally.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And if I could follow-up.
We haven't talked a lot about the old channel in a while.
I know there are some -- a lot of moving parts there lumpiness.
the real estate has been -- some harvesting CDO's.
Can you talk about kind of the trends from here of how we should think about flows over time recognizing things that you know about that could happen there both positive or negative? So I think with the alternative category obviously it's the #1 place we've seen.
Interest has been in the institutional side.
Historically it's been somewhat dominated for us by real estate also private equity has been a smaller element but one I think you will continue to see growth into 2013.
But certainly in terms of institutional growth in pipeline.
It's a measured thing.
We're -- it's interesting I think for the industry and for us also is in terms of the retail opportunity offering alternative capabilities and we have I think in aggregate about $30 billion of assets that we would call alternative that are being sold to the retail business.
And that's an area where we think there is potentially a lot of opportunity to grow that have not been tapped.
So we like others I think in this business are thinking about how to do that well.
And so that -- I think that's the story that's still sort of being written but I think it's an interesting one.
Bill Katz of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just coming back to margins for a second.
I'm just trying reconcile your big picture margin is moving higher fee rate moving higher but then I think you could have mentioned may have kind of dated too far-ly.
[ph] I know you had mentioned in sort of the discussion on margins for the fourth quarter as a good guide post for 2013 you have incremental margins of 50% to 60% in the flat to rising market  how do you have the margins sort of trending flat to fourth quarter for 2013? I'm just trying to understand the math.
I don't think we said anything about margins.
We talked about compensation.
The comp was for Q4 and Q1 of 2013 thought to be roughly the same.
Research Division</strong> I thought I heard 35.6% was a good run rate for the margins.
Oh I didn't say that.
No don't -- thank you for -- I hope no one else heard that.
No.
No.
So obviously I mean we're at a higher asset level at year end versus the average for Q4 and so that will provide some lift just naturally but obviously you do have payroll taxes being offset by some I would say higher level of payout relative to performance fee into Q4 that will sort of offset each other.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'm sorry about that.
I must have misheard.
I'm glad you asked.
Research Division</strong> Moving to the forensics of the flows and certainly appreciate the year-on-year dynamics and Marty your perspective in the last 5 years.
I'm sort of curious that if you talked sales force -- I'm just sort of curious.
There's a lot of really deep year end seasonality I mean a lot of new seasonality to the first quarter that I still think are playing some of the growth sales per se especially dividends and tag [indiscernible] et cetera.
When you talk to the distribution channel how much of that -- of the activity reflects those dynamics versus a more structural change if you will.
And then the second part of that question is we've seen the industry did fade a bit over the last couple of weeks and sort of curious in your commentary your gross sales are you seeing similar pattern? Or are you seeing some share gains inherently? I think I'll do that query.
So one point generally if we look at Europe and Europe in Q4 we saw investors go into equities in a much stronger way than they did in the U.S.
So they do it without any tax fund but there was a legitimate sort of re-risking that was going on that we saw in Europe which I think in terms of what we may be seeing in the U.S is that once you've gotten past all those tax aligning and some of this fiscal cliff stuff so that's kind of some one backdrop.
Again it's hard to say because it's sort of real-time data as to what is seasonality and what is real.
But we have not seen any tapering.
I mean January has been just an incredibly strong month for the firm as a whole.
The U.S.
piece has been probably one of the stronger elements within that mix and so we've not seen sort it fade into the end of the month at all.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
The -- again talking to the client base and people yes there does seem to be sort of fundamental shift of a greater willingness and interest in investment capabilities can generate returns right? So I think that's important.
So you're asking the question that I think others can and other have -- is January just the reverse of what happened in December? You'd have to -- maybe there's some element of that in the trees don't grow to the sky.
So January times 12 is probably not the right answer it never is but there does seem to be a very different level of confidence and desire to invest more broadly.
And one person I think was describing to me that the hope is back.
It wasn't there before.
People are now dealing a little more hopeful and that is helping them sort of to take on more risk.
And not just in equities there may be -- within the fixed income spectrum of what's being offered as well.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Just 2 for me.
You mentioned scientific.
You've seen some interest in that again in Quant some of your peers are having more mixed dynamics with that are you seeing a broad-based increase in the category? Or kind of what you're sort of suggesting in retail share gains? Are you seeing some sort of incremental opportunities relative to your peers? I can't address the peers but I can say the Quant team their global capability in particular on the Continent and into the United Kingdom in particular is getting an awful lot of attention.
And will that extend to the United States we'll see.
There are some interest in it in Asia.
So for us we're having lots of interest in what could be some nice results.
Research Division</strong> Last one.
Can you talk a little bit about your free cash flow priorities for 2013? I guess the one thing we continue to run into with investors is the very high debt levels if you will relatively speaking enterprise value of the DA any thoughts of delevering the balance sheet anymore in 2013? So I think we are still focused on returning a committed level of capital to our shareholders through dividends.
We think it's been certainly well-received and certainly has not been a hardship for us in terms of being able to do that.
And then our operating cash flow continues to grow so you should expect to see our focus on dividends and payback in dividends to move with that.
There isn't an expectation that we would sort of take a different approach than you've seen us do in 2012.
With respect to our leverage we were pleased to extend our maturities on our debt out 10 years.
We locked in $600 million.
That's in place.
I think our focus on what we can chip away at is in the credit facility and that is again there's not -- it's not been an issue.
It's very low-fee debt for us.
It's not created any topics with agencies.
And then so over time we can continue to bring that down but there's not sort of an imperative to delever it.
And as far as we can tell it's not creating an issue with our investors or the stock price.
Robert Lee with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but since no good guidance goes unpunished I did have another question on compensation generally.
I hear the comments about you have to pay for performance and investing in the infrastructure but I'm just wondering if you kind of dig underneath that if you've seen any kind of pressure related to kind of the proportion so to speak of maybe operating income or revenues that you need to pay out in compensation.
I mean you've got pretty successful real estate group.
You have another successful asset allocation group and those are groups that are in pretty high demand around the industry.
So I'm just kind of curious if you're seeing any kind of competitive pressures kind of -- even just change how you look at compensation in terms of the piece of revenue or earnings you payout? That's a good question.
We have had a overall compensation philosophy in place now for my gosh maybe 6 years and it has served us very very well.
And within it compensation plans are put in place consistent with that and it's really been received very well and it's done all the right alignments to focus on returns for clients and the like and meeting the needs of all the individuals.
So we've not -- we're not seeing that as a problem for us as an organization.
And I think I mean I would say Rob is I mean granted some capabilities are more scalable than others and so my comment earlier about trying to focus on products that can go global in that scale I think is very much an important element to margin expansion.
Certain businesses certain capabilities are more people on the ground.
They're more people-intensive and that's just what they are right? And so the mix can have an impact on margin but in terms of where we're expecting to see more growth and where the fastest parts of our business are going we would expect to see margins expand.
There isn't any part of our business where it would grow and you'd see margins decline.
I mean we really don't focus on those types of instances.
And so -- but generally there will be some businesses that if you can get a greater ratio of the assets to the portfolio manager generally you're going to see greater scale in margin expansion.
So these big flagship funds these types of things make a big difference.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And one last question.
Since we toured the world the one place we didn't in cover I guess was -- too much was Asia.
I'm just curious how the Great Wall JV has been going.
I -- that's had also its own kind of flow issues the past year or so but if you're seeing that business -- any change there? It's been thriving.
I mean it's a very -- it continues to be one of the top JVs.
I think the good news is China.
The optimism around China seems to be improving.
And then I think the mood is improving sort of a lot of new product introductions being contemplated for 2013.
It's now a broader platform than it was 3 years ago where it was almost all equities.
Now it's equity and fixed income and we're looking at other product offerings as well as Marty mentioned ETF.
So we think it is going to be a very important part of Invesco's business and it's one that -- 2012 was a difficult year for China and Greater China generally.
And so we are hopeful and optimistic that you're going to see things improve with a better tenor in the dialogue.
And certainly the leadership change; in China I'm not going to talk about politics but apparently that's been well received in terms of setting a good agenda for growth.
Marc Irizarry of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Marty can you talk about ABRA as up market capture-type for you as you've seen part of the fundamental shift toward return and some of the fund flows is ABRA sort of gaining share of the pie? Or do you think maybe this product is a little bit more of a -- a little bit less of sort of the up market capture vehicle? Yes.
So it is not designed to -- let me say it the other way.
So in a market that we've seen  very very strong equity markets it will relatively underperform.
And it is -- I think importantly I think for all of us to understand is that is what has been the attraction for many -- for the investors and that is how it is being clearly communicated to the investors and that they look at us more as an anchor in the portfolio.
And there's not a surprise it would relatively underperform in a rapidly rising equity markets.
So I think that's important.
I think you'd contrast that to -- and I think the basis of the question is what happens if a market like this continued? Is it like the old days if all the money grows into aggressive growth capabilities and then all of a sudden there's a big shift change I just don't anticipate you'll see the mass of redemptions out of an asset class like that.
This just not what the capability is and I think that's important to understand.
We'll see but that is fundamentally what it is.
Research Division</strong> So far in January the fund flows straight for ABRA.
They have sort of kept pace in terms of the acceleration you've seen broadly? Absolutely.
I think it's still on pace to set a record.
So I mean it's definitely not been slowing down.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one more on -- Loren for you on the margin.
You mentioned sort of the fixed side to the equation is harder to do but when you think about the priorities for '13 when you look at the fixed cost bucket I mean you sort of more keenly focus on making some of -- sort of controlling your destiny on the fixed cost side of the equation? Or should we just be thinking about sort of incremental progress there? Yes.
That's a great question.
I mean we're always looking at our expenses trying to see if we can be more effective more efficient.
Continuous improvement is a focus throughout the organization about trying to use our resources more effectively.
So some of the things -- it's just going to be continuation largely of the things we've done in the past.
But for example if we can get greater scale in our operations particularly in some of the locations that have shown to be really good at delivering results at a lower cost we're going to do that.
And so that's -- those are the things that can take time.
They continue on.
They do save significant amounts of money but it's not going to be so noticeable as you're going to see suddenly tens of millions of dollars of costs pulled out in a year.
It takes time.
Eric Berg of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> In this call we've talked about many many topics other than domestic active equities.
I can't remember them all but they have included alternative investments including real estate and your Asset Allocation products and Fixed Income and International global.
The list is very long of topics other than domestic equities.
My question is the public discussion about the asset management business continues to focus on what's going on with the domestic Equity business and in particular with the active domestic Equity business.
Given that your business and the business of so many of your competitors has to do with so much more than domestic active equities I'm just wondering whether the discussion needs to be redirected or redefined? That's a good point on the last one and I think everybody tries to do that.
And I think if you look at the totality of people investing in equities you are net inflows right? The focus has been on active domestic equities and how it's been in outflows over the last number of years.
But what I would say I do want to clarify one point and again this is for us and you can figure out what it is for the industry.
In January we had domestic equity growth sales increasing 56% over the monthly average in -- the average from the fourth quarter.
So you're definitely again a month is only a month.
You are definitely starting to see something different and that's all active domestic equities.
But your broader point is correct.
It's -- people are getting exposures to equity and it should be discussed as such.
LLC Research Division</strong> Now my second and final question then is this.
Again in this call you described multiple capabilities as doing well whether it's your international capabilities or your asset allocation capabilities and you've said that -- but you've also said that ETFs are doing well and that in the month of January we have this really striking turnaround in sales of domestic active equities.
When you put it all together and you sort of look at who's sort of grow -- which asset class or which capability is growing the quickest I'm trying ultimately to get a sense for what all this prosperity on multiple fronts portends for the domestic active equity business.
In other words if it's doing well but the other capabilities of Invesco were doing even better it would suggest that the domestic active equity business will continue to grow but become progressively less important to Invesco.
And ultimately my question is is that what's going on here? I have a data point of a month.
I can't give you evidences to support your thesis a lot of it fine.
But again our basic belief is that all investors have a different set of investment objectives and different time horizons and we are focused in making sure we have those capabilities performing well to meet those objectives and we think we're in a position to do that right now.
So that's unique to Invesco and I suspect others would probably have some version of thought too.
The other one element is that people's exposure to domestic equity may not be in the form of a traditional domestic equity mutual fund anymore.
I mean it may be that they're getting it through different ways asset allocation ETFs other forms.
So how we look at this also may slant our view which may not be helpful when we talk about domestic equities a class that is somehow struggling or dying.
And then maybe -- actually not quite as dire as people presume because it's actually introduced into other types of products in different ways.
And so I think it's an interesting discussion but it's not one that is obvious.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
That's -- it's apparent that there's a lot of detail here that needs to be studied.
Roger Freeman of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I might have missed this earlier.
Did you say what percent of those long-term flows were ABRA last quarter? Well I think we have a chart that shows that long-term flows for ABRA in Q4 were roughly $5.7 billion.
I'm sorry what's that? I'm looking at $2.7 billion forgive me.
$2.7 billion or $3 billion.
So there's a chart that was in our deck that makes that out.
Research Division</strong> And just -- it looks like the performance probably relative to -- that appears over the last quarter was falling off.
And I know I heard in your comments before about how it performs in a good or bad market.
Is it just sort of that dynamic? Or is there anything else that you can point to playing out there? In terms of the flows...
Research Division</strong> More of the performance of the fund? Well the performance of the fund as it -- obviously in a near-term basis may have seem a little more challenged because of the very strong equity markets and then it tends to balance its risk across commodities equities and fixed income.
So we've not seen any impact in terms of sales or flows as a result of that.
And I think the question which we've been asked -- and I still think we obviously have yet to see what ultimately happens.
But we don't think it's going to have any sort of major impact in terms of customer demand for that product because it is certainly designed to provide a balanced return over a longer period of time.
And it is not a rocket ship that's going to go up when markets are up and fall when markets are down.
And then specifically used that the diversify safety elements in people's portfolios which I think is still in demand.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
And then just lastly you talked a little bit before about selling alternatives into retail.
And I'm actually curious I've had some questions just generally about this.
Is -- where have you seen the most success either in sort of segments of the retail market or channels and what are the biggest challenges that you're facing there? I think -- I mean our greatest personal success has been in the area of real estate as an asset class and REITS and that's been a global phenomenon.
And the largest part of that $30 billion that I mentioned is definitely in that category.
We've seen it though in terms of commodities and that's largely in ETF space that we offer those types of products and so that has shown up in retail.
And it's not just ETFs.
It is our balance commodity products too has been used as a mutual fund by retail investors.
We've focused on some other asset allocation capabilities that are set off for total return-type of capabilities that are introduced and have been introduced into our retail segments.
And that's one that is sort of new but one that we think is -- has a lot of opportunity to grow.
So again I think there's -- it's still as I said the script is being written on how well this is going but it is one where when you think about retail investors and what they're looking for I think a lot of things that alternatives offer are interesting and attractive to them.
And the biggest issue is making sure they understand the product understand the risks to the product and importantly the liquidity of the product.
Can they get in and out.
And if they can't obviously they have to be qualified investors who understand these piece issues.
Our last question does come from Stephen (sic) [Kenneth] Worthington of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So I have a couple of questions.
They're kind of interrelated.
So unfortunately I'm going to come back to comp question which seems be the topic du jour.
I guess what I'm trying to understand is I cover about 7 large publicly traded asset managers and if I'm not mistaken you've got the second highest comp ratio.
I mean the only one worse I think it's Legg and they're kind of a basket case.
So I understand what you're saying about the fee utilization rate and how it's trended over the years but it just seems like it's taking a long time for you guys to get operating leverage on that line item.
And it also makes me wonder overall just -- how is management at Invesco being compensated? Can you just refresh my memory on what sort of targets you have? Is that total shareholder return versus peers? Is a pretax margin? If you have a target like if you can refresh my memory on that as well? Is it organic flow rate? Is it EPS growth versus peers either an absolute or relative basis? Because all of this of course comes into consideration when we have to do the say on pay vote and what I'm seeing on the comp line is not particularly encouraging.
So Steve let me give a couple of thoughts on that one.
I mean one we see where the comp to revenue ratio is.
I think the lines referred to by Mason have higher ratios than we do but obviously that's not how we have organized our comp.
It's not sort of investment banking model or anything.
That's sort of just formulaic because we have the view of paying for long-term performance.
that's the biggest part of our compensation.
And certainly as we've said our comp -- and our investment performance is probably as strong as you've ever seen it so compensation in some ways reflect that.
So that's kind of one point.
And we think that's the kind of right way to manage an asset management firm.
So one thing one data point there.
And in terms of -- and a lot of that is deferred to.
So again that's another element that is important.
And obviously if it's deferred it is somewhat fixed and it won't vary based on the market.
And so the challenges I mean that's one of the realities of how deferred compensation is accounted for.
I mean our senior managers and how they are paid I think if you go to our proxy statement last year it lays it out pretty explicitly in terms of how it's thought about and just to run[ph] people in case you haven't seen it and things about compensation incentive compensation as a percentage of pre-cash operating income.
And so pre-cash operating income grows or shrinks so does the compensation for senior management and that's what you should expect to see.
So again you shouldn't have an issue in terms of say on pay because obviously the compensation numbers that you're seeing for the firm as a whole may not be reflective and probably in this case won't be reflective of what's going to go on for senior management because operating income is actually down year-over-year.
And so that is the reality of how composition is going to work for senior management.
So again I think good point it's something that we're aware of.
It's something that is not lost on us.
We think the way we're doing compensation is right.
The real topic I think ultimately have to do with it's easy for you to say is the revenue issue.
And do we have the right revenue dynamics that supports the teams that in place and that's is all about growth and finding these global products that scale and making sure that our resources are focused on building those capabilities.
And as you can imagine it's very expensive to provide local capabilities locally because they can never truly scale unless it's exceptional like in the U.K.
where you're #2 or #1 in the market.
So that's the challenge of the dynamic that is I think you're probably aware of with Invesco.
And it's one that I think is manageable and one that I would expect as you can see the 2013 comp the revenue ratio will decline and then should begin to normalize in a way that you'll be pleased with as a shareholder.
Research Division</strong> Okay because the only follow-up I'll just make is Alliance Bernstein and Legg Mason both of which have had massive outflows are the only 2 better that shows there's a problem.
Because there's a lot of other asset managers with kind of weak-ish organic growth because it's a difficult environment admittedly but they still have much lower comp to revenue ratios.
So it just kind of suggests to me that the overall cost structure is a little high there or that you've invested in these teams and this infrastructure and the revenue pay off has not yet come.
And it's just a question are we waiting for Godot or are we actually going to see it at some point? Or you're going to have to do kind of a restructuring then you bring down this.
I think No.
I think is- I appreciate your point it's much more -- it's broad-based than what give flows and what get comps.
We don't comp pay people based on flows.
We think that's a flawed way to do it.
That said it could that net inflow is a whole lot better than being in an outflows.
And I think it would very instructive to take a look as Loren said the -- again you look at the operating expenses as a percentage average assets under management that's happened over last number of years has been extraordinary.
And also in this environment of the effective feed rate dropping in this environment with an asset mix change those are the principal dynamics.
And I think you will find it hard-pressed to find an organization with the same level of operating expense discipline that you will have find here.
But happy to engage with you on it.
At this time I show no further questions.
Thanks very much everybody.
Appreciate the time.
Thank you.
Today's conference has ended.
All participants may disconnect at this time.
This presentation and comments made in the associated conference call today may include forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements include information concerning future results of our operations expenses earnings liquidity cash flow and capital expenditures industry and market conditions AUM acquisitions and divestitures debt and our ability to obtain additional financing or make payments regulatory developments demand for and pricing of our products and other aspects of our business or general economic conditions.
In addition words such as believes expects anticipates intends plans estimates projects forecasts and future or conditional verbs such as will may good should and would as well as any other statement that necessarily depends on future events are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees and they involve risks and uncertainties and assumptions.
There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from our expectations.
We caution investors not to rely unduly on any forward-looking statements.
And urge you to carefully consider the risks described in our most recent Form 10-K and subsequent Forms 10-Q filed with the SEC.
You may obtain these reports from the SEC's website at www.sec.gov.
We expressly disclaim any obligation to update the information in any public disclosure if any forward-looking statement later turns out to be inaccurate.
Good morning and welcome to Invesco's First Quarter Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to your speakers for today to Mr.
Martin L.
Flanagan President and CEO of Invesco and Mr.
Loren Starr Chief Financial Officer.
Mr.
Flanagan you may begin.
Thank you very much and thank you everybody for joining us today.
And I'm going to review the business results for the first quarter and then Loren will go to the financial results more specifically and as is our practice Loren and I will open up for Q&amp;A after that.
But before I get into the results I thought it'd be helpful to provide the sense of the macro environment and how it impacted our business after the first quarter.
And in the first quarter we did see modest economic growth in the U.S.
Washington did take some initial steps to resolve the so-called fiscal cliff and consumers seem more willing to spend.
As a result there was enhanced level of optimism with our U.S.
clients which was reflected in the U.S.
markets also.
This contrasts with client sentiment in the U.K.
and Europe which remain somewhat negative given the prospects for a modest economic recovery in the U.K.
and the likelihood of further economic contraction in the Eurozone during 2013.
Asia-Pacific clients in Japan were very upbeat given the government's commitment to fiscal stimulus and the strength of Japanese markets.
In China clients are not as upbeat as they are in Japan but certainly more so than a year ago.
Growth in China has not been as strong as expected but still very good as we all know compared to other regions of the world.
And Chinese investors are looking forward to good growth under the new leadership.
In this environment with continue to see early signs sales of investor rerisking but for various reasons given the different prospects of the different regions of the globe fixed income flows remain positive during the quarter but at a smaller percentage than the -- year-to-date than the trailing 12 months.
At the same time equity flows were generally positive which is an improvement from the months passed.
So with that as a backdrop let me highlight the operating results for the quarter.
I'm on Slide 3 now if you happen to be following on the deck.
So long-term investment performance remains very strong across all time periods during the first quarter.
Delivering strong investment performance our clients contributed to the strong operating results.
Optimism in the markets and our focus on delivering value to our clients helped drive net flows to a record $19.2 billion during the quarter.
Adjusted operating income was up $0.134 (sic) [13.4%] quarter-over-quarter and a continued focus on taking a disciplined approach to our business improved our operating margin to 38.4% from 35.6% the prior quarter.
Reflecting confidence and in continued strength of the business we're announcing today that we're raising the dividend to $0.225 per share a 30% increase over the prior level.
Assets under management rose to $729 billion during the first quarter up sequentially from $687 billion on the prior quarter.
Operating income is $314 million versus $277 million in the prior quarter and earnings per share were $0.52 versus $0.45 from the prior quarter.
During the quarter we also took the opportunity to repurchase $45 million in common stock.
Now before Loren goes in the details of the financials let me take a moment to review the investment performance during the quarter and I'm on Slide 6 now.
So investment during the quarter was among the strongest we've seen across the global enterprise.
82% of assets were ahead of peers on a 5-year basis and 75% of assets were ahead of peers on a 1-year basis and a 3-year basis.
And as you might expect with numbers like these long-term performance for investment teams across the enterprise is quite strong with the number of capabilities turning in top [indiscernible] results.
These numbers reflect our continued effort to build and enhance an investment culture that drives connectivity between our investment professionals encourages intellectual exchange.
During the quarter we saw strong active and passive flows across our global business.
We saw uniformly positive long-term flows across Equity Fixed Income balance and alternative capabilities.
And on Slide 8.
During the quarter we also saw strong flows across all channels.
Long-term flows into retail where the record for the firm and long-term flows for institutional channel were also at a record for the firm with the exception of one single quarter in 2010.
Turning to Slide 9 gross sales for our U.S.
retail business remained strong at $22.1 billion for the quarter a 34% increase over the same quarter a year ago.
The annualized redemption rate remained very favorable relative to the industry.
Flows into the complex were led by continued strength in traditional ETFs balance risk strategies UITs diversified dividends and international equity.
Strong long-term performance of our Multi-Asset suite products continue to generate tremendous interest from our clients who are attracted to a capability that aims to provide high level protection from the volatile market.
We continue to see strong growth during the first quarter across the entire suite of products with net flows of more than $4 billion.
With a strong record of execute on our strategy this enable us to deliver high level of value to our clients and consistent results for our shareholders for a long period of time.
If you'll note since 2006 our focus on building and maintaining a robust investment culture has yielded strong long-term investment performance on a very consistent basis during that period of time.
As an example Invesco's U.S.
funds rated 4 and 5 star by Morningstar improves steadily starting at 23% of assets under management 2005 and climbing to 77% today.
The material improvement in investment performance coupled with sharp focus on climb engagement has enabled us to deliver improved and sustainable organic growth.
In addition a core strength of the firm's ability to manage the operating platform we've been and remains sharply focused on driving greater efficiency and effectiveness across the platform working to create better outcomes for our clients and shareholders.
The efforts importantly have enabled us to reinvest in the business at the same time.
As you will see on Slide 12 adjusted operating expenses per average assets under management have declined 33% since 2005.
By delivering a high level of value to our clients and taking a disciplined approach to running the business we've delivered consistent results for our shareholders.
As you can see on Slide 13 we've returned $3.5 billion of capital since 2006 and outpaced the return of the S&amp;P by [indiscernible] consistently over time.
Our key priorities for 2013 will continue to build on the momentum and progress we've made over the past several years and execute on our strategy to help further strengthen our business for the long-term success.
As always we will continue to enhance the investment culture that's focused on delivering investment excellence to our clients.
We will further expand the investment capabilities and vehicles with particular focus on those that can be scaled globally to meet client's needs.
Going forward we will continue to focus on better understanding anticipating and meeting the needs of our clients.
We'll also build on our efforts to achieve greater efficiencies and effectiveness across the global platform.
We believe that by achieving strong investment performance meeting needs of our clients and effectively managing the business we can deliver consistent results to our shareholders over the long term.
We've also seen a tremendous amount of discussion in the media about the great rotation.
We prefer to position our capabilities more broadly where success can be derived without regard to which asset class is favored by the markets.
Throughout the financial crisis and during the time when investors move away from equities in droves we built the business steadily and consistently by delivering strong investment performance across a broad spectrum of asset classes.
Although we would benefit greatly from a sustained movement to equities we are seeing early signs that investors are rerisking we spent considerable effort building a comprehensive suite of capabilities to meet a broad range of client needs regardless of the markets that are in place.
Another key strength of the firm is developing a strongly based investment capabilities that can be effectively scaled to meet client's needs across the globe such as we've done with real estate Multi-Asset Fixed Income [indiscernible] bank loans and ETFs.
We are uniquely positioned to deliver on this approach with a significant competitive advantage for our firm.
We feel good about momentum in the business we feel good about our abilities to deliver a high level of value to our clients we feel good about our record of providing consistent returns to shareholders.
We will continue to look for opportunities to further strengthen our competitive and financial advantage over the long term.
And now with that I'm going to turn it over to Loren for more in-depth discussion of the financial results.
Great thank you Marty.
Before I get started I wanted to point out a minor but I believe helpful change in our AUM roll forward.
We've taken heed of the feedback from the investment community and we've isolated and removed the impact on long-term flows due to the Invesco PowerShares QQQ product.
We hope you find this change useful in better understanding the long-term full picture of the firm.
Now getting to the results.
You'll see that our AUM increased $41.6 billion quarter-over-quarter or 6%.
That was due to positive market returns which added $31.4 billion.
Total net inflows of $19.2 billion of which $14.8 billion were long-term.
These increases in AUM were offset by negative FX of $9 billion.
Our average AUM for Q1 was up as well 4.8% to $712.7 billion.
Clearly the long-term flows were a very strong element in the quarter.
The strength was fueled in part by Q1 seasonality and the timing of several institutional mandates.
We're pleased with the volumes we've seen so far in April but we expect overall flows for Q2 to decline from the Q1 levels.
Q2 tends to be lighter in flows than Q1 and I should point out that we have been notified of a $2 billion passive redemption to take place this quarter.
This $2 billion outflow happily is only at 2 basis points revenue yield.
So the P&amp;L impact will be modest.
Our net revenue yield in Q1 was 45.8 basis points an increase of 0.2 basis points quarter-over-quarter.
Stronger performance fees were partially offset by 2 less days in the quarter however if you normalize our day count we continued to see our management fee yield increase quarter-over-quarter.
Next let me turn to the operating results.
Net revenues increased $40.6 million or 5.2% quarter-over-quarter which includes a negative FX rate impact of $13.4 million.
Looking at this a bit more closely you'll see that investment management fees grew by $27.4 million or 3.2% to $892.4 million.
This increase was in line with our higher average AUM but also the higher effective fee rate after allowing for 2 less days during the quarter.
FX reduced investment management fees by $16.2 million.
Service and distribution revenues were up by $6.9 million or 3.5% also roughly in line with the increase in average AUM.
FX decreased service and distribution revenues by $1.3 million.
Performance fees came in rather large this quarter at $38.6 million that was an increase of $17.5 million from Q4.
Performance fees in the first quarter were primarily driven by the U.K.
which contributed $29.5 million and the bank loan team in the U.S.
which contributed $6.5 million.
FX reduced performance fees by $1.9 million.
Other revenues in the first quarter were $25.8 million this was a decrease of $1.6 million versus the prior quarter.
We saw a $4.9 million reduction in real estate transaction fees but that was partially offset by a $3.3 million pickup in UIT revenues and retained front-end loads.
FX reduced other revenues by $0.1 million.
Third party distribution service and advisory expense which we net against gross revenues increased by $9.6 million or 2.8%.
FX decreased these expenses by $6.1 million.
Continuing on down the slide you'll see that adjusted operating expenses at $502.9 million increased by $3.5 million or 0.7% relative to the fourth quarter.
FX decreased operating expenses by $7.5 million.
Employee compensation at $351.3 million increased by $9.3 million or 2.7%.
The $9.3 million reflects seasonally higher payroll taxes and retirement costs but these were partially offset by lower variable compensation in the quarter.
FX reduced compensation by $4.7 million.
Looking forward giving you some guidance here assuming no change in quarter and asset levels we would expect compensation to decline approximately $15 million quarter-over-quarter and then remain roughly flat through the remainder of the year again assuming flat AUM.
The decline in compensation from the first quarter is due to the rolling off of the seasonally higher payroll taxes and bonuses linked to performance fees which will be partially offset by a full quarter's worth of salary increases.
Moving on down marketing expense decreased by $0.5 million or 2.1% to $23.3 million.
FX decreased these expenses by $0.3 million.
We would expect marketing to return back to the $27 million $28 million per quarter run rate going forward.
Property office and technology expense was $69.6 million in the first quarter a decrease of $2.1 million.
FX reduced these expenses by $1 million.
In the quarter we recognized $1.5 million of lease expense credit which generally don't recur.
Further we expect property office and technology expense to increase as the European TA outsourcing projects finishes up in the later part of second quarter leveling off so this line item will level off around $75 million per quarter in the second half of the year.
And this increase will be offset however by decreases in compensation and G&amp;A.
G&amp;A expense came in at $58.7 million that's down $3.2 million or 5.5%.
The first quarter included a $2.5 million legal settlement credit.
FX decreased G&amp;A by $1.5 million.
Taking effect for this credit we would expect G&amp;A to return to the $62 million run rate level going forward.
Again coming down the page you'll see that our nonoperating income increased $2.8 million compared to the fourth quarter largely due to the decline in interest expense as we had a full quarter's worth of savings from the refinancing transaction last quarter.
From this tax rate on pretax adjusted net operating income or net income excuse me in Q1 was 26% the increase in the tax rate was a result of changes in the mix of profits reflecting a higher proportion in U.S.
and Continental Europe.
Going forward we expect the tax rate to continue to be around 2.5% [ph] to 26.5%.
And that brings us to our adjusted EPS of $0.52.
And our adjusted net operating margin of 38.4%.
Assuming we can continue current quarter end asset levels we would expect to see Invesco's operating margin continue to expand throughout the remainder of the year and be in excess of 40% by year end.
Now before I turn things back to Marty I just want to briefly comment on our accounting treatment for the sale of Atlantic Trust to CIBC to the transaction that is expected to close sometime before year end.
Atlantic Trust will be classified as held for sale on Invesco's balance sheet and as discontinued operations when we release results in the second quarter.
This treatment means that all of Atlantic Trust's revenues and expenses will be pulled out of our results both for U.S.
GAAP and for non-GAAP presentations.
And we've included a slide in the appendix of the presentation that provides additional detail on the revenues and expenses of the business that should help you with your modeling of our ongoing operations.
And with that I will turn it back to Marty.
Thank you Loren.
So any questions? [Operator Instructions] Our first question does come from Michael Carrier of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Marty maybe just on flows.
I guess a strong quarter you guys mentioned some of the drivers in terms of some of the wins seasonality you're just trying to gauge.
And we've seen this across the industry as the companies are reporting.
When you look at the products that you feel like you have like the sustainability in terms of flows given what you're seeing in the market right now versus some of the areas where you saw like an institutional win or seasonality can you gauge that in terms of where you see the outlook where you see the growth opportunities versus where it will ultimately see some pullback for the industry? Yes.
It's a fair question and you're not the only one who's wondering we all are.
So I mean I can give you some sense.
I mean that it's -- and I think you probably seen it different magnitudes and different companies just because of the relative strength in them.
But it was quite robust and at a macro level if you want to use the U.S.
retail investors maybe some level of proxy.
You did see -- I would classify it early stages of the rotation into equities and I would expect people to continue to be cautious throughout the summer.
You've had 3 years in a row of right around this time that the markets pulled back quite strongly.
And so for good reason you would imagine retail investors should be cautious into the fall.
So I think if you have sort of sideways to up markets through the summer in the fall you could have some level of confidence and you could probably see continuation of some movements into equity.
Where I think if again if you just look at history if you look at the different asset classes it tends to be pretty stable in areas of asset allocation and the buckets of alternatives where you start to get the movements are between fixed income and equity and you did see this quarter obviously movements into U.S.
equities in particular which has been quite different than what we've seen over the last trailing 12 months at the expense of taxable fixed income in particular.
And I would imagine it would be more gradual than not.
So that said I don't know if that's helpful that's a perspective.
What we are seeing specifically is just a continuing broadening of the asset classes that are interesting to our client base.
Balance risk continues to be quite strong.
I think the equity income type products continue to be strengthening international equities continue to be strengthening and again I think those are all signs of people real estate and also if you look at our traditional PowerShares again I think all are very very strong.
So Q1 is traditionally the strongest quarter of the year.
We saw that and I suspect others will have seen that too.
But it does look that there could be some continue the momentum throughout the summer and into the fall.
Research Division</strong> Okay thanks that's helpful.
And then just as a follow-up.
Loren maybe on just some of the numbers.
You mentioned that you're trying to -- or you're guiding to that 40% margin by year end.
I think you mentioned there was a few moving pieces.
And I just wanted to understand you said calm down the $50 million sequentially.
And I think part of that is you mentioned on the European kind of synergies coming through.
So just if you can just go through the comp versus the office and tech and then the G&amp;A what the moving pieces are? And then I know it's impossible but any type of outlook on the performance that you've just given how strong they were this quarter? So in terms of moving pieces again the biggest moving piece and the one that we highlighted just now has to do with payroll taxes and obviously it spikes up in the first quarter and then rolls off.
So that's going to account for the biggest drop off.
It is somewhat offset by having 3 months entirely of salary increases which typically -- which happened this month -- or sorry in February of last quarter so you only have 1 month of the impact last quarter and you have 3 months of it this quarter.
So that difference is really the net 15.
There is going to be some benefit in comp in terms of ultimately the TA outsourcing which is going to bring comp down.
Comp will obviously continue to expand as our operating income grows and as we grow organically.
So some of that's going to get offset.
That's why comp really looks rather flat in terms of the guidance through the rest of the year because of those 2 things will be largely offsetting.
So that's really all the moving pieces.
We have a very stable predictable accrual -- in terms of how we're recruiting for bonus this year.
So there's no back end loading no front end loading this is going to be very predictable for everyone.
So again that will help in terms of the transparency.
In terms of the other line items.
Property office and tech as I mentioned is going to go up to about $75 million.
That's because when we pay our third party provider to do the work for them and it falls into that line item and that's why it's going up.
And so in G&amp;A again even though it's up to from where it is right now 62 it is going to be -- there's a net offset.
Generally G&amp;A has been going up because of the regulatory environment we're in.
There's a lot of cost in terms of putting risk systems but that will -- in terms of the impacts of the TA outsourcing it will help offset that and that's why it will be staying flat at 62.
So hopefully that's the level of detail looking for Mike.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's helpful.
Anything on the performance fees? So performance fees typically where we earn our performance fees in the U.K.
this -- first quarter is the big quarter when we would see that.
So again looking a year later I'm not smart enough to be able to tell you what it will look like other than performance is excellent in that team and so if they can hold onto it yes there'll be more performance fees.
I can't exactly say at what magnitude.
The other place where we've seen performance fees and probably will continue to see performance fees is in the area of bank loans.
Our bank loan business has continued to grow very rapidly a lot of those products do have performance fees associated with that and they're doing very well.
So again how much maybe in the range of $2 million to $5 million could be that range and it could hit at any quarter.
It's not I wouldn't count on it every single quarter.
And then the only point I would mention because of a discontinued operations that we're going to need to treat Atlantic Trust as all the performance fees associated with Atlantic Trust which we've traditionally seen in the fourth quarter are going to fall into the discontinued ops line and therefore won't be part of our operating results.
So again that's something that you'll just need to model through.
But the other thing that is worth pointing out is when we do go to discontinued ops which will happen in the second quarter essentially margins will grow.
So I think we've mentioned in the call before it's about 0.5 percentage point benefit on margin.
That's not in any of the guidance I just given you.
In fact all the numbers I've given you include Atlantic Trust.
So you'll have to sort of exclude those amounts in your models which you can do using the sheet in the back of the Appendix.
Our next question does come from Bill Katz of Citi.
Research Division</strong> I just want to stay on the margins first.
Sounds to me like your guidance for the end of the year is a tad more optimistic than maybe last time we chat on this now you're sort of saying over 40%.
Is there anything underneath the covers here in terms of the mix of the business or the core efficiencies on the expense side that's improved to the point where it feels like you are a bit more optimistic on profitability? Well I mean I think it's actually I would say markets have been still generally helpful for us and so that does give us a sense of confidence.
Obviously having the quarter completed and results and everything being executed as we hoped it's helpful.
Our guidance that we gave you was sort of x the Atlantic Trust transaction too.
So we feel that that will definitely provide more lift in margins even than that I was talking about.
So overall we are focused on the top line growth.
We think we're seeing flows continue in a very healthy way.
We're focused on operating platform effectiveness efficiencies as we always have been and that work is going well too.
So again I think maybe that is generating a greater sense of confidence that we can get to that 40% margin.
Research Division</strong> Okay it's helpful.
And then Mike a big picture question for yourself.
Look at the business risk premier business is doing well.
I wonder if maybe you can talk about where you're seeing equal opportunity set for that.
And then underneath that I mean a part of that in terms of Europe that also seems to be increasingly contributing to the flow story now.
And maybe where you might be in terms of opportunity to fully leverage that footprint? Yes so again I think the balance risk capability is consistent with I think we're seeing broadly across the industry is really a post-crisis phenomenon some ways where people do want to have some low volatility capabilities in their portfolios.
And we continue -- it's not unique to the United States as you know for us it continues to be built out.
By the fall we look to be introducing another capability with the team that's joined us in the United Kingdom.
It won't be 'til the fall so we're going to continue to expand that.
And we think that's here to stay.
I think it's going to be just part of sort of the makeup of how people are building portfolios Multi-Asset Strategies and the like.
With regard to Europe again it has been a focus of ours as an organization over the last number of years and continues to be and it continues to get stronger.
And we anticipate that it will continue to get stronger as we continue to focus on the things that we have.
So again it should be a net contributor.
Also in time it has been probably at one level with the macro environment there.
It's contributed more broadly than one might anticipate considering that.
But again we still think we're early days of where we could end up on the continent.
Our next question does come from Ken Worthington of JPMC.
Research Division</strong> First on the institutional business.
Can you give us some additional flavor on 3 things? First what products and regions are seeing the greatest success? Two maybe as you look out over the next year where are you most optimistic? And three maybe excluding staple value how big is the pipeline either on an absolute basis or maybe how big is it relative to where it was 6 months ago? Yes.
So let me hit a couple of those and let Loren.
So I'll have Loren talk more specifically about the pipeline but what we're sort of seeing.
And I think this is important as you to point out a number of years ago where it was pretty focused on staple value in particular in the United States.
It's broadening quite a bit where alternatives heavily real estate bank loans are under just under half of -- but it's also brought in through the balance portfolios the fixed income and also equities.
And we would not have seen that breadth of asset classes being the pipeline 2 3 years ago.
And it continues to be really pretty broad not just the United States but in continental Europe we've actually been getting some good traction.
We continue to get traction out of the Middle East and also in parts of Asia.
So again it's as broad as we've seen in a number of years.
So Ken in terms of you wanted to talk about the pipeline and the pipeline is actually at 5% higher than it was over the last 12 month average so it continues to be strong and healthy and stable despite the fact that we had a lot of fundings this quarter.
So I think the institutional business is continuing to do quite well.
I think again the products entering has been very much on alternatives equities fixed income balance and I mean it's across the spectrum so there's quite a bit of diversity within what is in demand there and stable value is a small part of it actually.
It's not enormous I think it's maybe 10% of the pipeline in terms of what is being looked at.
We do think stable values has the ability to grow going forward but it's been a little bit concerning just due to wrap capacity recently.
And so we're looking to find ways to increase wrap capacity.
So overall pretty good.
And even more importantly we -- the fee characteristics of the pipeline continue to improve.
So the net revenue yield on the pipeline is improving so all good.
What I might add to it is that and again I think important that we talked about this over the quarters.
We are not clear the timing of it right? We all have estimates but again it tends to be -- clients will react when they react and but if you look over the time period of the year it looks really quite strong.
And the other thing that I think is still on the marketplace I think which is interesting for the money-management industry in particular is that yes we are seeing more interest in equities in some ways but you also have a number of plans that continue to de-risk their equity exposure and I personally don't think that's the right answer when you're trying to close deficits but maybe with more solid markets you'll continue to see some of that mind shift change and I think that would be real positive not just for the plans but also for the industry and for us in particular.
But all in all Loren said...
Yes and again Ken in terms of the actual dollar amounts I mean we've been hesitant to give out dollar amounts.
So we look at it in terms of what's won and not yet funded we look at qualified opportunities but we're talking about sizable numbers billions and billions of dollars in terms of won not funded.
But as Marty said it can be a little bit of illusion because it takes a while a lot of its real estate.
It takes -- it could take a year.
It could take even longer than a year to some of that stuff to fund.
So you don't want people to presume that it's all coming around next quarter.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then in terms of Europe U.K.
performance is awesome here yet the franchise and modest redemption love your comments there.
And then in Continental Europe it's experiencing extremely maybe even exceptionally strong sales relative to its size.
Maybe what work -- can you walk through what's working there? Yes.
So let me start on the comment.
I mean we've obviously been there for years and years and years.
And we weren't happy with the results that we were generating.
And again this is not sort of an overnight effort.
It's been the past couple of years really where the performance is strong.
It's as strong as it's ever been in that lineup there.
That's reflective of a number of our investment teams from around the world being represented there.
So it's just common sense right? Much better product management the lineup's much better.
There's much greater focus on -- the sales leadership is very very strong now.
We're still I'd say early stages of where we want to be institutionally although we're seeing some very good success recently on the institutional business.
So again it's -- we've thought for some period we should be much more successful there than we have then and you're starting to see that.
In the United Kingdom we're -- we just have a very large presence.
And I think you're with a good performance you're seeing it's a combination of people sentiment in the marketplace about exposure to the equity market but we also think there's an opportunity for us again with the multi-asset capabilities.
We think that's not unique to the United States but also something very very important in the United Kingdom.
And we think that is a future area for growth for us in a very strategic important way.
And again that's -- it's not going to come on until the fall just because it takes up long to get it up and running.
But again we think that is going to be another very very important element of success and growth opportunities.
And maybe just a little more color.
I mean one of the things as you mentioned maybe asset allocation capabilities have been strong in Europe but they've been growing sequentially quite dramatically actually.
So it's been sort of 50% growth levels quarter-over-quarter.
So it's definitely accelerating.
Again by the way that stays -- it's hard to say but it's just been very very encouraging.
We've also had very strong European corporate bonds flows to that product has done very very well and it's been in great demand.
I think we mentioned we had a $1 billion win with our Quant group in Europe which again is -- really had the potential to draw even more flows going forward.
So it's been multifaceted in terms of what's going on in Continental Europe.
Our next question does come from Jeff Hopson of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay so questions on margin.
I'm assuming that the ETF growth over the past 12 months as well as ABRA both I guess given that those are contained to some extent businesses how much are each of those I guess are contributing to the margin? And then Marty on ETFs clearly you've seen I guess the next level of success.
The good news is the flows are consistent and strong.
Now they're lumpy as are the industry flows to some extent but it seems like that business has turned the corner but it's only as good as ongoing product introductions et cetera.
Can you kind of give us your sense of where you think that business is and then going forward whether you have in fact turned the corner of present and product et cetera? So let me -- maybe why don't I start with that and then Loren can address the margin topics.
So we think the PowerShares franchise is a superb one right? We know where we're competing and we've been very focused on that.
If you look at the recognition the advisor channel it's the second most recognized brand in the advisor channel.
We think that's very very important.
The focus again on product development introductions over the last 3 years in particular I think has been very sharp very focused and something that has put us in a position for the success that you're seeing right now.
We believe that's sustainable and we'll continue to do more of that.
We also think again the ETF market is again it's investment outcomes that matter not the vehicle per se but what you are seeing is again with good product capabilities within the -- or investment capabilities within ETFs is the educational level goes up in the advice channel you're just going to see greater use of that and that has been our whole theory since the beginning of getting into PowerShares.
And so we're just expecting to continue very good things out of the Invesco Powershares business and we think it's sustainable.
And I tell you in terms of what's driving the margin growth when I look at it it isn't -- you can't just say it's ETFs.
It has a lot to do with the very important theme of products that are beginning to go global and that is true around some of the asset allocation products and the fact that you get that operating leverages as these products can go into different markets.
But also bank loans which has been the big driver of growth within the ETF space and outside of U.S.
and has been a big driver too.
So I'd say that is probably more the way I would think about the margin expansion as opposed to a particular product line or particular regions.
And again we're very hopeful that we're going to see more of those types of products sort of take off in -- through 2013 and 2014.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I could just follow up for Marty.
I believe that when you guys go to market to financial advisers you are using both Invesco and PowerShares when you meet with them.
I assume that helps you with overall leverage.
And then secondarily to what extent has ABRA has PowerShares helped you with the halo effect? And should we expect -- for example in equities while the environment is still so-so you have excellent performance there.
To what extent do you think you're getting some momentum finally for the overall brand? And to what extent is that being helped by -- against a halo effect from ABRA and other products? So let me answer that this way.
So I -- you're on an important topic.
I think success through investment capabilities generally creates success across the organization and we've said over the years the Invesco brand was not known a number of years ago in the advice channel.
I mean it was a standing start into the advice channel.
And so the effort to get it recognized in the advice channel has been very important.
And it largely comes by creating strong performing capabilities that help advisors do what they need to do for their clients.
Invesco PowerShares has been a very important part of that.
Again this is a multiyear conversation.
It has been reinforced into the retail channel not cannibalization and it's how we present all of the capabilities to the channel.
It's a combination of general wholesalers with specialists.
We've had that model for years.
We think that's what matters.
It's focus on outcomes for the advisor.
And again you do some on top of that the capability of a -- give-or-take capability again is reinforcing to the franchise.
It was something that is needed for clients.
And again it just -- when wholesalers are talking to their clients they talk about a suite they listen to them very much to understand what their needs are and they present the breadth of them and for a number of years now we have been very focused on the equity capabilities for the advice channel.
We think it has been the right thing to do to have people forward-looking as they look into markets.
And again you've not seen the corporate rotation into U.S.
equities.
You've seen somewhat international on emerging markets but we're still early days.
So again it all becomes self-reinforcing.
And I think you're right on the -- you're on the right topic.
And we think we have made great progress in that area as compared to just 3 years ago.
Our next question does come from Daniel Fannon of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess just talking about the ABRA product how many variations of it do you have now? And I guess is there any that are coming up that are coming on significant milestones like a 3-year track record you've -- which might lead to an acceleration in some of these newer products in new regions? So Dan so we have a few different configurations within U.S.
and then other configurations outside of the U.S.
So again I haven't counted them all up but we probably have close to 10 12 different flavors of what we have and also I believe we're going to have more.
I think in terms of ones that we're excited about but not yet onto any sort of landmark timing is the premium income fund which is -- does asset allocation across our brand of high-yielding asset classes.
It has a very very strong performance record for one year.
And when you look at the flows they are definitely getting stronger quarter-by-quarter-by-quarter.
So again early days to declare this is going to be the next big thing but it is certainly a product that has a lot of appeal within U.S.
and is actually now being looked at very seriously outside of the U.S.
So we may be able to actually move this forward without sort of the traditional 3-year track record in certain regions more quickly.
So that one's exciting.
There's another product which is the global strategies product which was more of an alternative capability that is being targeted for high net worth individuals in the U.S.
That has sort of generated some good interest.
And again early days but it's one where it's certainly been growing more rapidly more recently.
So that one has a lot of promise but again no 3-year track records yet that I can call out and say this thing is going to suddenly take off at this point.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great that's helpful.
And I guess just on the revenue side the other revenues you flagged a few things this quarter.
I guess is this a decent run rate to think about this year? I know there's these transaction things that are happening but I guess any help there from an outlook perspective? I would use this as the best run rate forecast at this point.
It's a consistent way that we're looking at it internally.
It is proven to be a very hard line item to forecast because there are some things that run through it and the actual transaction fees are very much a function of which fund may be doing a transaction as opposed to just a level of transactions in aggregate so -- but I would guide you to use current quarter.
Our next question does come from Chris Harris of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I want to come back to the ETF business for a second.
Just wondering if you think that investors increasing their risk tolerance could potentially lead to a rotation out of beta neutral ETFs and more momentum into the kind of the active ETF product which you guys have a great suite of products there.
Is there any validity to that something like that occurring? Are you seeing anything in the marketplace right now that suggests that could happen? It's a hard question to answer.
But again if you think of the prior conversations that we've had we have thought a national progression from a conservative position of investors was from sort of fixed income type into passive equities.
And we saw that movement very very strongly.
If you look at our core ETFs they have continued to get stronger and stronger.
So with this idea of investor confidence increasing I think that's a realistic thought and you could see that continue in time.
And again it would be consistent with the idea that it's not the vehicle that matters it's the investment outcomes that matter and what investment philosophy that you're trying to meet.
And again it's consistent with -- we think the very strong equity capabilities that we have there are going to do fine as people continue to get more confident coming into the market and we expect that the ETF capabilities that will generate greater returns will also benefit.
And so we would agree with the fundamental underlying point of your question.
Yes.
I mean the one thing I would say I mean just some background topics I mean our active equity sales are up 26% quarter-over-quarter so we are seeing increased interest in active equities.
With that said our ETF -- so traditionally ETF business are doing very well too so we're not seeing any sort of cannibalization.
I think people are just generally taking on more risk and they do it in a couple of different ways and different proportions.
Ultimately if we get into a full-on grade rotation-type of scenario I mean you could certainly probably paint the picture where people will be gravitating less to index-type pointed passive funds.
Passive funds.
Passive funds and more into active funds and that will be great.
I mean I think we welcome that.
The good news about our ETF line obviously is that it's obviously somewhere afoot in active and somewhat afoot in passive.
It's actually probably going to benefit under all scenarios.
Michael Kim of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
First maybe to come at the flows from a bit of a different angle.
Can you just give us any color on how the flows sort of trended through the first quarter as it relates to the underlying mix so active versus passive as well as looking across the different asset classes or strategies.
Just trying to get a sense of how the demand trends kind of played out -- have played out thus far this year and any implications going forward? Maybe I'll make a couple of comments and Loren can too.
I don't have all the details to answer that question.
But I think what you saw here and consistent with much of the industry January was uniquely strong and we can debate the whys but it was.
It did continue for us vis-à-vis prior months and quarters at a very strong level.
And again we just -- again I'm repeating myself but it is reflection of greater investor confidence and the performance that's been generated by the investment management teams.
And I don't know that I can get any more specific than that.
Yes.
I think there isn't sort of a distinct trend where suddenly we're active and then we went passive or vice versa.
I do think sort of as we enter into second quarter we'll continue to see the trends we saw in the first quarter.
They'll probably have a little bit more orientation towards passive products right now than there has been the first quarter but it's just one month.
And so again it's hard to sort of say that we're in any sort of permanent move away from active product at all.
So early days into 2Q.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just second if I'm doing the math right it looks like less than half of your money market AUM is in kind of prime money market funds here in the U.S.
So just be curious to get your take on how you see regulatory reform playing out? And then more specifically if the FSOC or the SEC were to go down sort of that floating NAB route does that change your thinking in terms of the value of that business to the overall franchise? Just on the broad question you're all seeing the commentary so everybody is expecting some guidance like here in the not-too-distant future from the SEC.
As with our involvement what we understand is that the range of proposals we think it is a manageable outcome for the industry and frankly for us and we would not change our stance on where we are.
We think it is a very valuable thing for investors the money funds.
And we could see a path forward coming out of the proposed reforms that will stay intact.
And we do believe that the general goal is not to negatively impact the money fund market at the same time.
So we're cautiously optimistic I would say.
Luke Montgomery of Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So just on the margin expansion you showed in the quarter clearly stronger revenues helped and obviously that the progress is encouraging.
You've given a lot of detail already but I was hoping you would give us a sense of how much of the margin expansion could be attributed to deferred compensation or other cash flow timing differences that smoothed expenses and might be expected to reverse in later periods.
Was that like a modest impact or something more? No.
I mean I think it's steady as she goes.
I mean as we mentioned we're accruing on a constant rate.
So there isn't any sort of deferral and then suddenly catch-up going to happen later.
So that is going help I think everyone in terms of their modeling.
So going forward as we talked about the only real big moving piece is going to be payroll tax and now from fourth quarter to first quarter.
If you're looking at that change obviously we talked about sort of having a heavier back-end accrual in the last half of 2012.
And so that has fallen to a lower rate quarter-versus-quarter.
So that's certainly why variable compensation was able to come down.
We also saw performance fees -- a different composition of performance fees in Q4 versus Q1.
In Q4 it was Atlantic Trust largely and that's at a higher compensation rate than the rate that we saw for Q1.
So all those elements allowed comp to come in where it did.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I think it's probably understood at this point that one of the reasons for your relatively lower margin is smaller product sizes and I think specifically the lack of 1 product or 2 to scale globally.
And if I think about the firms that have done that well typically they have very strong distributions especially on the retail side.
So I'm wondering if you're satisfied with your global distribution networks? Do you think it might be one of the things that's kept your products from scaling globally? And what types of investments and distribution are you implementing or planning at this point? So again -- and you've somewhat -- being add-on to the commentary I talked about earlier here in the U.S.
in particular we really had a lot of work to do to get recognized in the retail channel and to move it forward.
And again I think just from the results today you're seeing continued progress and being impactful in that retail channel and that helps right? There's no question about it.
The commentary earlier about greater success on the continent that is a very important thing and very helpful and that continues to build on it.
So again it is just an absent focus of the firm the capabilities are strong and the performance is strong and just being very focused on ensuring that we get the opportunity to deliver those capabilities to clients is a very serious folks of the firm and has been for a number of years.
Our next question does come from Matt Kelley of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So just coming back real quickly to the comp numbers just factoring in the FX impact in the fourth quarter to the rolling forward to the first quarter it sounds like you've kind of $20 million to $25 million lower core when you back that out in the variable nature of the -- sorry the higher payroll tax.
So when you look forward that's a kind of delta.
So I'm just curious how much is kind of performance fee-related comp right now? And if your AUM isn't flat based on the strong inflows that you have what should we be expecting for the type of leverage as AUM grows if we are modeling that for your comp line? So I think in the past we've talked about incremental margins and that is sort of in the range of 55% 60% incremental margins thinking about how much of revenue drops into operating income.
And that's probably the -- generally the right range for you to be thinking about and then largely that component is flexing into the variable compensation element.
So hopefully that will allow you to model kind of where comp would go if revenues and assets rise.
The ratios on performance fees can be quite different depending on which area generates them.
So that creates a little variability probably the biggest variation was with Atlantic Trust and again that's probably not going to be a topic that you're going to need to think about.
So they tend to be more modest in other areas.
But to the extent that we have our performance fees through any part of -- or any quarter that will drive up compensation clearly to some amount.
But those levels are not as extreme as what we saw.
Did that get your question Matt? I'm not sure.
Research Division</strong> Yes it did Loren.
The other thing I wanted to ask you guys is about when you think about retail distribution it sounds like increasingly ETFs and alternative products are increasing the penetration level.
So I'm just curious with where you stand right now.
You have a pretty diversified but maybe subscale in a couple of areas alternatives platform in your ETF franchise that was -- is a top 5 player.
I'm just wondering if you're kind of happy with what you have or you think there are other products that you're not currently offering that you think could sell really well in retail and fit really well with your current product set as well.
Well it's an ongoing effort at the organization to understand our investment capabilities and what's needed by clients.
And again I think what I would point to is our success of identifying those trends and matching them whether it'd be things like ABRA the premium income product or...
Bank loans.
Yes the bank loans and the like.
So we don't see gaping holes in the organization.
I mean very very different.
There's fewer holes than -- but again it's a very constant focus of ours so...
The only thing I would add and well you can correct me but I mean we have been spending a lot of time and effort and resources on thinking about fixed income generally and it's becoming a bigger -- potentially bigger player in that space.
Bank loans are great product.
I think we're one of the top -- probably top 3 top 5 in that space.
But there's certainly other opportunities within fixed income broadly that we probably have not participated as well as we can.
And we continue to add capabilities and resources and technology that will allow us to be more effective there.
So I think that's got to be an area of focus.
Yes.
I -- that's -- so if you look at the credit capabilities as I've said the organization's credit capabilities about as strong as you're going to find them in the marketplace.
And that's a good thing for the environment that we're in but what's coming off of that are sort of a multi-credit type capabilities or something that we think we should be much more successful in than we are.
And I think you'll see those types of things create success over time.
So that's a very good point.
But that is a longer-term build.
I mean it will take years.
Our next question does come from Chris Shutler of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> As you speak with institutional investors in the U.S.
and abroad are you guys seeing much difference right now in terms of product preferences or risk tolerances by region? It is interesting.
I think there is a constant theme of seeking income within institutional clients and I'd probably put it more specifically of moving out of perfective mode to how do we -- how can we generate the returns close to the deficits that we have or to meet our target of return with ideally not using equities? I mean that's a real hard thing to solve.
So that's why you see a lot of again things into real estate things into bank loans those types of capabilities premium income.
Now again with that said there are some very smart investors moving into equities and we are seeing that.
But the theme is people and I think it's a good -- ultimately a good trend that people are realizing they're going to have to generate returns to close the gaps.
So that would be a few in Asia broadly Greater China Japan that would be interesting.
In Japan there's greater conversation in equities than you've seen in a very very long period of time.
How much takes through we'll have to see.
And again here in the States we've talked about that at some length.
It is -- it kind of gets us with the conversations we've just had.
The only thing I'd say there a couple of interesting things.
I mean I think Quant is factoring much more strongly in Europe than it has in the U.S.
And so that's probably still work to be done at some point sort of to see if that becomes more of a theme.
And then things like private equity is probably more of a U.S.-focused product as opposed to necessarily having as much opportunity outside of the U.S.
in Europe in Continental Europe.
So there's different flavors that work in different locations.
So generally most of our products are across the globe being offered.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one follow-up.
So I saw the -- you put out a press release yesterday about income investing and clearly that's a trend you guys have been benefiting from for a while.
So just curious what the takeaways from that press release would be for us whether it's more just formalizing something we already know or if you're going to be actually making any changes to distribution strategy marketing et cetera based on that? No.
I think it's reinforcing the focus and factors that we've been on for the last number of years so...
Our next question does come from Greggory Warren of Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I know you touched on the flows a bit so far during the call but I'm looking at on a month-by-month basis.
And if you strip out January really for the industry overall flows are looking not much different in sort of February March April than we've seen over the last 4 or 5 years where taxable bond funds are taking the bigger piece of the pie.
There is some interest in equities but it's mainly on the passive side.
And I'm just wondering if that's the same sort of thing you're seeing within your portfolio.
And then I kind of have a follow-on question about the Canadian markets.
So again we -- as I mentioned earlier we are seeing it more broad.
I mean we are seeing people moving more broadly outside of taxable fixed income.
For us it'd be alternatives asset allocation international equities equity income-type products so again I think it is broadening for us.
And I think Greggory you're maybe looking purely U.S.
in your view.
And I'll say we're taking the perspective of the broader global sort of opportunity which is quite different in some cases than what's going on.
So a little bit hard for us to sort of draw a conclusion and you get on specific plan which is exactly what Marty said is -- we're seeing strong flows into the products that you just mentioned asset location contingency growth and international equity and some other areas so -- but hard to comment on the trend for the whole industry.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then I think you're right Loren.
I think that's part of the issues worth -- tending to look a little bit more to U.S.-centered data which skews it a little bit.
But yes that was the only thing I did bring up to as a moderate allocation growth over the past 4 5 years.
That's actually been one of the better growth ones besides taxable bond funds.
So spot-on with that area.
The thing about Canada overall with I shares picking up Claymore last year and kind of building out a bigger piece of that pie up there on the ETF side and Vanguard getting a little bit more aggressive.
How do you guys feel your position there? And where do you see kind of the growth from that market because it pales in comparison what we have here domestically? Again I -- we think it's an opportunity.
I mean it's relative opportunity as you point out but again the ETF introductions that we have done in Canada have been -- they really have been successful.
And again it's copying the playbook in the United States.
It's been very complimentary to the advice channel.
It's worked very well with the advisors there.
I think also importantly whether it's hard to follow is that what happens is -- and it's just not unique to Canada but also investors start to come to the U.S.
exchanges to buy the Invesco PowerShares ETFs here in the United States.
So again the greater recognition of ETFs in the marketplace it is beyond what you see locally.
I mean it tends to go to the home exchanges also.
So for us it's been a very nice contribution to the Invesco PowerShares franchise.
But more importantly broadening out our ability to meet investors' needs in Canada has been a very good development.
Yes.
Again probably just worth emphasizing one more time our goal is not to sort of own the ETF market in Canada or any location.
I mean we're focused on this type of ETF capability that's sort of this better beta enhanced access-type of capability and that's where we want to be well recognized and well known.
So in terms of what BlackRock might be doing up there that probably is not as relevant necessarily to our strategy.
Our next question does come from Robert Lee of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question and I apologize if you had addressed this earlier but I had gone to the call a bit late.
On the balance sheet I mean I noticed that you had the sequential jump-up in the outstanding on the credit facility.
And I guess a couple of questions related to that understanding you have bonus payments and things like that in the first quarter.
So should we really be thinking this is with this kind of a timing thing about when you can actually access cash in the U.K.
and bring it back to Bermuda? So how should we be thinking about kind of capital management in the next couple of quarters maybe pay that back down? Should we think share repurchase and maybe this is a better run rate in terms of dollars spent thing about share repurchase over the next couple of quarters? Great Rob.
I think I'm going to offer you a job in my treasury because you know my cash flow as well as anybody.
So yes.
I mean it's exactly what you said that our bonus -- that we pay out bonuses and that was a the big component.
We also completed the acquisition of the 49% equity interest in Religare so that was another part of it.
And we did not get a dividend in this quarter which in the past we have and that's going to happen in the second quarter.
And so that will bring those balances down and pretty much we're well on track in terms of our continued focus on sort of overtime deleveraging and bringing down the credit facility.
So we feel with the one point -- more than $1 billion of cash flow coming through in our operating income this year that we're going to be -- we'll be successful at attaining our goals of bringing down the credit facility over time.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I guess most of that $1 billion cost of the -- have being able to bring back that dividend that tends to occur the last 3 quarters of the year as opposed to kind of even spread so to speak? Yes that's right.
It can be lumpy.
And so it will happen twice a year.
Typically it's the way that happens.
So probably second quarter and fourth quarter would be our expectations.
And that will help us.
Obviously it supports our dividends that we announced externally in terms of the 30% increase and as well as buybacks.
The next question does come from Marc Irizarry of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Oh great.
Just on the passive redemption and the low fee redemption that you mentioned is that kind of a one-off? Or if you look at what's going on in the passive business is there sort of this movement some more movement going on there in terms of that business maybe getting a bit more competitive or sort of maybe the smart beta wave taking hold? Yes Marc.
I'm happy to say that is absolutely a complete one-off.
It has nothing to do with anything and it is -- actually it expected to go I don't know how many years ago and never left.
So -- but we finally have been notified about it.
So it's -- it is one that has been around for a while.
We don't have too many more like that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Marty can you talk a little bit about your alternative strategy.
We've heard a lot about the lines kind of blurring between traditional and alternative strategies.
Maybe how if at all acquisitions might play a role and how that business sort of shakes out in the future? Yes.
It's surely very topical.
And again I think our view is we have been very much focused on the areas where we think we can do job -- good job and meet the investor needs.
So I -- and if you look through the capabilities we have whether we will classify them differently but we want to be real estate bank loans different type of credit private equity private equity fund of funds.
So things that we have and then elements frankly in -- with our Quant teams with -- long short capabilities and some of those strategies.
So we again are with capabilities we have just continuing to extend them as we think they make sense for our clients.
I think it'd be a little too early to declare beyond those types of things that you're seeing already largely.
And I think if I talk about it in the retail market then blurring things like real estate things like bank loans things that are there that have done well they'll continue to.
I personally think of some of the conversation is beyond sort of ahead of itself.
I -- things like I don't know risk arbitrage global macro those types of things being available and fully understood and accepted in the retail channel.
I think you're -- some good ways away from it and probably for a good reason.
So again I think people are seeking different asset classes and also into commodities those types of things.
I think those are natural progressions.
I think the full extent of some of the conversations are ahead of themselves if that is helpful.
But that's our point of view.
At this time I show no further questions.
Good.
Well again on behalf of Loren and myself thank you very much for joining us and have a good rest of the day.
Thank you.
Today's conference has ended.
All participants may disconnect at this time.
This presentation and comments made in the associated conference call today may include forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements include information concerning future results of our operations expenses earnings liquidity cash flow and capital expenditures industry and market conditions AUM acquisitions and divestitures debt and our ability to obtain additional financing or make payments regulatory developments demand for and pricing of our products and other aspects of our business or general economic conditions.
In addition words such as believes expects anticipates intends plans estimates projects forecasts and future or conditional verbs such as will may could should and would as well as any other statement that necessarily depends on future events are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees and they involve risks uncertainties and assumptions.
There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from our expectations.
We caution investors not to rely unduly on any forward-looking statement and urge you to carefully consider the risks described in our most recent Form 10-K and subsequent Forms 10-Q filed with the SEC.
You may obtain these reports from the SEC's website at www.sec.gov.
We expressly disclaim any obligation to update the information in any public disclosure if any forward-looking statement later turns out to be inaccurate.
Welcome to Invesco's Second Quarter Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now I would like to turn the call over to the speakers for today Mr.
Martin L.
Flanagan President and CEO of Invesco; and Mr.
Loren Starr Chief Financial Officer.
Mr.
Flanagan you may begin.
Thank you very much and thank you everybody for joining us today.
As was just -- I'm here with Loren and we'll go through the presentation.
It's on the website if you're so inclined to follow.
I'll review the business results for the second quarter and Loren will go into greater detail of the financial results.
And then we'll go to Q&amp;A and address any questions anybody might have.
And before we get into numbers I want to drive a sense of the macro environmental factors that impacted our business through the second quarter.
And as we've seen in the past it was really a tale of two markets.
Some of the gains in April and May were offset by the weakness of June.
Global markets stumbled in June as investors reacted to the comments from Federal Reserve Chairman Bernanke and other Fed officials signaling an early retreat from the asset purchases.
And further signs of slowing in the Chinese economy added to additional downward pressure.
And as a result the global markets particularly emerging markets generated mostly negative performance in the month of June.
And we saw many investors heading for the exit in that period.
One of the few bright spots with the U.S.
economy working consumer confidence remain strong and the housing market continue to remain strong and getting stronger.
Fortunately markets have improved considerably in July and we've seen investors return and add to their portfolios.
A key question going forward is what is the impact of rising interest rates in the United States going to have on the economies and markets in the U.S.
in particular and also around the globe? So with that as a backdrop let me highlight the firm's operating results for the third quarter.
I'm on Slide 3.
Long-term investment performance remains very strong across all time periods during the second quarter.
Delivering strong investment performance our clients contributed to net inflows of $1.4 billion during the quarter.
Adjusted operating income was up 26.9% as compared to the second quarter last year.
And a continued focus on taking a disciplined approach to our business drove improvement on our operating margins to 39.3% from 35.7% the second quarter in the prior year.
Assets under management were $705 billion during the second quarter down slightly from $707 billion in the prior quarter.
I do want to highlight that assets in the financial results during this quarter reflect our decision to treat Atlantic Trust as a discontinued operation giving the business and the acquisition by CIBC later this year.
Operating income was $310 million versus $306 million in the prior quarter.
And earnings per share were $0.50 in line with the prior quarter.
We also saw continued improvement in the firm's operating margin to 39.3% from 38.9% in the prior quarter.
And reflecting the confidence and the strength of the business we continued our share repurchase program buying $75 million in common stock during the quarter and previously announced paid the quarterly dividend of $0.225.
So a total of $100 million was returned to shareholders during the quarter.
And before Loren goes through the details on the company's financial result let me take a moment to review the investment performance during the quarter.
I'm on Slide 6 now.
Investment performance during the quarter was again amongst the strongest we've seen across our global enterprise.
82% of assets were ahead of peers on a 5-year basis and 81% of assets were ahead of peers on a 3-year basis.
And as you might expect with numbers like these long-term performance of our investment teams across the enterprise are quite strong with number -- with a number of capabilities achieving top decile performance.
In particular our Henley investment team was named best performing fund manager of the last decade by FE Trustnet which is the main supplier of data in the U.K.
financial sector.
91% of the Henley team's funds were in the top quartile over a 5-year period and ended -- that ended this past second quarter.
And of course it's a remarkable result and it's a very strong team and very dedicated to generating consistent good long-term performance.
Also the performance of our cross-border range -- fund range remain very strong during the quarter 86% of assets in the top half of peers for both the 3- and 5-year periods.
Turning to flows.
Gross sales remained strong across the global business during the second quarter.
And to put this in perspective gross sales were up 51% versus same quarter a year ago.
However strong gross sales were offset by redemptions as markets and investor confidence tumbled in June.
I'm now on Slide 8.
Following on the record net inflows for our retail channel in the first quarter we saw strong gross sales and solid inflows in the retail channel during the second quarter.
These were offset by -- to some extent by redemptions in June.
Within the institutional channel our pattern over the past few years is that we typically see a number of mandates funded [ph] in the first quarter which leads to softness in the second quarter.
In the most recent quarter solid gross sales were overshadowed by the previous disclosed FX overlay and a low-key passive real estate outflow totaling $2.5 billion in addition to challenges related to the markets in June.
The good news is -- for the third quarter is that long-term flows during the month of July are already ahead of total flows that we saw in the second quarter.
And again this can change during the rest of the quarter but off to a very good start.
And additionally the institutional pipeline of one but not funded mandate also looks very very strong.
Turning to Page 9.
Gross sales for our U.S.
retail business remained strong at $21.8 billion for the quarter a 49% increase over the same quarter a year ago.
Strong sales were offset somewhat by redemptions.
However Invesco's retail market share of net flows was considerably higher than its market share of assets under management.
Additionally PowerShares' traditional ETFs achieved year-to-date inflow market share that was significantly higher than the asset under management share 8.4% of flows against the 2% market share in assets.
The annualized redemption rate remains favorable relative to the industry although we saw some narrowing of the margin between the 2.
Flows into the complex were led by continued strength in traditional ETFs balanced risk strategy U.S.
value in international growth.
Importantly we continue to see a broadening of flows across the capabilities with 19 Invesco funds generating inflows of $50 million or more year-to-date versus 9 funds generating inflows at that level in the same period a year ago.
The strong investment performance of our multi-asset suite of products continue to generate tremendous interest from clients who are attracted to a capability that aims to provide a high level of protection in volatile markets.
Although not at the pace of the prior quarter we continue to see strong growth during the second quarter across the entire suite of products with net flows of $2 billion.
Flows into the strategy were impacted by the challenging market in June.
The market declines in the quarter were unusually correlated limiting the asset classes' diversification benefit.
Highly correlated environments such as these are rare but not unprecedented and are typically short-lived.
Relative to risk parity strategies of competing firms Invesco outperformed in June and for the trailing 12 months.
We thought it'd be helpful to provide some context for the firm's performance in an environment of rising interest rate.
And from our perspective this is largely a U.S.
topic.
As everyone knows flows into fixed income have been very strong across the industry over the last number of years.
In past rising rate environments the types of capabilities that have been most negatively impacted in this rising rate environment are government products and to a lesser degree municipal bond products intermediate investment grade categories which include core and core-plus have experienced outflows.
In addition given the low absolute yields and the possibility of negative returns in core and core plus we could experience elevated outflows to what we've seen in other rising rate environments.
The bulk of our fixed income assets are short-term products cash products stable value as well as credit-oriented products such as bank loans which are less susceptible to outflows in a rising rate environment.
Lastly given the strong performance and broad diversity of our capabilities including equities risk parity alternatives we're well positioned to capture money that shifts as a result of rising rates.
With this as a backdrop chart on Slide 11 makes the point that Invesco's U.S.
retail assets are less vulnerable than the top -- than our Top 20 competitors.
In this case the chart represents roughly 70% of the industry to outflows from taxable fixed income.
In addition given the large cash and stable value assets the institutional assets are less vulnerable as well.
We feel good about the momentum in the business.
We remain confident in our ability to deliver a high level of value to our clients.
And we believe the firm is very well positioned regardless of where the markets take us next.
As always we continue to focus for opportunities that further strengthen our competitive position and our financial position over the long term.
I'll stop there and turn it over to Loren.
Thanks Marty.
So quarter-over-quarter our total AUM fell $2.1 billion or 0.3%.
Positive long-term flows of $1.4 billion were more than offset by the negative impact from markets and FX of $3.5 billion.
Despite the market decline featured in June our average AUM for Q2 was still up 4.1% to $719.8 billion.
Our net revenue yield came in at 43.9 basis points of which are the decrease of 1.7 basis points quarter-over-quarter.
And that was driven by lower performance fees.
And now let's turn to the operating results.
Net revenues increased $2.3 million or 0.3% quarter-over-quarter which included a negative FX rate impact of $4.1 million.
Within the net revenue number you'll see that investment management fees grew by $42.4 million or 4.9% to $905.2 million.
This increase was in line with a higher average AUM and also a small improvement in the effective fee rate during the quarter.
Foreign exchange reduced investment management fees by $4.9 million.
Service and distribution revenues are up by $9.4 million or 4.6% also roughly in line with the increase in average AUM.
FX decreased service and distribution revenues by $0.4 million.
Onto performance fees we saw $9 million in the quarter but that represented a decrease of $29.6 million from Q1.
Performance fees in the second quarter were driven by actually a variety of products including bank loans current [ph] equity and as well institutional mandates in the U.K.
Foreign exchange reduced our performance fees slightly by $0.1 million.
Performance fees as we've discussed in the past are rather difficult to forecast.
So I'm providing some guidance on this line item however -- which is just this about $5 million per quarter other than in Q1 when we tend to see higher levels in the U.K.
depending on performance in the U.K.
Other revenues in the second quarter came in at $28.9 million and that was an increase of $3.1 million versus the prior quarter.
The increase in other revenue was largely driven by higher real estate transaction fees.
Foreign exchange reduced other revenue by $0.2 million.
Again this line item can move around a bit.
And so I would guide you all to use a run rate of about $26 million per quarter.
Onto third-party distribution service and advisory expenses which we net against gross revenue that increased by $23 million or 6.7%.
And before I move to the next slide I'd just like to explain a little bit the disconnect between the growth in the distribution expense as well as the management fee growth.
The distribution expenses actually were in line with our retail management fees in the quarter.
The reason management fees were up only 4.9% while distribution expenses were up 6.7% is largely due to the institutional management fees being down quarter-over-quarter as they were in line with institutional AUM which declined 2% at the end of the quarter versus the beginning.
So then moving on down the slide you'll see that our adjusted operating expenses at $479.7 million decreased by $2.1 million or 0.4% relative to the first quarter.
Foreign exchange decreased operating expenses by $3 million.
Employee comp at $322.7 million declined by $12.1 million or 2.6%.
And this drop in compensation was driven by lower seasonal payroll tax cost as well as a reduction in staff cost as we completed the outsourcing of our European transfer agency in June.
This was slightly offset by a full quarter's worth of salary and share-based expenses.
Our foreign exchange impact was $2.1 million in the quarter for comp.
Looking forward assuming no change in quarter-end asset levels we would expect compensation to be down approximately $3 million to $5 million through the remainder of the year again assuming flat AUM.
Marketing expenses increased by $1.2 million or 5.2% to $24.3 million.
FX decreased these expenses by $0.1 million.
And we expect marketing to return however back to the $27 million level per quarter going forward.
Property office and technology expenses came in at $68.4 million in the second quarter.
That was up $2.1 million.
The increase was driven by the completion of the outsourcing of our European transfer agency again and by continued investment in portfolio management technology systems.
Foreign exchange reduced these expenses by $0.4 million.
In terms of guidance we would expect property office and technology expense to level off around $72 million to $74 million going forward.
G&amp;A expenses came in at $64.3 million up 6.7% or 11.6%.
Please recall that the first quarter included a $2.5 million legal settlement credit.
The additional $5.7 million of expense was the result of new product development as well as increased compliance and risk management cost in Europe.
Foreign exchange increased G&amp;A by $1.5 million.
Going forward we'd expect G&amp;A to decline to roughly $63 million per quarter.
Continuing on down you'll see that nonoperating income declined by $1.3 million and the firm's effective tax rate on a pretax adjusted net income in Q2 was 27.1%.
The quarter's tax rate was roughly 100 basis points higher than the guidance that we gave before and that was the result of changes in the mix of profits reflecting a higher proportion in the U.S.
and Continental Europe.
Going forward we'd expect to see -- expect the expected tax rate to be around 26.5% to 27.5% which brings us to our adjusted EPS of $0.50 and adjusted net operating margin of 39.3% despite assets under management.
Ending the second quarter lower than the beginning of AUM in the quarter we'd expect operating margins to exceed 40.5% by year end.
Please note that we now exclude Atlantic Trust from our continuing operations and as a result we have added the additional 0.5 percentage point to our prior guidance on the operating margin.
And with that I'd be happy to turn it back over to Marty.
So we're ready for any questions anybody might have.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Michael Carrier with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Maybe first question just on the flow outlook.
Marty you gave some color both on the institutional side and on the retail sides in July.
I guess just 2 things.
Just on the institutional side x the $2.5 million that you guys noted earlier just what trends were you seeing during the quarter that led to the outflows? And then you mentioned the pipelines looking pretty good.
So where is the interest kind of going forward for the institutional in the channel? Let me just -- maybe I'll talk about the pipeline and then Loren can follow up.
So I think the seasonality is a real thing for us and I suspect it might be for others.
So I think importantly if you look at where the pipeline -- or if you look at gross sales a year ago institutionally and to the gross this quarter still up year-over-year that's a good sign.
If we look at the pipeline won but not funded so it's not hopeful right? These are won but not funded.
It's hitting some of the highest levels that we've seen.
So we think that's a very very good sign.
And it's simply a matter of timing as we've talked in the past.
Yes.
In terms of the -- what happened in the quarter I think there were some outflows as we saw also in retail just in terms of the equities largely focused in Asian equities and international equities.
So that was sort of another element within the quarter but I wouldn't say that's a trend that we'd expect to be ongoing.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just as a follow-up just on the expenses and the margins.
So there's a lot of moving pieces with Atlantic Trust being backed out and then you gave guidance on a lot of the expense items.
So I just wanted to be clear for year end assuming the current environment in terms of the flow picture the market picture you're still targeting that 40% plus margin.
I guess what would make that change meaning would it be the -- assuming flat-out markets but from a flow standpoint anything that could potentially be more weak meaning if you saw weakness on the balanced products could that change that? Or is that fairly certainly based on what you can see at this point? I don't see us not hitting that.
So I mean you'd have to have a quite appropriate -- quite a pullback in the market.
So...
Yes I would answer that.
I think I mean in terms of sort of some outflows we may have seen I think that modest relative to this asset base that's been built up and the product that -- the allocation product and we're seeing other higher fee products in the pipeline.
So I honestly think the mix topic isn't one that is going to change our forecast.
And as we've said in the past I think obviously the guidance is now 40.5% by year end.
And so we do feel pretty good about that.
And clearly if markets improve from the end of the quarter which they have that's obviously a very positive element and you'll see operating leverage provide for their upward lift on margins.
And I just -- adding to that point where -- as we talked numerous times the risk parity the multi-asset strategies is a real strength of the firm; it continues to be a strength.
We continue to see interest around the world.
But we've also said importantly if you look at the depth and breadth of the capabilities in a rising equity market what would you anticipate? We would anticipate a slowdown.
And what would you then imagine happen is that you would see flows going to the equity markets.
And frankly that's bit into the equity capabilities.
And we're seeing that.
We're seeing broadening -- they ought use -- more public.
If you look at the U.S.
retail market you're seeing not just international equities now but you're seeing a broadening of the U.S.
value capabilities.
And those are things that we anticipated.
And again it's strong performing capabilities.
Our -- they are many and broad.
So -- and again you couple that with a rising interest rate environment if you believe that in the making which I think most of us do we think we're very well positioned for that also.
And the other thing I would just mention Mike is Continental Europe which has been a strong provider of a good sort of flow mix.
In terms of fee rates it's still very very strong for us and continues on through July.
So again I think the indicators are still quite positive and green about -- so the mix continuing to improve.
So I don't want to take that away from the conversation at all.
The next question comes from Michael Kim Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just first to follow up on the IBRA strategies obviously they've been an important flow contributor for the firm.
And while the 3-year track records remain strong some of the shorter-term numbers have lagged a bit.
So any recent shifts in terms of redemptions and performance meaning have you started to see signs that maybe the stickiness of those assets have weakened just given some of the more recent underperformance? No.
So -- let me follow up on the performance element because again I think importantly the public category is very broad and it's made up of many different things.
If you look at the risk parity strategies within it our relative performance is very strong compared to other risk parity strategies.
And that's even in that down month of June which is not how people make investment decisions.
But that's an important test for that capability.
But if you look at the trailing 12 months it's very strongly performing and outperforming its peers.
So I think that's a very important point to take.
And we would have anticipated as I've said as equity markets rebound there will be greater interest and more broadly away from that.
That said we continue to see interest in the risk parity capabilities through different channels in different locations -- different regions in the world.
I'd also just add that we know that the institutional side of the business is actually -- the demand is actually improving and growing for this particular product.
So it's definitely a feature in our pipeline doing nicely Michael.
And so even though the retail side may have paused a little bit maybe the redemption rate is going back to more of a normalized level I think it was sort of abnormally low because it was sort of low base and not a lot of time frame in terms of people I mean held the product.
We're seeing that sort of go to a more normal level.
Sales may be off a bit but we absolutely think institutional and retail will provide sort of continued flow opportunities for this product unless -- if equity markets take off in a very solid way as we've always said we'd expect that product probably not be quite as much as in demand as some of the equity products.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just more broadly as a firm you've always been forward-looking in terms of trying to optimize the business either from a strategic standpoint or an operational perspective.
So as you look across the franchise today any color on areas that you might be targeting for further optimization or development? Yes.
I would make the point when we talked about it some in the past.
We are strong believers of extending our core investment management capabilities.
And where has that moved into? And it's into more broadly multi-asset strategies.
We're a big believer in that.
People are focused on risk parity.
But quite frankly it's quite a bit broader than that.
Looking at multi-credit capabilities coming there will be the U.K.
launch of another multi-asset strategy that we'll start there in October that will end up in different parts of the world so just much more broadly extending our investment capabilities into what we think is people are calling and different liquid alternatives and the like because we've had teams that have managed them various capabilities for 10 12 years in the institutional market.
And we continue to pay attention to that.
So we continue to look to strengthen what is a very strong part of the organization already.
The next question comes from Bill Katz with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could maybe go another layer or 2 in the July snapback of flows and maybe answer it by either geography where you're seeing the recovery and/or by maybe type of product active versus passive.
Sure Bill.
I think in terms of interest for the snapback in July we're definitely seeing interest in equities long-term active equities that's featuring nicely positive flows showing up.
We're also seeing continued interest in our traditional PowerShares product.
So that's been a theme that continues to ride.
Good strength in Asia Pac and Continental Europe in particular are really doing very well for us not that U.S.
is not.
But I think the U.S.
featured even more strongly in the first quarter whereas now I think the other regions are actually sort of showing equal strengths.
So the interest in the products -- and we have fixed income as well alternative fixed income continue to be a very interesting product real estate.
So it's a lot of the things we've talked about.
The only thing that sort of different I'd say is that instead of asset allocation being the #1 kind of driver of flows in July that has really been sort of more equity-oriented products and some of the alternative fixed income that has shown up as the greatest demand.
And again you don't want to extrapolate early days into a quarter.
But as Loren started to highlight basically every region of the company is in that flows right now.
And for the number of years that I've been here I don't remember that happening to that degree now.
But that can change very quickly.
But it just showed the relative strength.
And as I pointed out just look at gross flows being up 50% quarter-over-quarter year-over-year I mean.
And the broadening of the interest throughout a number of capabilities I think is the main point of underlying strength.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And the second question is just going back to Martin for a second.
I appreciate your guidance for the next couple of quarters.
When you think more thematically as you look out to 2014 and beyond how do you think about incremental margin? And I guess the underlying question is are there any pent-up investments that need to be made as you position for further growth into next year? So I mean when we think about our plan we plan multiyear.
So we have a reasonable sort of look forward into what we plan to do not just this year and kind of year-to-year kind of discussion.
We kind of think out multiple years.
So we do think we know the big imperatives.
We know where the investment is sort of taking place.
And my expectation is that there's going to be sort of a continued level of good investment around the business as you'd hope us to be doing but nothing that's going to sort of step up as sort of being a big surprise or in an area where we've under-invested and suddenly the need is going to have a real impact on margin.
So we would expect and hope to see incremental margins again not that we manage the business this way but sort of in that 60% 65% range into 2014 and beyond.
And again we believe that that sort of operating leverage should allow our margin assuming markets grow and we're able to grow organically to continue to expand beyond the current guidance that we have given for this year.
The next question comes from Ken Worthington JPMC.
Research Division</strong> First I'd like to ask about the halo effect around IBRA.
And maybe to what extent has success at IBRA -- or has success at IBRA opened up new distribution or expanded existing distribution relationships? And has it actually allowed you to sell other products that you might not have sold otherwise? It's a good question.
And I think as we've talked in the past maybe the U.S.
retail channel in particular because if you go back to handful of years now as we've said the Invesco brand was relatively new into the retail channel.
And so having something successful creates absolute awareness more broadly across the capabilities.
And that coupled with having the capabilities sort of performing well I think you could clearly make the argument that that has been a very powerful thing in particular.
That might be less so in other regions of the world where we've been Invesco and has had a good number of years of success.
But it is something I would not discount.
I think you're right.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then I guess how much more do you think you can leverage that? And in particular I'm thinking about the Van Kampen products.
The returns and the performance has been very good there.
They're in that kind of the rate asset class for the right time.
We're seeing sales at something like a comp stock turnaround.
But some of the other big flagship funds that are performing great are still in redemption.
So I guess it's kind of a combination of one can you leverage evermore to get these products into more channels and actually get them sold given the backdrop seems so good for them? Or has the -- have you kind of maxed out the success in IBRA in terms of leveraging it for other products? So I wouldn't make it so info-centric [ph] I think very very importantly what we are seeing is where the focus of net inflows and the values it was really around right? It is now broadening right against the value suite.
So that's a really good sign and really for 2 years we have been talking to our distribution partners and clients about the obvious get into the equity market.
So it has been more of a lack of interest on clients to be investing on equities.
But do know it is an absolute focus of the firm to continue to broaden the awareness and participation in some really really strong investment capabilities across the firm.
And I think that's happening.
And look the data point I would -- as I said a year ago there were 9 funds in the U.S.
retail channel worth $50 million or more in a quarter of sales.
There's 19 today.
So it is -- I'd say we've not seen the success that we would anticipate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And lastly active alt's doing very well.
I assume that's real estate but can you give us some more color there and maybe talk about performance and pipeline for Wilbur quant and the other active alt areas.
So in active alt our 2 sort of primary drivers have been the real estate group as you can imagine but also bank loans which has done really really well.
We have seen more and more consultant advocacy for the bank loan products.
I think now it's really sort of tick a lot of the boxes with all of the consultants on this product.
And we have in our pipeline strong showings for both of those areas in particular.
In terms of our private equity capability we still have great opportunities there.
But as you know it's more centered around a particular fund launch and right now they're working through investing their current products.
But we see an opportunity to do other things until the new recovery fund comes up and so there is certainly activity and assets that are in the pipeline as a result of some of those elements.
But I'd say they're smaller on the spectrum of what real estate and bank loan is doing.
I would add just Ken to the question and it gets to the broader question you and Bill and others were asking earlier.
So the quant team has really been -- again this is one of the ones that -- team has been together 20 years great performance and they are natural extensions and they have been very successful the last number of quarters now with multi-assets capabilities.
They've been of interest in Germany in particular and again those are the type of things that we think there's opportunities in other parts of the world.
The next question comes from Dan Fannon of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> One more question on IBRA.
If you could maybe talk about the gross sales versus redemption trends maybe in June and kind of what we're seeing in July if the growth sales have slowed and you're seeing elevated redemption or kind of what the dynamic is there.
I can do that.
So we saw in June certainly a tick down on sales.
It wasn't dramatic but maybe 15% to 20% kind of decline in sales.
But redemptions really picked up right? So I think we saw there an unusual spike in redemption in June filling out one that is carried over into July.
So we're seeing in July sales still at a more modest level than we've seen in the past and we've seen redemption rate though sort of subside.
So it's not spiking as much.
So still we're looking at July data it's sort of just the data points.
So we ought to see probably another couple of months before we really decide what is really the trend and where its going to stabilize.
But it's moving in the right direction where the redemption rate is going back to what I would say is more of an industry norm redemption rate if that's around 20% kind of redemption rate and then we would see sales depending on what the market is at maybe hopefully more than half the level of where it was before and hopefully somewhere around 3/4 of the level we've seen in the past.
Research Division</strong> Great that's helpful.
And then I guess a question on the distribution margin you gave explanations to what happened this quarter.
And if I think about what you're saying for your institutional pipeline with that coming back should we see that more normalized going forward or any outlook in terms of that expense revenue dynamic? Yes.
No absolutely.
I mean really what happens is institutional assets are priced at quarter end typically because the quarter we saw a big drop in rates -- sorry in markets.
We just obviously kind of didn't have good luck in terms of when the revenues are going to be calculated off of that asset level.
We've seen asset levels come back so that's a good sign.
And then the other thing obviously in terms of the pipeline our institutional pipeline is probably more than 10% above its 12-month average run rate and certainly even higher than it was -- much even higher than that than it was relative to the first quarter.
So we do think that with the institutional pipeline is even though didn't present a lot of great results in the second quarter the fundings are going to happen in the third quarter and fourth quarter right? So there was really just this pause of fundings that took place in the second quarter because so much of it happened in Q1.
The next question is from Matt Kelley of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Loren just to kind of follow-up on that last question.
When you've given the 40.5% operating margin guidance by year end now I assume first of all that's x Atlantic Trust.
And then second of all is your distribution margin kind of more normalizing indeed reflected in that 40.5%? So the answer is yes.
Atlantic Trust is excluded so that's the extra 0.5 percentage point on top of the original guidance of 40% so that's correct.
We do think that the distribution costs in terms of the margin that you're looking at which -- again I just warn you a little bit on looking at those things because they're not exactly comparable -- should be more normalized and our forecast still reflects our expectations for I think that normalization to take place which is based on I think fact.
So we have not seen anything.
Just to clarify we've not seen that sort of should cause anybody alarm.
Our distribution costs have suddenly spiked up where we have changed our payouts to our distributors.
That did not happened in the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just another question I know you've been asked a lot of different ways.
But on IBRA just wanted to ask sort of a different question.
Do you think that some of the channels that you've been selling that through really understand the decision makers the gatekeepers if you will really understand the different dynamics of your fund versus something of your peer funds and how they're supposed to behave in certain environments or are they just kind of -- I know they is a broad statement but that a lot of gatekeepers sell them all as allocation funds and don't really differentiate a lot between them? So I can only speak to our capability and I feel quite strongly that it is absolutely understood by just call them the gatekeepers into the channel and we spent an awful lot of time on education.
And so I think speaking for the capability that we have I'd say there's an awful a lot of attention on that educational point and I think it's broadly understood.
The next question comes from Jeff Hopson of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
Can you talk about the timing of the sale proceeds and then the effect on share repurchase? And then Marty what would you say -- obviously IBRA and a couple of other products have been the go-to products in the field.
But in terms all of wholesaling messages out there what -- has anything changed in terms of what your guys are focusing on? Any change in messaging et cetera? And what is Invesco trying to do in terms of making the brand et cetera the message unique versus others? So again I might be a little repetitive.
But again the absolute focus is trying to understand client needs and listening very intently to them.
And putting forward investment capabilities that meet those needs.
So as you would be aware most all the distribution partners right now have their strategists and they put forward their ideas of what they think is proper asset allocation.
We work very hard with them to make sure that we follow along with that and make our capabilities available.
And that sort of point being is very broad the range of capabilities of that focus.
We in particular as I said previously for the last couple of years have been very very focused on the merits of a well diversified portfolio and the importance of equity exposure within that.
Not just U.S.
but all the way to international global capabilities and we think that is really then under -- people have been underexposed.
I mean it's no question about it and it was clearly I think a reflection of people just feeling -- not having a level of confidence coming through the crisis.
So it has been a very broad message.
We spent an awful lot of time if you just follow -- you can look at the websites and get some sense of the intellectual capabilities that we put forward in education.
So those have been the focuses of the firm.
And just in terms of your first question our expectation is that the deal will close before the end of the year.
The reason I can't give you an exact date is because there are some regulatory steps we have to go through in terms of getting approval.
But beyond that there's no reason at this point in time to think that that won't happen.
The proceeds when we get them which will be at the close we will then execute our buyback around that time.
So hopefully that's consistent with what you have expected.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could follow up the U.K.
in particular.
I know you've done well I think with IBRA being introduced there.
But the traditional products as you point out are performing extremely well flows have been okay.
But any thought on -- in this environment could you see some improvement in sales end or flows from the traditional perpetual products? Sure.
Where we're starting to see interest is broadening right? The international capabilities are performing well.
Flows are moving very much into their -- the fixed income capabilities continue to be very very strong and continue to see flows into those capabilities so it broadening.
And also we anticipate that in the fourth quarter will be the introduction of the multi-asset capability that team has joined us earlier this year.
So that we think is also a very very important thing.
With introduction of RDR and the focus will be multi-asset strategists around the broad range of Invesco Perpetual capabilities in the first instance and then we'll broaden as it moves around world.
And so we think we're positioned very well.
And I would just add in July we're seeing very nice strong flows coming from Invesco Perpetual across fixed income international equities and U.K.
equities so all products are doing well there.
The next question comes from Luke Montgomery of Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> It sounds like you answered a little bit of this already.
But coming back to the institutional business one of your competitors is talking about changing behavior of large international institutional clients including sovereign wealth funds which have been reducing allocations to long only-U.S.
strategies for a variety of reasons.
Some of those are investment related and some of them aren't.
But when I look at your flows institutional net outflows equity net outflows that seems to confirm the trend.
But then by region the outflows are concentrated in the U.S.
U.K.
and Canada all of the inflows came from Continental Europe.
So you highlighted some lumpiness in the quarter I'm not sure how sure how much you can make from all that but perhaps you could drill down a little more specifically about institutional demand or behavioral trends by client domicile or client type.
It's a great question.
So what you are seeing -- let me try to pick it up sort of regionally in that concept -- the lumpiness in Europe is -- again this relation the success we're having with multi-asset strategy that's managed out of Frankfurt.
That is a capability that there is interest in other parts of the world.
Less so in the United States but in Asia there is also and into United Kingdom.
The interest that we see from sovereign wealth funds and the like it does tend to be more of the multi-strat capabilities.
Things like bank loans things like real estate so alternative type capabilities and that has been focus for where we have been seeing a lot of interest.
We have also seen less interest in more traditional long-only capabilities and that's where you've seen even after having many years of relationships with some of these large sovereign wealth funds where they are having less exposure to some long-only capabilities.
Is that a permanent trend? Hard to know.
But I would confirm what you're hearing.
It's been our experience.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then on the ETF business loan participation ETF that's been a fairly large driver of your inflows over the last year as has the emerging margin market debt ETF.
Wondering if you can just weigh in on the debate about whether ETFs help or hurt liquidity during times of stress especially in classes like fixed income where the underlying liquidity is thinner.
And what are the risks in ETF market structure that really concern you and what can go wrong here? Yes I know it's quite a debate.
I think it personally gets overplayed.
The idea that ETFs drives up oil prices et cetera et cetera.
I just don't know that I am a big believer in those types of things and so I don't have empirical evidence to support my opinion at the moment but I just don't really see that to the same degree.
I would just say that -- I mean because particularly our product is more retail focus it's not as rapid motion in terms of people's behavior in terms of buying and selling.
So again in terms of us sort of moving markets and having big distortive swings I don't think PowerShares is certainly providing that.
The next question comes from Robert Lee of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question -- and I think I'm a little slow this morning -- but just to make sure clarify it for me and all -- July.
So July flows generally positive across the board at least in terms of geography.
So I want to make sure I have that.
Yes.
That's correct.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Second question I have is just on kind of capital management.
Clearly bought back few more shares this quarter than last quarter.
But in general it does look like kind of return to between that share repurchase and dividend a little less than cash generation.
And just how should we be thinking about it? Is one of the near-term priorities kind of continuing to chip away at short-term debt? I mean it looks like that may have come down about $100 million or so in the quarter.
Is that kind of the pace that we should generally think about? Rob I mean I think our strategy hasn't changed really.
So we've increased -- so I mean just to back on we've increased our amount of maturing capital in the form of dividends.
We've reduced the amount that we were doing in buybacks but that we've not turned away from buybacks and you're seeing sort of good run rate on dividends and buybacks given our operating cash flow generation this year.
Excluding obviously Atlantic Trust which would be sort of on top of whatever we would doing run rate.
We did pay down a little bit of the debt.
So net debt decreased I think about $150 million in the quarter.
That's not unusual because it's usually at a high level in the first quarter and sort of comes on down.
So we're going to continue to sort of chip away at the debt and sort of increase our cash levels over time to get to that $1 billion in excess of our regulatory requirement.
But as we've said in the past and we'll continue to say I mean it's sort of a self-regulated pace that we're going on and we're not sort of following that as the first number one priority and sort of reducing the other opportunistic chances to buy any shares if we think that's the right way to.
So over time it is our hope that we would be able to return even more of our operating cash flow to shareholders as we achieve those objectives.
And so where we are today could actually expand.
So I would generally guide people to think that our ability to return cash will increase over time and that we will achieve our goals in terms of debt paydown at the same time and cash.
A wall to build so that we can do all that without anybody feeling slighted.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last question just on Canada.
Since you touched on all the other regions I guess.
I mean can you just kind of touch on what you're seeing there? I know it's obviously not as big a business as it used to be but it tends to be a high-fee type of business and I think relatively high margins.
So are you seeing really kind of the same improvements there in their traditional products or you're really seeing the momentum more from new products you've introduced there over the last year or 2? Yes so I think it's a combination of all those things.
Actually our traditional products which historically has the highest fee we're sort of less in the focus in terms of the distribution that we had in Canada and they were focused somewhat more on some of the assets allocation products that were introduced there.
What we are seeing now is that a lot of those traditional invested Trimark branded products are doing extremely well from an investment performance perspective.
And so the level of interest and activity around the core products is much more than they were in the past.
And so we're seeing sort of a shift of balance I think in terms of focus.
Maybe a little bit away from the asset allocation products and back to the core.
So that's -- sort of we're in the middle of that right now.
We think it going to continue and we would not be surprised to see more focus on the core and maybe a little bit less on the asset allocation just going forward given the fact that the core had been largely sort of ignored for a long period of time.
The next question comes from Brennan Hawken of UBS.
Research Division</strong> So just generally speaking given the dynamics you guys laid out in the quarter with weakness in June and average AUM being higher than beginning and ending AUM the fact that you have some passive drive in the flows.
My assumption is just we should see some downward pressure on the management fee rate here going forward all else being equal.
I mean is that right or should I be thinking about it in a different way? Yes.
I think you're probably off a little bit on that one.
So one of the things we're seeing is that the passive products -- I mean their fee rate has been growing right? Because as we've seen like the bank loan product which has done so well I mean that's at 65 or 70 basis points fee.
So that has really been helpful in terms of driving up the fee rate.
In terms of the mix of flows coming in from Continental Europe some from Asia now that we've got more balance -- I mean we're actually -- the products outside of the U.S.
tend to have higher fees than ones in the U.S.
and so if we're seeing sort of Asia and Continental Europe and U.K.
sort of coming back more strongly that's going to be helpful too.
And then finally -- I mean as people and we're hoping this is the case sort of have more of an appetite for risk and risk-oriented products -- I mean all those risk-oriented products are going to have a higher fee than sort of the stable value of money market type of products that can grow but definitely don't do much for the fee rate.
So we would expect and it is in our thinking that we'll continue to see the effective fee rate grow.
It did grow some from the second quarter to the first quarter by about 1/2 of a basis point in terms of the core management fee.
And again we would expect to see continued slow improvement over time.
We don't want to give you the wrong idea that it's going to pop up 1/2 a basis point every single quarter but I mean it could slowly grow over the course of 2013.
Research Division</strong> And sort of following up on a point that you made there in the context of that response and then you have seem to referred to it a few times.
You all seem to be saying that you're basically positioned well for a great rotation.
But we've heard other asset managers saying that they're not really seeing signs of that great rotation and certainly not a rotation out of fixed income into equities.
I just want to clarify sort of just ask you guys bluntly.
Are you seeing something different in your conversations with clients or is it more that you believe that in the course of the coming 12 or so months that you expect that to happen and that will lead you guys to benefit? So it's a good question.
I would agree with the idea that we are not seeing a great rotation at the moment.
But what we are seeing if you look over the last 12 months people are great putting more money into risk-type assets.
Loren was talking about traditional ETFs.
You're seeing just great growth there.
And not just bank loans but into equity capabilities in emerging markets within that.
That would be something.
I had mentioned earlier we're actually seeing net flows not those just into international equity capabilities but actually into U.S.
value capabilities.
That's relatively new.
So I would say that you're starting to see people gain a little more confidence and their broadening where they are allocating our portfolio to more risk-type capabilities.
That said we're never going to try to guess a market.
We know we'll be wrong so the main point that we were trying to get across today in many different ways is that investment performance across the organization just couldn't be stronger.
And that's from fixed income through equity capabilities.
And if you look at the exposure and our focus is the United States because we think that's where the rates are going to start going first the breadth of the product the performance of the product and our relative client's allocations right now put us in a very good position if there is money that is strongly moving out of that fixed income market.
And we are very well-positioned to serve clients well in the many different asset classes they might choose to go into.
Research Division</strong> And then last just a housekeeping item.
Just to clarify does your guidance on comp and property impact get us to ballpark the right run rate we should be thinking about post all the changes for the European version? Yes it does.
So everything is off of the second quarter sort of that's the run rate for the third and fourth quarters.
The next question comes from Greggory Warren of MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to the previous question and this is just a big big big picture question.
As we're looking at fixed income here -- I mean we've got kind of a sense of what happens when bond investors kind of freak out about rising rates last month.
But when we try to categorize who's really invested in fixed income at this point we've got some institutional clients that really piled into it after the financial crisis looking for more stability security and we also have the starting of the baby boomer retirement class.
As we move forward -- again because my sense has always been that what comes out of fixed income won't be as dramatic as what went it over the last 5 years.
Because some of these clients are these baby boomers who are going to have to stay invested to fixed income just for the income needs.
And I'm wondering how you guys think about that and how you adjust your business to accommodate that but also understanding that bringing in equity business really helps your fee rates.
Yes so we start by a couple of fundamental principles and focus on generating good outcome for clients.
And we then have the point of view that clients want a broad deep set of investment capabilities to meet their needs.
That's also what we've done as a firm.
Within that though a couple of points.
Yes personally you can see the fixed-income exposures are frankly at all-time highs.
So you can have a point of view that they will come down they won't come down to more historic levels because of the baby boomers and that common sense would tell you that.
I do think they're going to come down quite a bit more from where they are right now because I agree with your long-term view.
But when you get into a rising rate environment people are starting to lose capital you're going to see them move.
That's just what happens.
But I think what we are doing and other firms are doing are very focused on generating income for clients.
And I think that's also why you're seeing things like our premium income product the dividend-oriented equity capabilities.
And also this gets into why we believe so strongly in multi-asset strategies because it's a combination of asset classes that not only can generate income for clients and they can't get the exposure to them.
But also there is less volatility in it so to your point of an aging population and the need for income and broadly diversified that's what we see evolving and that's why we're so focused on it.
But again I also -- my personal opinion I think pension plans and individuals have been underexposed to equities over the last number of years and that's not a good thing for longer-term needs.
But that's my personal opinion.
Research Division</strong> No no it sounds good.
On the flows during the quarter.
I mean they tended to be stronger.
I was looking at you guys to be sort of in a small net outflow mode.
So it was encouraging to see flows being positive.
You said that flows through July are on par with what we saw in the second quarter was I correct in hearing that? No they have through the month of July -- month-to-date they are exceeding the flows of...
Okay the entire quarter yes.
The whole quarter.
The whole quarter.
Research Division</strong> And it's broad based and its equity and fixed income? Correct.
The next question comes from Roger Freeman of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just coming back to the growing share in your U.S.
retail complex particularly around the 19 versus 9 funds 1 year ago with sales over $50 million.
Is part of that coming from getting added to model portfolios on any of the distribution platforms? I know that was a focus of yours I'm just wondering what kind of success you've had there.
It would be.
And I'd say again when we -- I just want to call it the initial growth post combination with Van Kampen.
I mean it was 100% focused because they had to be because you have to go through those.
And we've had great success of getting on platforms throughout -- I wouldn't say we're done.
I don't have the numbers in front of me but we're at a very strong position right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one other question.
Just coming back to the redemption rate from an earlier question.
I mean I hear your comments about sort of Q3 versus Q2.
Just looking at that chart on Slide 9 I mean it just looks like over the last year the redemption rate relative to the industry has gone up.
And I'm just wondering kind of looking at that slightly longer time frame what would you say accounts for that? I think it's a good question.
I think some of it has to do I think with just the post transaction of the Morgan Stanley transaction where we had all these investment capabilities that were sort of embedded in certain channels and we were able to cross-fertilize the sale into different channels right? Where value was really in the Morgan Stanley channel and sort of the Edward Jones channel and we had our traditional products growth and others factored in our channels.
And so as those things sort of got crossed over they've built up and so there was an abnormally low redemption rate for a period of time as they sort of built into their equilibrium holdings and now we're sort of getting to more of a sort of normal run rate.
That is sort of a guess as opposed to factually -- I can tell you exactly what is going on but we knew that something like that would happen right? That we're sort of at an unusually low rate post that transaction.
The last question comes from Marc Irizarry of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Marty just one question on IBRA and the fixed-income exposure.
Now it sounds like it's maybe against the category that performed relatively well versus maybe other risk parity strategies but maybe relative to the asset allocation category.
It's positioned differently.
Can you give us some perspective on -- have there been any changes to the positioning in the fund and just maybe what the fixed-income exposure of IBRA is? So let me take that in different pieces.
So they've not change their approach.
It continues to be exactly what they put in the market and they continue to manage that way.
I don't have the fixed-income exposure here right now within the portfolio.
But thirdly and finally very importantly if you look at that world allocation category it is so diverse that it's not very helpful.
And I think the relevant point is look at the risk parity capabilities next to one another and we performed very very strongly with those.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just Loren just a quick one for you on spending relative to regulatory requirements if you will on expenses.
Where are you in the build-out? Where are you in the sort of build-out of compliance infrastructure or sort of regulatory required spending on systems et cetera how far along are you in that process? I think we are pretty far along.
There's probably again based on what the regulators continue to require from us so it could continue to shift.
I mean it's been a sort of changing landscape in terms of the regulators.
I mean the good news if there is any I mean seems like some of the rate of change and the speed of sort of new regulations coming through is slowed a bit.
And so that is helpful and again I'd like to say we're sort of seeing the light at the end of the tunnel somewhere but you never know it if it's another train coming at you.
But I think generally we're -- I mean the guidance we gave is sort of down a little bit we think we sort of hit a high point in the second quarter and we're going to be able to step down just a bit off of that while we're not assuming a big step down at this point.
Yes just confirming Lawrence.
It is not just for us.
I think it's for any financial services firm.
But even money managers the compliance requirements it's been a material increase.
And as I've said in the past it tends to focus on those markets that were hit hardest during the financial crisis.
The U.S.
the U.K.
and Continental Europe and it has been a material level of investments.
Our point of view that's exactly what we'll do and just making sure that we're in front of all those things it's just critical to us in the industry.
So I think you just have to anticipate it.
It's going to be here for a good number of years.
Many good examples.
I just heard recently that I think the U.K.
is planning to do their own form of FATCA.
Now there you go.
So I mean that's just news to me yesterday that I heard about that.
So again we can be surprised.
So it's just a little hard for us to say exactly Mark.
At this time there are no further questions.
Well thank you everybody.
On behalf of Loren and myself I appreciate the participation and the interest and we will talk to you very soon.
Have a good rest of the day.
Thank you for participating in today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to Invesco's Third Quarter Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now I would like to turn the call over to the speakers for today Mr.
Martin L.
Flanagan President and CEO of Invesco; and Mr.
Loren Starr Chief Financial Officer.
Mr.
Flanagan you may begin.
Thank you very much and thank you everybody for joining us.
This is Marty Flanagan and I am with Loren Starr who was just introduced.
Today we'll provide a review of the business results for the third quarter including a discussion regarding the United Kingdom.
Loren will go into greater details in the financials and as always our practice we'll open up for Q&amp;A.
So if you happen to be following the presentation I'm on Page 3.
And let me begin by highlighting the firm's operating results for the quarter.
And they were very very strong.
First it started with very good long-term investment performance.
And it remained strong across all time periods during quarter.
The strong investment performance with the broad diversity of flows and continued focus on clients contributed net inputs of $9.1 billion during the quarter.
Adjusted operating income was up 34% compared to the third quarter of last year and a continued focus on the disciplined approach to our business drove improvement in our operating margins to 40.2% from 34.5% in the same quarter a year ago.
This is a 5.7% -- percentage point increase so a very very strong quarter.
Assets under management were $745 billion at the end of the quarter up from $705 billion in the prior quarter.
And you'll remember from the second quarter that assets under management in the financial results during the quarter reflect our decision to treat Atlantic Trust as a discontinued operation given that this is a pending combination with CIBC.
Operating income was $328 million versus $311 million in the prior quarter.
Earnings per share were $0.55 up from $0.50 in the prior quarter.
The quarterly dividend remained at $0.225 per share.
And we returned just over $100 million to shareholders during the quarter.
And reflecting confidence and the continued strength of the business the Invesco board authorized $1.5 billion of additional share repurchases.
And before Loren goes through the details of the financials let me spend a few minutes first on the investment performance in the quarter.
I'm on Page 6 now.
Investment performance in the quarter was again amongst the strongest we've seen across the global organization.
82% of assets were ahead of peers on a 3- and 5-year basis and 72% of assets were ahead of peers on a 1-year basis.
And as you might expect with numbers like these long-term performance of our investment teams -- for investment teams across the enterprise were quite strong with a number of capabilities achieving top desk [ph] outperformance.
Performance of our cross-border fund range remained strong during the quarter with 87% of its assets in top half of peers on a 3-year basis and 84% of assets on a 5-year basis.
Turning to flows.
You'll see on Page 7 that gross long-term sales remained stronger during the quarter.
In addition redemptions tapered off which led to an improvement in long-term net flows of $5 billion this quarter versus $1.4 billion in the prior quarter.
These numbers also reflect the broad diversity of flows we saw across the global business during the quarter which included strength in equities and alternatives.
Continued strong gross long-term sales and improvements in gross long-term redemptions led to net flows in our retail channel of $6.5 billion versus $4.9 billion in the prior quarter.
The institutional channel saw continued demand in real estate bank loans and IBRA.
During the quarter there were -- there was a $2.5 billion note fee outflow related to a decrease in leverage in our mortgage REIT.
The institutional pipeline of one but not funded mandates continues to look very strong.
Turning to Page 9.
I would just like to put things in perspective.
And before the showdown in Washington undermined consumer confidence and put a damper on growth we saw solid strength in the U.S.
economy during the third quarter.
As a result of that although clients continue to show interest in our Asset Allocation strategies we saw a shift towards risk-based assets during the quarter which resulted in a slowdown of IBRA sales.
I wouldn't characterize this as a great rotation but there surely was a mild rotation of investors feeling more confident enough to take on additional risk and you'll see on Page 10.
Gross long-term sales for our retail business remained strong at $21.6 billion for the quarter a 26% increase over the same quarter a year ago which was also quite strong.
The annualized redemption rate for Invesco remained favorable relative to the industry.
And redemptions also eased during the quarter which led to net sales of $3 billion.
Flows into the complex were led by strength in U.S.
value equity international global equities and traditional ETFs and alternatives.
Our U.S.
business has become increasingly diversified as allocation and alternatives grew to 38% of sales in the quarter versus 25% during the same period 2 years ago.
We saw 18 funds with net flows of greater than $100 million over the trailing 12-month period ended September 30 2013 and this compares to 6 in the same period in 2011.
So you can start to understand the broadening of the flows and the benefit that we keep talking about the broad diversity of investment capabilities where we can meet investor needs in different environments.
We feel good about the momentum in our business.
We remain confident in our ability to deliver a high level of value for our clients and we believe the firm is well positioned regardless of where the market takes us next.
As always we continue to look for opportunities that further strengthen our competitive advantage and our financial position over the long term.
And before I turn it over to Loren I would like to go more in-depth into a discussion of our position in EMEA.
So I'm on Page 12 if you are following the slides.
First as everybody on the call is aware we announced earlier this month that after 25 years with the firm Neil Woodford will be leaving Invesco Perpetual on April 29 next year.
We appreciate very much Neil's significant contributions to our firm.
He's leaving on very good terms with the company and he has been an important part of creating this well-thought-out succession plan and is committed to helping transition the funds.
We have planned for succession for many years and frankly we've never been better positioned to manage this transition.
We have a very experienced highly tenured team that has built a world-class investment culture strong investment performance of the team their focus on clients and the tremendous breadth of capabilities have led to strong organic growth across our EMEA business.
So to put this in perspective total assets under management for Invesco are $745 billion.
We've seen $20 billion of net long-term flows into the business so far this year.
And this represents an annualized organic growth rate of approximately 4%.
Assets under management for our EMEA business totaled nearly $165 billion.
So far through 2013 through the September quarter net flows into EMEA excluding equity income are nearly $9 billion representing annualized organic growth rate of 12%.
The U.K.
equity income assets equaled roughly $48 billion at the end of the quarter but we've seen net flows taper off over the past year which resulted in a slightly negative organic growth.
Given our assets have thoughtfully managed the transition we're pleased to report that client reaction to departure -- to the departure of Neil has been calm professional and highly supportive of Mark Barnett.
The combined total of the 2 largest funds managed by Neil is $38 billion.
For the 11 days between the announcement and today redemptions from these funds above the historic redemption rate were less than $1.5 billion or slightly more than 4% and let's put that into perspective just for the month of October.
For the month of October total Invesco had net flows of $2.7 billion which includes the redemptions that I was just speaking of.
It's early days but the redemption experience has been very much towards the positive end of the scenarios we modeled and planned for and considerably less than what we've seen reported in the media.
We find the results encouraging and we continue -- we will continue to do everything we can to deliver good outcomes for clients retain the assets and grow our EMEA business.
As I mentioned we believe we are very well positioned to manage through this transition.
Invesco Perpetual as a deep well-tenured team that has consistently delivered investment excellence for clients.
We've talked in the past about the investment team's phenomenal performance.
In the third quarter 98% of the assets across the business were above peers on a 5-year basis.
And if you look at equally related investment performance 87% were above peers over a 5-year period also.
And 49 out of the 52 of Invesco Perpetual's managed funds achieved positive returns over the past 5 years in spite of the financial crisis.
The team has been named the Best Investment Group of the Year and of The Decade by numerous publications and organizations.
Mark Barnett who will assume the leadership at the U.K.
Equity Income funds has a phenomenal track record.
He will lead an exceptional team that has helped manage the funds over the years.
We're focused now on introducing Mark to clients and sharing the very positive facts we have with clients the media and others.
And to give you further perspective on Slide 15.
It shows you the debt and breadth of our investment capabilities within Invesco Perpetual as well as the experience and tenured team supporting those capabilities.
The average industry experience for the entire team in Henley is 17 years.
The average length of time with Invesco is more than 8 years.
We continue to build on our highly experienced capable and stable team to meet clients' needs.
We added a multi-asset team in late 2012 that we launched its first product Invesco Perpetual Global Target Return fund in early September.
The team takes an unconstrained conviction-led approach to multi-asset investing consistent with the approach taken by the Henley based funds across equities and fixed income and using Invesco Perpetual's highly experienced investment capabilities.
We look at this as an important additional investment capability to the organization.
And as you'll see on Slide 16.
Invesco real estate has a significant profile in EMEA with more than $6 billion under management and 6 offices across the continent.
Additionally as the leadership for Invesco Quantitative Strategies is headquartered in Frankfurt Germany IQS oversees approximately $23 billion in assets under management and offers a full range of strategies.
And as I mentioned earlier investment performance for our cross-border fund range has been quite strong with 84% of the assets ahead of peers on a 5-year basis and you can see also 87% of beating peers on a 3-year basis so very strong.
Strong investment performance and efforts to bring the best of our investment capabilities to continental Europe have resulted in organic growth rate of 26% year-to-date for the cross-border fund range.
We have very strong facts to share with clients.
Let's start with Mark Barnett's excellent track record and the 17 years of working alongside Neil.
Mark has a truly exceptional performance record and we are extremely confident in his ability to succeed Neil as Head of the U.K.
equities team.
We also have a robust investment culture in Henley that is focused on delivering strong long-term investment performance for our clients a brand that is very well recognized.
We have a strong business in EMEA.
Highly experience talented investment teams market leading capabilities and the resources of a global organization to support the success.
We've planned for succession for many years.
Our primary focus is to manage through the transition in the most thoughtful disciplined way with the goal of continuing to doing an excellent job for our clients and thereby ensuring long-term success.
I have every confidence in our investment team and the business to manage this succession in a very thoughtful meaningful way and we'll have great -- continue to have great outcomes for our clients and also for our shareholders.
So with that as background I'd like to turn it over to Loren to go through the financials.
Thanks very much Marty.
So quarter-over-quarter our total AUM increased $39.9 billion or 5.7%.
This was driven by positive market returns and FX of $30.8 billion and total net inflows of $9.1 billion of which $5 billion were long term.
Our average AUM for the quarter was $729.4 billion that was up 1.3% versus the second quarter average.
And our net revenue yield came in at 44.8 basis points.
That's an increase of 0.9 basis points quarter-over-quarter and this increase was a result of improved mix one extra day for retail assets and the higher other revenues as compared to the second quarter.
Now let's turn to the operating results.
Net revenues increased $26.1 million or 3.3% quarter-over-quarter which included a positive FX impact of $4.9 million.
And within the net revenue number you'll see that investment management fees grew by $32.8 million or 3.6% to $938 million.
This increase was in line with our higher average AUM and an improvement in the effect of fee rate during the quarter.
FX increased investment management fees by $6.4 million.
Our service and distribution revenues were up $5 million or 2.3% and that was roughly in line with the increase in average AUM.
FX increased service and distribution revenues by $0.5 million.
Our performance fees came in at $8.5 million a decrease of $0.5 million from Q2.
Performance fees in the third quarter were driven by a variety of products and regions and FX had no significant impact on this line item.
Our other revenues in the third quarter came in at $33.1 million and that was an increase of $4.2 million versus the prior quarter.
And this increase was driven by higher real estate transaction fees.
And FX increased other revenues by about $0.1 million.
Third-party distribution service advisory expense which we net against gross revenues increased by $15.4 million or 4.2% and that was roughly in line with the increase in retail investment management fees.
FX increase these expenses by $2.1 million.
Moving on down.
You'll see that adjusted operating expense at $488.3 million increased by $8.6 million or 1.8% relative to the second quarter and FX increased the operating expense by $1.4 million.
Employee comp at $328.3 million increased by $5.6 million or 1.7%.
This increase was due to higher variable compensation which was slightly offset by a decline in sales commissions seasonally lower payroll and retirement costs and a full quarter's worth of staff cost reductions from the outsourcing of our European transfer agency.
FX increased compensation by $0.8 million.
Marketing expense decreased by $0.8 million or 3.3% to $23.5 million.
FX increased these expenses by $0.1 million.
Several new product introductions had been expected in the last half of this year spread evenly between Q3 and Q4.
And this is the basis for our original guidance for marketing expenses of $27 million per quarter in Q3 and Q4.
The planned launches are on track but now are expected to occur mostly in Q4 and as a result we would expect marketing expenses to increase in Q4 by approximately $5 million to $6 million.
Property office and technology expense was $72.7 million in the third quarter which was up $4.3 million.
The increase was driven by a full quarter's worth of expense associated with the outsourcing of our European transfer agency and by continued investment in technology systems.
Foreign exchange increased these expenses by $0.2 million.
Consistent with our guidance in Q2 we expect this line item to level off at about $74 million in Q4.
G&amp;A expenses came in at $63.8 million down $0.5 million or 0.8%.
FX increased G&amp;A by $0.3 million.
This line item is affected by new product introductions and accordingly we would expect to see G&amp;A increase by approximately $2 million or so in Q4.
Continuing on the page down the page you'll see that our nonoperating income increased $10.6 million compared to the second quarter.
The increase was due to unrealized gains on certain of our real estate and private equity partnership investments as well as a realized gain on our investment in a CLO which liquidated during the quarter.
The firm's effective tax rate on a pre-tax adjusted net income basis in Q3 was 26.6%.
Going forward we continue to guide the effective tax rate to be around 26.5% to 27.5%.
And that brings us to our EPS.
Our adjusted EPS of $0.55 and as Marty mentioned our adjusted net operating margin of 40.2%.
And with that I'll turn it over to Marty.
Thank you Loren.
So operator we'd like to open up for questions please.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Bill Katz with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Marty as you -- it looks like you got to your margin target a little earlier than expected.
And maybe some unusual items along the way in the P&amp;L but really not so much from my perspective.
As you look out into 2014 just given the flow dynamics that you're seeing between EMEA equities alternatives active if you will versus maybe some further attrition in the U.K.
footprint.
How do you see the margin dynamics playing out next year? So I guess the root question is is there still nice incremental margins from here? So using the framework that you laid out so if the market continues that way we are anticipating continued expansion in the margin.
As we said in the past we don't -- there's no reason that we don't continue to have margin expansion.
And as you point out the flows are broadening the performance is very strong but for a market pullback something like that we just don't see that we can continue on the path that we've been on.
And Bill this is Loren.
And the only thing I would say and Marty highlighted it on some of the slides.
Some the fastest-growing parts of our business are cross-border in EMEA also in Asia-Pacific.
And these have very high fee rates similar to equity income fee rates.
And incremental margins are excellent on those similar.
So I'd say it is certainly a reasonable expectation that our incremental margin guidance or whatever outside of 60% 65% is absolutely intact.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
I guess the new news is the $1.5 billion repurchase authorization.
How should we think about deployment of that particularly where the stock is trading right now? Would you expect the share count to ratably go down? Or it's still open-ended as I see from press release but what are your thoughts in terms of usage of that? The $1.5 billion certainly gives us room to run around so to speak on the buyback.
And we're watching our relative stock price compared to competitors closely.
Certainly the stock took a fair beating in the recent last quarter and then we're paying attention to it.
We were out of the market in Q3 because of the realization that we have obviously of Mr.
Woodford leaving.
And so we weren't in a position to buy back stock but we are certainly now in a position to do so.
And you certainly would expect to see us at a minimum be back in the market at -- in a strong way.
Research Division</strong> And just the last question.
Just in terms of very tactically in your G&amp;A as you look into the first quarter of next year some o f these launches if you will is that G&amp;A level -- should that trend down a little bit or is that sort of a new starting level to which you'd grow off of? I think it will trend down.
So there's clearly -- these product introductions got bunched up in Q4 versus Q3 Q4 which is what we originally thought.
So that extra $2 million would certainly move down.
The next question comes from Brennan Hawken with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So a couple of just quick questions.
On Woodford it certainly is good to hear that the outflows have been better than the press reports.
But it'd just be helpful to hear about what you guys think as far as the drawn out -- sort of 6-month time period if he's going to stick around.
Do you think that might mean that there's going to be a couple of waves of outflows? Or how do you think about that? Yes it's a good question.
So I'd answer it this way.
As I've said a minute ago this has been very thought-out we think the best way to transition is to have -- through April next year Neil will be very very involved.
And it allows Mark Barnett who again has been there 17 years spectacular track record adjust to -- work into that.
And so we think if you look at history when do you have good transitions? You have very good transitions when the funds are performing well.
You have a thoughtful succession plan with very very capable individuals that have very good track records.
And that's what's in place.
And beyond we talk about Neil we talk about Mark but it's very deep team that has been in place for a very long time.
So we can't predict what the outflows are going to be but what I can tell you from my experience this is intact to be a very very successful transition for clients.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess is the idea behind the 6-month period that it will give the team a chance both Mark and Neil to get around and get in front of clients and therefore make the transition easier? Since the announcement obviously there's been a lot of discussion around the thought process behind this transition because it seems rather unconventional to a lot of investors.
So maybe if you could help us understand that too? Yes.
So that is exactly the case.
As I've said Mark has done -- he has been part of Neil's team worked side-by-side with Neil know each other very well.
Exact same investment philosophy as you would imagine on a team.
If you look at their portfolios they're not wholly different as you would imagine.
So the knowledge of the stocks is very very high.
And what it really is doing is just allowing investors a chance to get to know Mark some more thoroughly.
And that is what we are doing.
And the other thing I'd just say is obviously to the extent that people felt the transition was shorter the impetus to make a decision and move obviously becomes greater.
And so time is our friend here for sure.
And as people get to know the team and they're very impressive it is certainly our hope that we will be able to retain significant assets in this process.
Research Division</strong> Cool.
And then the last one on this and sorry to have so many questions on this it's just been a very big topic on the mind of investors here as you can imagine.
Can you help us understand what he's going to be doing Neil in his new venture? Is this sort of going a different of direction strategically or is he going to be courting sort of very similar client base as to the current fund.
Can you help us maybe understand that a little too? To your third question the answer is I don't know.
I mean as Neil said in the press release he does intend to salvage new business after he departs on April 29.
And there've been no discussions of what his plans are.
So I really don't have any insight into that.
The next question comes from Michael Carrier Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the flows.
On the institutional side it looked a bit weaker than maybe what we expected and part of it was just the pipeline.
You mentioned I think $2.5 billion that was -- and I might get this wrong but something on leverage on one of the products.
So I just wanted to understand that maybe it was with the liquidation of the CLO but understand that.
And then just when you look at the institutional pipeline and the outlook where is the demand? Where are you seeing some of these outflows? I'm just trying to get better gauge on the outlook because it sounds like the pipeline is still pretty healthy.
Michael this is Loren.
I'll take that question.
So there was $2.5 billion associated with a reduction of leverage in our mortgage REIT IDR as you would know it by the ticker symbol.
And that's -- there's no fee associated with the leverage.
So it is one of these passive assets that is counted in our AUM and in our flows.
But it really has no -- it has 0 impact on revenues.
And so if you back out the $2.5 billion we're in positive flows and active flows and institutional and that is coming from real estate bank loans as well as our IBRA capability and I think commodities capability.
So we're continuing to see in the pipeline consistent strength along largely those same asset classes.
And so we feel that and obviously the leverage was noise but you back it out we're on a good trend.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
That's helpful.
And then just on the expenses and the margin the only area where it seems like it's been trending differently is just more on the distribution margin if you want to look at it that way just the revenues versus expenses.
I think you hit on it.
Like you just mentioned just on the retail it's driving some of those expenses higher.
But I just want to get a sense of -- when I look at the revenue line the expense line even just the outlook for those 2.
Just could seems like the expenses are trending a bit higher than the revenues.
There is no trend of increasing distribution expenses.
That does move in line with retail AUM and there was an extra day there so again you'll see a pickup in retail management fees as well as those types of expenses.
So that was in line and even although it looks a little bit off compared to the total management fee line item again it's just sort of disconnect between retail and institutional.
So there is no trend.
We wouldn't sort of guide you that this is going to continue to increase.
In fact there'll be 1 day less in Q4.
So you're not going to see -- actually no it is a similar day.
Forgive me so it's a similar ratio of Q3 Q4 based on retail assuming that we maintain fee rates.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just last one.
On the retail side in terms of the flows in the quarter.
It seems like it came in a lot stronger given what we saw on the industry on the muni side.
And then also on the IBRA product that is moderate.
I just wanted to get any granularity because the strength that we've seen on the retail side just seems -- is just better than expected.
So which products are working? What's the traction that you're seeing there? I mean you hit a lot on the U.S.
distribution front.
But I just want any other color there.
Yes and that's the point that we have been making historically and we continue to make.
IBRA is a very important capability here and will continue to be.
But as we always said as investor confidence comes back they're going to go more risk assets.
And we've said we're prepared for it.
And the point I was making was just that if you -- the depths of -- the broadening of the capabilities in the retail channel that is gaining traction is very broad.
And as I pointed out literally 18 funds had net flows over $100 million and that compares to 6 funds 2 years ago when you do that comparison.
So we just continue to get stronger in that channel and we would expect that to continue.
The next question comes from Craig Siegenthaler of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I think there's a lot of focus here on the loss of potential AUM and revenues from Neil Woolford.
But not as much focus on the other side of the equation expenses.
I know this is very difficult kind of to talk about but is the best way for us to sort of estimate the offset here sort of a comp ratio basis when we think about the offsetting expense here? Yes.
I mean I think if you think about incremental margins it's the best way to think about it.
The 65 -- 60% to 65% is the right way to think about what is the impact on expenses.
It's going to be largely managed in aggregate for the firm as a whole.
It's not one particular team.
And so thinking of that on a team basis is not the right way to think about the impact overall.
So that's how I would guide you Craig.
Research Division</strong> Got it got it.
And do you see your expectations really deviating here? It may even make sense to provide sort of comp guidance at some point next year.
But just a follow-up question here.
Is there any other kind of unique expense initiatives you sort of have in the plan sort of like the European transfer agent that you did this year? Craig I mean there are always things that we're looking at I guess 2 off-hand that I know about.
One is I don't want to call it an expense initiative it's more just the way we operate it.
But it's our continued use of enterprise centers which have been a real asset for Invesco.
As you know we have a 650-person group in Hyderabad India.
We just took on more space that would allow us to bring that up to close to 1 000 people.
So we think that overtime that scenario where we're going to continue to see leverage overall in terms of keeping effective and efficient operations.
The other part I would mention and we may have talked a little bit about it in the past is just around our footprint in terms of properties.
Again if you had a clean sheet of paper where we have every single office every single location that we have today probably not.
And ultimately there is a need for us to continue to rationalize our location and our footprints to reflect the business today.
And so that's something that you'll probably hear more from us in the near term about how we plan to continue to manage that line item which ultimately if it's unmanaged it continues to escalate.
So it's certainly on our radar screen.
Research Division</strong> And Loren I saw you guys had about 50 more employees quarter-over-quarter roughly.
Was most of that India? No it's fairly seasonal.
There's a ramp up typically around transfer agency activities and those numbers will go down too overtime.
So I wouldn't read that as a sort of permanent headcount.
The next question comes from Michael Kim of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> First just based on management commentary that we've been hearing from some other firms and some of the data we've seen across the industry more recently.
It does seem like retail investors are starting to move up the risk curve so maybe more of a mild rotation as you put it.
So just wondering assuming that that sort of environment persists and investors are coming back into more traditional equity strategies where you could see the biggest step-up in flows and then also how you might be thinking about the organic growth profile of the firm particularly versus prior cycles? That's a good question and I think we'd all love that day when that's a challenge for us.
But again what we've said in the past is we've all anticipated at some point people will take on risk assets and we couldn't be more well-positioned for something like that.
And again not just in the United States but as Loren is pointing out kind of [ph] Europe that's a big thing for us.
And quite frankly in Asia it's a very good thing for us.
And you started to see that in this quarter.
So it would result in just stronger outcomes for us that's for sure.
But if you're asking so what could the organic growth rate be? It's really hard to answer the question without knowing what the environment is.
But I would just come back to the facts that we keep pointing to.
Broad range investment capabilities strongly performing set of investment capabilities available through the Americas through EMEA and through Asia-Pacific and I think that just sets us up very well for that environment.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then just coming back to IBRA.
Any color on the relative returns particularly versus the other risk-parity strategies? And then also can you just give us an update or some color on flow trends for the IBRA strategies and the institutional channel and outside of the U.S.
just trying to get a sense of the prospects for the overall business assuming U.S.
retail net flow trends remain sort of flattish here? So I don't have the most current data on the relative performance of IBRA versus peers but it had been really quite strong.
And I would imagine it would be very difficult that that has fallen off really much at all during that period.
So that's the important thing there.
There is still continued interest in IBRA institutional and that is pretty broad.
I think also that we've talked about in the past we have a team that's very strong there are natural extensions of the team's capabilities those are things that we are looking -- we are spending more time with clients on.
And also as I've mentioned earlier early days but we have just started with the Invesco professional multi-asset team with the global target return fund and all of those things are going to be -- they're -- we just think they're permanent parts of the landscape going forward.
We're strong in the area and we just intend to get stronger.
The next question comes from Dan Fannon of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I guess just a question on the $2.7 billion you mentioned in October just wondering if there was anything lumpy in there with regards to institutional wins.
And then also we've been reading a fair amount in the press about what the intermediaries in the U.K.
have done subsequent to the announcement.
Just curious as to anymore color around feedback you've had from either consultants with a small component that is institutional and/or those intermediaries that have sold Neil's products in the past thus far.
Dan maybe I'll pick up the one the first part then Marty I don't know if you want to address the second one.
But ultimately it's pretty diversified in terms of where the flows are coming from.
It's across Asia Pac retails that will be local equities sort of Asian capabilities EMEA is strong.
Real estate is a good chunk of it as well so I'd say that's about $800 million of it.
Americas continues to do very well.
So it's got within the traditional PowerShares it's definitely factoring in there up $550 million.
So it's spread over lots of different capabilities probably not too unsimilar to -- just similar to what we did in Q3.
Yes.
I just -- I don't know if I can add much more color to the feedback of the change that I've mentioned.
The feedback so far from advisors and clients is those that know Mark have a lot of respect for Mark.
They're very aware of his very very strong track record.
And so as I said the engagement has been very professional very thoughtful and back to the point we made earlier the whole idea of having a long transition is it allows those that don't know Mark and the team very well a real good chance to understand the depths and capabilities and track record that they have.
And we think that is just an important part of the plan that has been put in place.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow up on -- does the timing of the Atlanta sale is that -- in the proceeds we should assume that those should be a directly applied to a buyback upon closing? Dan yes definitely that is our intention for sure.
The next question comes from Glenn Schorr of ISI.
Research Division</strong> Curious on your comment earlier on the increasing investor confidence many many move into riskier assets and its impact on IBRA flows.
Do you -- are you able to track what goes out and what you actually capture into your own equity funds.
Obviously equity and retail was strong performance but can we assume that you're actively courting the third-party distributors and managing that transition do you have any metrics that you can throw at that? Yes so let me answer it this way.
So it is -- the engagement with the advisor community is very broad-based and we try very hard to understand what their needs are and offer a range of capabilities to meet those needs.
So it's not like the old days 15 20 years ago where you're sort of pushing this fund or that fund and the like.
And so for a long time we've been putting for a long time meeting last few [ph] years.
The range of capabilities from IBRA through the equity capabilities and always has been the commentary that we've had with you and others and the clients is that you'll have different allocations during different times.
And that's exactly what we're seeing the numbers bear that out and that was the point I was trying to make whether or not I did it very well.
That as people get more confidence so probably have lower allocations to IBRA right now and increasing their allocations into things like value equity or international and that's exactly what's happening.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And can we talk alternatives for a second? If you look at your performance slides it's so strong across almost every product that is one area where performance has lagged and you had some outflows.
Anything you can talk to in terms of any visibility on the outflows ebbing what your plans are a little longer term in terms of broadening the product set there? So Glenn this is Loren.
So I mean alternatives we saw in this quarter $1.4 billion of positive net inflows.
So I think we -- we're actually seeing strength it's in bank loans it's in real estate.
The -- what you're seeing on the performance side is misleading so -- but it is consistent we sense that.
A lot of these capabilities don't have natural benchmarks.
They're not available to peer groups peer analysis that allows us to compare.
So you're actually not seeing the true [indiscernible] relative performance of our direct real estate for example.
There is no comparable direct real estate benchmark that we can use and that's $50 billion.
So I obviously would guide you not to look closely at that.
I think that particular one may be around some of our REIT capability where there is a benchmark.
But honestly our REIT capability has been flowing strongly in this quarter and for the last several quarters.
So it's certainly a conservatively positioned product relative to some of the competitors.
I think that's exactly what clients have been looking for.
Yes.
And I think Loren's speaking on this but the one in particular the real estate capability is just so so strong.
And again it's this benchmark that leads you to thinking there's a problem there and it's just quite the opposite.
If you look at alternatives generally it's about $87 billion right now within the organization.
It is a growing part of our capabilities.
And we're very very focused on it and I'd say over the next 6 9 12 months you'll just continue to see greater extensions of our existing institutional capabilities into retail channels in different parts of the world.
So we think we are uniquely positioned in the area.
Research Division</strong> Very very helpful.
The last quickie was -- I'm sure it's a short period of time so I'm the answer is retail but I just figured I'd check on the outflows that you have seen in the U.K.
products.
I'm assuming it's all retail at this stage? Yes I mean I think the U.K.
is predominantly retailer-oriented in terms of the funds there may be sort of pseudo-institutional relationships.
But it's all relative to the retail products really.
The next question comes from Patrick David of Autonomous Research.
I've heard some speculation that because of the nuances around RDR there could actually be a financial incentive for at phase not to move their money from Woodford's fund because they'd lose their trailing commission.
Could you give us an idea of how much of the AUM has significant trailing commissions attached to it in Woodford's fund? Patrick I think it's a great question it's one that I think is a bit of a difficult one to answer on this call because I think the RDR rules and how those trailers work it's more complicated than what you just said.
I think -- I'd say first off though from a high-level you're correct that that is fundamentally the right way that it will work so if someone moves out of the existing products they will -- they'll lose their trails.
So you can decide whether that's going to be a motivation or demotivation for that to occur.
I mean most financial advisors will be doing what's right for clients as they should.
And there's a lot of regulatory requirements for them to do that.
So I don't know I want to read a whole lot into that rule as to where that's helpful and not other than I think it's a good point and one that's probably -- we'll see to what extent it actually has an impact or not.
But it will be a little hard for me to speculate whether it's really going have an impact.
Okay understood.
And then more broadly I think a key component to the growth of your margin would be the scaling of non-QQQ PowerShares.
Could you kind of help us a little bit with a better framework around what the margin experiences is for a fund given how many newer funds you have as it moves from say $500 million to $1 billion AUM to $2 billion to $3 billion to $5 billion.
How powerful is that margin expansion? Yes it's powerful.
So I'd say it's a major help in terms of the incremental margins.
It's been helping our margin expansion as we've seen the traditional PowerShares grow.
And so the fact that we have more size and scale in our existing set of products as opposed to a lot of new smaller products which is the case right now is very very helpful.
So I would expect it to continue to contribute very positively to our margin expansion story as those products are continuing to grow.
The other point is certainly a lot of the products that have been growing have been at a higher fee rate.
So that has also been net helpful for us as opposed to on the lower end of the scale...
Research Division</strong> I mean would it be fair to say that a lot of those newer products are coming from something close to 0% in accelerating to something about what your current firm line [ph] margin is? Yes when you start out with a new product I mean typically it's not a big moneymaker right off the bat.
Probably think of it more as break even as you said.
But yes as it goes to $500 million or so it becomes extremely powerful in terms of incremental margins and that whole business as a whole which has improved significantly in terms of its overall margin characteristics just in last year.
The next question comes from Ken Worthington of JPMC.
Research Division</strong> To -- I guess to beat a dead horse and maybe a follow-up on Craig's question.
On Perpetual how does what may or may not happen at Perpetual influence the setting of incentive awards on PCBOI? I think you and the Board set incentive awards each year and there's been a reasonable range over time so might a change in profitability at Perpetual influence the setting of that ratio? And then Marty how do you think about balancing the needs of employees versus demands of shareholders with regard to an incentive comp year? Right.
I think the best way to answer your question is look at what we've done in the past.
The facts and circumstances is what drives our actions and we will continue to have that as the driving force.
And we just -- are absolutely committed to be staying on the same path that we are and that's do great things for clients and great things for shareholders and again I think the best way to -- I can't speculate of what's going to happen as I've been saying the whole time but what I do know is look at what we've done in the past and we'll continue to do that and just be very thoughtful.
Yes.
Maybe just to be more clear I mean Ken under a reasonable set of scenarios and assuming -- because you mentioned you assumed some asset outflow but it's over some period of time it's more of a business-as-usual type of situation for us right? So there's not a need to knee-jerk to something different right we can manage through it.
And particularly as we're able to grow strongly in areas like cross-border in Asia and other parts of the firm it is quite feasible that you'll continue to see -- just -- it's all going to be revenue growth asset growth and you won't even see this right? And then that really obviously would be a great outcome for everybody.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then maybe just a follow-up on I think it was Patrick's question in terms of RDR rules have gone to -- into effect for some of the channels but not for others.
And I think in terms of platforms the rules have not yet gone into effect there.
So how big are the platforms for the U.K.
business versus the other channels where RDR may have already gone into effect? So again it's a very good question a little specific -- sorry I'm losing my voice here but I would say platform business is a pretty big part of our business so I don't want to minimize it.
So it's probably in excess of I don't know 50% perhaps? The next question comes from Chris Harris of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> You talked a little bit about new products driving some of the expense lift next quarter and just wondering if you guys can talk more broadly about the pace of new products how it's compared today versus maybe the recent past and where you see the most opportunity to launch new products? Yes we are probably again in sort of a unique phase on product development.
Largely as I've seen an earlier these extensions of existing capabilities within the team really focus on the alternative area.
We have strong capabilities there.
We think broadly in most parts of the world it is an important area and a growing area.
So you're going to see as Loren pointed out through this quarter through the first quarter of next year probably some of those comprehensive product introductions that we've had in a very long time.
And the question was asked earlier the way we understand -- we have conviction on where the need is and where the growth is in this area.
So that's where we're going and it does take -- the way that we think about is -- think that it's served 3 years before you see success broadly within any product capability.
That's the typical timeframe that you would look to and every once in a while you get something very successful before that timeframe like in IBRA and the like.
But we'll be very thoughtful about it and we think we're positioning the firm very strongly to a growing opportunity.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay excellent.
Maybe a few follow-up questions then also on Perpetual.
I'm kind of curious to get your thoughts you mentioned this but it didn't -- it doesn't really sound like the business was growing and data we looked at even back in 2012 it didn't look like Woodford's business was growing.
And the performance was kind of there.
So just wondering why you guys think that is and then when you get the PM changes what's going to be the strategy to actually get Perpetual in the growth mode again? Well I think you talking about 1 asset class and 1 category.
And the equity income category is a very important one and we're very very strong in it because of the history.
It has not been a growing part of the sector of the overall industry.
In fact it's -- if you look back from '06 until -- through this past year if you looked at that sector's -- the gross sales have dropped in half basically within the sector.
That said it's very very important but again what we're trying to point to is we want to be as strong as we've ever been and we think we absolutely are with the team that we have.
But no different than anywhere else in the world you have to understand what clients' needs are and expand those capabilities and address them and the point that we were making if you look at the depth and breadth and investment management team at Invesco Perpetual across a broad range of capabilities they're very experienced with very very good performance.
And quite frankly during this past quarter the global team has had some really good not just results but actually flows coming into the area.
So we're expecting broadening of the flows across Invesco Perpetual with -- where investor needs are and desires are against the capabilities we have.
In addition we also thought that introducing a multi-asset team with -- into Henley was very very important because a core capability in the global total return fund is that they literally use the existing investment teams in Henley.
So if you think of the asset classes that they manage with the absolutely outstanding performance and you put that in sort of the knowledge in the history of the multi-asset team we think we are positioned ourselves very very strongly within the United Kingdom alone to say nothing of Continental Europe and that's why we brought that out.
It is into the cross-border capability which we think -- we're early days of where our success is there.
And there are a number of those capabilities in Henley that we'll be using in different parts of the world.
Whether it be the global equity capabilities and they are already the Asian capabilities or the multi-asset capabilities so we're very very excited about the prospect.
The next question comes from Robert Lee of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I apologize upfront for going back to the topic of the day but I'm just curious Marty I guess in the announcement it's kind of hinted that at least I took it this way that maybe Neil thought there certain things he wanted to do in the fund business that maybe couldn't do at Perpetual or at least within the existing fund company structure.
I don't know if you have any sense of where that difference kind of came up or what that may be and then as a follow-up to that while you've certainly prepared for this and have a transition in place and have prepared for the transition personnel-wise for a while is this episode causing you to go back and kind of look at other teams around the world or other team managers and maybe think rethink or approach start to approach differently how you have them under lock and key so to speak or any other place just thinking maybe to make some changes? Yes.
I appreciate the question.
And I really can't -- obviously Neil and I and others have had very broad range of conversations.
I would be totally speculating on what his interest is with his new business.
And again he is very dedicated to being focused through April 29 of next year on the business at hand and that's really -- I wish I could give you more insights I can't.
Secondly the idea -- let me answer it this way it's an organization where we want -- when is this organization successful? When people are proud to be there when they're excited about coming to work when they're doing good things for clients they enjoy the camaraderie of being with one another and what we call the total employee value proposition.
Now no question you have to get compensation right I understand that everybody does we think we do.
That said it's got to be the total environment that is exciting so the idea of even thinking that -- locking people down and the like we just don't -- we don't want to be an organization like that.
The reason why people stay is when they're proud and they can do very very good things and I think that's the organization that we are and we'll just continue to do that.
And we do a number of things and I'll just for example every 3 months we do employee surveys.
We've been doing them since I've come here.
The employees certainly [indiscernible] obviously against history against global financial organizations what they call global high performers.
This last one the employee engagement was higher than the global high performers has been for the last 3 times we've done it.
The employee engagement's off the charts we are at or higher at every single measure over the global high performers and that's what's creating the excitement at the organization.
And those are the things that matter you have to look at it holistically and that's what we do.
But I'm glad you asked the question it's a fair question but that's how we look at it.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate the color.
I have a easy one for Loren.
I save the easy ones for Loren.
Thank you.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I apologize if you've mentioned this earlier in the call but could you give any guidance about what you're thinking for performance fees next quarter? Yes we haven't given guidance on performance fees because it is hard.
Obviously the one thing that we can say is that you're not going to see the traditional performance fee coming from Atlantic Trust because that's now in discontinued ops.
So performance fees have been good generally because performance has been excellent.
And so I think again if you look at our run rate I mean you can probably discount it at a little bit because I'm not sure if you can -- I mean I can't forecast it perfectly.
But there's some level $5 million-ish that probably is a reasonable amount to put in one's model for Q4.
The next question comes from Matt Kelley of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask first Loren actually one for you kind of easy as well but on the distribution margin.
We talked last quarter about some institutional mandates funding could help that.
And I'm just wondering where we stand now with retail sales remaining high.
Should we expect the current quarter to be kind of a run rate for the distribution margin or is there anything that could bring that down or actually take it up? I think the ratio -- I mean again we don't break out retail management fees from our institutional management fees.
But I would say that since we're talking about the same day count going from Q3 to Q4 they won't be this disconnect of the retail management fees being up more than institutional management fees inherently because retail management fees are based on day count and going from Q2 to Q3 there was that extra day.
So that really was the big driver of the difference.
So again you just have to pay attention to the day count.
But the ratio should be about the same assuming everything else is flat.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then one for either of you guys.
In terms of -- I've heard a lot about active managers potentially looking to launch actively managed ETFs recently and I know -- I think T.
Rowe [ph] had put out a comment letter to the SEC about the transparency and disclosure required.
I'm wondering if -- where you guys stand on that given the PowerShares that's kind of a unique differentiated products set.
Where do you kind of see that evolving? And if active funds are launched into the market more frequently is that something you're going to look to participate in? Yes so we've had the ability to do active ETFs for a number of years.
We're one of the very few firms that had the license in place to do it.
And we launched an aristocratic [ph] but calling it to react [ph] to ETFs.
It must be almost 5 years ago now.
You don't hear much about it because it's not been very successful.
And so I know there's raging debate on how successful it will be and won't be.
I still question the success and growth in active equity ETFs.
I think it's more likely to be successful with fixed-income products.
Quite frankly.
And you can see some evolution where -- some movement on use of indexes and those firms that can create their own indexes and the like.
So there will be some evolutions but I -- is it the great next thing? I would be skeptical at the moment.
Not to say it won't evolve over time.
I think most of our active equity managers would not want their portfolios disclosed daily.
And so there is work that's been done to see if you can create an active ETFs without disclosing daily sort of holdings.
So that's just an evolution of that.
If it turns out that the rules change in some way it's something we could certainly pursue.
But right now it's a little too conceptual to be interesting.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last one for me just another product kind of question here.
You had an announcement out recently on liquid alternative launches.
And I'm just wondering what areas within the liquid alts because it's a very kind of broad description that the industry tends to use but what areas do you think will be the strongest sellers there? And do you feel like you have everything you need here or there could be more product launches from here for you? Yes.
I just have be careful of where we in various registrations.
You can look at the registrations I'm not trying to dodge the questions but I'll take it back to a higher level.
As I said earlier if you look at our investment teams they've been managing a number of alternative capabilities for a very long time.
And we think there are a number of capabilities that make sense to be in a mutual fund wrapper [ph] and those people are referring [ph] to more liquid alternatives.
And we think we're going to be very well-positioned in that category.
And again it's not a great secret and it's just more of the registration process than...
Probably more to come on this in the future.
And this is the best way to describe.
But certainly everything you've said is correct in terms of our interest in the opportunity.
Yes.
The next question comes from Marc Irizarry of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Loren can you just give a little more color on the incremental margin targets or guidance that you put out there? What sort of organic growth expectations are sort of embedded in that or and market -- and/or market expectations? And then also you -- how should we think about performance fees and/or transaction fees when it comes to that incremental margin? Okay.
Good question.
So when we are thinking about incremental margins obviously we don't manage to an incremental margin it's more of a result of what has been flowing and what's happened with markets.
And I think we've said on -- generally when we're seeing strong market supports FX whatever those types of elements that are boosting our asset base the incremental margins are at the high end of the range.
So you're probably at 65% or even higher.
If it's done through new product introductions and sort of organic growth as we talked about there's some cost associated with that.
You're probably at the lower end of the range which could be more of the 60% even 55% to 60% range depending on what type of product it is.
So again it's a little hard to say exactly what the right guidance is.
But I'd say based on everything we're seeing we're -- let's say market is flat but you're seeing growth in excellent products in terms of their characteristics and margins ETFs cross-border Asia you're probably in that 65% range right? And you probably could do that on organic growth without 60% to 65%.
And then in terms of your -- I'm sorry your second part which is performance fees and transaction fees.
Again I find it really difficult to predict these so I do apologize.
I'd like to be more clear if I could.
But again our performance as you've seen is pretty pretty good.
And so there is an opportunity to generate good performance fees.
How much will come? The biggest providers in the past have been in the U.K.
Performance is excellent there still.
So that still is an opportunity possibly in Q1.
But I don't want to give out a number as to what's the right number because it obviously can shift quite a bit depending on what is happening in the marketplace.
And in terms of transaction fees also little hard to do -- to predict but we've been seeing good growth in Europe in Asia in real estate and a lot of the funds that operate there do have transaction fees.
So again if we can continue to see that type of activity I'd say the path that we're on on the other revenues side is constructive right? We think it's probably at similar levels maybe a little bit lower just to be conservative.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just getting back to Perpetual for a second.
I think you've said that's probably about 50% or so with the assets sort of platform-driven.
Where are we in the cycle of you being put on watch if you will or on hold for many of those platforms.
I mean is this something that you expect over the coming quarters to be revisited or sort of did all of that sort of happen up front? Yes.
Marc I guess maybe it's obviously very fluid situation right now.
And so getting into minute detail as to the number of platforms or who was saying what to whom it's really not something I think we're wanting to go into at this point in time.
I guess the good news if there is good news generally about this is the reaction has been one of conservatism and not to sort of knee-jerk to leave the fund and that we believe is absolutely a favorable result and gives us time to get people comfortable with clearly a big transition which we can't underestimate and everyone you're seeing leave is obviously wanting to meet the new team.
And so they're going to sort of say stay put but let's meet the new team.
So we're in that process right now.
Our next question comes from Greggory Warren of Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Just -- again not to beat a dead horse here.
On the Invesco Perpetual thing there's a lot of numbers floating around on AUM levels and stuff.
And I know you guys touched on it a little bit this morning noting that Neil had $38 billion in the 2 funds.
What is his overall responsibility on Invesco Perpetual from a numbers perspective? And then I guess the other thing is you were just talk about being conservative and cautious and we really appreciate that sort of attitude when you did the Invesco deal.
Do you expect to be giving us some sort of update 4Q earnings on sort of where you're feeling the outflows might be or is it just something that's going to be trickling out over time? Greg I'll answer and then Marty if you want to take the other part.
It's about $50 billion is the total size of assets with Neil directly named.
So pretty close I mean the 2 large funds are the predominant pieces as you might imagine.
So that's the amount.
The information will continue to be available as it has in the past.
And so people will be able to come to their own conclusions and obviously each quarter if there's something material or additional that make sense to discuss we're happy to discuss it and we will bring it up if necessary.
[indiscernible] Research Division</strong> Okay good.
Just switching gears then.
I noticed on the fixed-income side you guys had a bit more of an outflow issue that I was expecting given the shift in the Fixed Income markets mid- to late-September there.
Was there anything responsible as more of an institutional issue during the third quarter and I guess the question is how are you feeling about flows this quarter and as we get through next year given that rates are likely to go up and nobody knows when.
So Greg that fixed-income outflow is actually similar to the -- what we were talking about on the institutional side which is this leverage related to this one product the mortgage REIT.
So that was $2.5 billion of outflow in fixed income with no fee associated with it.
So again I would caution people not to read too much into that.
And ultimately fixed income continues to do very well on the active side as we've seen positive flows in third quarter and we're continuing to see good flow in Fixed Income capability into October.
So we do think active Fixed Income still has got legs and certainly we have great capabilities in that space.
Our next question comes from Chris Shutler of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping to get a little bit more color not on Perpetual but actually on the bank loan market.
So I know that's been a strong area of flows for Invesco over the last several quarters and so just curious what you're seeing in terms of supply in that market right now because I know there are conflicting views out there as to what extent supply maybe getting constrained and what that might mean for flows down the road? Yes.
You're right it's a very strong team here and they continue to do very very well and there continues to be -- lots of client interest quite broadly in different parts of the world actually.
So I wish I had more specific information.
I have not had any feedback that were running into sort of capacity constraints.
We've heard this question a few times and so I think the topic is an interesting one.
We're still not the dominant player in that market.
And then so maybe others who have been seeing sort of order of magnitude differences in flows have had a greater -- more difficulty in terms of finding how to invest in our market.
Our team I think is feeling very comfortable that given the flow pattern that they have enough opportunities.
At this time there are no further questions.
Good.
Again Loren and I would like to thank everybody for engaging in the questions very robust.
We appreciate it very very much and we look forward to talking to everybody in the near future.
Take care.
Thank you for participating in today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to Invesco's First Quarter Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now we would like to turn the call over to the speakers for today Mr.
Martin L.
Flanagan President and CEO of Invesco; and Mr.
Loren Starr Chief Financial Officer.
Mr.
Flanagan you may begin.
Thank you very much and thank you everybody for joining us.
And this is Marty Flanagan along with Loren Starr and we'll be speaking to the presentation that's available on the website if you're so inclined to follow.
And we'll provide a review of the business results and also the specific discussion around the U.K.
Loren will then go into greater detail on the financials.
And as always we'll have Q&amp;A.
So let me start on Slide 3 and let me hit some of the highlights of the firm's operating results for the first quarter.
Long-term investment performance remained very strong during the quarter.
Strong investment performance and continued focus on clients contributed net inflows of $5.2 billion for the quarter across a diverse range of investment capabilities.
Adjusted operating income was up 34.5% as compared to fourth quarter of the prior year.
And a continued focus on a disciplined approach to our business drove improvement in our operating margin to 40.5% almost a 500 basis point increase from a year ago.
Assets under management were $778 billion for the fourth quarter up from $745.5 billion in the prior quarter.
Operating income was $347 million versus $328 million in the prior quarter.
Earnings per share were $0.58 up from $0.55 in the prior quarter.
And the quarterly dividend remains at 22.5% -- excuse me $0.225 per share and we returned $450 million to shareholders during the quarter.
Now let me take a moment and look back at the achievements over the past year which will provide insights into our long-range plans.
First and foremost of course we remain very focused on delivering strong long-term investment performance to our clients which continues to drive the growth in the business.
83% of assets under management were ahead of peers on a 3-year basis at the end of 2013.
And by delivering strong long-term investment performance to clients long-term flows for the year were $34.4 billion.
We continue to invest in capabilities where we see strong client demand or future opportunities such as multi-asset fixed income and liquid alternative capabilities in particular and by hiring world-class talent upgrading technology platform launching new products and providing additional resources.
The ability to leverage capabilities developed by our investment teams to meet client demand across the globe we believe is a significant differentiator of our firm.
We will continue to bring the best of Invesco to different parts of the business where it makes sense for our clients.
We also successfully completed our joint venture with Religare Asset Management in India divested our private wealth management business and finalized the outsourcing of our European transfer agency process.
And before I go into more detail -- Loren goes in detail on the financials but let me take a minute to review investment performance.
And I'm on Page 7 if you are following the presentation.
Our commitment to investment excellence and our work to build and maintain strong investment culture helped us maintained a solid long-term investment performance across the enterprise during the quarter.
Looking at the firm as a whole 72% of assets were ahead of peers on a 1-year basis 83% of assets were ahead of peers on a 3-year basis and the softness in the 5-year number reflect the rolling off of some very strong numbers in the fourth quarter of 2008 and a brief period where we trailed the market during the low-quality rally in 2009.
Based on the strength of our recovery later in 2009 we would expect our 5-year numbers to demonstrate steady improvement over the second and third quarters of 2014.
Now turning to flows on Page 8.
You'll see gross sales remain strong during the quarter and particularly strong numbers for active assets under management.
These numbers also reflect the broad diversity of flows we saw across the global business during the quarter which included continued strength in equities alternatives and traditional ETF offering.
Net long-term flows were $1 billion for the quarter.
Although gross sales remained strong for the fourth quarter redemptions increased.
I'll provide more detail in a moment.
We also saw upward trend in institutional channel net long-term flows and continued demand in real estate and bank loans.
Although clients in particular -- institutional clients continue to show interest in our asset allocation strategies we saw further shift towards risk-based assets in the quarter which resulted in the slowdown in the sales of IBRA.
As we've said in the past in risk-on environments client shift demand towards equities and away from risk-parity strategies.
This is exactly what we experienced.
We saw $6.6 billion of improvement in equity flows in 2013 versus 2012 which more than offset $6.2 billion decline in IBRA inflows in 2013 versus 2012.
It's important to note that our asset allocation strategies continue to perform well relative to risk parity peers and we anticipate these types of flows during the type of equity rally we saw last year.
That said the choppiness we're seeing in the market currently is a likely favorable development for IBRA.
Gross long-term sales for our U.S.
retail business remained strong at $18.4 billion for the quarter a 14% increase over the same quarter a year ago.
The annualized redemption rate for Invesco remained favorable relative to the industry as you can see on Slide 11.
Flows into the complex were led by strength in U.S.
equity international global equity traditional ETFs and alternatives.
Our business has become increasingly diversified as allocation in alternatives grew to 37% of sales in the quarter versus 28% during that same period 2 years ago.
We saw 18 funds with net flows of greater than $100 million over the trailing 12-months ending 12/31 versus 8 in the same period in 2011.
We also took the opportunity during the fourth quarter to launch a number of new capabilities globally that will help support the future growth of the firm.
In fact we launched more funds during the fourth quarter than we did in any full calendar year over the past 5 years.
A number of these capabilities is built on the work we've done over the past few years to strengthen our alternative offerings to the market.
These products leverage 25 years of experience managing alternative assets for pension plans sovereign wealth funds and other institutions.
These product launches are designed to further solidify our position as one of the largest managers of alternatives for U.S.
institutional investors with more than $83 billion of alternative strategies.
We continue -- we launched the global total return funds in the U.K.
EMEA the EMEA cross-border and the U.S.
market as part of our efforts to further scale our multi-asset capability globally.
Multi-asset absolute return funds provide exposure to a blend of investment ideas across asset class geographies sectors and currencies something Invesco is extremely well positioned to implement.
We also took the opportunity to expand our suite of investment capabilities in the fast-growing China market.
We're pleased with the progress during 2013.
We feel good about the momentum of our business.
We believe Invesco's very well positioned regardless of where the markets take us.
As always we continue to look for opportunities to strengthen our competitive and financial position over the long term.
And before I turn the call over to Loren for more in depth discussion of the quarter's results let me take a few minutes to provide an update on our business in EMEA.
As I have mentioned we are very well positioned for long-term success across the U.K.
and Continental Europe.
We continue to execute our transition plan which is going very well.
The market has been extremely receptive to Mark Barnett who has an excellent track record.
Mark is supported by strong Invesco perpetual investment team as he transitions into the leadership role for U.K.
equities.
U.K.
experienced record gross sales during 2013 and has experienced excellent momentum heading into the new year.
We have many attractive highly competitive funds across the franchise and we will -- which we will use to offset any outflows in the U.K.
equity income funds.
Strong investment performance drove continued success in our cross-border retail business which experienced $10 billion of net flows across 2013.
We also made progress further diversifying our business during the quarter -- during the final quarter of the year with strong net sales into global equities and European equities.
We've also been pleased with investors' response to recently launched GTR fund which has seen flows in excess of $250 million in a very short period of time.
We continue to make further progress in promoting experienced capable well-tenured fund management team in Henley.
Assets managed by our EMEA business totaled nearly $172 billion as you'll see on Slide 15.
During the fourth quarter net flows into EMEA excluding U.K.
equity income were $4.3 billion representing an annualized organic growth rate of 15%.
Given our efforts to thoughtfully manage the transition we're pleased to report that client reaction to the departure news has been calm and professional highly supportive of Invesco Perpetual's investment teams.
From October 15 through the end of the year redemptions from U.K.
equity income totaled $4.8 billion approximately 10% of the total.
This is good outcome.
We continue to see strong evidence that many clients are choosing to remain invested in the funds as demonstrated by Tuesday's announcement from Edinburgh Investment Trust that is retaining Invesco Perpetual as the manager of the trust.
We find the results encouraging.
We continue to do everything we can to deliver good outcomes for clients retain assets and grow our EMEA business.
Now I'll turn the call over to Loren to review the financials.
Thank you very much Marty.
So quarter-over-quarter our total assets under management increased $33.2 billion or 4.5%.
This is driven by positive market returns and FX of $28 billion and total net inflows of $5.2 billion of which $1 billion were long term.
Our average AUM for the quarter was $761.7 billion.
That's up 4.4% versus the third quarter average.
Our net revenue yield came in at 45 basis points and that was an increase of 0.2 basis points quarter-over-quarter.
The increase was a result of improved mix leading to a higher investment management fee rate as well as greater performance fees compared to the third quarter.
As a reminder as we look forward into the next quarter our fee rate as it always is will be negatively impacted by day count as the first quarter has 2 fewer days than the fourth quarter.
Now let's turn to our operating results.
Net revenue increased $40.9 million or 5% quarter-over-quarter which included a positive FX impact of $10.4 million.
Within that net revenue number you'll see that investment management fees grew by $44.8 million or 4.8% to $982 million -- I'm sorry $982.8 million and this increase was in line with our higher average AUM and an improvement in the effective fee rate during the quarter.
FX increased investment management fees by $12.9 million.
Service and distribution revenues were up by $9.4 million or 4.3% roughly in line with the increase in average AUM.
FX increased service and distribution revenues by $1.2 million.
Performance fees in the quarter came in at $11.1 million and that was an increase of $0.5 million versus prior quarter.
Performance fees in the third quarter were driven by a variety of products and regions.
FX increased performance fees by $0.8 million.
As you know performance fees are difficult to predict and could be volatile quarter-to-quarter.
As we look towards Q1 we expect performance fees to be in the range of $5 million to $10 million and this range includes the recent change to the Edinburgh Trust contract in the U.K.
Other revenues in the fourth quarter were $33.3 million.
That was an increase of $0.2 million versus prior quarter.
FX increased revenues by -- other revenues by $0.1 million.
As we've said in the past other revenues are difficult to forecast.
But I will say that we expect the average to be approximately $30 million per quarter in 2014 although fluctuations quarter-over-quarter will likely exist.
Third-party distribution service and advisory expense which we net against gross revenues increased by $16.1 million or 4.2% and that was roughly in line with the increase in retail investment management fees and service and distribution revenues.
FX increased these expenses by $4.6 million.
Moving on down to the slide you'll see that our adjusted operating expenses at $510.1 million increased by $21.8 million or 4.5% relative to Q3.
FX had an impact of $5.9 million on those expenses.
Within expenses employee compensation at $332.3 million increased by $4 million or 1.2% and was largely the result of FX which increased compensation by $3.5 million.
Looking forward seasonal payroll taxes and a 1-month impact from base salary increases will lift our Q1 compensation by approximately $15 million to $20 million.
And it will then decline by approximately $5 million into Q2 as the decrease in seasonal expenses are offset by full quarter's worth of base salary.
This assumes flat assets from the end of the year importantly.
Marketing expense increased by $7.6 million or 32.3% to $31.1 million.
The fourth quarter included $2 million of new product launch marketing cost and $5 million in advertising and other marketing cost to support the ongoing business.
And FX impacted these expenses by $0.4 million.
We expect run rate quarterly marketing expenses to be roughly in the range of $28 million to $29 million per quarter in 2014.
Again fluctuation will likely occur quarter-to-quarter.
Property office and technology expenses were $74.9 million in the fourth quarter and that was up $2.2 million.
FX increased these expenses by $1 million.
Looking ahead property office and tech expenses should increase slightly to approximately $76 million to $77 million per quarter reflecting continued investment in front-office technology platforms and increased outsourced administration costs due to the higher levels of business activity in EMEA.
G&amp;A expenses came in at $71.8 million.
That was up considerably $8 million increase or 12.5%.
The fourth quarter included $4.5 million of new product launch-related costs and also $2.5 million of what I would call other seasonal G&amp;A costs.
FX increased G&amp;A by $1 million.
And we would expect G&amp;A to decline to approximately $67 million per quarter in 2014.
Although once again variation should be expected period to period.
So continuing on down the page you'll see the nonoperating income decreased $7.9 million compared to Q3.
The decrease was largely due to higher interest expense resulting from the refinancing of our long-term debt during the quarter which happened mid-November.
And then we also had lower unrealized gains on certain of our real estate and private equity partnership investments.
Interest expense will step up to approximately $18 million to $19 million per quarter reflecting a full 3 months of interest expense impact.
Firm's effective tax rate on pretax adjusted net income in Q4 came in a little bit lower than guidance at 25.4%.
Looking forward we would expect to see the effective tax rate again being around 26% to 27%.
And that brings us to our adjusted EPS of $0.58 and again as Marty said our adjusted net operating margin of 40.5%.
And I will now then turn it back to Marty to open it up.
So any questions please? [Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Ken Worthington JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Maybe first on the buyback.
So you closed the CIBC deal at the end of the year.
To what extent were the big buybacks this quarter a front-end loading of the cash received from that deal? And really given the deal closed on 12/31 and there's more money coming in from I'll call it an earn-out in the next couple of months is there still meaningful stock you'd expect to buy with the proceeds? And then for the record I do understand you bought back a lot more stocks from the total proceeds from the deal in the quarter so I get the math.
So the buyback really did reflect the front-end load of the value of the transaction even though the money is spread over a couple of quarters.
That is what the $350 million represented Ken.
And again in terms of our interest in buyback as we have in the past we will be opportunistic and certainly be looking at a relative valuation and impacts on our stock due to market dislocations and other things.
So again we have a strong interest in being able to return our capital to shareholders both through dividends and buybacks in 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then Marty just on Neil Woodford.
So Neil was sort of concentration risk that you inherited when you came to the firm.
You put Mark Barnett in charge of the assets and looks like it's helping retain the assets.
You guys pointed out that he's being very well received.
But you also maintained that concentration risk.
So as you position for Neil's departure in the next couple of months are there any steps that you either have taken or are taking to kind of minimize this concentration risk as we look forward into the future? Yes.
Ken good question.
I think the reality is we'll take good money managers all day long.
And Mark has been a part of that team for a long time.
It's the depth of the team that is there.
We couldn't be this successful without that real depth.
And I think that often it is something that gets overlooked throughout not just our organizations but a number of organizations.
And you have to have a portfolio manager pulling the trigger and that's what we do and a very talented one supported by a very strong team.
And we think that is the right way to do it.
Ken the only thing I would say is that we've been extremely successful and we will continue to be working on continuing to grow other parts of the business in the U.K.
So the diversification will happen largely through the success of our other teams.
And we've had great success in the corporate bond area in the global equity area.
And obviously the new GTR product Global Total Return has been off to a very strong start.
So I think you'll see diversification created that way primarily.
Your next question comes from Craig Siegenthaler Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Can you provide us an update on how the Henley based multi-asset team is doing? And I understand this is a pretty young team over at Invesco but it would be helpful if you could provide some color on how sales activity has trended both kind of in the U.K.
I believe you have a U.S.
mutual fund product within that fund now.
And also any C Cap cross-border activity in Continental Europe? So let me kick off.
So we're very early days.
If you remember the U.K.
fund got launched in September of last year.
And the just want to call it the pace is not too different generally than the United States.
It's usually served 3 years -- you have to have good track record for 3 years and keep going.
That said the reputation of the team is strongly in place.
And as I mentioned a few minutes ago we've seen $250 million already head towards that team.
So we look at that as a very very good development out of the box.
We have as I said just -- and that's one of the efforts in the fourth quarter.
The capabilities now in the C Cap product it is now in the United States.
And it's hard to introduce in the retail markets in Asia just because of regulation around derivatives.
But it is a global effort and we think it's a real strong complement to the risk parity capability that we have.
And we think it's going to be a very strong capability for the firm in total.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just I want to touch on performance fees real quick.
Given the 1Q guidance and normally 1Q is a seasonally strong quarter.
It seems that your performance fees will sort of trade -- trend maybe in the $30 million range next year plus or minus.
Back 5 years ago it used to be kind of $70 million $80 million $90 million.
So -- and your alternative AUM is much higher.
So maybe you could just help us think about what structurally has happened in terms of why the performance fee run rate is sort of lower than it used to be and not higher? Well I guess one thing: I mean performance fees in aggregate have always been a small part of our overall revenues so that's kind of one point.
And we like it that way.
We like the predictability.
So we haven't been sort of driving to increase performance fees overall as a function of our overall revenues.
In some cases they're sort of part of -- parcel with the product and they're expected by clients.
And in which case we'll certainly have them.
So in the past going way back I mean we had quite a bit coming from some of our quant capabilities.
And again some of our quant capabilities have done extremely well.
But some of the new accounts that we have with institutions have been not performance fee based but more straight management fee based which again I think it's probably more predictable and provides greater valuation credit to us [indiscernible].
Looking forward I would say that we would expect to continue to see performance fees.
Even in the first quarter guidance I feel the 5% to 10% is probably the right level.
For us there is still some opportunity to see performance fees that could show up through real estate.
And then over the longer term we think the private equity fund V fund IV they're doing very well those funds.
They are above their high watermarks.
And again none of this is realized.
None of it is stuff that we can be booking.
But ultimately it could be substantial in terms of performance fees if and when they get into the point where we could recognize that from an accounting perspective.
So I do think performance fees will continue to play a part in our revenue stream.
It's really just the U.K.
element is going to be more muted than you've seen in the past.
Your next question comes from Dan Fannon Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Can you give a little bit more color on the Edinburgh Trust announcement just in terms of the size? And then what other kind of institutional dynamic or clients you've talked to or what other assets remain within the Perpetual franchise and how those conversations are tracked? Yes.
So obviously Edinburgh Investment Trust is a very high profile investment trust in the U.K.
It's probably just under USD 2 billion.
A very seasoned experienced board.
And so we look at that as quite a very public endorsement of Invesco Perpetual Mark and -- I mean and Mark Barnett and the team.
And so we look at this as very positive.
Others institutions as you know they're confidential.
They're -- they don't want to be talked about publicly.
And so again I think looking at that as a strong supporter of Mark and the team I think is a very good way to look at this.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess just thinking about the fee rate and what you guys are having success in selling products particularly some of your C Cap versions versus kind of where you're seeing some outflows whether that be IBRA or Perpetual taking market aside as you think out over the next -- into 2014 are you looking at your fee rate improving based on where you see the demand and where you're seeing redemptions? Yes.
So I think I'll step up one level and then come back down to it.
It was maybe 3 years ago we started to talk about we need some better jobs across EMEA and the efforts there.
And you're now seeing very strong organic growth on the continent and as I said about 15% organic growth last year.
We look for that type of growth to continue and it's a reflection of not just want to call it the infrastructure work that we did but really if you look at the breadth of the capabilities on the C Cap product and its performance it is really really strong.
And as Loren has pointed out it is in broad -- bonds European equities global equities the addition of GTR in it.
So it is a very very strong lineup and we thought we are punching under our weight on the continent and we're starting to make some real improvement.
So we look at it as a very very strong dynamic for us.
And also as Loren said specifically in the U.K.
if you look at the depth of the team the quality of the team and the performance across the global equity team the European equity team in addition to the bond team which has just been strong it's broad it's deep.
And so that's also where we see money moving.
So I think we're positioned quite well.
Yes.
I would answer just in fact right yes we do believe that the net revenue yield excluding performance fees and I'll just make that point will improve year-over-year because of the dynamics that Marty just talked about.
The performance fee is a bit of a variable that could keep it more flattish depending on kind of how performance fees show up in the year.
Your next question comes from Michael Kim Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> First just coming back to U.K.
equity income.
On the last quarter's conference call you kind of talked about redemptions above the historic reduction rate.
We're about $1.5 billion in the back half of October.
So not sure if that's apples-to-apples versus the $4.8 billion of outflows you reported for the quarter.
But just wondering if you could give us a sense of how those outflows tracked through the quarter and then early read into January trends would be helpful as well.
So again I think it is apples-to-apples the $4.8 billion is consistent with the $1.5 billion that we talked about.
It obviously has been sort of a -- there's been volatility in because of some institutional accounts who have decided to sort of terminate and then those can be a little chunky.
So it's hard to sort of read into it.
And I'd say generally most of the movement has been around the institutional side.
The retail side has been a much more sort of slow kind of -- and even less material impact on the overall number so -- which I think is encouraging.
Because the vast majority of the assets are retail based.
So it has been sort of a general improving trend month-to-month I would say but I don't want to read any -- too much into that because again we all understand that this is something that's going to go through a couple of more events ultimately to really realize how much impact this is going to have.
So we're very focused on it.
We're not complacent on the topic.
And again we're focused on doing what's right for the clients and making sure that -- we have Mark Barnett in front of all the clients that need to see him and get comfortable with him.
I'm not going to comment on January trends because we don't want to be out in advance of anything that our own U.K.
team is doing.
But I'd say the bigger events generally will be at the time of actual -- Mr.
Woodford's departure right? And that would be the date that we think most of the noise and activity would happen.
So that's the date I would look to as opposed to something else.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then maybe focusing on your fixed income business.
Just curious to get your take on sort of the opportunity seemingly developing across institutional fixed-income managers just assuming pension plans increasingly shifted to maybe more defensive asset allocations now that they've gotten closer to being fully funded and how that might play out versus the potential for maybe some ongoing redemptions on the retail side of the business.
So I'd probably broaden it.
And I think if you look at what our pension plans what would you expect them to do it was rally of equities.
And those that participated if they close those gaps you could really see more movement into asset allocation.
And in fact one of the things we're seeing continued interest and things like give breadth in the institutional channel and on volume set as we saw in retail.
But that makes a lot of sense.
The effort in fixed income around multi-credit is a core skill that we have in credit.
And that capability be it in the markets along with things like bank loans are traditional strength in real estate.
So we think we positioned ourselves very well for what could be happening in the institutional market.
Your next question comes from Bill Katz Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just in terms of a lot of puts and takes in terms of what's coming and what's going out geographically where you're seeing strength et cetera can you give us an updated -- I know you gave us a sort of tactical guidance for the first quarter on some of the line items for expense.
But stepping back can you give us a sort of a sense of where you think incremental margin opportunity might be? Is it still north of 65%? Or has anything primarily changed quarter-to-quarter? Bill so I would say again the discussion on the incremental margins has a lot to do with what sort of market we're in.
And I think again so we will provide sort of a similar perspective I don't think it's changed.
Which is when the markets are generally moving up strongly we can see the incremental margins be at the higher end of the range of somewhere between 50 to 65.
And we certainly -- we think 65 is achievable maybe even higher in the strong equity market.
In flat markets which is what we normally plan for and hopefully we'll be surprised with better market it is more on the lower end of that scale.
So you're into the 55 to 60s range.
So depending on what's your view in the market you can select what sort of incremental margin would probably occur.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up question.
You've launched I think you said the most products cumulatively in -- versus the last couple of years.
So as you think through 2014 you put the Woodford assets to the side which feels very tactile to me and EMEA is doing very well is it liquid -- where would you see -- where would you expect to see the greatest rate of traction of some of the new business trends? Yes.
So it's a good question.
It sort of pairs very well with Loren's commentary and sort of what you see.
So where we see the world will be alternatives will continue.
We think we're stronger and we'll continue to be.
The efforts on fixed income in particular on multi-credit I think in addition to bank loans and the like is going to continue to be an opportunity for us.
But again I think you also have to go back to what have we done over the years and whether it be getting into the ETF business moving into risk parity-type capabilities.
The effort right now is around liquid alternatives we think the depth and breadth of our -- we thought it very important to be holistic in getting a full range out there right now because the take-up time that we all know.
So we think we're positioned very well in asset allocation liquid alternatives.
The Continental Europe in particular I think is going to continue to be an opportunity for us.
Our position in Mainland China quite frankly is ever-growing and will be something that will -- and to say nothing of the ETF business.
Our market share was about 4% last year; as a percentage of gross sales it was 7%.
So we're growing the ETF business.
We see that as a margin enhancer also.
And we're continuing to get further strength in the U.S.
retail business.
So I do look at it as early days.
And as Michael was mentioning earlier if you look at our capabilities it matches up very well where the institutional market could be going.
So again I think a lot of the things to pay attention to is we can't predict markets.
But at one level it really doesn't matter to us because we think we have the capabilities to participate.
So I would look in the next 3 years as -- that we're positioned very very well for where we think clients could be going.
Your next question comes from Luke Montgomery Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So the operating margin is looking pretty healthy above 40%.
Notwithstanding that we've talked a little bit about how maybe less scale in your product suite might be holding down the margin relative to some of your peers.
Just wondering what levers you might pull to address the scale issue whether that means rationalization of products or -- and redeployment of human capital seed capital.
Or is this really just more about getting the flows up? And if it's the latter you touched on them just a second ago but what are some more obvious opportunities by distribution channel or geography to increase that scale? Yes.
So you are on the topic.
And I think again what I'd point to is just -- and we've talked about it.
And here's an example of it right now.
So we are taking the -- to the degree that we can take our investment capability to take them around the world more concurrently that's going to make quite a difference.
And I think you can just see from what we're talking about this quarter that is a real effort in that way.
And we think by organic growth with the quality of the teams the long-term performance of the teams that's where we see the real opportunity for us.
And yes we agree with your observation.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just in -- and is it -- could it be a little bit of both? I mean is there some rationalization of products and redeployment of capital? Or...
So we always do that.
And I -- if you add up the number of things we've rationalized over the years it's quite stunning honestly.
But we'll continue to do it.
There's probably less rationalization but we're always paying attention to that.
And same thing we deploy resources whether it be seed capital or talent to those things that we think have the highest probability of success and that's what we think we're doing right now.
I would also just mention I mean maybe the areas where we've seen less scale I mean there's definitely been a benefit just generally in terms of the flow activity.
So all our regions are improving in terms of profitability.
There isn't a particular area that I would say is a real problem or there's something going wrong someplace.
So we're seeing really good traction just in terms of bring the flows in and the top line is making it happen.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And then on the comp.
Even with the FX impact that you called out this quarter looks like comp revenue is the lowest it's ever been.
So first do you expect any continuity in that FX impact? And I know you don't target a specific ratio but what's the likelihood you can keep the comp ratio down at this level? I mean I think we -- I mean given the guidance I think -- and obviously we get a sense of confidence.
We wouldn't provide it.
It is something where we don't manage to a comp ratio.
Looking at compensation to revenues we -- again we provide a lot of detail on how we think about compensation should work in some compensation.
But ultimately we do feel that this is a sustainable good level with the variations around payroll taxes and then the obvious decline coming in for the second quarter as payroll taxes roll off.
Your next question comes from Michael Carrier Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> One maybe -- you might have hit on this so just wanted to check just on the buyback activity you obviously got a pickup this quarter.
Just in terms of the 2014 just in terms of what to expect.
Should we just be going back to sort of that normal run rate that you guys have -- I think it's about 1/3 of your cash flow.
But I just wanted to get an update there.
Yes I mean I think that's a good starting point to think about what to expect going forward.
However honestly we're not driven formulaically in our thinking on buybacks and we will have some variation quarter-to-quarter.
We have said and this will still be the case where we do have some of the equity grants to get issued is on a deferred basis to employees in the first quarter.
And certainly we would do our very best to try to mitigate any dilutive impact by certainly focusing on buyback as a strategy.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Marty you gave pretty good updates in terms of what you guys have been doing on the EMEA side and then also on the balanced or the asset allocation products.
And I think when I look at the U.S.
business you kind of gave the same updates.
And over time post the Van Kampen transaction there was maybe a period of 1 to 2 years where -- whether it was launching products consolidating products improving the performance you're gaining traction on the distribution platforms.
And then we gradually saw the flows improve.
So I guess in EMEA and in this -- the balanced risk or the allocation products I guess just kind of similar maybe color in terms of you got maybe one issue in each of those segments; but on the flip side you're doing a lot to grow those businesses.
I just wanted to get a sense of where you see Invesco in terms of like the inning the growth in both of those whether you want to call it product areas or geographies that partially offsets some of these near-term issues? That's a good question actually.
And so let me provide the perspectives.
So if you go back with the talk -- a good inflection point was the Morgan Stanley and Van Kampen transaction and we thought we just -- we weren't anywhere in the U.S.
retail business at that time and we laid out our perspective of where we're going.
I'd still say in the U.S.
retail business it's going very very well.
But I'd say we're fourth inning.
Where if you want to use the headlines of where we're recognized by as a brand it's -- we're now ninth tenth in the U.S.
retail channel.
We -- you couldn't even -- we did the first survey they couldn't find our name.
So it's -- that's a tremendous change in a short period of time.
We still think we've got to move up a handful of notches and that will make a big big difference.
EMEA actually or Continental Europe in particular it is somewhat of a replay.
We are in the first inning of where we think we can go.
Now the last couple of years when we started to highlight this as an area where we're spending time and money we have a lot of plumbing-type work to do.
And the outsourcing and TA and things that you might think are sort of maybe not interesting.
Well the fundamental fact if you don't have strong operating infrastructure it gets in the way of success.
And so a lot of the plumbing is now in place.
There's a lot of rework on the product range.
And again I mentioned a few minutes ago it's broad.
It's deep.
It's strongly performing.
But we're still very early on penetration of -- with principal distributors on the comp.
Now there's areas of real strength.
In Italy we're really really really strong.
Germany we should just be dramatically stronger than what we are.
We've vetted Germany for decades.
And so -- and also Switzerland again we're very much undershooting our weight.
So we look at the continent as a real opportunity for us.
And so the analogy's probably a very good one that you pulled out.
Your next question comes from Brennan Hawken UBS.
Research Division</strong> So you guys have described IBRA as more conservative than a bunch of peers.
And clearly January has started off as a much more risk-off-type market.
I know you indicated that this was likely favorable.
But could you give us maybe a little more specifics on whether or not what you've seen in January -- obviously the performance is balanced nicely.
But from a flow perspective has that balance in performance helped sort of stem the trends that we saw in the fourth quarter? Yes.
Brennan I think there's probably a little bit of a lag in terms of how people respond.
And so again generally we are still seeing strong interest in equities in January.
So again how long that persists is a good question.
And I think we're seeing sort of a consistency in IBRA.
The sort of flip side to that where that's been more on an outflow perspective.
So I don't think we're seeing any change in behavior in January per se at least in the flow data.
But again that's something where within a week you could begin to see something shift perhaps.
So it's just a month so it’s hard to really say where it's going.
I would just mention it's probably worth just having this point out that in the month of January we have more flows in the month of January long-term flows than we saw all last quarter.
So it's been relatively a good month for us.
Research Division</strong> That's terrific.
And then a follow-up to Ken's question I know that with Woodford you guys didn't have some of the protections like non-compete and such agreements.
The assumption would be that you guys learned from that with Mark Barnell -- Barnett excuse me.
Is that a right -- is that correct? I don't think so no.
And again it's -- everybody has terms of employment in the U.K.
in particular and it has the traditional what would you say things that are in place generally.
So -- and again it is a free world.
So we're very happy to be successful going forward with the depth and breadth of the team that we have.
So we think we're very well placed.
Your next question comes from Roger Freeman Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just one more on Woodford.
I think Martin you touched on this and pointed people to look at the sort of the departure date in thinking about when the -- maybe the bulk of the flows could come out if they do.
In another case it seems like we've seen I guess a tail on that even a couple of quarters beyond.
And I'm wondering because you kind of have a transition taking place over call it a 6-month period before whether maybe that mitigates the potential tail effect.
Good question.
I mean here's the reality: The reality is and I said this previously there's 2 types of outcomes right that you've seen traditionally when there's change.
It's sort of unplanned unpleasant departures and that usually -- no one does well.
The clients don't do the well the organizations don't do well and hopefully the individuals don't either.
This we think is very very different.
It has been a plan that's been in place for a very long period of time.
We are executing that plan over what is many many months.
And what is happening is what we would hope happen and that you are seeing -- Neil had a great 25-year track record but also overshadowed the depth and breadth of the team.
And I understand that from growing up -- working for Sir John Templeton.
They are big trees.
And the truth is there's a lot of talent underneath there and that's what's happening.
And the point of having a long transition is to have the marketplace fully recognize the depth and breadth of the talent.
And Mark and the team are being very -- recognized very very nicely for well-deserved recognition in their depth and history.
So the reality is we don't know right? And I think importantly we're doing all the right things to do good things for our clients.
And if you do that you get better outcomes than you might have otherwise.
So again we wish we could be specific.
The truth is we just don't know.
Research Division</strong> No fully understood.
And then I guess Marty on the U.S.
retail sort of brand recognition.
You mentioned being sort of ninth or 10th.
Correct me if I'm wrong it seems like you've sort of been around that level maybe a year 1.5 years now.
And you've said that in the past the hardest part is kind of moving up in that top 10.
And I hear you say you'd like to move up couple of few rungs higher.
I'm just wondering how you're thinking about in terms of maybe a timeframe.
And does that come at a much higher sort of advertising expense? Good question.
So we -- as I said we went from -- you couldn't find us on the list moving to 10 and sort of 9 sort of right on the cusp.
It doesn't look -- we're going to stay on the path we're on right? It is really driven by investment reputation and client engagement and we're doing all those types of things.
And again from my prior experience it just takes longer than you would think reality would suggest.
And what I do know is if you go to the leadership of the distribution partners we're very very strongly placed and recognized as a very very important partner because of what we're doing for their clients.
Yes it's harder when you get to tens of thousands of FAs throughout the country and that's what takes it longer.
So it's really just going to -- more of the same keep working keep doing a good job keep generating good performance keep generating -- taking care of clients and the range of product.
And we'll push it up a few more notches.
So -- but it should not be -- we're going to stay on the track that we're on spending-wise.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And Loren just quickly I heard you mentioned sort of new product costs a couple of times running through the numbers earlier.
Just wondering thinking about it on a sort of a full year basis how do you think new product costs say 2014 versus 2013? I'm just trying to get a gauge for the significance of the new launches this year given you're calling some of that stuff out.
Yes I mean I think it was rather exceptional in terms of what we did this fourth quarter.
And so normally they get spread out.
And -- but I think just the sheer number was also somewhat extraordinary.
So in terms of the G&amp;A impact we sort of guided I think to a number that should be a little bit lower than sort of backing out the extraordinary amount in the fourth quarter.
Your next question comes from Eric Berg RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to start with the situation in the U.K.
and I wanted to sort of sharpen and make sure I have the right understanding about how you're characterizing the December quarter results.
Are you saying that the $4.8 billion outflow net is encouraging consistent with your expectations? Are you saying that it's discouraging but that you're doing so well elsewhere that on balance you're pleased with the results out of EMEA? Just I want to make sure I understand your characterization of that $4.8 billion number because 10% for a situation in which the manager hasn't left yet does seem like a lot.
Yes.
So let me -- we are extraordinarily encouraged with the results in EMEA.
We're extraordinarily encouraged by the results x U.K.
equity income.
We would think that a 10% redemption is not that extraordinary considering the history and the reputation of Neil and that it was not anticipated in the market.
So that's how I would characterize it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Switching gears to your global equity business.
While you did have positive flows in your global equity business it looks like company-wide the flows were on a net basis $1.5 billion.
It also looks like if one subtracts out the effect of the passive equity business that sort of your active equity business was actually in outflow mode.
Now maybe that's reflecting what's happening in the U.K.
maybe not.
But I would have thought that given the strength of your performance in your equity business and given the general renewed interest in common stock investing by bulk institutions and individuals that you would have enjoyed positive flows to your equity business.
Right.
So Eric I would say I think you've answered your own question in a sense.
If you add back the $4.8 billion associated with the impact on equity income that would give you a different result one that would be more in line with what we're talking about.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
And lastly as you think about what's happening in fixed income and the assuming growing interest -- sorry growing interest in equities decreasing interest in fixed income because of what's -- or traditional fixed income because of what's happening in the interest rate environment do you perceive a difference in the way that institutions versus individuals are behaving in response to this increase in interest rates? It's a very good question.
I'd say what are we seeing in all of us right? So the declaration of great rotation really has not happened.
There's been some movement to risk on assets.
You would think over time if -- in a rising interest rate environment it's really traditional fixed income that's going to be under the most pressure of that subsector.
And what we ourselves compare -- retail investors we saw much risk on appetite.
And as we talked about earlier there's a little bit from -- because we saw risk parity into equities in particular we think that's frankly a good sign.
Contrary to that and again it's plan by plan sponsor they are continuing to be in a risk-off mode.
And so you could understand if you have closed your underfunded gap why you would do that.
To have an underfunded pension plan and to be in risk-off mode I just don't understand but that continues to be the case.
So I would say institutionally you're still seeing much more of a focus on low volatility alternative-type capabilities fixed income multi-credit those types of things.
But again there are many many many pension plans that are deeply underfunded and not to be having equity exposure quite frankly is surprising to me.
But that is what you're seeing.
Your next question comes from Chris Shutler William Blair.
Research Division</strong> If we -- one question on the U.K.
and then Asia.
So on the U.K.
you had about $4 billion of net outflows but growth sales are actually very consistent with the rest of the year.
So I was hoping maybe you could talk about that dynamic.
So is the consistency in the growth sales a function of equity income continuing to see consistent sales since October 15? Or have other products been picking up that slack? Well I think there are some other products that are picking up the slack.
The global equity product in the U.K.
has been -- really seen a lot of this [ph].
So I would say equity income to sales it has certainly declined somewhat on equity income but it's not been as big an impact as the redemption obviously that we were talking about.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in Asia obviously nice flows there once again.
So can you just talk about what products have been most successful there? I'm assuming it's helping mix of alternatives and maybe some others.
Absolutely exactly.
We've seen bank loans.
We've seen real estate and equities as well.
So all those 3 are probably represent 90% of what we're seeing there.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And if you don't mind if I could sneak one more in here on the Edinburgh Trust contract.
Is there anything more you can say about the specifics of how that contract may differ now versus the old terms? I think that's public information.
So it is essentially a -- there's a reduction of the management fee of 5 basis points.
And going forward there'll be no performance fees other than in Q1 where there's a reduction of about I think GBP 7.4 million off of what otherwise would have been paid.
So that's the I think the bottom line on changes there.
Your next question comes from Robert Lee KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate your patience with the long lineup of questions.
Just question on the ETF business which I guess to Marty's point people I guess maybe it seems forgotten a little bit lately but it's been doing pretty well.
But can you give us some update on how that's progressing outside the U.S.? I know that had been a priority for a while and maybe it hadn't lived up to your hopes or expectations.
I mean so are you starting to see more traction with that business outside the U.S? Or is it still pretty much -- that's being driven by the success in the U.S.? Yes.
So U.S.
is a driver no question about it.
Canada has also been really quite strong.
What also gets hidden though is that it's frankly hard to track.
Institutions from around the world buy the U.S.-listed ETFs right? So we have investors from frankly almost 150 countries in the ETF business in the U.S.
listings.
And so the non-U.S.
is broader than you would expect.
But let me be specific to your question.
So a number of years ago we started an effort on the continent.
The continent has become a very complicated place as they have to serve the ETF.
The environment is changing very very much.
We still look at that as an opportunity and it just needs to settle down from its evolution.
And so we are looking that as -- we've not given up.
We just as we're talking earlier you want to focus on places where you can make a difference.
We thought it was too unsettled to try to drive that forward in that change but we think that will be an opportunity for us also.
Asia is an opportunity.
But again not to the same degree as Continental Europe.
But again the lion's share of the activity is the U.S.
as far as what we see.
I think the other thing I would just say is -- and part of it is our focus on ETFs had been in the smart beta and specific access and some of the interest on these ETFs and some of -- outside of the U.S.
have been more focused on traditional cap-weighted product.
And so we didn't really have a product that maybe was understood or accepted.
I'd say that is shifting rapidly and that we're seeing more and more interest in understanding some of the smart beta products.
And so again I think in terms of the demand in the market it is opening up to us.
But we were sort of a little bit early I would say when we first entered.
So it was not a product that was in demand or understood.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Maybe as a follow-up question I don't know how you would specifically track this.
But do you have a sense of how much -- when you talk about U.S.
retail how much of the improved traction there or how much of the flows to your ETF products are being driven by your greater penetration of the U.S.
retail market through your various platform relationships or wholesaling relationships that you wouldn't think of that like a wholesaler is not maybe going to write a ticket on the ETF or maybe he does? But how are you -- how is that translating into better ETF flows your better U.S.
retail distribution.
That's a very good question and sort of fundamental to our business.
So when we bought it what we thought it was interesting and somewhat unique.
It was -- that was focused on U.S.
retail business.
And we saw an evolution in the financial advisor channel more to comprehensive plans for their clients whether it be a combination of sort of -- think of core equity products or balanced risk product at the core and people using things like ETFs around it.
And that has proven to be true.
So our strength is in the retail market and in the United States and that is not traditionally where the ETF business has come from.
And it is no question self-reinforcing our traditional retail business with the ETFs and mutual funds ETFs and frankly UITs.
So the combination thereof is really really strong for us.
And it gets to the prior question you're talking about when you leave the United States quite frankly it's not a retail market; it's much more an institutional market.
And so where we went to Europe with the idea that it would also evolve as a retail market.
We were quite frankly too early in that development.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And maybe one last kind of broad industry question Marty.
The OFR put out that piece a few months back and seems like there's been a lot of back and forth between the SEC and the FSOC.
So I'm just kind of -- maybe your take from your conversations with whether it's powers that be in Washington and elsewhere kind of what's your take and how you see this thing kind of evolving over time.
And also I'm just curious to the extent that you are domiciled in Bermuda does that feel like -- if anything does come down to pipe that provide some level of insulation from some of these things that you've talked about? Yes.
So let me start with Bermuda.
I think not.
I mean the regulators are interesting where you might have thought after the crisis at one level regulation is getting more local.
But at another level it is actually becoming more global at the same time with the various risks oversight bodies working together.
So it is a global topic.
But what I would say just with the first report that came out I would say -- let me say it this way: The fundamental facts are very different than what the report might have talked about.
And I think what you're going to see is the industry do a very very good job of communicating in a very just clear way with the oversight regulators of what this business is and what it isn't and pointing out that it's not a big risk to the world.
That said we would also say as an industry where there are areas where we can improve we're going to improve.
And we want to be constructive.
And -- but again I think it's going to be a long conversation and I think the industry facts are very very strong.
Your next question comes from Marc Irizarry Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Marty on IBRA I'm curious if you have some perspective at the retail level.
Are you seeing a portion of the outflows? Are they staying you think within the asset allocation category? You mentioned that obviously there's a rotation into risk and you're seeing a pickup in equities.
And I'm curious within the allocation category it looks like the grosses have come down along with redemptions picking up.
And I just sort of want to get perspective on how you view that category and product and building out product within balanced? Yes.
So let's see I'll approach it 2 different ways.
As we talked a handful of years ago when we introduced this we were very clear we thought one there'd be rally in the equity markets on risk-on we thought there'd be movement towards equity products and we saw that and we saw it very much on our complex as I talked about earlier.
So not surprising.
We also think though January -- just reminding people there is volatility in the market.
And that we look at asset allocation products in particular low volatility-type products also just that broad range of asset allocation capabilities it's here to stay and it will more and more be part of retail investors one of their core holdings going forward.
And again that's back to why we were so focused on making sure that we had our -- start the clock ticking on the track records for the full range of capabilities.
So again I don't think we should extrapolate a quarter into -- or probably January into long-term trends.
I personally think asset allocation is here to stay.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just 2 quick ones.
Is there any concern -- there's been a lot of retail money going into floating rate funds.
Any concern around bank loan capacity in your products? No we've not had that concern.
But what I will say just very explicitly the team knows that it's clients first and ensuring that they stay dedicated to investment process.
And if they ever feel that there's not enough inventory they just put their hands up and we'll stop.
But that's not been the point of view as yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just real quick on the retail liquid alternative distribution in the U.S.
I'm curious expense-wise if you're sort of building increment -- devoting incremental resources on the distribution side or if it's leveraging what you have already.
And then also from an allocation perspective where do you expect that those products fit into the portfolio i.e.
where do you think the share is going to come from? Yes.
So again we're utilizing our existing resources right so as long as stocking -- that said there's been over the past -- last couple of years or last year in particular the new products lots of effort on training not just internally but also into the retail channel.
Probably a governor on absolute growth in alternatives will be really the educational process in the retail channel.
So again I look at this as growing over time tremendous straight up which is frankly a very good thing.
Sorry I just forgot the rest of your question.
Oh yes so where is it coming from? So we think very much that what you've seen happen with the asset allocation some of the things that have been more short-term fixed income capabilities that people have in their portfolio has gone into alternatives.
It's also come out of some of the more well frankly everywhere.
Some of the core fixed income has moved into it because of several low volatility capability.
And I think how many firms are positioning to the client is -- think of it as an anchor in your portfolio and that's probably the predominant way that we're seeing it positioned.
And so whatever people thought their anchors were before are being some of the sources for this.
Your next question comes from Patrick Davitt Autonomous.
I just have one question.
I think you said last quarter that more than 50% of Perpetual's assets were platform related.
We've seen a lot of unbundling announcements in the last few weeks from them.
It does look like they're being pretty aggressive in terms of the fees that they want from the managers.
How are the discussions going from your end? And do you think that's a meaningful headwind to your fee rate in that business? Patrick I'd say those discussions have been around for a long time and probably will continue in the future.
We've been fortunate in terms of our business having really high quality product with super performance.
And that relative to others is a very nice moat that prevents too much of that kind of conversation pushing through.
I don't want to say it doesn't happen because it does.
But we feel that that is still very much in place.
And so I don't think anything's really changed overall in terms of that dialogue.
They always are aggressive and I don't think that's going to stop.
So essentially the RDR and unbundling hasn't really affected that pressure.
It's not incrementally higher.
Yes.
I don't think it has.
And again we have certainly delivered a track record in the past of having excellent value for clients for the fees that we've charged.
As long as we can continue to do that I think we're going to be largely safe from [indiscernible] erosion.
Your last question comes from Bill Katz Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick follow-ups.
Marty on the ETF side there seems to be a little bit more interest in the marketplace around nontransparent ETFs.
So wondering if you can comment on how vibrant of an opportunity that might be.
And then separately any updated thoughts on money-market reform.
We've heard from one of your peers.
I'm sort of curious what -- how -- what your bigger perspective might be.
Nontransparent ETFs...
Yes.
So again the nontransparent ETFs I mean it's been a conversation along for a while.
There seems to be more developments there with New York Stock Exchange also joining the fray.
And again I think the developments may happen.
I'd go back to a couple of things.
We were early on in launching an active equity ETF I'm losing track of the years now but it might be 4 or 5 years ago and there's -- the level of assets is very low in it.
So it's still the same.
Still the same.
So it may evolve over time.
And with a nontransparent thing there could be another development.
The way that I look at is that we don't have -- there's a place for ETF there's a place for open-ended mutual funds.
And for the vast majority of the active managers the open-end mutual fund is a very good way to do it.
And again I understand the nontransparent would have -- replicate some of that.
But again that's not why a lot of people buy the ETFs.
And I think that's really the core point for my perspective.
Now you could see active ETFs evolving more on the fixed income market that makes more sense to me.
But again I don't view it as the holy grail that some might be thinking right now.
And if it evolves to be important we'll be there.
And as regard to money fund reform I think we're all just sitting tight right now and we suspect an outcome that will be very manageable for the industry.
Again on behalf of Loren and myself thank you very very much for your time and your questions are very valuable to us.
And we will talk to you next quarter.
Take care.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for attending.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to the Invesco's first quarter results conference call.
All participants will be on listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now I would like to turn the call over to your speakers for today Mr.
Martin L.
Flanagan President and CEO of Invesco; and Mr.
Loren Starr Chief Financial Officer.
Mr.
Flanagan you may begin.
Great thank you very much.
This is Marty Flanagan and I'm here with Loren and we will be speaking to the presentation that's available on the website if you are so inclined to follow.
We'll do a review of the business give an update on the Morgan Stanley/Van Kampen combination Loren will go into the financial results and then we will open up to Q&amp;A.
So just to start with if you take a quick overview look at the quarter it was a strong quarter continued strength in investment results further improvement in net flows it was the strongest quarter of net flows we've had since the fourth quarter of the year 2000.
So quite a period.
Strong operating results offset by foreign exchange and also in industry trends away from money market funds and the high level update of Van Kampen we expect – Van Kampen and Morgan Stanley we expect to close on June 1st and we will get into some details of revised synergies which are meaningful – meaningfully better than our initial thoughts.
So with that if you take a look I'd like to do a quick summary of the results.
We ended March 31st with $419 billion in assets under management.
That was down from $423 billion in the prior quarter.
What that resulted in obviously was a slight decrease in operating income first quarter versus fourth quarter down 2.6%.
The – during the quarter we were very disciplined on the expense side of the business; with the decrease in revenue what we were able to do was have a margin of 33.6% versus 33.2% in the fourth quarter last year.
Also during the first quarter the dividend will be $0.11 per share which is a 7.3% increase versus the fourth quarter of last year.
So if we take a look at flows on the next page you can see gross flows were $21 billion and you can see that just the increase in gross flows is really what's leading the improvement in net flows.
Our long-term net flows are $3.7 billion.
This represents the fifth consecutive quarter of positive flows for Invesco.
And as I mentioned it's the best quarter of net flows in the fourth quarter of year 2010.
And what we are seeing across the industry in the money fund business is that low yield and people seeking yield and greater returns continue to have outflows and money funds moving still tends to be right now into fixed income products.
That said our money funds team continues to just do a very very good job high quality team.
<br>Taking a look at flows by the different channels what you will see is largely from this quarter it was gross sales in the institutional channel that was a real contributor to positive overall flows for Invesco.
During the quarter IVR which is the mortgage capital closed-end fund that has been in the market for over a year now they had a capital raise in January raising $171 million in this year – a press release just went up this morning they just raised another $185 million just as of last night just got prices last night.
Also on Tuesday we announced the final close of the mortgage recovery fund.
This is the fund that's part of the U.S.
Treasury's PPIP program.
We closed the fund with $1.46 billion of equity commitments.
It's – and it's performing very very well.
So that's all good news for us.
The retail business continues to perform well.
As I said it's the fifth quarter of the flows.
We saw strong net flows in U.K.
Europe and United States and also the private wealth management had its 12th quarter of net inflows also.
Taking a look at high level performance what you will see again is a – on a three-year basis very strong with 73% of the assets under management beating peers five years 78%.
The one-year number was weaker than three and five years largely what happened in that March to March period when there was that rally.
We have been conservatively positioned in our portfolio and as you would imagine in a rally like that we would tend to underperform.
That said the teams are doing very very well and very focused on their investment disciplines.
And as always the very detailed charts of performance area-by-area are in the appendix to this presentation.
On the next page just a couple of areas where I like performance.
Invesco Aim continues to have a strong performance Morningstar ratings are near the highest level since the year 2000.
Lipper in Canada awarded Invesco Trimark the Group Equity Award over the last three-year period which is good and you are also seeing the short-term performance improve strongly there.
65% of Invesco Asia-Pacific assets remain above their long-term benchmarks.
Invesco Perpetual again has very strong long-term performance 94% of the assets beating over a five-year period.
And continued strength in performance on quantitative strategies global equity and within the fixed income area cash high yield and muni bonds in particular.
<br>So with that I'd like to move into an update of the Morgan Stanley/Van Kampen combination and those that are following it's page 11 that I'm on right now.
And from just the initial announcement we've talked that the combination aligns very well for our long-term strategic direction and it meets all our acquisition criteria for the combination.
We view the combination as a real opportunity to enhance already our very very strong investment management teams expanding the depth and breadth of our investment strategies and the vehicles that we can offer clients really give us a very very broad capability to meet our client needs.
And then finally it is such a tremendous opportunity for us to deepen our relationship with clients and just have a much stronger distribution capability.
So a quick update on the combination.
So June 1st is coming quickly our focus is very much on – to be effective from that day forward from – and as we learn more about the business you will see we've revised our synergies based on that and they are meaningfully stronger than what we thought originally.
But we are on track for a June 1st close.
<br>Let me give you some highlights of that to give you a sense of that.
You will see that the investment teams are obviously being resourced our focus has been to make sure that they are not diverted at all where they can continue to focus on managing their portfolios the combined sales teams will provide very broad deep coverage to all the channels in the United States here following our top clients also that are currently undergoing very intensive cross training across the product lineup.
The overall structure of the business is in place and as I communicated we have very extensive plans to make sure that our colleagues at Morgan Stanley and Van Kampen when they transition over on June 1st they are up and running and effective.
Also on track is the operation IT efforts.
The global operating platform will be in place at close and the transfer agency for the U.S.
mutual fund business will also be converted at close.
<br>So again you can tell our absolute focus has been on making sure by the time we close on June 1st that we begin to offer benefits to our clients and shareholders and the people of the organization.
So I think good news on that front.
So let's spend a minute on some of the momentum within Morgan Stanley/Van Kampen.
As you can see if you follow the asset grow forward at the time of the combination they – Morgan Stanley/Van Kampen had about $119 billion under management at the end of March to $123 billion in assets under management.
You will also note that in Q4 last year there was approximately $2.8 billion in outflows; in the first quarter of this year it's about $700 million in outflows.
So an improving higher asset and an improving flow trend.
What also though is extremely impressive and obviously important if you look at the relative investment performance over one three and five years at September 30th '09 it was very strong at 69% 72% and 73% one three five.
Years now if you look at what the investment teams have done one year literally 88% of the portfolios that are beating peers three years 79% five years 77%.
So really very very strong as we get close to the combination.
The other thing that we wanted to do was be responsive to what does the organization look like how does it match up against industry trends so what the analyst community is thinking about how successful could we be.
And so what we want to do is highlight a couple of areas and one of the market shifts that we anticipate happening is that there is going to be increased demand for U.S.
equities and international equities and all of us are keenly aware – if you look at the last 12 months there's literally only been 17% of the flows going into equities in the U.S.
mutual fund market.
So how do we look at after close? Literally 63% of our retail assets will be in equities.
There is also – if you look at the relative performance it is very very strong for U.S.
and international equities.
80% of the international/global assets are rated 4 and 5 star by Morningstar 97% of the domestic core assets are 4 and 5-rated 66% of the equity AUM are 4 and 5-star rated.
So if you believe there is going to be a movement towards equities we are positioned very very well.
Also within – there is probably going to be increased demand for munis and you also know that the combined firm's muni position is going to be very strong too.
We all know the growing opportunity in the retirement market.
The firm becomes very well positioned against that with $56 billion in DC assets strong distribution coverage strong range of not just investment capabilities but packaging into that marketplace.
The other area is growing demand for ETF and structured products.
We are the fourth largest ETF provider with $50 billion in ETFs.
What comes into this transaction also is Van Kampen has a UIT business they are the second largest in the industry and it is a very specific structured product capability that is attractive to a group of advisors and that is going to again be an additional factor for us as we move forward.
And then finally increasing focus within the distribution landscape.
Again I think all of us are keenly aware that the top five broker/dealer organizations top five planners are just becoming stronger and stronger.
We end up being a leading partner with these very important distribution channels.
And again our – the depth and breadth of our coverage is really quite strong in these channels.
So that's the backdrop of some trends that we see happening and how we match up against it.
So if you move on to page 16 what we do want to do is give you an update on the accretion dilution synergies that we talked about.
So originally when we came forward we thought it would be $0.13 a share in the first year from what we had known at the time of the signing of the transaction.
<br>What we like to do is first talk about the areas that we can control.
So when you look at expense synergies our estimate now is basically $80 million to $85 million in the first year.
That's up from what was $70 million and is still largely in the areas that we talked about product streamlining properties and moving to the single operating platform.
When we move to a steady state what that translates into in year two is $90 million to $95 million a year in expense savings.
The other area that we'd update is really what is the flow attrition from this combination.
Originally we thought it would be about $10 billion out.
We now think it would be about $5 billion out.
And now moving into the area underlying is these are a set of assumptions.
They are areas that we can't control it relates to the market and the flows.
So our base assumption is that the markets go to a normal state and with that we think blended return between equity and fixed income is 6%.
That's one of the key assumptions.
The other key assumption is that with respect to flows for the Van Kampen business where there are net flows now in the second year we think the punch ratio – the punch ratio that we used is 3.4%.
What that translates into is what was $0.13 a share is at the end of the first year; after the closing is $0.17 a share; after the second year $0.19 a share.
So a meaningful increase from what we previously discussed.
If you flip the page just to give you an update on where we are on timing we are just about done with phase one.
It's well on track as I outlined we – all indication is we are going to close on June 1st.
What we will then do is very quickly as an organization get very focused on consideration of product changes mergers and the like.
Once management makes a set of recommendations then it must be evaluated and approved by the Fund Boards and that's a very very diligent process that has gone through.
After the Fund Boards approve that it goes to shareholders and we think that process will take nine to 12 months.
And after that period we will be in what we would say a steady state moving forward as we operate.
So collectively we feel that Invesco and Morgan Stanley/Van Kampen the combination it's a much stronger organization.
Clients are going to just be that much better off employees are going to be better off shareholders are going to be better off.
I think it's just going to be a great combination.
We are very excited about it and literally across all the areas that you consider we think we are in a better position.
I'm going to stop there and turn it over to Loren.
Thanks very much Marty.
During the quarter you will see that we saw a continued momentum as Marty mentioned in our long-term net flows also market gains but offset by net outflows in our money market funds.
And notably some unfavorable foreign exchange resulting in $3.5 billion of decline in our AUM.
We ended the quarter with $419.6 billion in AUM.
That's down 28% since the end of December and the average AUM also declined marginally by 0.6% to $417.6 billion.
Primarily as a result of the quarter-over-quarter declines in performance fees and transaction fees which we'll talk about a little bit later you will see that our net revenue yields in Q1 declined by 1.7 basis points and ultimately had a small impact to day count in the first quarter versus the fourth quarter.
So now let's turn to the operating results.
As we indicated previously in our March 12th 8-K filing we have expanded our non-GAAP financial measures hopefully to improve the transparency of our core business.
Given the required adoption of FAS 167 which we've talked about in the past and we had to adopt it in Q1 but also to reflect the impact of the pending Morgan Stanley/Van Kampen combination.
And so the operating results that were shown here reflect this new non-GAAP presentation.
You will see that net revenues declined $21.4 million about 3.8% quarter-over-quarter.
Unfavorable movements in the foreign exchange rates resulted in of about $7 million of this decrease.
And drilling down on to this aggregate number you will see that investment management fees fell by 1.7% or about $10.8 million and that was again primarily due to the negative impact of foreign exchange largely the depreciation of British pound against the U.S.
dollar and also fewer revenue earning days in Q1 versus Q4 which is 90 versus 92.
Service and distribution revenues increased quarter-over-quarter by 1%.
This was despite the decline in average AUM.
As we mentioned on our fourth quarter call certain annual fund expense recovery limits were reached in Canada resulting in lower-than-expected revenue for the fourth quarter.
Performance fees in Q4 came in at $1.4 million and that was a reduction of $5.4 million quarter-over-quarter and you will also see that other revenues fell by $6.6 million to $11.3 million as a result of lower transaction commission within our real estate and private equity.
You'll remember that we provided a slide in Q4 that highlighted the potential for lower performance fees and other revenues in Q1.
And I will emphasize however that they remain very difficult to forecast.
Third party distribution service and advisory expenses declined marginally 0.2% in line with lower investment management and service and distribution fees.
And moving on down the slide moving to expenses you will see that adjusted operating expenses at $361 million declined quarter-over-quarter by $16.5 million or 4.4%.
The primary driver of this reduction was lower compensation expense.
However that was combined with foreign exchange.
FX reduced our adjusted operating expenses by $6 million out of the $16.5 million.
Employee compensation expenses decreased by $11 million or 4.3% versus the fourth quarter.
This $11 million decline is explained by two factors.
First there was about $8 million of unusual expenses in Q4 as you remember which included a pension charge and some payroll taxes related to the vesting certain large stock grants.
And the second piece was – or is $3.5 million of compensation reduction due primarily to FX.
Now the seasonally higher levels of payroll taxes that occurred in Q1 were fully offset by lower variable compensation in the quarter which include both bonus and sales commissions.
Our marketing expenses decreased by $2.5 million or 8.1% largely due to a reduction in client events but also due to the impact of FX.
Property office and technology decreased $1.5 million or $1.4 million also due to the foreign exchange.
G&amp;A expenses came in at $44.8 million in the quarter.
That was down $2.1 million versus the prior quarter and as again you'll note the fourth quarter included seasonally higher fund expenses due to year-end mailings in U.K.
and continental Europe as well as some professional expenses related to new fund launches.
So despite the net revenue decline of $21.4 million we are – we were able to mitigate this with very I'd say good disciplined expense management and so our adjusted operating income declined by only $4.5 million or $4.9 million to about $183 million.
One other point is that you will note that in our non-GAAP presentation equity and earnings of unconsolidated affiliates no longer reflects our China JV.
We now include those revenues and expenses from our JV in China to our adjusted operating results.
And you can see a reconciliation of this in the appendix of the press release.
Below the line in Q1 we did incur a $5 million non-cash charge and so this – approximately half of this was due to negative FX on some of our inter-company loans which was a non-cash impact and the rest was due to a write-down of a portion of our seed capital portfolio that was other than temporary impairment again a non-cash impact.
The effective tax rate declined to 28.7% or – sorry increased to 28.7% versus 26.2% in the fourth quarter largely due to the mix of our assets and revenues.
And then – so adjusted EPS came in at $0.27 for the quarter and the adjusted net operating margin was – came in at 33.6% slightly above the fourth quarter.
Moving to the next page just – before I turn things to Marty I just want to note that we are making some changes going forward to our monthly AUM release beginning with our April release.
So we will now provide ending AUM with asset class detail that's consistent with our earnings presentations and furthermore in our effort to align with industry standards and also present our businesses in a more consistent and complete manner we will start including assets for the Powershares QQQs and the Deutsche Bank or the DB Powershares ETFs.
Currently these assets are not included in our AUM or flows and given the limited definition of AUM that we previously used.
And in addition to our normal disclosures going forward we will be providing a supplemental schedule that will break out EPS and constantly managed AUM which will now be counted as part of our total AUM.
And so in the appendix in today's presentation on page 37 you will see that new format for AUM disclosure going forward as well as a historical representation of the data going back five quarters and we will provide quarter-to-quarter average AUM when relevant and a qualitative statement on any material activity during the month going forward.
So with that let me turn it back to Marty and then we can get to Q&amp;A Great.
Yes from our point of view we feel that we are really positioning Invesco for some real good long-term growth and success led by continued strong investment results from our investment teams continuing improvement in net flows as we had highlighted and as Loren just discussed strong underwriting operating performance really offset in the quarter by some headwinds foreign exchange in particular and again very very importantly the Van Kampen/Morgan Stanley combination on track to be closed on June 1st and we really think that we are going to be up and running quite quickly with all the efforts that everybody has put into it.
So we will stop there and Loren and I will answer any questions that anybody might have.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
One moment for the first question please.
Our first question does come from Dan Fannon of Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Marty I mean it seems as if we are getting closer to the closing of the Van Kampen deal things are certainly moving in the right direction.
Can you give us some background as to what's behind some of the changes particularly with regards to the outflow assumption or the attrition assumption? Yes.
Let me take a crack at it and I'll let Loren.
Really what it is is the more – on the attrition assumption in particular the more that we understand the business the more that we've gotten around talking to clients and distributors we just have a greater confidence in our ability to do that.
Do understand it is an estimate from our point of view and I think you're really on the topic.
What will likely happen during this is always – I think we put ourselves in a position to be up and running and as effective as we can at least from my historical experience has probably been the best that I can associate it with.
That said what's going to happen and as you get too close and then in the next couple of quarters afterwards on the sales distribution side it will probably slow down a little bit because what happens is realignment of the territories for the wholesalers the big distribution partners are making sure that they go through and do all their diligence again and making sure that we've not done anything that they are not happy with and the like.
And then it literally starts to pick up probably the second quarter or the third quarter as we start moving forward.
But we are just gaining greater confidence and insight into the combination is the key factor.
Great.
And then on the expense side has anything changed with regards to – I think your comment originally was that no investment professionals were going to be impacted.
This is more with regards to kind of the back office and whatnot.
Can you just give us an update there with regards to the increase in expense synergies and potentially any new areas that you've found that potentially are additive? Yes these – the – what I did say was the broad categories that we talked about originally have not changed and it is holistically around sort of product lineups and the like property and the operating platform.
So it's really more of the same and again it's greater knowledge as we get into it and greater opportunity.
So not anything more than that.
Great.
And then lastly I think you mentioned something about a second year assumption for flows at Van Kampen.
I believe I missed that.
Could you please – ? So our second year assumption is that the punch ratio goes to about 3.4%.
So again we are in outflows right now.
And again you just look at that relative performance and you go to a normal market we think a 3.4% punch ratio is very doable.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Bill Katz of Citigroup your line is open.
Okay thank you and good morning good afternoon everyone.
Could you talk a little bit about in light of sort of your revised guidance the timing of the cost saves in year one? Previously I think it was more back-end loaded.
I'm sort of curious with sort of hitting the ground running on day one does that change the pace of the saves? Hey Bill.
It's Loren.
I think the idea of thinking a little bit more back-end loaded is right.
I mean obviously it progressively becomes – kind of gets factored in but if you assume that 65% of the savings are in the last six months and 35% in the first three months it's first half of the 12 months after close is probably the right way to think about it.
Okay.
And then just as a follow-up on that for year two the incremental $10 million or so would that also be front-end loaded just given the timing or more ratable as well? I think that one is more ratable because it's really just the annualization of the benefits in your – in the first 12 months.
Okay.
And Marty sort of a quick question for you.
I certainly appreciate the very strong long-term performance but if you look at some of your sequential changes or talk a little bit about March March-to-March time frame do you feel that the short-term performance is a hindrance in any way in terms of the business and – or how should we be thinking about sort of trying to balance the short-term versus the long-term performance and thinking about implications for flows? Yes.
Look it's the right question to ask.
I think we and obviously the investment teams are very cognizant of it.
What they've done is stayed very disciplined stayed very much on their investment philosophy fees and process and when you had that rally and some people had referred to it as junk rally off the bottom we just didn’t participate in it.
And so not to get too micro but it's really responsive to your question if you look at our relative performance in January and February it was really quite strong.
And it was really just this rally that kicked in March and sort of first part April really has quite an impact on those short-term numbers.
That said you have to – you look at the strong teams the strong long-term performance.
If we are in a period where you are going to get another 20% up market I suspect the relative performance would suffer some.
I – but it's just hard to respond to that in a very specific way other than what I would say is the long-term numbers are strong the teams are very consistent with how they've been managing the money and I think the – holistically I think decisions are made on the – really the three-year number is probably the key driver.
Okay.
Just one last one and thanks for taking all my questions.
You mentioned sort of well positioned for the shift to equities.
Based on your disclosure it seems reasonable.
Are you seeing in your conversations with your wholesalers or institutional sales people are they seeing any kind of temporal shift in demand for greater equity appetite at this point? Yes.
I would say you are not seen in the flows yet it's not markedly changed.
The – there is much greater awareness of the topic on our – you just pick it up everywhere.
Our fixed income over valued at the moment it is a more prudent way to move back into equities yes or no.
So you've not seen the dramatic movement but I'd say very different than maybe a year ago six months ago people seem much more inclined to start to pay attention but you've not seen that dramatic shift yet.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Michael Kim of Sandler O'Neill your line is open.
Hi guys good morning.
First thanks for all the incremental disclosures it's very helpful.
Just in terms of the expense synergies does the new guidance include any potential savings related to fund mergers or is that something that you are still kind of working through at this point? I think you can assume that it includes it in the second year that's really the annualization of the benefit of the product streamlining that's going to take place.
Okay.
And then in terms of flows in the institutional channel can you just give us a bit more color in terms of what really drove the step-up in gross and net sales during the quarter? I think that we had – some of the things that Marty had mentioned the PPIP we had some funding that took place in the quarter I think they might have been somewhere around $300 million of assets that were invested within the PPIP.
I think we had some strong interest in some of the stable value products as well.
And I think real estate some of the alternative capabilities as well we are factoring into the numbers.
Okay.
And then just more broadly in terms of kind of your thinking about incremental margins I think historically they've been in kind of the 60% 65% range.
Does that change following the deal? It seems like maybe you are bringing on board a higher-margin business but at a lower blended fee rate.
So do those two things effectively offset each other? I mean that's probably the right way to think about it Michael.
That – we are pulling those businesses together and are going to be operating kind of in the same way we've operated Invesco traditionally.
You are right about the blended rate but I think because of our sort of being able to leverage our operating platform we should ultimately be able to provide similar incremental margins.
It may be difficult to achieve sort of day one but ultimately I think that's certainly where we would get to.
Okay.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Mike Carrier of Deutsche Bank your line is open.
Thanks guys.
First question I think it relates to flows but really on the distribution side.
It seems like with the Morgan Stanley/Van Kampen transaction your strength in the U.S.
retail market is significantly expanded.
When we look at the different distribution platforms I think when you guys give the organic growth rate or what you think they can do based on performance that would be roughly in line with the industry but I think when you look at it from a distribution standpoint like as of now like today where you stand are you on the platforms across the U.S.
and especially the big players and are you on some of the key distribution lists in terms of partners on those platforms? Just because when you look at the flows on those platforms it tends to be the top-10 firms are generating like 90% of the flows.
Right.
So the combined firm basically going back to some of the – where Van Kampen/Morgan Stanley had been strong we had been weak and it is really just almost incredible the trade-off in the different areas.
By the time that we are done we are – we will be one of the – and that's the point that we are trying to make on that slide 15 which is talking about the distribution we are going to be a leading partner really in most every one of the top distributors in the United States.
Okay.
That makes sense.
And then Loren just two things on the expenses.
Obviously the FX impact depressed the expense base sequentially but it still seems like across really every bucket there was some decrease.
So I just wanted to make sure there was no noise there.
And then when you start looking at 2011 I know it's a ways away and a lot could change between now and then but when you look at just the cash flow generation and once you pass the deal and you use the cash just what are the priorities when you look at buybacks dividends any increased transactions or deals that you think you guys could still bulk-up or add (inaudible)? Yes.
Well on expenses I mean other than the impact on FX no – I mean in the first quarter it was pretty straightforward.
There wasn't any noise so to speak.
Obviously you had the seasonal payroll taxes but as I mentioned that was offset by lower variable compensation.
So I mean if there was anything that was worth noting those were the two things that were happening in the quarter.
The other expenses I think were pretty much in line with where we thought they would be.
In terms of cash flow guidance 2011 I mean our priorities have not changed in terms of using our cash for funding capital needs for the business is the first call.
The next would be acquisitions if they make sense strategically.
And if they also have the financial merit that we require and then we'd be into somewhat increasing dividend and pay – and then stock buyback.
The only other thing I would note on top of that we overlay still a strong desire and a continued focus on maintaining a strong financial position on our balance sheet that there is value to the organization to have a certain amount of cash sitting on the balance sheet which would make us less vulnerable if there were disruptions in the market as we saw obviously in 2009 and 2008.
So our goal is to certainly run with enough cash excess cash.
That would allow us to have that flexibility and you can say somewhere around $500 million in excess cash above what's needed in the European subgroup.
And so that would be kind of a – just a stake put in the ground right now but I think to the extent they were generating a lot of cash flow which we should post this deal and we've got those metrics in place in terms of the cash we are probably back into certainly either whether it's an acquisition or a stock buyback.
I mean one of the two would be the next logical place where the cash would be used.
Okay.
And then just – I know that these two items tend to be very lumpy and it's very difficult to gauge but both performance fees transaction fees or the other revenues – when you look historically particularly at transaction fees they are both very low in terms of like a historical run rate.
Just in performance fees obviously we can try to figure out the performance cross price and have those fees but on the other revenues on those transaction fees like what type of an environment would you expect to get back to even just like a normal level? Again it's a good question.
And obviously you probably would want to have commercial real estate in a somewhat different spot than it is right now.
I mean I think there is still obviously issues that are being addressed in that market.
I think we are hopeful that we are going to begin to see some healing there sort of the first leg was the residential and now the commercial.
So hopefully within – I mean again I'm not an economist so I couldn’t really tell you but maybe within a year.
I mean who knows.
I – right now when we plan certainly we continue to plan ourselves assuming no performance fees and no levels of the minimal levels of transaction fees and that way we are not fooling ourselves.
Okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
Craig Siegenthaler of Credit Suisse your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Just two questions here.
Marty can you provide us with an update on how Powershares is positioned now both in the European market in Asia and also in the U.S.
the DC channel? Maybe provide us a little bit more of your kind of near-term outlook here and also is there any current product within the Invesco family or Van Kampen that you think you can leverage the ETF platform for? Yes.
So just on the U.S.
side we are the fourth largest ETF provider.
You know who are the big ones the ones that have been around for so long.
We are positioned very differently we – the strategy of Powershares was not to try to go compete with the very passive businesses that have been in place and our growth has been really complementary to that.
We continue to get great interest and I suspect the momentum will increase in that business for us in the United States.
We've launched Powershares ETFs in Canada in January and some very very strong initial success so we are in the Canadian marketplace right now.
Europe it's been there probably about two years right now on the continent and again we think that we should make some reasonable traction there.
We've not done much in Asia.
It is an area that we looked at as probably others have too but that's really the landscape for us right now.
And I'm sorry what was the other part of the question? The other part was with your existing product in the consolidation of Van Kampen do you see any kind of new ways to put product on the ETF platform that you haven't been doing before? Yes I can't think of anything specifically that way but what I would say is that interestingly the UIT expertise obviously very different products but much – you can look to the ETF business probably (inaudible) the UIT business so there's some real strong expertise and we have been having some real deep conversations about how can we do just exactly the question that you've asked and I don't have a specific answer to it right now other than I'm sure good opportunities will come from it.
And just to clarify is that the unit investment trust business within Van Kampen that you see opportunities of being able to leverage on the Invesco side or is it vice versa? On the Invesco side of the business.
Okay perfect.
And to just my follow-up question here.
We saw a real nice improvement and strong flows coming on the fixed income side.
It seems to be lagging a little bit some of your peers here.
I'm just wondering what's really driving that maybe a specific geography or product and with your kind of expectations for equity demand product to improve do you expect that momentum to slow a little bit? Yes so you are asking the right questions.
So I think that's one of the things misunderstood about our fixed income business and how we are participating.
The fundamental fact is if you look where we are strong it's a big – liquidity business is big and strong and also it's bank loans CDOs high yield those are strengths where we have good teams and (inaudible) middle of that spectrum and some good performance.
Largely as I talked earlier just about if you look at the results from IVR and net participation in the PPIP very very strong teams.
But when you look at where all the flows are going will it be global fixed income in the retail market or some of the core fixed income mandate that has just not been territory that has been an area we have penetrated on the retail business historically.
So that's really what that gap is and I think that's probably most misunderstood in the market.
<br>Institutionally the global fixed income product is getting some real traction and we had some good core numbers but again it's different than what's happened on the retail side of the business.
So a point – so to answer your question what I really think is going to continue the fixed income business is going to be stronger when we talked about it a couple of calls ago was there is a strong muni capability that we have we have more of a – sort of the national muni presence.
Van Kampen has a long history in muni bonds largely state-specific they also have a good high yield product too which complements ours.
So we are going to be very very strong in muni market.
So I think if we think we are going into a rising cost environment we are going to be positioned very well there.
So I think we will see some good strong growth in the muni part of the market for us on fixed income regardless of a movement to equities.
But to me what we are trying to highlight on page 15 the key trends so if you believe that flows into U.S.
and international equities that's 17% of industry flows is too low we are going to be a strong beneficiary of a movement away from equities into fixed income.
And I don't think we'll be cannibalized that much on the fixed income side just because of the way that we are positioned in fixed income.
And Marty were you looking for any ways to upgrade the global fixed income and also your investment-grade business given that's kind of one area that you are going to be maybe underweight after the deal closes? Yes – no what I was trying to communicate is we feel very good about the team and their performance.
It's been in the institutional market it's really literally trying to get traction in the retail market and it's really been over the last three years with Karen Dunn Kelley running the fixed income business that has become a single platform and it's really working through some legacy performance on the retail side of the business is why prior teams that we've just not had that traction.
Got it.
Thanks a lot for taking my questions.
Absolutely.
Roger Freeman of Barclays Capital your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Just coming back to the – sort of the distribution footprint post acquisition do you have or can you say maybe how many distribution agreements you may have sort of when you hit the ground running that – where you are going to be selling both Van Kampen and Aim whereas prior to the acquisition you only have one or the other on the platform? Yes I don't have the specific numbers but let me try to answer that.
I mean practically what's going to happen is as I said it would be – the fact would be it will probably slow down for a quarter because all of the partners will be doing what they should do and do due diligence to make sure that they are understanding exactly what we look like after the transaction.
And that's – and then going forward from that point we will just continue to pick up.
I don't have the specific numbers of the agreement that we have but what I can tell you is that as I said earlier we will be a top partner at those largest distribution – distributors in the country.
Okay.
But is it fair to say – because I thought maybe from last quarter maybe I misunderstood that there – that you thought you were going to be able to sort of pick up be able to basically put both products through some channels where you didn't have both.
No you are exactly right.
Now that is what's happening and what we are doing literally right now the various distribution salespeople right now are literally going through training.
Got it.
It's – Okay.
Over this past – it's been going on for two weeks should go on for another two weeks.
So our goal is to be as effective as we can as quickly as we can serving our client.
And just on that due diligence comment you made I mean it's fair to say that these distributors had – they are not starting due diligence when you close the merger right? I'm assuming that you've been – you've had plenty of discussions with them already right? Absolutely yes.
Okay.
But that – let's understand it right they are pulling the trigger.
So they will decide when they decide.
Absolutely.
Okay.
And then just on the synergies – the operating synergies if you take kind of the numbers that you gave last fall and you – now you add as much as $95 million in cost synergies you get up to a margin of some 50% or more.
Now you probably have to add the at a minimum the Aim revenues and costs in to look at that on a combined basis but I guess the question is how would you look at the operating margin of those two businesses combined relative to your company total because it looks like it could be considerably higher? So Roger I think we obviously – there was a similar question about incremental operating margin and is it going to converge to what we've done in the past and I think the answer is yes.
That's kind of the definite goal.
Clearly having more assets under management allows one to improve one's margins.
And so I think it is clearly going to help our margin in terms of bringing on the business.
So the firm will benefit significantly.
I wouldn't say we are going to be at a 50% margin but I do think we feel very confident that we can get back to margins that were sort of in high to the numbers that you've seen historically in 2007 with this acquisition and also with some equity markets behind us.
Okay.
And just then lastly quickly the sequential decline in the AUM yield is that mainly day count and then stronger institutional flows versus retail is that fair? It – day count is actually the secondary impact.
I'd say the first and most important impact has to do with performance fees and other revenues.
I was looking at even prior to performance fees if you just look at just the management fees? Right.
So some of that has to do with the mix of assets.
Obviously with the pound depreciating some of the higher yielding fees in the U.K.
become less impactful.
So there is that aspect as well.
So even though you are marking down the AUM the fee offset is greater basically because of their higher yielding? Is that – ? It's just a smaller part of our overall pie.
Got it.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Yes.
Ken Worthington of J.P.
Morgan your line is open.
Hello.
First performance fees long-term track record is graded perpetual.
I think you guys failed the benchmark test this quarter.
Loren any idea based on what's rolling off in the June quarter from last year? Do the odds look good that those performance fees bounce back this next quarter? Okay.
There is really two places where we typically have realized performance fees in the year the first quarter and the fourth quarter and that's just the way that these contracts have been set up and just to remind people it's really a small part of the U.K.
business some investment trusts that have these triggers.
I ask that very same question all the time kind of are we going to get the performance fees or not and the reality it's very hard to predict as to whether we will or not.
I think the idea that it is within the realm of possibility that we could see it in the fourth quarter but the fourth quarter is still pretty far away relative to where we are today.
So certainly in the second quarter on the U.K.
side we wouldn't traditionally see any performance fees.
The other place where we've been able to generate performance fees on a quarterly basis second quarter and third quarter had been in our quantitative group quantitative equities.
Right now I think where they are relative to the benchmark that's probably not a realistic assumption for us to be looking for.
So again I would say it's hard for me to guide people on performance fees because it's a tough one to predict and – but I'd say where we are right now in the first quarter is probably not a reasonable – I mean it's probably a reasonable point to think about going forward and we will continue to update you if we see any change.
Okay.
Great thank you.
Then on the tax rate it kind of had a little pop this quarter.
Are you accruing anything for the higher tax rate at Van Kampen or is this really the rate for the core business or the business ex Van Kampen for the year based on mix? It – I mean there is some impact to the rate due to the integration charges but because it's obviously a U.S.-focused thing and there are some things that are – we are going to get the tax benefit for and others not.
But what we – the difference is largely due to the mix.
If you think about the U.K.
as I mentioned becoming the smaller part of the overall mix it has a 28% tax rate relative to some other parts of the U.S.
at sort of a higher rate.
It's really I'd say driven more by the mix of where we are earning our profit.
Okay.
And then lastly on comp ex all the kind of unusual items even FX comp was more or less flat.
You mentioned that you reduced the variable compensation this quarter and the other I guess component sales were up.
How do we think about compensation again ex Van Kampen for the rest of the year? Because it actually beat our expectations and I'd love to hone in on the reasons why.
Well again so excluding the impact of FX there are really two elements in the first quarter.
One was obviously we have seasonal payroll taxes usually $8 million to $10 million kind of – you can look at the history that's kind of where it's been in the past.
It was offset by lower variable comp which again was sales commission and bonus.
Sales commissions generally move in line with sales but the reality is there are some sales commissions get paid out at a higher rate than others and so it's a little hard to compare quarter-over-quarter.
But I'd say a good portion of the variable comp was related to sales commissions relative to the fourth quarter.
But sales were up for the quarter.
So that's –? Right but I guess the point is because sales are up – I'm saying sales commissions can generally move in line with gross sales but not always because depending on what gets sold and when there are different rates on what a salesperson might make and depending on what's been sold.
An alternative product might pay out at a higher rate than a stable value product for example.
So just – you can't just look at sales to know if sales commissions are going up and down.
Okay.
But the conclusion here is the comp was down due to the variable comp – or comp was flat as variable comp reductions offset – were offset by the payroll tax but as we look forward any help to the kind of – should we just think of it bounces back as revenues – as revenues increase the comp goes up from here? Two pieces.
One yes to that last point.
So I mean as we earn more obviously variable compensation comes back and so that will generally move in line as operating income grows and hopefully that's where it's going.
I think the other bit as we have done in the past we do have some degree of merit increase and stocks that are granted deferred compensation at February – end of February.
So you will see a little bit of sort of the full-quarter impact into the future quarters relative to the first quarter.
So there is some amount of pickup through that bit.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Robert Lee of KBW your line is open.
Great.
Good morning everyone.
Hey Rob.
Hey Rob.
First question at the risk of being I guess a little thickheaded the $0.19 accretion in year two I'm assuming that's not an additional – is that an additional $0.19 on top of the $0.17 in year one or is that just kind of the run rate in year two? Yes it's just the run rate for year two.
As much as we'd love to give you the combination it's really just $0.17 going to $0.19.
Okay.
I just wanted to clarify that.
And also just as a refresher your accretion guidance since – clearly you are going to be focusing on adjusted cash earnings.
Is that guidance an adjusted cash earnings accretion? It is yes.
So it doesn't reflect any intangible or any of those elements.
We pulled that out.
Oh it's – so it's – okay.
So you've added that – or added them back in how you want to define it? Yes basically we are not – we are – Right.
Yes exactly.
Okay.
The – I've got a question actually kind of a strategic question on the money fund business which you guys weathered the storms the past couple of years very well and I know it's a key part of your business but when you look at your kind of institutional focus and you look at a lot of your competitors where their asset bases are four or five times as large some maybe even more I mean are you at all concerned that as that business evolves that that business is at risk of becoming sub-scale or in some way needs to be scaled up more? Look I think it's even with sort of the runoff of – currently if you look at where it had been historically you are still at historical levels right? We were just a big beneficiary of big inflows during the crisis as being one of the managers that was doing a good job.
And so it's a very high-quality team I'd say one of the industry-leading teams if you just look at what they've done and it is part a part of the whole fixed income complex.
So it's not sitting by itself.
So that credit discipline and expertise literally goes across the spectrum.
And so when we think it's – we do it very very well we think we have good scale now.
I think at the end of the day quality wins and I think we are going to be one of the winners in that business.
And again it is just complementary to all of our fixed income capabilities and what we do.
But – yes as you look at it right now I mean that asset class is under pressure for all the obvious reasons people seeking higher yields et cetera et cetera et cetera.
But that said I think we are going to be fine.
Okay.
And one last quick question just in looking at the Morgan Stanley business and on the improvement in their flow trends can you just give some color on where you see that? Was that really more just kind of what you are seeing in the industry pick up in their fixed income flows or I mean any color around kind of sales redemption rates and if there is anything that's really driving that improvement? We don't have great insight into that yet for – until we get so close.
But obviously I think it's a combination of the fixed income business and really the improved performance.
But I'd say it's probably more fixed income-based than it is equity-based.
Okay.
And one last question and I apologize if you probably mentioned this at the top of the call but could you give us maybe a little bit of additional color on the institutional businesses? I know you talked about the fixed income starting more traction institutionally but now as we look around the globe where you are seeing kind of the real – where you see the real opportunity not just fixed income – where in equities or alternatives do you think we should see the – a continuation of the improving trends over the coming quarters? Yes.
So I think a handful of things.
One again I just think what Mark Armour has done and the leadership I think they first started by a range of investment disciplines and they are quite strong and performing quite strongly.
You match that up against really the improving talent on the sales servicing side I think that's going to be a very important factor for us going forward.
It is also what is the appetite.
So where we continue to see the appetite it is – stable value continues to be an appetite real estate continues to be very very attractive to people bank loans CLOs CDOs those types of things are very attractive to people.
This is the things that we are seeing.
On the equity side – actually global fixed income is another area that we are seeing quite a bit of interest.
On the equity side the global equity capability is getting more interest.
So it's pretty broad.
But again it's very reflective of what clients are looking for and it's different in different parts of the world where if you go to U.K.
and Europe part of the quantitative team is based there.
So there is a global equity quantitative product that's been doing very very well in the U.K.
So it literally is different region by region.
But I would say the trend that we are on is as strong as it's been since I've been here.
Great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
This concludes the question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Flanagan.
Yes I'd just like to thank everybody for their time and the questions and we will be in touch and we'll talk to you next quarter.
Take care.
Have a good day.
Today's conference has ended.
All participants may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to Invesco's second quarter results conference call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to the speakers for today: Mr.
Martin L.
Flanagan President and CEO of Invesco; and Mr.
Loren Starr Chief Financial Officer.
Mr.
Flanagan you may begin.
Thank you very much and thank you everybody for joining us today.
With me is Loren Starr Invesco's CFO and we'll be speaking to the presentation that's available on the website if you're so inclined to follow.
Today we'll provide a review of the business results for the second quarter.
Loren will then go into greater detail of the financials and we will then wrap it up with Q&amp;A.
So let me begin by highlighting the firm's operating results for the quarter which you'll find on Slide 3.
Long-term investment performance remained strong across all time periods during the quarter.
Strong investment performance a broad diversity of flows and continued focus on client contributed to strong overall flows for the quarter.
These were offset somewhat by a previously disclosed single client withdrawal in our U.K.
business which resulted in net long-term outflows of $6.9 billion.
Excluding the single client withdrawal long-term net inflows would have totaled $6.2 billion across our global business.
Adjusted operating income was up 21.4% over the same quarter last year and a continued focus on taking a disciplined approach to our business drove continued improvement in our operating margin to 41.8% from 39.3% in the same quarter a year ago an increase of 2.5 percentage points.
Assets under management rose to $802 billion during the quarter up from $787 billion in the prior quarter.
Operating income was $377 million versus $363 million in the prior quarter.
Earnings per share were $0.65 up from $0.60 in the prior quarter.
The quarterly dividend remained $0.25 per share up 11% from 2013 and we've repurchased $50 million in common stock during the quarter.
Before Loren goes into detail on the financials let me take a moment to review the investment performance and some business highlights.
I'm on Slide 6 now.
Investment performance during the quarter was strong across all time periods.
80% of assets were ahead of peers on a 3- and 5-year basis and 72% of assets were ahead of peers on a 1-year basis.
As you might expect with numbers like these long-term performance for investment team across the enterprise was quite strong with a number of capabilities achieving top decile performance.
Turning to flows on Page 7 you'll see gross sales remained strong during the quarter although down from exceptionally strong first quarter.
As we mentioned on our last call there was an exceptional single client withdrawal in our U.K.
business of $13.1 billion early in the second quarter which resulted in long-term net outflows of $6.9 billion.
Without this withdrawal total long-term net inflows would have been $6.2 billion.
These numbers also reflect the broad diversity of flows we saw across our global business during the quarter which includes strength in real estate fixed income European equities Asian equities and others.
Gross sales in our retail channel were also strong during the second quarter although off slightly from the exceptional first quarter.
Continued strength in our European cross-border retail product range and solid gross sales across our business helped offset the previously disclosed single client withdrawal we experienced in the U.K.
The institutional channel continue to -- saw continued demand for real estate and Asian equities across the globe drove positive flows during the quarter.
Overall sales during the period were typical for the second quarter and reduced redemptions led to long-term inflows of $1.3 billion.
The institutional pipeline of one but not funded mandate continues to be strong principally in alternatives real estate bank loans and non-U.S.
active equities.
Let me take a moment to highlight our global business which you'll find on Slide 9.
In the Americas U.S.
flows were driven by international growth and U.S.
Value equities high-yield munis and UITs.
And the redemption rate was 22% versus the industry average of 27%.
U.S.
retail gross sales were up 29% over the trailing 12 months in 2014 versus the same period in 2013.
And there was a 65% increase in the number of mutual funds and ETFs with more than $100 million of inflows.
A client-focused effort on April flows and top quartile investment performance in the U.S.
drove down redemptions and further eased outflows from $526 million in January to outflows of $72 million in June.
In Asia-Pacific we saw continued strong gross and net inflows with the exception of increased redemption in Chinese active equities where we saw some profit taking after the very strong results a year ago.
The Shinko U.S.
REIT and the Australian bond fund both enjoyed continued strong inflows.
We also so good flows in Asia-Pacific institutional.
Our EMEA business continued to become more diversified with significant flows to the Fixed Income non-U.S.
equities and our multi-asset capability.
All driven by very strong investment performance.
U.K.
retail gross flows were higher year-to-date in the prior year and flows into the cross-border business were significantly ahead of last year.
Assets under management by our EMEA business totaled $176 billion as you can see on Slide 10.
During the second quarter net flows into EMEA excluding U.K.
equity income were $300 million which reflects the previously disclosed single client withdrawal earlier in the quarter.
We're pleased to report that the client reactions to departure news has been subdued and we saw no spike in redemptions at the time of a competing fund launch in June.
Given our efforts to thoughtfully manage the transition assets in the 2 principal funds have fallen just 15% from the departure announcement in October of last year through the end of June.
We expect future growth in EMEA to more than offset any potential outflows from the funds.
Mark Barnett and the team continue to deliver outstanding results for clients.
As of mid-July the 2 funds were sixth and eighth out of 265 funds in their sector over 1 year.
Redemptions from advisors the largest component of assets in the funds are returning to industry norms and have clearly not impacted fund performance.
This is a good outcome and we remain cautiously optimistic as clients are choosing to remain invested in the funds.
Meanwhile 2014 gross sales across our broader U.K.
retail franchise are at all-time high of $7.3 billion year-to-date in 2014 versus $5.7 billion during the same period in 2013.
We find these results encouraging and we'll continue to do everything we can to deliver good outcomes for clients and grow the EMEA business.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Loren for a review of the financials.
Thanks very much Marty.
So quarter-over-quarter total AUM increased $15.1 billion or 1.9% and this was driven by positive market returns and FX of $23.9 billion and net inflows in money market funds of $1.1 billion and these increases were offset by long-term outflows of $6.9 billion and $3 billion of outflows from the QQQ.
Our average AUM for the quarter was $790.1 billion and that's up 1.3% versus the first quarter average.
Our net revenue yield came in at 45.6 basis points which was flat quarter-over-quarter.
The decline in performance fees from the first quarter reduced our revenue yield by 1.4 basis points and this was entirely offset by increases in our effective fee rate as a result of improved mix one extra day during the quarter and higher other revenues in 2Q.
Now before we turn to operating results as we always do just a quick peek into our current flow trends.
As of yesterday we had $2.3 billion in long-term net inflows across diversified geographies and also diversified across our investment capabilities.
The only caveat obviously is we're entering August so there tends to be some seasonality and also obviously there is some market volatility but we're off to a very nice start into Q3.
So now turning to our operating results.
You'll see that our net revenues increased $13.2 million or 1.5% quarter-over-quarter to $901 million.
That included positive FX impact of $6.6 million.
And within net revenues you'll see that our investment management fees grew by $65.5 million or 6.6% to $1.05 billion.
This somewhat exceptionally large increase was due to several factors: first in April aligned with evolving industry best practices our U.K.
business took the proactive step to introduce a single fund management fee for their retail funds in an effort to address complexity in overall fund fee structures.
This single fee replaced the separate annual management fee and fund registration fee.
The results of this change was a shift and it was purely a shift of $29.6 million out of service and distribution revenues and into investment management fees.
Excluding the impact of this shift investment management fees would have increased $35.9 million or a 3.6% which is consistent with our higher average AUM an additional day during the quarter and again continued improvement in our effective fee rate.
FX increased investment management fees by $8.6 million.
Service and distribution revenues were down $23.9 million or 10%.
As I just mentioned the change in the fee structure in U.K.
resulted in a decline of $29.6 million.
Excluding the impact of this shift service and distribution fees would have increased $5.7 million or 2.4%.
FX increased service and distribution revenues by $0.2 million.
So in the quarter performance fees came in at $7.3 million and that was a decrease of $22.5 million from Q1.
Foreign exchange had no impact on performance fees in the quarter.
In terms of guidance going forward the Q3 tends to be a seasonal low point for performance fees and we believe the range could be somewhere between $2 million and $5 million.
For Q4 of this year and beyond the picture is somewhat less clear.
There are certain real estate and other alternative funds and institutional accounts that could generate meaningful performance fees but recognizing this revenue is limited by the potential for contingencies such as clawbacks per our accounting policy.
Other revenues in the second quarter came in at $38.9 million and that was an increase of $3.2 million.
Invesco launched successfully a Japanese REIT fund in June which resulted in $6 million of transaction fees in the quarter.
The $6 million in fees should not be viewed as recurring and as a result I think other revenues you should think should fall to the level of $33 million to $35 million in Q3.
Third-party distribution service and advisory expense which we net against gross revenues increased by $5.3 million or 1.3%.
That is in line with our higher revenues derived from REIT-related retail AUM.
FX increased these expenses by $2.9 million.
Moving on down the slide you'll see that adjusted operating expenses at $524 million decreased by $0.8 million or 0.2% relative to the first quarter.
FX increased operating expenses by $3.1 million during the quarter.
Drilling down into expenses.
On employee compensation that came in at $344.6 million.
That was a decrease of $8.5 million or 2.4%.
The decrease in Q2 was a result of the normal reduction in payroll tax costs which was partially offset by increased incentive compensation and a full quarter's worth of base salary increases that took effect on March 1.
FX increased compensation by $2.1 million.
Looking forward assuming flat ending AUM we expect compensation to increase by approximately $5 million to $8 million in the third quarter and then remain roughly flat into Q4.
This change is consistent with the fact that our current AUM level is about 2% higher than the second quarter average AUM level.
Marketing expense increased by $6.7 million or 27.7% to $30.9 million as a result of advertising and client-related marketing in EMEA.
FX increased these expenses by $0.2 million.
We expect marketing expense to remain flat into Q3 and then increase somewhere up to $35 million in Q4 due to our continued focus on EMEA-specific marketing opportunities.
Property office and technology expenses came in at $76.1 million in the second quarter which was down $1.6 million.
The decrease reflects lower rent and related costs due to vacating of leased properties in the first quarter.
FX increased these expenses by $0.4 million.
Looking forward we'd expect property office and technology costs will increase to $80 million to $82 million per quarter for the remainder of the year.
This increase is a result of continued technology investments a doubling of space taken to accommodate the continued growth in our Hyderabad office and variable costs related to our elevated sales activity in Europe.
General and administrative expenses came in at $72.4 million.
That's up $2.6 million or 3.7%.
The increase was due to greater legal training and other professional services costs incurred during the quarter.
FX increased G&amp;A by $0.4 million.
We'd expect G&amp;A to remain around $73 million to $75 million as we continue to launch new products and pursue business growth initiatives.
Continuing on down the page you'll see the non-operating income increased $12.9 million compared to the first quarter.
The increase was primarily driven by realized gains on seed capital investments of $5.7 million and we also had $4.7 million gain from the liquidation of a CLO in the quarter.
The firm's effective tax rate on preadjusted net income in Q2 was 26.5%.
Looking forward we expect the effective tax rate to remain between 26% to 27% which brings us to our EPS or adjusted EPS of $0.65 and our adjusted net operating margin of 41.8%.
And with that I will now turn things back over to Marty.
All right.
Thanks very much and operator can we go to questions please? [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Daniel Fannon Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I guess just on the Perpetual products and more the equity income funds you highlighted no spike in redemptions.
I guess can you talk about kind of the gross sales dynamic in those products pre and post the competing launch.
And then kind of the outlook I think you said you're having the highest gross sale of all time in EMEA.
Can you just kind of talk about what the top fund -- the top sales or funds that are driving those sales as well.
Yes so let me start that and clarify Dan.
So what I was pointing was gross sales in the U.K.
are at an all-time high.
So you compare gross sales this year to date as compared to last year year-to-date.
Let me pull the numbers again.
It was as I'm paging through it was -- so year-to-date gross sales in the U.K.
were $7.3 billion versus $5.7 billion a year ago.
And so the uptake has been a broad -- a real broadening of gross sales into the U.K.
business.
So that includes European equities global equities Asia -- Asian equities the multi-asset strategies and just the fixed income continues to be very very strong literally across-the-board.
And if you look at the investment performance asset class-by-asset class it's just incredibly strong.
And so the point that we're trying to make is the business has never been stronger.
Yes there's been a transition to Mark's results who put up some -- and team some really good numbers but that is the main message there.
And I don't have the specific gross flows of the U.K.
equity income products but what I can say is the redemptions are back to industry norms and typically when you go through changes like that you start by being put on hold and some of the holds are being taken off and so you're starting to see gross sales pick up also.
So it's a really -- again in the context of an important change the business has never been stronger.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I guess Loren just to clarify the comment around the fee change in the U.K.
with regards to the management fees and I guess the impact on sales and distribution fees is that ongoing when we think about the economics today and that impact is kind of the run rate from here? Yes Dan.
Yes it's purely a shift.
It has nothing to do with RDR.
It's really just the shift that is onetime and then foregoing it will continue on that same track.
Research Division</strong> And any change in client behavior as a result of that shift? No I mean I think we've gotten very good praise from the industry from regulators and others who care about this.
So so far it's been well received and I think we are sort of out in front of many many others in the industry first with this.
We'll see how others follow.
The next question is from Chris Harris Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> So a quick one on Perpetual.
I know we've talked about the outflows for some time now and it's definitely good news that there's been no spike since you've launched the competing fund.
But it doesn't appear to me that the outflows are slowing that material there either.
Just wanted to maybe if you can confirm if that's accurate number one.
And then number two do you think you have any sort of visibility on maybe when those might kind of decelerate in a more significant degree? I know it's hard but maybe just many of your discussions with clients or what have you that might give you a little bit of comfort or color about the trajectory of that.
Look Chris I think what you're seeing is there's still some smaller platforms that are sort of making smaller moves much much smaller level of magnitude relative to what you saw with the SJP and that's really what you're seeing currently and that probably persists somewhere between now and the end of the year quite honestly.
We do think X those little kind of smaller platform positions the overall trend in the core retail advisor-led book of business is definitely stabilizing.
But we're definitely looking to increase our advertising in Q4 and marketing.
And so we're not being complacent around everything is fine still.
There's still work that we think should be done.
But factually we've not seen big spikes and it seems more of a business as usual addition in the U.K.
than anything else.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes that is definitely good news.
Okay.
Real quick follow-up then on the margin.
Very specific guidance you've given us but just more kind of broad big picture question.
Incredible improvement in the merger and you guys are kind of exceeding what you had said you'd do there.
I know some of that is market related but as you sit here today where do you really think this number can go? I mean do you think there's a lot more room to run on your operating margin? So I think Chris as we've said in the past.
It will have a lot to do with sort of marketing environment we're in and what sort of help we're going to get from equities versus fixed income-led type of environment.
We have and can and will grow under sort of flat markets.
We have very good product that will be very much in demand under a sort of volatile-type market environment.
We think that when equity markets are stronger however we actually will fare even better generally and so our incremental margin is probably going to be higher when you're in an equity-led market than otherwise.
But with that said we're still sort of in that range sort of 55% incremental margin 60% incremental margin which should help us continue to drive the margin upward over time.
So there isn't anything structural that would prevent our margins from continuing to expand as you've seeing them do right now.
The next question is from Bill Katz Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on that thread of question just to work it the other way.
Given such high incremental margin and a good performance of the platform on what appears to be overcoming the Woodford attrition nicely why not step up the spending earlier to really capitalize on the positioning of the platform and maybe trade a little unit growth for margin? So I'm surprised you asked that question Bill.
The fundamental fact is what you're seeing with the margin expansion what is going along with it is strong reinvestment in the business right now.
We've continued to do it but we're getting margin expansion while reinvesting in the business.
And the areas that we've talked about over time Continental Europe was a focus and you can see things coming from that.
Fixed income has been a focus.
You can see the investment performance in fixed income is very strong right now.
That was another area that we think were followed by flows.
Also very important to us is the alternative platform which has been really we think it's a core strength of the organization.
And we've been expanding that and taking it globally.
And so we're trying to be very very thoughtful in our expansion investing while at the same time generating the returns that you would expect of us as good stewards.
So I appreciate the thought but we are very much investing.
I can confirm that.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's more of a devil's advocate question.
The second question I have is when you look in Europe and maybe I did the math a little too quick this morning I think it was about 30% annualized rate of growth in new business.
What is it that's driving it? Is this a further market share opportunity broader geography reach better distribution a combination thereof? What are some of the key drivers to that solid growth? So yes again that was one of those overnight successes that we started 4 years ago and it was across-the-board.
And you should go back a few years you'll look at it so redoing the servicing platform which was fundamental; realigning the product lineup and if you look at it right now this is very robust product lineup with the investment performance being extremely strong across the asset classes there; and with frankly a strategy that you would hope very concentrated on those areas that we think we could make a difference and sales execution and taking care of clients.
And that's what you're seeing happening.
And I think importantly if you look at the flows there going into we should want to call it core asset classes which years gone by it was much more smaller asset classes.
So again we just feel the robustness of where we are and the future opportunity is very very strong for us in the continent.
So we don't think we're done.
Research Division</strong> And just one last one.
When you think about money market reform a couple of your peers have sort of commented on what the implications might be.
It's obviously early days.
Just based on your mix how do you sort of see any impact on the business and maybe what are you hearing from clients? So good question.
It's hard to believe what started in 2008 is finally coming to an end.
I'd say in the -- again put on your analyst hat in the worst case if all our prime went away it's what Loren? $30 billion about $30 billion AUM.
Yes so it's not...
11 basis points.
11 basis points.
So it's not a huge financial impact but let me -- but here's the reality.
We don't think that's going to happen to us.
If you look at the suite of money fund capabilities we have they're very very competitive.
We think we're going to be really very fine in it.
And again I think we'll be positioned very very strongly in the changes as they come through.
And clients are still trying to -- look it's been a -- it's not a new story.
So clients are banging [ph] their heads around this potential outcome probably for 24 months I'd say already.
So I mean we've created other products that would be nice alternatives to prime fund option which we think would capture a significant amount of people who want to find something of a similar nature.
We obviously have a government fund where people might go to initially.
So in terms of the loss of the full $30 billion I think that is sort of the very tail of risk to the business.
The next question is from Michael Kim Sandler O'Neill + Partners.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> So first just in terms of flows.
Loren you'd touched on this a bit earlier but just looking ahead do you feel like you really need sort of a sustained favorable market backdrop to really drive organic growth to the next level if you will understanding that there are still areas of the business that can continue to grow even assuming the markets remain somewhat choppy? Yes I mean I think we have close to 48% of our assets something around there in equities.
So the reality is for us to be able to grow our AUM as a percentage sort of organic growth rate equities need to somehow be plain enrolled there.
Otherwise we can grow and we have certainly huge diversification growth of other asset classes that would be in demand when we weren't or not in an equity-led market.
But we do think overall our ability to get organic growth to the highest level would probably be under on an equity-led market.
But again it's all relative right to peers and competitors.
So we still think we should and we obviously aspire to do better than our competitors under all markets in terms of being able to grow.
And I'd probably add to that Michael.
So Loren is especially correct when you saw that happen this quarter where it was less of an equity-led market this past quarter.
And we still did quite well but getting back to the point I made earlier I think if you were looking out a couple of years you have to expect some volatility.
You have to expect rates to go up at some point and a pullback in the equity markets.
And so that gets back to this point of we thought it really really important to have a broad suite of alternative capabilities that were in place for those types of markets focused much more on outcomes for clients.
And so again I think the diversity of the business and the strength of the alternative capabilities along with fixed income and equity just put us in a very unique position regardless of the market.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Got it that's helpful.
And then just on the capital management front continue to repurchase shares cash continues to build.
So just curious to get your thoughts on sort of the regulatory front across regions and how that may be playing into your capital management thinking if at all? I don't think we're -- it's business as usual on the capital management front right now.
We are obviously keenly observant and listening to -- and observing on what's going on on the regulatory front as you said.
But there isn't anything imminent that we're seeing that is going to affect our business-as-usual approach but it is something that we are smartly watching.
Marty I don't know if you have any further...
Yes -- no I agree with that.
So we're on the -- our stated capital policies that we have been on.
But I think it would be unwise to ignore the regulatory focus and we're very engaged in trying to understand what's possible.
But again we're still heading down the path that we've been on at the moment.
The next question is from Glenn Schorr ISI.
Research Division</strong> On the alt front we talked -- danced around that a little bit.
So I want to do 2 things: one is talk about the new product launches that happened I guess over the last 2 quarters particularly on the liquid alt front just talk about performance talk about what you've been able to muster up in terms of sales; and then two at a broader level performance at least on what we can see on the equity side of alt isn't where you wanted to be.
Just talk through what particularly you see the most positive outlook on the alt front? Sure so let me get started.
So it has been as you point out end of last year versus part of this year so introduction of really suite of alts more broadly not just in the U.S.
but in the U.K.
in the offshore range also.
Our view is as we said in the past when you introduce capabilities you have to think that it's a 3-year outlook and if it happens before that you're quite fortunate.
But that's been our framework.
That said if you look at the teams these are teams who've been managing close to the same strategies for a very long time institutionally with some very very good track records.
That's a very helpful element too and some of them are extensions of what's been done in the past whether it be around IBRA and different extensions there.
So that's helpful.
I'd say the shorter-term opportunity probably looks more with the GTR capability global total return capability that's getting some traction.
But again I'd say early days.
It will be -- the first launch in the U.K.
was September a year ago so you're coming up on 1 year performance is very very strong.
And it's that type of asset class or product that people are looking at is more a less volatile targeted return and...
I think we have about $1 billion in that capability.
$1 billion so far.
So again our view is 3-year view and we'll have some likely positive surprises within that period but it's hard to identify.
I think we're also having great I wouldn't say success but early success with our long/short capability which the performance is very very strong.
So there may be something we'll see but these are all small products right now.
It takes a while.
And then on your question on the equity side of alt I'm not sure exactly what you're referring too Glenn but when you look at our performance I think you may be looking at the REITs more than in an equity part.
So maybe can you just clarify what you're talking about Glenn? Research Division</strong> Sure just Slide 18.
It just shows those little ring charts on percent of assets in the top half first bottom half.
Core is that what -- so you said alts or you said core? Research Division</strong> Alternatives.
Okay.
So that is dominated by -- because alternatives the way we capture this information for performance is when you have publicly available peers that we can compare to.
And so the vast majority of our alternatives don't have public -- publicly available peers that we can talk about relative ranking.
So this one slide is really being dominated by the REITs that are publicly traded.
So it's not really an equity.
It has to be -- everything to do with the way we manage that REIT product is very conservatively managed with some strong positive fall has been I mean we're generating sort of billions of sort of interest in that product.
So it hasn't affected the demand for the product.
So it's a little misleading I think when you look at that slide and you sort of broadly brush alternatives in terms of the performance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last quickie if I could.
It's good to see the buyback and the share count down 3% year-on-year.
And I know you guys are planning conservative but you've got a lot of cash you keep making more every quarter and the stock is cheap.
I'm just curious on just increasing the pace at some point.
Meaning if things are going well and your producing a lot of cash flow and the stock is cheap if not now when is I guess the question I get? So I think we've been of the mind that sort of being opportunistic when we think about buybacks and we continue to do so.
We've also seen sort of rushing in and doing big buybacks can often lead to poor choices around the timing of markets.
So the consistency of sort of averaging it through over periods of time has generally seemed to work better than sort of rapid step-ups.
And so we have continued in terms of aggregate amounts to continue to buy back more of our stock.
You should expect us to continue to do so but I think it is in terms of what we said earlier our priorities have not shifted in terms of how we see the needs of our capital and we continue to focus on sort of reinvesting in the business as our number one draw.
And we have seen more recently some bigger needs around some seedings and co-investments as some of these alternative products have been getting off the ground.
And I would add the other thing which you would know very well.
What 2 years ago we made a permanent change to materially increase the dividend and sort of make a permanent commitment to paying back to shareholders.
And so when we looked at it it was a totality of giving back to shareholders and a much heavy emphasis on dividends not to say that we won't do stock buybacks.
We'll continue to do it but I think that was another strong message we are trying to get across.
The next question is from Ken Worthington JPMC.
Research Division</strong> So Marty I think you undersold this so this I'm going to give it another shot at it.
So you launched a host of new products in the U.S.
The uptake of GTR has been excellent even though it's really young product.
So how far along is the product in terms of getting on new channels in the U.K.
and Europe? You took in I think over $0.5 billion last quarter.
So given the young age of the fund why has it been so successful because it seems like the launch is doing even better than IBRA did and IBRA kind of peaked at $30 billion.
So...
All right Ken well thank you.
You're correct.
And so let me put it in more context.
So the U.K.
is really certain.
Again that was the first launch last September.
First let me say this across-the-board performance is very very strong.
And on the back of our client -- we came this way because we thought in time clients will be looking towards broadening their -- how they build their portfolios and this would be another important part in it.
I'd say we're really early days in that development.
That said flows are really strong in U.K.
as you pointed out.
On the Continent too they are taken up much quicker than we thought they would.
So again as we look out to the next 12 months we'd anticipate that would be another market where they would really probably do well.
And I'd say the teams reputation is more recognized in the U.K.
and on a continent as you would expect coming from the U.K.
originally.
So those are probably be the 2 early markets where you'd see continued expansion and acceleration of flows.
In the U.S.
again relatively early.
There's quite a bit of interest.
There's emerging as you would imagine institutional demand and that could probably be the area in the States where it might pick up more rapidly than in the retail channel.
But again I think it's a really attractive product with good performance.
And again you can do the extrapolation on IBRA I won't.
But again it's strong performing and we think it's a very big opportunity.
Research Division</strong> How far along is it though in terms of getting on platforms because it's a new product.
Is it half the way? Is it all the way? Is it 10% of the way? So I think in the U.S.
it's on a lot of the platforms if not most of the platforms but it is not yet sort of been sort of gatekeeper approved in terms of the models.
So it is one of these things that just getting on the platform doesn't mean that it's -- we're going to be able to sell.
And so it is one of these things it's the first step of many to really have this product succeed in the U.S.
But don't take this from saying that -- I mean we're definitely working it hard.
We think it's a huge opportunity both on a global basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just second question.
The income in high-income funds got downgraded after Neil's departure.
Based on your experience how long would it take for those funds to kind of get back on the preferred list and recommended list if the performance remains? And I think those funds under Mark more recently were in redemptions.
What do you think needs to change to actually push those products to actually generate net new flows? Is it a simple as just keeping the performance where it is? Good question.
So I don't have all the specifics on the radius but you can -- look you can read publicly people are actually already considering already putting it back in the buy list.
So as you said from the beginning Mark is highly experienced.
The team is highly experienced.
Great track record.
So I think the wholes will participate more rapidly than you would expect in a different situation because of that.
And so you're seeing early [indiscernible] But let me put this in perspective Ken.
So those 2 funds were in net redemptions before Neil's announcement and I think it's a really important point because these funds they are very large they're very old and when you look at the historical redemptions because of the age of the holders redemptions are a material thing each and every year.
So just to get into net flows the level of sales that you have to meet because of the sheer size is material.
So if we move back to the flow levels preannouncement which we are getting close to that's not a horrible thing.
Now our goal is not just to remain there it's to get back into net flows and we think in time that will happen.
So I think that's an important point to look at also.
And if you look at take -- I don't have the specific numbers but if you look at the combined those 2 funds combined they still represent I think they're in the top 5 of gross sales selling funds in U.K.
today.
So I think that's really the perspective.
They're just very large and very old client base.
But again we're moving into a very relatively very good spot at this stage of it.
So long winded and hopefully that's helpful.
The next question comes from Chris Shutler William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on IBRA.
So the performance there actually has turned around nicely for this year.
So just want to get your updated thoughts on the pipeline both retail and institutional there? So Chris I think we're seeing redemption rates continue to drive lower on that IBRA product.
I think it was on actually out of July on a global basis I think the flow has turned positive.
So again I think it's -- I hate to say it's a turnaround now and declaring it fully but certainly the performance on 3-year number -- 3-year track record year-to-date are sort of in the top quartile.
So the product itself is becoming I think far more sort of attractive again to clients who are looking for what we originally promised to give which is a sort of balanced risk across different asset classes.
And it's -- I think sales are still sort of lower than we've seen them in the past.
It's actually -- that's correct on a global basis but the flow picture has been improved largely through and much lower redemption rates.
So again the goal was obviously to drive sales higher in that product over time if we can.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And then a totally different question bigger picture.
With the PowerShares franchise it's mainly a retail business today I believe.
So just curious to get your take in the ETF business of the institutional opportunity.
So for instance UBS was recently in the news.
For putting a big portion of your DB plan and noncap-weighted indices which is a lot of what PowerShares does.
So -- but I believe they're mainly partnering directly with the index providers instead of using off-the-shelf product.
So just want to get your take on institutional opportunity in terms of alternative weighted ETFs.
So we do think it's an opportunity.
It is one of those areas that when I went through the litany a few minutes ago that I didn't address but that's within it.
So it's been very very successful for us.
There are further opportunities and really would be in the institutional market and it has not been an area where we have historically focused more recently we have headed down that path so we think not just in the U.S.
but in a couple other important markets we think that is an opportunity for us.
So we think that will just continue to add to the ongoing success in PowerShares.
The next question comes from Eric Berg RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> You indicated that of the 13 approximately billion dollars of withdrawal that took place in the U.K.
related to St.
James's Place that just over half of it related to the equity income funds being managed by Neil Woodford and his team what's the remainder? So the other half I think it was about $5 billion in what -- I think it's called a distribution fund which is some mix between equity income and our corporate bond offering.
And the remainder is in global equities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So just to provide a rough sort of back-of-the-envelope reconciliation of where we are now relative to where we stand how are those numbers go? And by that I mean start with how much money please Neil is managing at the time he announced his departure.
I realized he remained with the organization for many many months before departing and ultimately starting in his new place.
But if you could just really in synopsized form start by telling us how much money he was managing in dollar terms how much was lost to the institutional business I think it's close to all of it and where we stand on the remaining money which is the retail side? So Eric I think originally preannouncement it was around $48 billion was the amount and it's currently at $37 billion roughly.
So we obviously have the big institutional redemption of $13.1 billion.
I think in terms of the retail outflows generally they've been somewhere around $0.5 billion to $1 billion a month just normal.
We're just getting a lot of that.
It's consistent with what we've seen historically so nothing different than what we've seen in the past.
So again I think you could probably take that and do the math here or someone smartly doing it for me.
We had $17.7 billion of outflow in the time frame.
And how much of that was retail versus institutional I think probably most of it is going to be institutional largely.
LLC Research Division</strong> So you started -- in the short/long you started with $48 billion.
Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> The redemptions have been in $17 billion.
That takes you down to -- so you wouldn't therefore $37 billion.
You'd have $48 billion minus $17 billion or 31 is that correct or...
We had market and FX that have helped to offset that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And of the $17 billion in redemptions most of it has been institutional.
But just to be clear while you talk about redemptions returning to more normal industry levels in the equity income funds are the -- I just want to clarify sort of triple check the funds are in that redemption mode still but at a lower rate than they have been.
Is that kind of the point? That's absolutely right and maybe the net redemption since 2011.
So just factually again this is what Marty said that's part of the fabric of being biggest in the industry.
But I think yes they've sort of returned to more normal levels.
They're still as I think we may have mentioned slightly some elevated levels that are 2 smaller platform outflows that could still occur.
But not material in any sense of close to the magnitude of the St.
James's Place.
And we believe again broadly in the context of EMEA business that we can grow flows to more than offset that going forward.
The next question is from Patrick Davitt from Autonomous Research.
We've heard anecdotally that the marketing of PowerShares in the U.K.
pre-Woodford was fairly low.
And I can't remember if you confirmed or denied that but can you I guess talk about what is being done to improve the profile of that business there particularly as it does look like the passive opportunity has gotten a little bit more interesting over the last year or so.
So we actually had not been in the U.K.
The focus have been on the continent for us.
A number of years it's probably 2007 that we went to the ETF markets.
As you know the market was very very different than that of the United States and has gone through tremendous change from sort of derivatives-based ETFs to really cash-based ETFs.
So we think there is quite a big opportunity within EMEA within between the U.K.
and Continental Europe in particular.
And that is back to one of the earlier questions we see the institutional opportunity being one in the U.K.
in particular to be something very very attractive and smart beta in particular seems to be not just confined to ETFs but institutional clients as an opportunity that we think we should be successful in over time.
Do you think it's fair to say that I guess the thinking around I guess how much weight you want to put behind marketing PowerShares specifically in the U.K.
has changed since the PM changed? Or is that not the case? No our effort has nothing to do with -- first I'll say it's the strategic focus.
Again originally focused on the continent.
We think one of the opportunities in the U.K.
really has come -- is emerging because of RDR.
The emergence of RDR actually we think is an added opportunity to the ETF markets smart beta and also the institutional market.
And U.K.
as you're obviously noting is a very very important large ETF market that we have not historically participated in.
The next question is from Brian Bedell Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Kind of actually have my question on the PowerShares but maybe just to -- just an extension of that how should we think about timing.
You are underpenetrated in that area and the opportunity seems pretty compelling like you said Marty post especially post RDR.
Should we be thinking of that as a bigger effort over the next I don't know 12 to 18 months with a potentially stronger ramp throughout that period? Or is this is a much longer-term group? I'm sorry you're breaking up some.
Let me just confirm.
So it's the ETF opportunity what's the timing of it? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Sort of the pace of that given that it's been more of a newer effort in terms of post-RDR that is.
So I’m trying to get the sense of timing now that were through the RDR process.
You're exactly right.
So I would be again it's probably the next 12 to 18 months that you'll start to see we're clarifying how we want to play what we think the opportunity is.
And again you'll see what we choose to do over that period of time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay great.
And then maybe shifting gears to defined-benefit market.
Maybe just some color on -- obviously you have a very good product set for the potential outflows and active equity and the shift towards passive and increased barbelling that we're seeing through some alpha products and a more liability-driven investing.
Maybe just some color on how you're positioned there.
Should we see potential increases in mandates for you on that side? Or do you view it as more of a balanced risk for your franchise overall? Let me try to answer the question if I understood it.
So if you look at our capabilities very very much focused on active investing and whether it be -- it went from alternatives through our historical capabilities whether it be equity or fixed income and broadening of the alternatives capabilities more broadly around the world as we talked about.
Where we then see an opportunity for ourselves is the strength that we have with our quantitative teams and with PowerShares around what people are referring to smart beta and variations of that.
And we think the combination of that range is very very strong and competitive globally but also within retail channels as you're speaking off.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So on the defined-benefit side you feel that you can be a net winner over the next 2 to 3 years versus some other more plain active equity managers that are losing share to rebalancing? No question.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay great.
And maybe just one quick one on the U.K.
and it has already beating a dead horse in this but I think just using -- looking at the math of the U.K.
equity income product looks like you had $3.3 billion in outflows in the quarter.
Just trying to get a sense of that trajectory over April May and June and whether that sounds like it's improving that outflow pace into July.
Yes so Brian I think that's one that we probably are going to be somewhat better than the pace we would hope.
Again it's not getting worse.
We think it's one that's going to continue to improve through the course of the year.
But again it's a little hard to say with great certainty because there are these smaller types of platform that may make decisions along the way and those can be $0.5 billion here or $0.25 billion there.
But overall I think what you're saying is sort of that level and improving through the course of the year and then probably by the end of the year we'll have much better clarity in terms of just say all that will be more solid in terms of whether people are coming or going or leaving.
The next question is from Greggory Warren Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Just on the Perpetual sort of a housekeeping note.
There were no non-compete agreements that we need to worry about where 6 months or a year from the road now that he'll go out and start poaching more of our clients.
Is that an issue for you? Yes.
So Gregg I think what we're used to fighting on the retail battlefield whatever and so in terms of loss of clients and we compete with them and gee we compete with many others.
So there's nothing that will prevent anybody or Neil's fund to take clients from us if they win them fair and square.
And so I think it is one where we think that we're well positioned to compete.
And we have significant marketing dollars and we have significant sales force strength and obviously a fantastic investment team that is sort of tried and true.
So we think that will win and we don't necessarily have to worry about structural sort of legal non-competes or anything like that.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay so basically it's kind of fair game right now then.
Fair game yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the other question I had is it looks like your net revenue yield before performance fees came down -- or came up actually pretty considerably quarter-over-quarter.
Was part of that the shift in institutional -- the outflows in the institutional side? It doesn't really seem I mean -- equity AUM seems to be about the same level as it was in the first quarter.
I'm just kind of curious what caused that shift in the net revenue yield.
Yes about 0.6 basis point is just due to day count so that's a normal second quarter to first quarter impact.
But we definitely have mixed benefits that is still driving forward.
It has more to do with geography than it does sort of what type of asset class as we continue to flow strongly with growth sales -- record sales outside the U.S.
which is where the fee rates tend to be higher that is helping to drive our mix and our yields to higher levels.
The next question is from Brennan Hawken UBS.
Research Division</strong> All my questions have been -- has I think been asked at this point.
The next question is from Robert Lee KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And also if you may have touched on this earlier but I have been kind of jumping around different earnings this morning.
The only question I have was in I guess it relates to PowerShares.
I mean some of your competitors and whatnot out there have an ETF business have been I guess fairly loud or noisy however you want to describe it about why they would not do or don't think things like bank loans are appropriate for an ETF structure and I know that's been a pretty successful product for you in PowerShares.
So I don't know to what extent do you see that as you're comfortable with some of the concerns that they raised? Or how do you view those -- how would how should we put those comments in the context? Thanks for the question.
So look you would know and just for everybody else we have a very very strong bank loan team.
We manage $30 billion in assets more or less.
They've been doing it for decades.
We've actually have had an open-ended bank loan funds since the '90s.
It is something we are -- feel very comfortable managing.
I think it is something that we're not concerned about.
And also when you look at the liquidity within the ETF up to 20% of it is in sort of very liquid assets which would probably meet anybody's idea of redemption.
On top of that there is a line of credit if there is something beyond that.
So the idea that this is much different than other open-ended funds I think whether it be bank loans or high yield or you could go to small-cap stocks I mean it is just part of what comes with managing various funds and if you look at the sheer size of the markets and the redemptions that was less than 1% of the redemptions that you saw in the bank loan market during the period where there were some redemptions of bank loans.
So again I don't see it much different than how we manage our business on a daily basis.
And sir with that I'm showing no further questions.
Great.
Well thank you very much for joining us everybody.
I appreciate the engagement and the questions and we'll speak to you next quarter.
Thank you and this does conclude today's conference.
All parties may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to Invesco's third quarter results conference call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to the speaker for today Mr.
Martin L.
Flanagan President and CEO of Invesco; and Mr.
Loren Starr Chief Financial Officer.
Mr.
Flanagan you may begin.
Thanks very much and thank you for joining us today.
On the call with me is Loren Starr Invesco's CFO and we'll be speaking the presentation that's available on our website if you're so inclined to follow.
Today we'll provide a review of our business results for the third quarter.
Loren will go into greater detail of the financial results and then the 2 of us will open up to Q&amp;A.
So let's begin by highlighting the firm's operating results for the third quarter which you'll find on Slide 3 of the presentation.
Long-term investment performance remained strong across all time periods during the quarter.
81% of actively managed assets were ahead of peers on a 3- to 5-year basis.
Strong investment performance combined with a comprehensive range of strategies and solutions we offer to help clients achieve their desired investment outcomes contributed to net long-term inflows of $6 billion during the quarter.
Adjusted operating income was up 16.4% for [ph] the same quarter last year.
And a continued focus on taking a disciplined approach to our business improved our operating margins to 41.8% from 40.2% in the same quarter a year ago an increase of 1.6 percentage points.
Assets under management were $789.6 billion down from $802.4 billion at the end of June reflecting the late quarter volatility in the markets.
At the same time operating income rose to $382 million from $377 million in the prior quarter.
Earnings per share were $0.64 versus $0.65 in the prior quarter.
The quarterly dividend remained at $0.25 per share up 11% from 2013.
And we've repurchased $50 million in common stocks during the quarter.
Before Loren goes through the details of the financials let me take a moment to review the investment performance and highlights of the business around the world.
I'm now on Slide 6.
Investment performance during the quarter was strong for all time periods.
81% of assets were ahead of peers on a 3- and 5-year basis and 76% of assets were ahead of peers over 1 year.
It's also important to note that 52% of the assets were in the top third of peers on a 3-year basis and 65% of assets were in the top third over 5 years.
On Page 7 to put this in historical context.
I mentioned that investment performance is very strong today.
Currently the percentage of assets under management rated 4 and 5 stars by Morningstar runs 70% for our U.S.
retail franchise 96% for our retail funds in the U.K.
and 82% for our cross-border range.
And importantly in the U.S.
97% of all the assets are rated 3 stars or better; in the U.K.
100% of the assets are rated 3 stars or better; and the cross-border range 94% of the assets are 3 stars or better.
Our tremendous focus on achieving investment excellence across the globe has produced consistently good long-term performance.
And if you look back a decade you've seen some dramatic improvements in some of the regions around the world.
Turning to flows on Page 8.
You'll see gross flows remained strong during the quarter and overall redemptions declined leading to net long-term inflows of $6 billion.
I want to point out this is also the strongest active organic growth rate we've seen since the first quarter of 2013.
And these numbers reflect broad diversity of flows across our global business during the quarter particularly among our active strategies.
Gross flows on retail and institutional channels were strong during the third quarter as we continue to deliver strong investment performance to our clients.
The redemption picture improved significantly in the retail channel and combined with strong gross flows drove net long-term flows substantially higher.
The institutional channel continued -- saw continued demand for real estate bank loans equities and asset allocation capabilities across the globe which drove positive flows during the quarter.
Institutional redemptions were driven partly by the successful disposition or the realizations within private equity or real estate.
And the institutional pipeline of won but not funded mandate continues to looks strong and as importantly is concentrated in real estate asset allocation international equities and alternative fixed income capabilities.
So very broad there also.
Let me take a moment to highlight our global businesses which you'll find beginning on Slide 10.
In the Americas U.S.
net flows were $1.3 billion during the quarter were driven by international growth U.S.
value equities high-yield munis diversified dividend and UITs.
The redemption rate of 20.6% in August was favorable to the industry average of 28.6%.
U.S.
gross flows were up 9% from the prior quarter.
And we are working very diligently as you would imagine to build the awareness in self -- shelf space for our liquid alternative capabilities which are gaining traction amongst advisers and platforms.
As we've mentioned on previous calls institutional flows into IBRA have remained positive driven by top quartile performance.
And on the retail side strong client engagement effort and the current market volatility are driving improved gross flows and a reduction in redemptions.
With the strong institutional flows and improvement in the retail picture we believe we'll see a positive -- we'll return to positive total net flows in the U.S.
in the next 2 quarters.
In Asia Pacific we saw continued strong growth in net flows during the quarter.
Key drivers of the strong results include the Shinko U.S.
REIT and the Australian bond fund in Japan cross-border funds in Greater China and institutional flows into real estate Asian equity and Invesco quantitative strategies across the region.
Investment performance across EMEA remained strong during the quarter and in some cases exceptional performance as we discussed earlier.
Mark Barnett and his team continued to turn in strong numbers for the high income and income funds which ranked amongst the top 10 in their peer group of 262 funds year-to-date.
As a result outflows from the U.K.
income are steadily returning to normal redemption rates with $1.9 billion of net withdrawals during the quarter.
Our GTR fund also continued to see strong flows on the back of strong investment performance crossing the $1 billion mark early in the quarter and reaching $1.2 billion by the end of the quarter.
Strong investment performance and continued focus on meeting client needs contributed to the strong EMEA long-term net flows which were $3.3 billion for the quarter.
Assets under management by our EMEA business totaled $170 billion at end of the third quarter.
And as you can see on 12 -- Slide 12 during the quarter net flows into EMEA excluding U.K.
equity income were $5.3 billion.
Driven by strong investment performance our wider U.K.
retail business has continued to demonstrate strength with an increase in gross flows year-over-year.
The business has strong momentum and continues to become more diversified with increased flows into global equities European equities and multi-assets to highlight a few.
Our retail clients and advisers in the region remain optimistic regarding the recent market volatility.
Activity of gross flows and redemptions declined for a couple of weeks but we've seen no particular impact on the net flows.
In general what we've seen over the past few weeks of market volatility confirms our long-term business strategy.
Invesco is one of the few investment management firms in the world that offers institutions and individual investors a comprehensive range of strategies and solutions that help them achieve their desired outcomes.
We provide capabilities for all markets: bull markets bear markets and markets that go sideways.
And we're well positioned to deliver for our clients competitively regardless of which markets we see in the fourth quarter and beyond.
It's also a time where a number of our investment teams look for periods of market volatility which creates valuation anomalies and opportunities which they exploit for the benefit of our clients.
Historically it's these periods of increased market volatility that clients seek the established capabilities of our experienced investment teams.
So with that I'll stop here and turn it over to Loren.
Thanks very much Marty.
Quarter-over-quarter our total AUM decreased $12.8 million ( sic ) [$12.8 billion] or 1.6% and that was driven by negative FX in market of $14.8 billion outflows from money market and the QQQs of $4 billion.
These items were partially offset by positive long-term net flows of $6 billion.
Our average AUM for the quarter was $801.7 billion.
That's up 1.5% versus the second quarter average.
Our net revenue yield came in at 45.6 basis points flat versus Q2.
The benefit of an extra day in Q3 and higher performance fees was unfortunately equally offset by the decline in other revenues and the weakening of sterling versus the U.S.
dollar.
Now I'm going to turn to the operating results.
You'll see that our net revenues increased $12.7 million or 1.4% quarter-over-quarter to $913.7 million.
That included a negative FX rate impact of $9.1 million.
Within the net revenue number you'll see that investment management fees grew by $16.5 million or 1.6% to $1.07 billion.
This increase was due to higher average AUM and the additional day in the third quarter compared to the second quarter.
FX decreased investment management fees by $11.5 million.
Service and distribution revenues were up by $7.4 million or 3.4% also in line with higher average AUM and the extra day as well as the continued strength in our cross-border products sold in Europe.
FX decreased service and distribution revenues by $0.1 million.
Performance fees came in at $10.3 million an increase of $3 million from Q2.
This is about $5 million more than we had expected based on the guidance we provided in Q2.
Performance fees were earned from a variety of areas including the U.K.
bank loans and quant equity.
Foreign exchange decreased performance fees by $0.2 million.
And as I said in the past performance fees continue to be one of the more difficult line items for us to predict with great accuracy.
Other revenues in the third quarter came in at $34.5 million a decrease of $4.4 million resulting from the lower level of real estate transactions fees.
As you'll remember we generated $6 million in nonrecurring transaction fees in Q2 as a result of our Japanese REIT launch.
Third-party distribution service and advisory expense which we net against gross revenues increased by $9.8 million or 2.4%.
This was in line with higher revenues derived from our related retail AUM and one extra day in the quarter.
FX decreased these expenses by $0.2 million.
Moving on down the slide.
You'll see that adjusted operating expenses at $531.8 million grew by $7.8 million or 1.5% relative to the second quarter.
FX decreased operating expenses by $4.8 million during the quarter.
Employee compensation at $349.5 million increased by $4.9 million or 1.4% and this was a result of increased headcount and variable compensation quarter-over-quarter.
FX decreased compensation by $3.2 million.
Marketing expense decreased by $3.5 million or 11.3% to $27.4 million.
Advertising costs came in a little lower than we expected in the quarter.
FX decreased these expenses by $0.3 million.
Property office and technology expense came in at $77.3 million in the quarter which was up $1.2 million.
This was about $3 million lighter than we had previously guided.
The increase reflects the higher outsourced administration costs in EMEA.
And FX decreased these expenses by $0.6 million.
G&amp;A expenses came in at $77.6 million.
That's up $5.2 million or 7.2%.
This increase was due to professional service fees driven by ongoing technology platform investments as well as an increase in indirect taxes.
About $2 million of the increase should not recur in Q4.
And FX decreased G&amp;A by $0.7 million.
Going on further down the slide.
You'll see that nonoperating income decreased $10.5 million compared to the second quarter.
The decrease is primarily driven by low or -- excuse me lower realized gains on seed capital investments in Q3 and the liquidation of a CLO that occurred in Q2.
The firm's effective tax rate on a pretax adjusted net income basis in Q3 was 26.6%.
Looking forward we'd expect the effective tax rate to remain between 26% to 27% which then brings us to our adjusted EPS of $0.64 and our adjusted net operating margin of 41.8%.
Now before turning things over back to Marty I'd like to just touch on the impact of the market and FX volatility on our earnings outlook.
In periods of uncertainty such as this which we have seen before we will try to manage our level of spend as best as we can without sacrificing strategically important investments.
However we simply can't adjust expenses down as quickly as revenues in a declining market.
We expect to remain focused on prioritizing our most important initiatives and we will diligently manage our discretionary expense in this quarter.
Given that the markets have made our AUM a bit of a moving target we don't believe it's very productive to provide explicit line item guidance in Q4 understanding however that we are committed to doing what we can without compromising our most important strategic opportunities.
And so with that I'll turn things back to Marty.
Thanks Loren.
So happy to open up to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Michael Carrier Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Loren maybe first question.
Just on the expense that you were -- you were just going over.
When we think about the areas that you do have some flexibility so whether it's on the marketing side or the G&amp;A just maybe just remind us -- or when you think about how much variability you do have if the environment does get -- and not talking about the fourth quarter but just meaning over the next year or so if you get into a tougher environment how much can you pull back versus what you would view as like longer-term view investments? Certainly Michael.
I mean we have -- some of our expenses are somewhat fixed in nature whether it's amortized deferred compensation or related to rent.
We clearly can move on some of those items over time.
I think in terms of near-term ability it's going to be around the discretionary expenses.
Marketing is also a lever that we can and will look at depending on the environment that we're in where strong levels of advertising may not make as much sense in markets that are somewhat negative.
So certainly that level of $35 million which I think we had originally guided in Q4 may be somewhat lower if we're successful in Q4.
But ultimately we have more opportunity to affect 2015 than we do the fourth quarter because a lot of the spend is effectively committed within the quarter.
So it is really to that point that we -- we'll certainly do what we can within the quarter to manage but some of it is going to be locked in.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then Marty just on the flow picture I mean when we look at kind of the industry trends right now things are pretty muted.
You guys have put up results and -- whether it's on the European side which is across asset class things have continued to do relatively well.
So where are you seeing some of that demand? And particularly maybe into September October because obviously things got a little bit more rocky in the environment.
But it seems like the strength continued particularly relative to the industry.
So just any insight and that could be on the retail side or in the institutional.
Yes.
It's a good question.
And what I would say it's really too early to tell if it's -- definitely what's going to -- what are going to be the reactions.
I think we're probably in a transitional period right now where whether it's institutional or retail investors are assessing and I think their first move which we all saw in the early -- let's say their public numbers coming out retail was -- you saw outflows.
And the first move is to do nothing right? And I think that's really what you saw a number of people do in the United States in particular.
But people assess -- get some sense of looking forward and have some judgment.
What -- from our point of view what we think is ultimately is a good thing for our clients and an opportunity for the firm is that volatility is a part of markets.
And having things like alternatives in your portfolio liquid alternatives in particular is something that is going to I think is going to be here for a long long time.
And we're seeing it just with IBRA right here.
IBRA has been -- institutions have continued to commit to IBRA but you're seeing really with these volatile markets opportunities for IBRA that GTR funds for us.
So we think it's really the broadening of the asset classes that will be the opportunity as we look forward.
The next question comes from Michael Kim Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> First maybe a bit of a more bigger-picture question.
I know it's not a -- necessarily a big piece of your overall asset base but just wondering how your bond funds here in the U.S.
in particular might be positioned assuming we see some sort of dislocation in the credit markets.
Just curious to get your take on liquidity concerns across the industry and how you think about your funds assuming a potential downturn.
So let me start at the highest level.
So if you look at the performance across our Fixed Income platform is very very strong and -- which is a good place to start.
I -- with regard to what people do and I think what you're suggesting is that people started to move from -- redeem from Fixed Income capabilities what's the liquidity impact.
And it is a topic everybody is focused on.
From our point of view we feel like we're positioned very very well.
I mean it's something that we look at.
I mean obviously our portfolio managers deal with it every day and have done that for a very long period of time.
And in those products where we think that liquidity could be more challenged there is a greater cash capability -- greater cash levels in those funds.
There's also liquidity elements that they have layered on top of it.
So we think we're positioned very very well for it.
So we're aware of the topic but we think we're managing very well and don't have a very large concern about it.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe if you could talk a bit more about product development these days particularly as it relates to more solutions-oriented strategies and other products that might match up with some of the prevailing demand trends that you just mentioned earlier.
So look I think we could be better positioned right now.
So if you look at the range of capabilities that we have from the one at smart beta we think smart beta is continuing to be an important part of portfolios that are put together and then as you look at the active range of capabilities we have from the traditional loan only to maybe more traditional alternatives let's say private equity and real estate it's really the suite of liquid alternatives that we introduced very broadly last year that put us in a very unique position.
So we think the combination of our active strategies all the way through alternatives and smart beta there's very little that we can't address in meeting clients' needs.
And also with our solutions group that -- with the larger institutions you can have that broader range of conversations to understand what are they trying to achieve and what are the different combinations of investment capabilities that you could put together to meet those needs.
So we really think we're positioned very well.
In one level though to be clear I do think we're frankly ahead of the market at the retail market with the range of alternative capabilities that we've had.
People are very focused on it.
But quite frankly the uptake on the distribution platforms is probably slower than we would have thought.
And it's just them getting their hands around their internal -- things that they need to work through.
But we think it's a very important opportunity for us and for our clients.
The next question is from Dan Fannon from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I guess Loren understanding that the market volatility and that you're -- it's difficult to forecast next quarter out.
But just wanted to talk about the fee rate and kind of the products that are selling and where you're seeing the flows if we can still see that fee rate grind higher x currency x market based on just kind of the gross sales gross redemption trends you're seeing and then that corresponding impact obviously flowing through to -- through margins.
Yes.
Thanks for asking the question Dan.
Absolutely.
We've been -- sort of had a headwind with FX working against us.
I think it -- if it stabilizes and we sort of enter a period where we don't have that particular impact we should continue to see our fee rate climb from where it is today as the flows that you've seen continue to be quite strong through the cross-border product line which as you know tend to have a higher fee rate.
Certainly some of these alternative products as they take and get more traction have a higher fee rate.
So we do feel that the trend is still very much in our favor to see fee rates climb going forward absent any further continued strengthening of the dollar versus other currencies.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then Marty when you talk about asset allocation and the demand there can you specifically talk about is that including IBRA? Or is that just -- are those -- is that just separate products? And then can you talk about kind of where that demand is coming from from the end clients? Yes good question.
So these definitional problems.
So we would include IBRA in that.
We'd include things like global total return capabilities.
There's -- our versions of IBRA there.
So it is really that suite that we have brought to market.
So where we are seeing demand -- so if you start with GTR that was probably the next introduction after IBRA and it's really only been in the market from a year ago September.
In the U.K.
it's over $1.2 billion.
That's pretty good for a very short uptake.
The interest that we're seeing institutionally and also frankly in the retail market in the U.S.
GTR is really very very strong.
And the same thing on the continent.
It's trailing the U.K.
just because that was our initial launch.
So we think that's probably going to be another natural one.
But again it's really what you're seeing now with the advisers on the retail side is they are looking to build broader portfolios.
And they're interested in having lower-volatility type elements within there.
And Bill ( sic ) was asking a question earlier that it is also looked at as an alternative to some of the fixed income from a stability point of view within the portfolios.
Institutionally again it just continues to be areas that some number of the institutions are looking to expand.
So it's early days for us but again the depth of our capability and the performance out of the box has been very strong.
Now it's a long-term game but it's always nice to start with your performance.
The next question is from Ken Worthington JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> On real estate.
Real estate continues to be on fire for Invesco.
It is cyclical based on the way you talked about your sales and when you get transaction and performance fees.
We seem to be in the strong sales portion of the investor real estate cycle.
So are we getting late in that part of the cycle? And is the next step elevated performance fees given you're a mix of kind of U.S.
core and international? Ken I'll try to answer that question.
I think we saw and we have seen a lot of good transaction fees coming through the funds being able to sell their holdings at a good price.
So that's been helpful even though that's been somewhat of an outflow when every time something gets old.
We're seeing the pipeline as Marty mentioned the institutional pipeline is now really beginning to climb again.
And so I think we are entering a sales cycle where that pipeline is going to begin to fill up with more won but not yet funded type of activity which again don't translate into assets until those things start funding.
So I think we're very much into a building-up AUM as we sort of start into a buying phase as opposed to a selling phase.
So that is going to continue to progress.
I think with the realizations that I mentioned yes absolutely.
The idea that we're going to begin to be able to realize performance fees in the real estate area is something that I think we've talked about in the past.
And then we certainly have expectations that we're going to see some of that roll through specifically around the timing as I mentioned.
It's a little problematic for us to figure out exactly what quarter they -- are they going to occur but we know that they are -- have done a great job in terms of performance.
And so there is a lot of built up performance fees in the real estate pools.
Research Division</strong> And then can you talk a little bit about the investing environment in Europe and the U.K.
given kind of changes in the economic outlook for both? You had a really strong third quarter.
The outlook in those regions seems to have weakened economically.
What does this mean for Invesco in terms of sales and investor appetite? And are you in the right distribution channels with the right products to kind of weather any change a persistent change in environment if the current choppy market conditions continue? So Ken let me pick it up and start maybe on the continent.
So we -- kind of Europe's been a topic.
We started the conversation maybe 3 to 4 years ago of the opportunity there and it's starting to become realized over the last 1.5 years.
We still believe we're relatively early stages of success on the continent.
So with all the progress we've made there is more progress to be made.
And it's really -- we're not on all the platforms that we want to be on.
We are getting on more and more of them.
We have good reason to believe that we'll continue to expand the breadth of platforms.
As I pointed out the performance in that cross-border range is very very strong and it's very broad.
So it's very attractive to distribution platforms.
And just our ability to help our distribution partners be successful is also in place too.
So I look at it as a continuing growing opportunity for us.
With regard to what might happen with investor appetite I think if you ask me some -- a couple of years ago when we thought that EU was -- discussions of it breaking up I would never have thought we would have seen the client demand for investment products as we saw.
So it's really been a surprise and continues to be -- they look to funds as the way to invest and save.
And they feel that's a really solid and thoughtful way to look after themselves which frankly we think it is too.
So -- and again I come back to the range of capabilities too as demand moves we do think we have the capabilities to give clients the alternatives.
If they want to get out of European equities they can look at things like GTR they can look at things like IBRA.
The fixed income capability is very very strong.
In fact it's -- flows there.
So we think we're really well placed.
And just in the U.K.
again it's -- we're an absolute top firm there and the performance just continues to be just very very strong.
And so we're -- we're everywhere we need to be in the U.K.
and we're well positioned there.
So we look at it as continued strength in the U.K.
and growing opportunities on the continent.
And maybe Ken I'll just pile on a little bit.
I mean that -- we saw in EMEA generally still good strong flows in the quarter as you can see through our roll-forwards a lot of products contributing.
The full range actually: balanced product; equity product; Pan European equity was also strong even though maybe others in the industry didn't see quite as much strength we continued to see strength there; real estate; fixed income corporate bond; euro corporate bond all doing well.
And through -- even the October that cross-border in EMEA is in strong good positive flows.
So we think that that is a continued opportunity for us that may slow down a little bit relative to what we've seen in the past just as people are trying to figure out what to do given the market environment.
But we have such a great range of products at such high performance levels that we think we're going to be able to continue to sell through all types of -- whatever the market throws at us.
So I think we're going to probably still do pretty well there.
The next question is from Bill Katz from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> First big-picture question.
You seem to have a lot of momentum across products and geographies and distribution channels.
It may be too pointed of a question.
But I'm sort of curious is there something structurally going on that you're starting to see the unit growth coming in terms of net flows? Is it market share gains? You mentioned Marty that there may be some more distribution channels.
But why -- I know it's been a 5-year in the making but specifically what seems to be the linchpin now that's really inflecting the flows? Where in particular Bill? Research Division</strong> Well I think Europe and Asia in particular seem to be quite strong looking at your data.
Yes.
No it's -- I think you're really hitting it on the real point.
There's no one thing.
It really has been yes a number of years in the making.
And it is a combination of again the range of capabilities are attractive the performance is consistently strong along with the business support that we can help our institutional clients be more successful or our distribution partners on the retail side.
So I wish I could tell you what the one thing is but it's just many things.
And -- but to be more specific what does it mean? If you look at all of our institutional ratings they are -- there are many and they're strong.
If you look at the number of platforms we're on around the world they're -- they continue to grow.
Now the U.K.
has always been strong right? So the -- it's really the continent and other parts of Asia joining really the U.S.
which we've been talking about for a number of years.
And so it's really the U.S.
Continental Europe and Asia just continuing to strengthen.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The same question just a little more technical.
So still curious.
In the U.K.
and now Europe there's 2 dynamics underway.
Some are underway some are still to come between sort of the shift of RDR as well as on the MiFID II some consternation about how to sort of treat equity research.
How do you think that might impact your business? Because some of your peers the stock price have come in a fair amount.
I think investors have been worried about that.
And given you're a pretty big player in the U.K.
just trying to sort of see what the economic impact might be to you on a go-forward basis.
Yes.
So with regard to RDR I mean it's still early days.
But I think what we had said is we were matching what RDR would be in practice.
We would say we're -- we thought we'd be well placed and we are.
And it's really again it's the recognition of the organization and just the depth of capabilities.
And so we're doing just fine within the RDR world.
Now is it meeting the expectations of the policymakers? That's probably a different topic.
I don't believe that the costs have gone down for the end of investors.
And actually good point too it's probably going up.
So I don't think that was part of the plan.
So with regard to the topic -- with regard to research I know everybody's very focused on it.
And I think the conversations that I'm aware of and that -- the undertakings is that there is now quite a thought of do no harm to the capital markets right? The unintended consequences of trying to take pieces and modify them I think have become front of mind of the regulators.
And I think where you'll probably end up is much more in greater disclosure and -- for the end investors.
And again we'll see.
It's going to take some time.
But I think that's probably where we'll probably end up.
The next question is from Brennan Hawken UBS.
Research Division</strong> On -- you gave a lot of color on EMEA and the flows and thanks for that.
That's really helpful.
I was just kind of curious if we think about the U.K.
and then potential retail flows with Perpetual is there any kind of seasonality we should think about for retail flows that might be a consideration going forward? I think there may be some degree of seasonality that tacks onto it.
But I think that is largely a very modest impact.
And probably the biggest thing that we can see and we're seeing it every month is this normalization that is happening around our redemption rate and how as things are getting back to normal and really in the U.K.
the client reaction to that transition is almost old news now.
And so we're -- I think that's probably the bigger impact is that we're turning into more of a business-as-usual situation in the U.K.
which will be quite helpful for us in terms of continuing to turning those outflows into inflows.
Research Division</strong> Terrific.
And then apologies if you hit on this before but given some of the volatilities in yields in October have you seen any change in the IBRA flows quarter-to-date? We're seeing a much stronger interest in IBRA.
So the redemption rate is certainly dramatically down.
I think the level of interest around IBRA both institutionally and retail is sort of seeing new levels.
So it is somewhat at an inflection point where you'd say if you just follow this through into next couple of quarters that it would be going quite positive.
But again just drawing a line here.
But it has been very month -- every month you're seeing significant improvement in the IBRA position and that's not a surprise to us.
As people are looking for greater stability and predictability around -- and less risk in their portfolios it's a natural place for people to go.
The next question we have is from Chris Harris from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> So we've spent some time talking about EMEA.
Wanted to talk a little bit about the U.S.
part of your business.
It sounds like the outlook is getting a little bit better there.
I'm just kind of curious if you guys could characterize for us why that region maybe isn't flowing a little bit better than it is.
I know you guys rank pretty favorably to a lot of peers but just wondering if you could expand on what's going on in the U.S.
why we're not seeing a little bit better growth.
So I think that we're seeing strong pockets of growth.
Obviously the U.S.
is a big -- it's a big thing when you look at it particularly the way that we disclose it to you.
And so it does hide the real stories within stories that exist.
What we've seen in terms of the greater strength in the U.S.
in North America real estate direct real estate.
We've certainly seen continued strength in the Invesco PowerShares offerings as -- and we have quite a wide range there.
We have great capabilities around alternative Fixed Income particularly around bank loans and CLOs.
And then fundamental equity international growth in values is quite strong.
I mean so these have been somewhat offset recently in terms of numbers where we've seen some outflows in certain products that I'm sure you're familiar with around let's say bank loans where people have sort of knee-jerked out of those types of products which again sort of masked some of the underlying strength.
Other areas where we had -- and have seen some outflow would be more based on when the equity markets were moving quite strongly.
Some of our core more sort of safety-oriented equity offerings were not performing in line.
But they're going to become more interesting in this type of market.
So I mean that's a little bit of context.
We have such a wide range and diverse set of products that for us to be at a sort of consistent high flow in the U.S.
is hard for us to achieve because they're very diverse in what they offer.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
That makes sense.
And wondering if you guys can give us an update not just for the U.S.
but for the entire franchise what flows look like so far on October.
So I say to -- today there is modestly negative for us.
Not anything that we'd get alarmed about and progressively getting better.
Each day that's sort of come by through recently has been a benefit to the flows.
I already told you that we're seeing some of the most important in terms of fee rate parts still driving forward like EMEA.
We have this very strong institutional pipeline that is -- I think it's up close to 70% higher than it was in the prior quarter.
And on -- and some of that is going to begin to fund whether it's into the fourth quarter or into 2015.
So again we feel reasonably good about where we are in the flow picture.
And I mean we don't have the industry data yet but I gather that we're probably doing as well if not better.
The next question comes from Robert Lee from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I have a question on the liquid alt side.
Maybe there's a few things in here.
The -- I mean as you roll that out I mean you've certainly seen in the industry pretty strong demand for retail and liquid alts products.
But I think it's probably easy -- my perception is it's probably fairly easy for investors and advisers to be confused about what's the difference between these products and some peers will probably put IBRA in their liquid alts stock -- and you have it in your balance.
So what can you do or what are you doing to -- with may be in the retail world and with advisers to make sure that they understand what they are buying and how to compare.
Because one of the things I think you always fear is that people buy something that they don't understand it they ultimately get disappointed and that has negative consequences down the road.
Yes you're on a very important topic.
And so that was really what I was trying to highlight.
It's actually -- it is going slower than the -- than what you might be reading in the papers right? So what I would say is there's an absolute clear recognition that for the retail investor the ability to have access to alternative capabilities as I look at it is more broadening the asset classes that they can invest in.
And also introducing some lower-volatility type offerings to them is viewed as important and necessary.
We have spent an enormous effort on education just -- before they even came to the market.
Internally then with our distribution partners sort of tied hand in glove on how they're positioned what they're meant to do what you should expect in different markets how it modifies your portfolio and that you're achieving what you want to achieve.
So we even have sort of an internal consulting group that spends time with the distribution channel to help the -- all the advisers be successful with it.
So we think education is a really really important part.
And that's why what I've been saying it is an important opportunity but it's not a 2- 3-quarter opportunity.
It's going to be looking back for 3 years and see where it is in total.
And also and I say rightfully the advisers or distribution partners they are slow in putting capabilities on platforms because they want to get it right too.
And I think that's really important.
That's good for everybody.
You've got to get it right for the clients first.
So I'd say it's progressing in a thoughtful manner.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And maybe to follow up you've clearly had -- have good flow momentum in a variety of places across your -- across the firm.
And I'm going to guess you probably don't look at things in this manner but I guess I'll ask it anyway.
If you look at the breadth of your franchise and geographically product-wise and size and -- how -- what do you think is kind of a natural or organic growth rate for your firm? Do you think it's in the 3% 5%? Do you think at peak it could be better than that? How -- do you have any thoughts on that? Yes it's a good question.
You're asking the unknowable.
But yes.
what I think is if you look at the firm right now if you look at -- again depth of capabilities and performance what we think we should be able to accomplish there's really no reason that we shouldn't be over -- whatever a reasonable time frame 3% to 5% organic growth rate.
Are there periods that you can be on top of that? I believe that is the case.
We have yet to see that sort of all-in risk-on investor mindset and that is exactly -- that is where we are best positioned.
So we have had these results without having it go straight to our strong suit.
So that's a period that you would expect even greater organic growth.
On the other side is if we're all talking now how are clients reacting? How are they thinking? If people slow down and just stop for a couple of quarters you're going to have -- you're going to be below that.
And so it's -- again so there's a market sentiment topic [ph] to it where the market is.
But over a good period of time I think there's no reason why we shouldn't be in that 3% to 5% organic growth bucket.
The next question is from Craig Siegenthaler from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So just a follow-up here on the U.K.
equity income business.
Do you believe Retail Distribution Review could have temporarily aided the U.K.
equity income retail business over the last 12 months? But as more accounts convert to the new fee structure because many brokers actually have been avoiding the transition that U.K.
retail equity income redemptions could actually pick up or remain elevated into next year? Interesting question here.
We have no evidence of that and so I -- it would just be total speculation.
I mean I think -- what I really think is -- the fact is that the reputation of Invesco Perpetual's very very strong.
Mark Barnett and his team have had a tremendous track record on their own for a good period of time.
And factually they have performed very very well.
And so that in combination with our advisers to be able to have a broader range of capabilities within the franchise I think those are the vastly dominant factors of why we've got to where we've gotten to.
But interesting question.
I just can't -- really it will be speculation on my part.
Research Division</strong> Marty and then just a quick follow-up.
So we're heading to the fourth quarter here we've had a few quarters of sort of lumpy redemptions from the equity income business in the U.K.
Given kind of your visibility are there any sort of larger losses platform losses that maybe could occur in the fourth quarter? Or should the fourth quarter really be the first clean quarter without any significant redemptions from that business? Okay Craig I'll answer that one.
I think what we're seeing from the data factually is that it's getting less and less of a topic.
And we have not certainly heard of any large -- not been notified.
We had no expectations of anything to happen which is great news.
For us -- that doesn't mean that it can't or it won't.
And there is always a year-end to kind of -- who knows right? People may reevaluate their portfolios.
So I don't want to sort of say we have 100% certainty on any of these redemptions.
Because as soon as you think you do you'll get surprised.
But I'd say in terms of our level of confidence and feeling that we're moving into a normalized period I say absolutely.
And we certainly have no knowledge of any large or even small platform redemptions in our future.
The next question is from Patrick Davitt from Autonomous.
On the news this morning that you're ending the agreement with Deutsche Bank around the commodities PowerShares product.
Will that meaningfully change your economics on that product? Let me pick up the first part and then Loren can pick up the second.
So no we're not ending our arrangement with Deutsche Bank.
We're modifying it.
I mean it's been a very very good partnership.
And what we're really doing is just changing some of the responsibilities that's around.
Now we'll be -- take complete responsibility for the product range including portfolio management distribution operations.
They will continue to be a very important partner in the underlying indexes and the like.
And we'll continue to work together for a good number of years.
And then in terms of the financial impact it really is not a material topic.
We've not disclosed the nature of the relationship but it is an ongoing relationship where we will continue to partner with Deutsche Bank as we sort of develop and continue to grow our product lines.
But we have internalized as Marty said the management the -- of the product as opposed to being largely a distribution relationship that we had before.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then we talked a lot about RDR and the ebbs and flows of that in Europe and U.K.
Could you talk a little bit about PowerShares specifically and assets specifically and to what extent the process of that adoption is occurring because of the regulatory changes in Europe? So Patrick I'd say the RDRs as I think we've talked about in the past it does somewhat open the opportunity for greater use and take-on by advisers of these type of products where to the extent that they're going to be paid for advice directly by the end client the use of such products become easier for them to use.
And so we have said that for the U.K.
and EMEA generally it is a major focus of ours one that we are very organized around trying to develop.
And it's one that you probably -- realistically you're not going to see true results or impacts for somewhere between 12 18 months because it takes that long to really sort of make an impact.
But we're very focused on it.
We think it's a great opportunity for people who have ETF capabilities which obviously we do.
And again to be clear our focus in this space is continued promotion of sort of the smart beta-alternative type of ETFs as opposed to the normal cap-weighted type of products that are very much in focus by Vanguard BlackRock and others.
The next question comes from Greggory Warren from Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Craig Siegenthaler touched on some of the questions I had about Neil Woodford and what was going on with equity income in the U.K.
But I'm just kind of curious as we look out and we look at the -- what they've done with the pension reforms in the U.K.
the removal of the requirements for the annuities how much do you feel that there's growth there to sort of replace what you lost with Woodford's departure? Yes.
I -- look as we've been trying to point out it's a very very very strong set of investment teams with superior investment performance.
And whether it's across fixed income broadly GTR European equities Asian equities European equities it is probably I'd say some of the strongest capabilities in the United Kingdom period.
And so it's a very important part of our business it will continue to be.
And by the way those capabilities are now being used more broadly throughout the world.
European equities Fixed Income et cetera they are a very important part of what's happening on the continent and also different parts of the world for some of the global capabilities and the like.
So it's been a tremendous success and it's going to continue to be a tremendous success.
And you're actually pointing out something important.
This -- with this door opening up that -- investments beyond annuitization that's a very good thing for us.
Now again that's not next quarter or the quarter after that but if you look years ahead it's really quite a good opportunity for us.
Research Division</strong> Good good.
And then something we don't really talk about all that often Canada.
Can you guys give us a feel for what the market looks like now with kind of the challenges you're facing? I've noticed that ETF growth has been pretty explosive the last couple of years.
The banks have gotten a lot more aggressive about going after mutual fund assets.
So just kind of curious how you guys view your position within the Canadian market right now.
Yes.
So I'd start again with performance.
If you look at the performance of the teams there really very very strong.
The success in the retail channel has improved quite dramatically and it was a combination of things.
One again getting performance to a very strong level which it is and has been for a good period of time.
You are pointing out yes the banks are very dominant.
It's probably the one place in the world that they're so dominant with asset management within them.
We have done vastly better than where we were a few years ago.
So we -- and again as you point out it's the addition of ETFs for us and the like make us much more competitive and put us in frankly a -- we think we have competitive advantages in the marketplace.
And the other opportunity for us that we're early days is the institutional market in Canada is very big very important.
And the capabilities that Canadians are looking for in the plans suit us very very well when you start to look at the range of alternatives that we have.
So it has been an important part of our business and we look at it to be a growing part of our business once again.
The next question is from Marc Irizarry from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Marty I'm curious on just the IBRA.
And maybe just largely fixed income and just concerns about market structure changes on liquidity and maybe how your funds are responding to that either in terms of disclosure or maybe just some views on what -- how you're thinking about more stress scenarios maybe where liquidity conditions could change and given investors' responses to rates and what that might mean for a fixed income manager for you guys.
Yes.
So again I might be repeating myself a little bit.
But if you look at the capabilities and what we do on a daily basis we're always looking at liquidity.
Liquidity management has always been an important part of what we do.
The portfolios are stress tested on a very regular basis to get some sense of what is the range of possibilities under different scenarios.
The portfolios are then positioned accordingly if that is a concerns -- some portfolios literally have liquidity -- access to liquidity outside the portfolio.
So again it's something that we think we're absolutely on top of that we're doing very very well.
And by the way I think the industry does it very very well.
And I think that's something for everybody to really understand.
It's worth probing and pushing.
But I really think that the industry's really focused on it and they're really trying to do a very good job with it.
Your next question is from Eric Berg from RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Marty my question is going to be purposefully a general one.
You've talked a lot in this call at various points about how the conversation between investors and their advisers here meaning in the United States has changed given the extremely low level of interest rates given the volatility in interest rates and given the major swings intraday in the stock market.
It would be helpful to me if you were to sort of focus on the most important ways in which the conversations both here -- well here have changed.
I'd love to know what you would think are the most important ways the conversations have changed and if you would provide the same answers for Europe.
Contrasting how the conversations have changed there to here I would -- it would be very helpful.
I think it's a good news development.
I think for some of us that were around the TMT period where if you remember advice was dead everything was going online and there's no room for advisers.
Needless to say that didn't happen and it's exactly gone the exact opposite way.
There's something like 85% almost 90% of all individuals have some form of advice given to them.
And I think it's also gotten much more sophisticated over the years and very focused on understanding clients' time horizons risk tolerance et cetera et cetera.
Things that we all collectively know quite well.
And that they're building robust portfolios around that and using a range of capabilities if it was historically 60-40 equity fixed income loan only.
The addition of being able to have greater access to a broader range of asset classes and also capabilities that are lower-volatility type capabilities and -- is really I think a very very very good development.
I think it's gotten to what you're pointing out I think post-crisis it's a little bit back to the future.
Different names are being used.
But people are looking for income.
They are looking for capital preservation et cetera.
And I think that again is a very good thing at end of the day for shareholders.
Europe I would say is behind that but it is evolving quite a bit to that.
To a degree I'd say the advice channel in the States is probably as well-developed as anywhere in the world.
The next question is from Chris Shutler from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> So on the topic of bank loans just quickly I wanted to ask a couple of questions.
So first I was just hoping you could give us the kind of the total assets that you have in bank loans the rough split of retail versus institutional and then how the flows have trended recently.
And then in addition the -- just interested in the credit rating.
From a credit ratings perspective just -- if you take the portfolio as a whole how aggressive has your team been in kind of investing down -- further down the credit rating spectrum? Chris so we have about $30 billion I think in aggregate around the bank loan capability both institutionally and retail.
The retail bit is the smaller part of that so I think we're probably somewhere around $7 billion in AUM on that and the rest is institutional.
And the current flow picture is -- it's an interesting one.
We're seeing continued interest in bank loans on the institutional side very much so.
The retail side we saw modest outflows.
I think it was about $0.5 billion in the quarter related to -- maybe a little bit more $600 million related in the retail side.
So that's kind of the trends that we've seen nothing alarming nothing that is necessarily unexpected.
And in terms of how the portfolios are being managed I know they're being managed with a fair amount of conservatism because of the topics that Marty and everyone has obviously raised around liquidity and managing through stress periods.
And so the idea that we are selecting securities that were -- that are most liquid that are easy alternatives to straight bank loans or using affiliated types of products in those portfolios is very much top of mind.
So again I'd say our level of sort of management around the conservative side is at a heightened level as you would expect.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then a similar question just on real estate.
Could you just give us a quick update where you are there in terms of AUM and how flows have trended over the last couple of quarters? So AUM is roughly $62 billion.
We've been trending higher consistently in every quarter both again split between retail and institutional.
We're seeing a lot of interest and demand on the retail side particularly around the geographies that are most interested in income-oriented types of products and that would be in Asia and Japan as well.
Direct real estate is a global phenomenon that we're seeing in terms of interest and take-on.
That really as I said sort of continues to pick up as our capability is one of the few truly global capabilities among asset managers and also one that has done a very good job for its clients historically.
And sir I'm showing no further questions.
That's great.
Thank you very much.
And Loren -- on behalf of Loren and myself thank you very much for participating and the questions and look forward to talking to you next quarter.
Have a good rest of the day.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today's conference.
All parties may disconnect.
Welcome to Invesco's Fourth Quarter Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to the speakers for today Mr.
Martin L.
Flanagan President and CEO of Invesco; and Mr.
Loren Starr Chief Financial Officer.
Mr.
Flanagan you may begin.
Thank you very much and thank you everybody for joining us.
Today we'll kind of review the business results for the fourth quarter.
We'll include some highlights for the full year then Loren will go into greater detail on the financials and then we'll open up to Q&amp;A has been our practice.
So -- and if you're so inclined the presentation's posted on the web.
So let me begin by hitting the highlights of the operating results for the quarter and if you are following I'm on page slide right now -- that's Slide 3.
Long-term investment performance remained very strong for the quarter 81% of actively managed assets were ahead of peers over a 5-year period.
Strong investment performance combined with the comprehensive range of strategies and solutions we offer helped clients achieve their desired outcomes and contributed net long-term inflows of $2.5 billion during the quarter.
Adjusted operating income was up 7.5% compared to fourth quarter of the prior year and a continued focus on the disciplined approach to our business drove improvement in our operating margin to 41.2% from 40.5% in the same quarter a year ago.
Assets under management were $792 billion during the fourth quarter up from $789 billion in the prior quarter.
Operating income is $373 million versus $382 million in the prior quarter.
And earnings per share were $0.63 versus $0.64 in the prior quarter.
The quarterly dividend remained at $0.25 per share and we returned $158 million to shareholders during the quarter.
Now let me take a minute to look back over the achievements over the past year which will provide some insights into our longer-term plans also.
First and foremost we remain very focused on delivering strong long-term investment performance to our clients which continue to drive growth in the business.
77% and 81% of the assets were ahead of peers on a 3- and 5-year period respectively at the end of 2014.
By delivering strong investment performance and focusing on client needs we achieve further growth across our global business.
Our U.S.
business achieved net flows of $3.6 billion excluding the Qs in 2014.
IBRA flows are stabilizing with continued strong performance garnering attention among clients and advisers.
We continue to gain strong shelf space support for our broad product range.
We currently rank #3 among peers in the industry for the number of mutual fund placements on broker-dealer recommended lists.
Our Canadian business continues to strengthen its retail presence capturing greater share of the full-service broker channel.
Institutionally Invesco's direct real estate capability is fueling institutional asset growth in defined benefit segment.
Our Asia Pacific business continue to grow.
We saw strong inflows into our Japanese Greater China Asia and European equities as well as real estate strategies.
Our EMEA business continue to grow and become more diversified with significant flows into fixed income non-U.K.
equities real estate and multi-asset capabilities.
In particular we should note the U.K.
retail business achieved record gross sales across a range of capabilities and U.K.
equity redemptions normalized in the fourth quarter demonstrating the strength and resilience of our business.
We continue to invest in capabilities where we see strong client demand or future opportunities such as ETFs multi-asset strategies fixed income and alternatives.
By extending the teams that we have or hiring talent where need be also upgrading the technology platforms and launching new products and providing additional resources where necessary.
The ability to leverage the capabilities developed by our investment teams to meet client demands across the globe is a significant differentiator for our firm and will continue to bring the best of Invesco to different parts of our business where it makes sense for our clients.
By delivering strong investment performance Invesco Global Targeted Return achieved strong inflows in its initial Europe offering with assets under management passing $3 billion at the end of 2014.
GTR's strong performance positions us well heading into 2015 and we think this will continue to be a strong growth story.
Additionally I would highlight the other range of alternatives that we introduced a year ago have very strong 1-year performance.
Based on our continued efforts to take a disciplined approach to running the business the firm was upgraded to A/Stable and A2/Stable by both S&amp;P and Moody's.
We continue to make progress strengthening our operating margin to 41.4% while returning nearly $700 million of capital to shareholders during the year.
Before Loren goes into detail on the company's financials let me take a moment to review the investment performance during the quarter.
Turning to Slide 8.
Our commitment to investment excellence and our work to build and maintain strong investment culture help us maintain a long-term investment performance across the enterprise during the quarter.
Looking at the firm as a whole 77% of assets were in the top half on a 3-year basis and 81% were in the top half on a 5-year basis.
Turning to flows on Page 9 you'll see that passive flows outpaced active during the volatile quarter and again demonstrated the benefits of broadly diversified range of investment strategies.
This is also coming off a very strong active organic growth rate we saw in the third quarter.
We also saw renewed strength in the institutional flows during the quarter.
The figures on Slide 10 reflect the broad diversity of flows we saw across the global business during the quarter which included strength in real estate fixed income GTR quantitative equities amongst others.
The institutional pipeline of one but not funded mandate continues to look strong.
We feel good about the quarter results and the full year.
We're pleased with the progress we've made in delivering strong investment performance and meeting client needs with a range of strategies and solutions throughout 2014.
We believe our achievements and the continuing efforts to deliver great outcomes for clients positions us well as we head into 2015.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Loren to review the financials.
Thanks Marty.
Quarter-over-quarter our total AUM increased $2.8 billion or 0.4%.
This was driven by market gains of $10.5 billion and long-term net inflows of $2.5 billion.
These gains were partially offset however by negative foreign exchange of $7 billion and outflows of the QQQs of $3.2 billion.
Our average AUM for the quarter was $789.8 billion that was down 1.5% versus the third quarter.
Since our retail-related average AUM is calculated on a daily basis the volatility in the equity markets during the quarter resulted in a lower average AUM while the period-end AUM was actually higher.
Our net revenue yield came in at 45.9 basis points which was up 0.3 basis points versus Q3.
Let me decompose this a bit.
The negative impact from FX on product mix as well as the market impact on equities during the quarter reduced our investment management fee yield by 1.1 basis points.
And this was offset however by higher performance fees and lower third-party distribution service and advisory expense which added 1.4 basis points.
Next I'm going to turn to the operating results.
Our net revenue yield decreased $7.9 million or 0.9% quarter-over-quarter which -- to $905.8 million that included a negative FX rate impact of $19.8 million.
Within the net revenue number you'll see that investment management fees declined by $38.1 million or 3.6% to $1.03 billion.
This was a result of the lower level of average AUM in the quarter and the 1.1-basis-point drop in management fee yield that I discussed on the last slide.
FX decreased investment management fees by $25.3 million.
Service and distribution revenues declined by $4.4 million or 2% also in line largely with lower average AUM.
FX decreased service and distribution revenues by $0.3 million.
Performance fees came in at $19 million that was an increase of $8.7 million from Q3.
Real estate accounted for roughly half of the quarter's performance fees while the other half was driven by a variety of other investment capabilities including bank loans quant equity and global asset allocation.
Foreign exchange decreased performance fees by $0.4 million.
Other revenues in the third quarter came in at $34.1 million.
That was a decrease of $0.4 million.
FX decreased other revenues by $0.6 million.
Third-party distribution service and advisory expense which we net against gross revenues decreased by $26.3 million or 6.2%.
This decrease was largely the result of lower average AUM and foreign exchange.
FX decreased these expenses by $6.8 million.
And given the impact on our AUM mix and management fee yields resulting from the continued strengthening of the dollar we thought it would be useful at this point to provide you with some guidance on our net revenue yield for 2015.
Based on current FX rates and AUM levels we expect our full year 2015 net revenue yield excluding performance fees to be approximately 44.2 basis points or 0.6 basis points lower than last year.
Moving on down the slide you'll see that our adjusted operating expenses came in at $532.7 million and that grew by $0.9 million or 0.2% relative to the third quarter.
Our foreign exchange decreased operating expenses by $9.8 million during the quarter.
Employee compensation at $347 million decreased by $2.5 million or 0.7%.
The impact of headcount growth and higher incentive compensation related to performance fees were more than offset by foreign exchange.
FX decreased compensation by $6.3 million.
Looking ahead to 2015 seasonal payroll taxes and a 1-month impact from base salary increases will lift Q1 compensation by approximately $10 million.
Compensation will then decline by approximately $5 million in Q2 and remain largely flat through the rest of the year.
Note that all this guidance assumes flat assets from year end.
Marketing expenses increased by $5.6 million or 20.4% to $33 million.
This was driven by advertising expenses particularly in EMEA.
FX decreased these expenses by $0.9 million.
We would expect that marketing expenses would average approximately $30 million per quarter in 2015.
Property office and technology expense came in at $75.6 million in the third quarter which was down $1.7 million.
FX decreased these expenses by $1.3 million.
We'd expect property office and technology expense to be approximately $80 million per quarter in 2015 the result of continued technology investment to support our fixed income and alternatives business as well as due to increased property-related costs.
G&amp;A expenses in the quarter came in at $77.1 million that was down $0.5 million or 0.6%.
FX decreased G&amp;A by $1.3 million.
Looking forward we'd expect G&amp;A to average approximately $75 million per quarter.
Continuing on down the page you'll see that nonoperating income decreased $6.3 million compared to the third quarter.
The decrease was primarily caused by lower equity in earnings from unconsolidated affiliates.
As you'll recall this line item is the function of the co-investments we have made in our private equity and real estate partnerships and these investment valuations are booked on a quarter lag.
Given the quarterly lag and the somewhat negative markets we saw in Q4 we may see this line item decline from the Q4 levels in Q1 of 2015.
The firm's effective tax rate on pretax adjusted net income in Q4 was 26.1%.
Looking forward in terms of guidance we'd expect the effective tax rate remain between 25.5% and 26.5%.
Which brings us to our adjusted EPS in the quarter of $0.63 and our adjusted net operating margin of 41.2%.
So before finishing on the slide I'd like to do a couple things.
One I'd like to take a moment to let you know that this month we took some tactical steps to protect our P&amp;L against further negative FX impacts in 2015.
As you all know a strengthening U.S.
dollar has a negative impact on our fee rate and revenues.
Invesco's most significant foreign exchange exposure is to the pound sterling.
In fact based on our calculations a 10% decline in the pound from the current rate would result in an approximately $0.05 to $0.06 decline in annual EPS and an erosion of about 10 to 20 basis points of operating margin.
So given this exposure we entered into a series of out-of-the-money put option contracts which will protect about 75% of our sterling pretax income and this is at a strike of 1.493 and this will be in effect through the course of 2015.
The premium cost of these options of course there is some money involved here will reduce our full year 2015 EPS by approximately $0.05.
Under U.S.
GAAP accounting rules these options will be mark-to-market below the line in other gains and losses.
And we believe this hedge will help reduce the bottom line financial impact of any further significant strengthening of the dollar.
And finally before I turn things off to Marty I know there's always a question about how things are going on flows.
And I would say that we're off to a good start in net flows in January.
We've seen about $2 billion about half of that is in the passive category and the other half is in active.
We continue to see Europe grow quite strongly.
There's about an 18% organic growth rate just based on January again it's 1 month so take that with a grain of salt but we're continuing to see strong growth there.
And our traditional PowerShares products are growing about 15% which again seems like a pretty good rate.
Overall based just again just based on January what we've seen about 3.5% overall organic growth rate on long-term AUM.
So again we are not quite done with the month.
We may see -- actually see some more month-end institutional flows coming in.
Marty mentioned we have a very strong pipeline so where you could actually see that number improve from here.
And so with that now I'm going to turn it over to Marty.
So we'll open up to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Michael Kim from Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> First just curious to get your take on some of the trends you're seeing across the institutional landscape in terms of potentially de-risking or moving into passive from an asset allocation standpoint either here in the U.S.
or outside of the U.S.
And just related to that are you still sort of seeing decision-making processes delayed just given sort of the environment? A good question.
So let me -- I've been traveling quite a bit so I can -- just coming back from Asia.
And quite frankly the appetite still seems strong.
The asset classes that institutionally people are looking at for us continues to be our alternatives which GTR IBRA prosperity real estate the bank loans but quite frankly also Asian equities European equities Japanese equities so really continue to be very broad.
Also quantitative strategies are another area that is gaining quite a bit of interest and on the comment the same is happening.
I can't speak to the timing specifically but what we have seen traditionally is that when there's uncertainty people do slow down in the funding but we don't have that indication right now but back to the point I made earlier -- and Loren I mean the institutional pipeline really is quite robust.
So we don't -- we've not had indications that it's people going on hold yet and sort of de-risking.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then maybe for Loren if you could just sort of give us an update on where you stand as it relates to excess cash beyond regulatory requirements; seeing capital needs and maybe your marketing some funds to potentially buy in the residual stake in Religare.
Just trying to frame the share repurchase opportunity above sort of offsetting annual grants.
Sure Michael.
So at the end of the quarter we had about $1.5 billion in cash versus about $1.35 billion last quarter.
In our European subgroup which is what we need to keep in terms of regulatory requirements about $940 million of that is in that group.
So we still need to hold a significant amount of cash in our European subgroup as you are well aware.
I would say that phenomenon is here to stay and it's probably not going away anytime soon.
In fact generally we think just based on the regulatory environment it's probably only going to get worse from here as opposed to better so that's just a general sort of overarching comment.
With that said though you should expect us to continue to follow the policies that we've been following.
We want to build up some excess cash about $1 billion over that subgroup level and it is something that -- is again self-imposed discipline that we're seeking to achieve.
In terms of the seeding and the need for capital those are elements that are still very much in sight for 2015.
Given the number of opportunities that we have in the space of alternative products and alternative fixed income which tend to use a fair amount of capital real estate as well we see an ongoing trend of some of our cash being dedicated to facilitate those flows and those products.
In terms of the Religare opportunity to complete our ownership that's an option that we have.
We've certainly made no decision to do that at this point.
But if we were ever to do it it would be something probably in the order of magnitude of $150 million total cash needed.
We would need to put $50 million just to have that ownership stake it's required by India if you have more than 50% stake you have to put in $50 million.
So anyway that's something that we can evaluate in the future.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just final question on sort of -- just a follow-up on hedging sort of the pound exposure.
Any change in thinking as it relates to the euro? I know that's not necessarily as big of a position for you but any thoughts there? Yes so the euro exposure is about half of what it is for the pound.
The impacts are about half of what is for the pound something we've looked at.
We don't want to get overly complicated and get into a massive hedging strategy at this point.
We think that the prudent thing was to put the pound in place and we'll evaluate that.
We think that that will really do the bulk of what we wanted to do in terms of protecting us from a further strengthening dollar.
The next question is from Ken Worthington JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A couple follow ups on the hedge.
First when did the hedge start? Was it January 1 earlier or more recently given the currencies have gotten creamed a lot in January so far? It was the middle of January roughly.
I don't know the exact date that we put it in place but think of it mid-Jan.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So given the pound stills decline zero decline et cetera it would imply still an incremental hit to 1Q.
Now if the equity markets got creamed I would expect Invesco to tighten the belt with reduced costs.
FX seems different.
How do you as managers think about the business employees and shareholders in a situation where FX is having a pretty decent impact on earnings? Does it change investment? Does it change the bonus pool? Like how should we expect that to kind of flow through as we think to 4 quarters even with the hedge? Ken that's a great question.
And so our view is just look at the fundamental strength of the business right? And you were sort of heading that way in that FX is something we can't control right? And to the degree other than trying to be thoughtful and reasonable with hedges.
But as I talked about and Loren talked about if you just looked at the fundamental -- go back to the U.K.
go back to EMEA go back to the continent the business is strong and growing robustly.
And I think it would be an absolute mistake for us to because of ForEx stop making the investments when we're making such strong progress in the different parts of the world that way.
So at the end of the day we have to do right by clients and do a good job but be good stewards and I think we've shown a track record of being good stewards.
So is it -- we'll see where this goes but we're -- I think as you've picked up from myself and Loren we're on it and we're driving it hard.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then changing gears.
Just on performance fees.
There's a little seasonality with some of the trusts in 1Q and we saw a nice pickup.
Got a lot of different businesses that charge performance fees.
As we think about the rest of the year and maybe even to early next year what is the view there on performance fees? It would seem like the quant business has kind of come back the -- Wilbur Ross seems to be poised to harvest.
How are you thinking about it? And ultimately if you're getting this cash flow I kind of consider it found money what do you do with it? So in terms of performance fees as we've talked about in the past it is hard for us to forecast with any great accuracy because of the very strict accounting standards in terms of realizations and when we can reflect those things in our P&amp;L.
I mean in terms of overall levels because performance is strong in our products relative to what we saw last year maybe we're sort of in that range again this year.
But again there's a lot of potential change that can come off that baseline based on what happens.
And I do think in terms of the most line of sight real estate seems to have probably the best opportunity to generate performance fees in some magnitude this year.
They obviously contributed this last quarter and we would hope to see more of that coming through in 2015.
In terms of the Wilbur Ross again that is one where it's very much tied to kind of end-of-life of the funds.
It's mathematical impossibility of any claw back is kind of the standard with which the accounting holds us to recognize on that one.
And I could say quite honestly I mean the volatility around the carry in those funds can be quite significant.
So again that's something that we're going to keep our eyes on but that we wouldn't be looking directly for any sort of realizations from Wilbur Ross in 2015 at this point in time.
But again some of the other parts of the business that we talked about are generating a bank loan and quant generating some good consistent performance fees.
So I think that will be there.
And in terms of what we do with that I mean a lot of that does drop to the bottom line right? And so it helps margin it helps the business.
But one of the things we've often said is that we don't want to sort of make a business on performance fees and sort of lock in long-term expenses against sort of things that are going to be tied to potentially things that won't -- revenue that won't recur.
So we're very cautious about capturing that revenue when we think about our plans when we think about our opportunities investments that we tend to not count that in.
In terms of where the cash goes it will be part of the operating cash along with the rest of the operating cash that we generate.
So we're going to continue to use it but we don't earmark it specifically for one activity or another it's sort of fungible in our operating cash.
I would just add Ken to Loren's first point that we do run the business sort of thinking -- ex performance fees I think it can get you trouble otherwise because of the volatility of them and then secondly to clarify the second point that Loren made that -- what do we do with the money? It is part of our normal thinking and we would continue to as you call it if it's found money although I'd say people work pretty hard for it it would accelerate some of the plans that Loren talked about have a rising dividend increase or stock buybacks and while at the same time building that cash buildup that we talk about.
So...
Next question is from Bill Katz from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Marty in your prepared remarks you mentioned you've said good success in terms of placement opportunities on distribution channels in the U.S.
From some experience either from Invesco or other places you've been how long does it take before you start to see a ramp in related gross sales against that? Yes that's a great question and I wish I had a very specific answer.
I think the main point and you go back a few years ago where that wasn't the case for us and yes that was part of the effort of building out a more robust retail capability that is now in place and range of capabilities to performance but frankly placement is critical.
And so it's a prerequisite to success.
And I think it puts us in a position as the retail environment as it gains steam and this is going to put us in a very different position and you would hope and expect that our retail results would be that much stronger than what we've seen historically.
So I don't have a specific date but again I think the main point it's absolutely a prerequisite for success.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question I have is -- you mentioned that you're seeing a pickup of quant and we've heard some mixed dialogue on that so far from those reporting fourth quarter to date.
Is that a geographic-centric answer or outlook of what you're seeing or is it a market [indiscernible] so curious what's driving the differentiated opportunity for you? Yes interesting.
So where relative strength I would say kind of only Europe is really quite strong we're starting to see some traction in the U.K.
and these are institutions and again as just in Japan China and Australia and it was topical every area there we're actually seeing some real interest in the capabilities.
It also I think is relating to the use of institutions using more factor investing or whatever you might want to call it and we have just such a strong capability there whether it be through quantitative team within the PowerShares what was referred to more as smart data but one and the same.
And so it is I'd say a growing interest around the world and that's what we're seeing so far.
Research Division</strong> And my last question I think your January update is probably a little better than people were anticipating can you break that down a little bit on where you're seeing some of the incremental recovery of volumes? So Bill so I think it's in the passive area it's going to be probably overrated in the PowerShares traditional products and we're seeing that.
I don't have the January notice but I think it's sort of the smart beta type of products that are doing well.
In terms of UITs are doing well.
Those are sort of passive products that get packaged through the broker-dealers.
We're also seeing as I mentioned good strong flows in our cross-border products and it's the same kind of thing that we're seeing in terms of euro corporate bond Pan European structured equity GTR Pan European high income those products are doing quite well.
I'd say institutional generally is showing up nicely.
GTR is really a very bright spot I think generally.
I mean Marty mentioned that it's now at $3 billion and growing.
When we last spoke I think we mentioned it was $1 billion.
So it's really -- it's ramping up nicely and it's in -- prominently in our pipeline our institutional pipeline.
So again more to come on that story as we get into the next quarter but it's looking quite promising.
So I think that's kind of the highlights in terms of where we're seeing.
Now IBRA I'd say also just generally is sort of stabilizing to some of the things that have been sort of somewhat negatives on the flow picture are we going to stabilize in the performance and IBRA is really quite strong now and so I think it is positioned to do much better.
There was a sort of one small -- large institutional outflow in the quarter on IBRA.
If you subtracted that one impact you'd see this trend very clearly in terms of what IBRA is doing.
So we're encouraged by that.
And then on the flip side the bank loan ETF which I think some people have talked about that also seems to be generally stabilizing.
I mean it's still an outflow but it's -- certainly the outflows are nothing that we can't manage and it's been managed quite effectively and I think there's only about $5.5 billion in that product just so people know.
The next question is from Michael Carrier Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Loren just on the I guess the distribution revenues and expenses.
It just seems like there is maybe -- I don't know if it was an offset or something it just seems like the expenses declined a bit more.
So I didn't know if there was anything unusual this quarter or if it was just one-off activity.
Yes I think it's more one-off activity.
Michael again there's always a little bit of noise and adjustments around some of these distribution things as things get trued up through the course of the year.
So in terms of our net revenue yield guidance that probably will be the best way for you to be normalizing that going forward.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then you guys just gave some color on like the January flows.
And if I look at the fourth quarter the whole industry is a kind of a crazy quarter just in terms of the volatility and the impact that it had on flows.
If I look at the categories so it looks like equity balanced and then Asia were sort of the areas where we saw weakness in the net flows for you guys.
Just want to -- when I look in the outlook it seems like things are pretty favorable.
But anything that you saw during the quarter that was not environmental? And it looks like the performance for 3 5 years still good across the board.
1 year dipped a bit.
But anything else that you would say there's more cautious or cautiousness from investors on certain products versus the longer-term trend which you had been good and it seems like January is off to a good start.
Yes.
I would say -- you described it as environmental I think is the right way to capture it and impact your other point.
If you look at the depth and breadth of the performance across the globe it's really strong.
And so there is something that -- to meet investors needs in almost any way that they are looking at how to build their portfolios.
And you're right in the fourth quarter there's literally I think it was a $4 billion change quarter-over-quarter just in equities alone because of how people reacted to the volatility.
So that was probably the biggest impact overall to us.
But again if you look into 2015 as Loren and I have been talking it looks like it should be a strong year.
I can't speak to what the markets are going to do but if it's sort of a sideways to slightly up market I would imagine a very very good flow picture for us.
Yes I mean one of the things -- that if we do continue to get served up in very volatile markets where people are less prone to be putting money directly into active equities I mean some of our liquid alternative products even though they are early days have really strong performance.
I mean they are sort of top decile 1-year numbers which again bodes well for the positioning of these products and then again how they get taked on -- taken on by the distributors that there's a lag it takes a while to get through.
But we're probably as well positioned as anybody to sort to be first-in-line as these things sort of come in.
So again we could probably do quite well under whatever environment comes our way.
The next question comes from Patrick Davitt from Autonomous.
I have a couple of questions on nontransparent active ETFs.
I guess more broadly how do you guys kind of view that product relative to your current product suite in terms of viability and as a competitor to PowerShares? And more specifically now that Presidian has refiled its proposal could you kind of update us on the degree to which you think the changes they've made can be approved and what the time line is for that approval or rejection? Again very topical when it came out what now a couple of quarters ago.
Honestly I think the quarter ETF and the things that are in place are the things that have been driving the industry.
Could over time it have some traction? Possibly but it's nothing that we're overreacting to at the moment.
So we think there's actually the combination of the existing mutual funds and ETFs we think they're both great structures that really gets you to where you need to be.
Not so sure what the whole benefit of a nontransparent ETF is vis-a-vis a mutual fund.
So again as a competitor product again I can't describe the future but it's nothing that we see as sort of a dominant disruptive technology as people would describe it as.
I don't think there's the same sort of first-mover advantage of being out there first with the nontransparent active ETF because it's all very specific to whatever investment team is managing it as opposed to capturing a particular space with an index.
So that is one of these things that we probably going to remain vigilant but not necessarily being a first mover.
And let me put in context.
We say that from experience.
So we launched I'm going lose track of time maybe 5 years ago active ETFs and if there's $4 million in the 3 funds I'd be shocked.
So it just hasn't really taken hold.
Maybe it's different here but that's been our experience.
Okay.
And that's great color.
And any update on the Presidian product which I think you guys are part of? Yes I've not heard -- only what I've personally read on this thing so again don't have any much insight as to how they're going.
The next question is from Craig Siegenthaler from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First what specific themes is Perpetual seeing in the U.K.
given strong sales activity in 4Q? I'm sorry Craig we couldn't quite hear your question.
Research Division</strong> All right.
What specific themes is Perpetual seeing in U.K.
given the strong sales results this quarter? Themes or asset classes? Well...
Research Division</strong> Product themes distribution trends? Got it.
Okay.
So it's -- the firm couldn't -- it just couldn't be stronger.
So if you go asset class by asset class whether it be Asian equities European equities fixed income global equities the performance is very very strong.
I think everything is in net inflows but for the U.K.
equity income capability it's actually back to net outflows similar to where they were before the change with Neil and Mark Barnett's done an incredible job in his team generating the performance.
So really strong.
And that was the point I was making that I don't think anybody would have expected that 2014 would have been a record gross sales year for Invesco Perpetual.
And that is really a result of the strength and depth of the teams.
And a lot of those capabilities those teams are -- they make up the bulk of the product range that has been so strong in the cross-border area.
So again very very strong positioning in EMEA for us.
Research Division</strong> Marty from the outside here it looks like maybe 4 drivers are kind of driving the strong sales results.
You had a bunch of product launches over the last year and 2 years that was probably helpful.
I don't know if you reinvested back into distribution but I thought that maybe a lever too.
There seems to be more open architecture going on in the U.K.
And maybe RDR is benefiting some your products like passive.
But any of those things do you kind of view as drivers as benefiting your business in the U.K? Yes.
It's again it's a continuation of what we continue to do right? I mean we do the obvious.
We try to understand what clients need and we ensure that we have the capabilities in place to do it.
Probably the most recent areas that -- of relative greater investment have been in fixed income with multi-credit and the like and again we look at it as a longer-term capability that performance across fixed income is very very strong right now.
That was an area that we had abroad and which we have done.
And we also believe that extending our alternative capabilities into the retail market was an important thing and that's why the effort at the end of 2013 and as Loren pointed out the performance has been very very strong and the second set of launches in '14.
And we looked at that as we told you we think of it as a 3-year time horizon the best -- you really need a 3-year track record every once in a while there are capabilities that do well.
Sooner than that historically we saw that with IBRA we're actually seeing it specifically with GTR right now and again I think it's -- we're probably going to be in more volatile markets for a period of time.
Investors are looking for a broader range of ways to diversify their capabilities and that was the whole point of taking the alternatives into the retail market also.
And as Loren said it's only 1 year but the 1-year performance is just very very strong.
So it probably bodes well for trends that we see -- that we believe are going to be here for a good long time.
And the only thing I would say is the continued focus on I mean RDR is sort of an underpinning for sort of broader changes within the whole U.K.
environment the fact that we've gone out with a single transparent fee has been a very positive thing.
I think we talked about that before it affected some of our -- where our revenue showed up.
But we're certainly at the forefront in terms of doing things that we think are going to be quite friendly for shareholders for the IFAs who want to sell our products.
And we think we're very well positioned with the brand.
And the advertising that we put in place have been really helpful for our recognition and it's something that we expect to continue to do in 2015.
And the thing I don't want to have lost in this conversation though is we're talking about sort of advancements if you want to call it that but let's not lose track of the fundamental core capabilities the long-running capabilities in this organization are very very strong.
And not just that I firmly believe that the active management is a very important thing it's been topical to the contrary.
But that said we're into the markets where they're doing well and you can see demand for them more permanently.
And I think it's going to be a time for active managers over the next 3 years.
The next question comes from Dan Fannon from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> My question's on the IBRA franchise and it's kind of been through a little bit of fits and starts.
Obviously it came out of the gates very hot with good performance and very solid flows and then we went through the underperformance and now performance is good again.
I guess just wondering how it's being sold or what changes have been made in terms of the messaging in terms on how that product can perform? And do you think it can get back to the momentum it had 2 years ago? Good question.
And so I'll answer it this way.
So I'd start by the reality and the right way is that clients have a range.
Every client has a different set of investment objectives and risk tolerances and they build their portfolios with ranges of capabilities as you know that's what you do.
But IBRA was always meant to be an anchor in a portfolio greater -- a diversifier and a risk mitigator.
And we always believed and have said that when you had a very strong equity market the likelihood is that it would relatively underperform and at the same time you saw the flows happen.
So we saw that exactly.
But I would also come back to if you look at the performance 1 year 3 year since inception it's very very strong.
So since inception top 11 percentile 7 percentile over 5 years the 3 year is 40 percentile 1 year is 16 percentile.
So it's just a really strong performer.
I mean it is an anchor in a portfolio and again I think we have to separate flows from portfolio construction and we think it's really well placed especially if we're going to be in a volatile market environment.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just to follow up on the January transitors [ph] that have been so strong.
Is this the combination of both lower redemptions and higher gross sales or more just a gross sales pick up? I believe it's combination of both.
I think our redemption rate is much lower and sales have come back in January.
The next question is from Eric Berg RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> It feels like that the -- there are not only important product preferences being expressed by investors alternatives real estate fixed income.
But it feels too like there's an important difference that needs to be articulated and I'm hoping you can do it for me to sharpen my understanding of investors thinking about investing abroad investors thinking abroad versus that in the United States.
It just seems like they're approaching investing and what they want and what they're doing is completely different in Europe and Asia than in the United States.
My question is is that right? And if so how would you sum it up? Yes.
Look I think you're right and I think that's not a new trend.
I think if you look at equity preferences and fixed income preferences around the world just using those 2 categories they have historically been different they've been different for I'd say structural pension reasons is 1 level and frankly also people's risk tolerance.
But you also are seeing some changes where if you just go to Japan Abenomics has -- it is making a real change where in the pension plans dominated by fixed income Japanese bonds and some Japanese equities there is absolutely movement into non-Japanese equities non-Japanese fixed income.
And so that is a very big change.
But you're also seeing the preference towards equities outside of the States has probably been higher and with active managers in particular and it's served them well.
So that's what we're seeing and it's a good observation.
LLC Research Division</strong> One separate question.
I noticed again in the back of your press release in the final table or right around the final table were your -- you're displaying both your performance relative to benchmark and performance relative to peers but there are quite a few circumstances I don't suspect this is distinctive for Invesco and I suspect this has been the case for a while where there are quite a few instances in which performance is below benchmark but quite strong relative to peers.
My question do you think that -- I think that that may -- that the public's tolerance for that sort of performance strong relative to peers weak relative to benchmark is their tolerance is going to become less and has become less and less and will become even less and less.
Do you agree or disagree? And what do you think the implications what do you think the implications of that would be? So tolerance of underperformance vis-à-vis benchmark? LLC Research Division</strong> Versus -- yes in other words imagine a manager who was doing very well relative to peers in the top quartile or top half or let's say top quartile but is underperforming his benchmark consistently.
So a good question.
And what I would say is very hard to draw a conclusion from that and so here's what I mean by that.
Again I don't care if it's an institution or an individual.
They're going to have a set of things that we know a set of investment check of time [ph] prices risk tolerances.
And that benchmark doesn't necessarily represent what they're trying to accomplish with the different investment capabilities.
And I think that's really the very very important key there and I think you'd have to look institution-by-institution and mandate-by-mandate to come to that conclusion.
But -- so I can't give you a broad answer to that specific question.
The next question comes from Betsy Graseck Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on something you mentioned earlier regarding the active ETFs that 5 years ago you put it in place there's maybe only $4 million in AUM.
Could you just give us a sense as to why you think that is? Is it a function of the distribution? And what seemingly seems like there's a difference in connectivity between distribution of active ETFs and other products that needs to be fixed or do you think it's a function of pricing? Or it was just ahead of its day? Maybe all of those.
And I wish that we had a specific answer.
I mean we've asked ourselves that.
I think probably what it does come back to is how people are using ETFs and mutual funds.
And I think people have generally -- this is a broad statement if you look what's in mutual funds they tend to be longer-term time horizon type capabilities that people use.
Now that's not to say ETFs aren't but I think they tend to be used in overall portfolio to sort of modify exposures or get access to an asset class they might not be able to in a mutual fund.
So I think it's really how the group portfolio construction how they're using them.
That would be my take on it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just separately you've obviously had great success at taking the ETF PowerShares product and applying it to different portfolios that might not appear liquid but you're providing liquidity i.e.
the bank loan product.
Can you talk about what the plans and opportunities are to expand that into other fixed income markets? Yes.
I'm really not prepared to describe what we're going to do next or I prefer not to.
And that said what we -- again the answer is we continue to try and understand what investors are looking for and then we determine the best way to deliver it whether it's a separate account a mutual fund or an ETF.
So sorry I just don't want to get more specific.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
No I get that.
So then I guess just lastly the -- Loren for longer interest rate structure that we've got does seem like it would provide an opportunity to expand the product set because part of the challenge is the liquidity in the underlying product set versus what you're offering to the client in the ETF.
And does -- is that a fair assumption that a lower interest rate environment enables you the opportunity to provide potentially more liquidity than you would otherwise be able to do? And then separately maybe you could talk to how you're thinking about liquidity for these products in general given in December we had some commentary from Congress on liquidity and how asset managers are providing liquidity to their investors.
Yes.
A lot there.
So let me just get to liquidity question.
So I think it's like this is a new idea that liquidity management is something new to the money management industry.
It is absolutely fundamental to how all portfolio managers that manage portfolios for price since inception.
And I think that is something that's not fully understood by maybe some of the regulators.
And I think money managers do a tremendous job of liquidity management.
It's just core to their job and they all do it in different ways right.
So whether it's keeping levels of cash having backup lines of credit if they detect [ph] in a way so there are just many different ways to do it.
So I don't know that it's such a new idea and topical as others are bringing up.
That said we continue to do what we've done for decades and just make sure that all the different portfolios have -- the portfolio managers are managing them soundly and appropriately.
So that's my perspective and that might be too simple of a view but that's how I look at it.
The next question is from Luke Montgomery Bernstein Research.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So on the currency translations I realize it's a crude comparison but we've seen more of a natural currency hedge I think between fees and expenses at some of the other firms like the trust banks.
And based on the last 2 quarters it looks like you guys have a 1 for 2 offset from expenses.
So perhaps it's an obvious answer but is it the higher-margin of the model or some other issue related to where you keep staff versus where you generate the revenue.
I know it will be changing with the hedge obviously but understanding the underlying operating structure and how that translates to the P&amp;L would be helpful.
Yes so we tend to -- because we have fairly large portfolios particularly in the U.K.
relative to the portfolio -- number of portfolio managers there tends to be good scale there and good scale better fees higher fees than other parts -- in particular in the U.S.
similar topic with Europe in terms of the fees.
The margins in that region tend to be at the higher level relative to some of the other regions.
So I'd say it is a margin topically you described it that is causing that ratio.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I know it doesn't necessarily apply to your performance but as you noted there's been a lot of noise in the press on the poor showing of active management versus benchmarks in 2014.
I think the measure of that most often cited leaves a lot to be desired but to Eric's point there is a commercial issue here.
So I wondered if you could just get a little more detailed about what in the investment environment you think is so challenging for active managers and why you feel that outlook for 2015 and beyond is better as you said.
So it's a great question and something that we've taken a look at and I think what we're reading in the popular press is by our calculations not exactly correct.
And if you look at performance over the last 5 market cycles peak-to-peak trough-to-trough and you look at managers of active share of 60% so that probably excludes -- this is just mutual funds that probably excludes about 15% of the population.
All managers have outperformed during that period 63%.
And that's -- there's lots of detail here but I won't go into it.
My point is and that's before you start to pick good managers and so what it's really saying is you really need to look at money managers through the cycle and what to expect during the different cycles and not some calendar or arbitrary date.
That's not how the world works.
And so I think people could be making bad decisions based on a simple calendar-to-calendar element but if you are ever going to see active underperformed it would be from 2009 on when you consider the chunk rally off the bottom and 3 grounds of QE so there's never been an environment like this.
And I think people could be making bad decisions by drawing the conclusions that they have.
The next question is from Robert Lee KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I apologize if this may have been asked earlier in the call but I just wanted to follow up.
I know you guys have been as you invest in products like GTR and whatnot have been building up your seed capital over time as new product launches have accelerated the last couple years.
How should we -- do you think you're kind of getting to the point you're kind of near the end of that and it'd be more of kind of just recycling and harvesting? Do you see much more need to build the seed capital book further? And that's the question I have.
Yes.
I mean I think that we're still a little bit in the bubble of development particularly as we rolled some of these capabilities out to different regions.
It may be sort of the same type of capability but sort of see it in different regions.
So I'd say that's sort of a continuation to 2015.
I would expect probably as we get into 2016 that would begin to slow down.
But it's still early days.
I mean there are some things that we did in the liquid alternative world that were launched specifically in the U.S.
and we're not fully rolled out everywhere too.
So again I don't want to sort of get too ahead of what could be the case.
Real estate just as a theme though as we continue to grow it's a very very successful franchise that we've got here.
And we think that we could do more in there I mean they're obviously well established in U.S.
becoming more and more established outside the U.S.
That will continue to probably demand some amount of capital that is going to be consistent.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And maybe on a related topic I know you guys are clearly very hopeful about the GTR and its potential on a global basis to gather flow so -- and Loren you did just mention real estate but are there any other maybe a couple of products that you could point to that you think fairly new but that you feel that given seed in different jurisdictions whether U.S.
U.K.
Europe Asia that there's -- you feel like they have a potential to build what I'll call maybe a global scale franchise off of it? I would say absolutely I mean unconstrained bonds.
We think that we've developed some really really fantastic products with our team.
And again just because of the newness of it they really haven't been able to sort of get established.
So I think there's probably quite a variety of fixed income capabilities that are yet to come and will position us in a very large market.
So that's something that's in the future probably a couple of years away still but something that I think will provide a lot of opportunity for flow and growth.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one last question on PowerShares.
And I'm just curious to what extent if you think of product development for PowerShares do you or can you leverage the quant skills you have on kind of the separate account side of the business and more traditional side of the business? I mean is that really kind of a -- I mean can you take strategies as you do there and leverage them into PowerShares? Or are they kind of help you develop what maybe good smart beta strategies for PowerShares? Just trying to get a sense of how they kind of if at all work together and kind of leverage each other.
Yes.
So that is exactly what has been emerging for us over the last 18 months in particular where as factor investing or smart beta whatever you want to call it institutions are looking at it and some institutions want to use the ETFs and they do.
But by the way there's others who want separate accounts and utilizing our quantitative team to do that is something that has been emerging and is a really strong complement.
So it's really -- and we look at it -- we can become vehicle independent in that and do what you really want to do and just understand what the capabilities the clients want and deliver them.
So it's really the combination of those 2 that are really putting us in a very strong position.
The next question is from Chris Harris Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> A quick follow up on the U.K.
Was there any negative impact from Woodford this quarter? I know in prior quarters there had still been a little bit of leakage from retail and I just didn't know if there was any kind of modest outflows that hit the U.K.
this quarter as a result of that.
No.
I mean as I mentioned earlier the net outflows in those they're now back to the same levels that they were when Neil was managing the portfolios.
And just I mean on that one there's a natural redemption rate against the large portfolio and so pre any changes there was always sort of an ongoing outflow in those large portfolios.
And it's gone back to those levels which are really de minimis now.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
The other question I have was on PowerShares specifically the Qs.
I know you guys really don't have any economics there but certainly how the Qs do does have some impact on the brand of PowerShares.
So just wondering if you guys could maybe comment a little bit on why flows in Qs were so weak in 2014.
Yes.
I don't know if it's -- so the Qs do what they're supposed to do because there -- it's actually a passive portfolio just a typical passive portfolio.
But if you're responding to the flows again a lot of that is used by institutions wanting access and what you can really see is almost all investor sentiment is the way I would be looking at that.
When you have strong flows to the Qs you can sense where people's confidence levels are in the U.S.
market in the segment of the U.S.
market.
And when you see those outflows that's what you've got and so if you look at Q4 in particular that's exactly probably a great indicator of investor sentiment and how they were feeling about the risk they were taking in the market.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So there's no product switching or anything like that it's more like a sentiment issue.
Very much -- yes I mean that's...
Next question is from Brian Bedell from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been asked and answered.
But maybe just 1 further Marty on the active and passive side of the story.
How has the positioning within your sales force within the retail channels of active versus passive I guess changed over the last year? And as you're thinking -- and moving into 2015 obviously being bullish on active performance how are you positioning that versus the PowerShares franchise? And if you could talk about the retail distribution landscape in that regard in both Europe and the U.S.
So good question.
I'm glad you asked.
So again the way that we look at it is very basic.
We absolutely try to understand what clients are trying to accomplish and we'll use a range of capabilities to meet those needs.
And so that would include whether it be our passive or our active capabilities and so we're 1 firm if you want to say from an economic point of view we're indifferent.
The good news is because it's so broad and so deep our capabilities we can focus on the clients and that's how we look at it.
So we just listen and then lead with whatever capability meet those needs of a client.
And to use an analogy that a colleague of mine says if you're a hammer everything's a nail.
And so the point is since we have such a broad range of capabilities we actually can absolutely focus on what clients needs and so we don't look at them as competing with one another.
We look at them as complementary to one another in helping clients get done what they need to.
Research Division</strong> And maybe just a follow up to that I guess where are you seeing -- maybe again in the last few quarters where are you seeing that demands change on the active and passive side I guess looking again both at Europe and the U.S.
and the financial advisory channels.
Are you seeing any significant difference in the demand for the PowerShares versus the active products? No.
No we're not.
I mean if anything I think PowerShares continues to be strong and I -- as we were talking a question or 2 ago I mean it's -- the factor investments is really taking hold I'd say maybe more so outside of the United States within institutions.
And as you've heard Loren and I talk quite frankly there is a range of institutional investors in particular if you want to use them as a really bellwether that are also very much investing long only equity capabilities along with fixed income and alternatives.
So it's really quite broad environment at the moment.
What the whole year looks like I can't speak to but that's just what we're seeing right now.
Next question is from Douglas Sipkin from Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions.
First wanted to just follow up on some of the mechanics of the currency the hedge I guess.
So in terms of sort of the impact on revenues and expenses that still will be vulnerable or benefit from exchange movements.
But below the line -- excuse me in the sort of I guess other comprehensive income account the gains and losses from the hedge will show up.
So it's still possible -- is it still possible that currency weakness or strength can weigh on sort of the revenues and expenses in the operating income number? Yes Doug.
Unfortunately yes.
The hedge is going to be reflected below the line other gains and losses it'll be mark-to-market so it's non-operating I mean it'll protect our cash it will protect the bottom line EPS but the operating will definitely be subject to whatever changes we might see around the yield.
And certainly expenses will move in line with revenues in the U.K.
and in Europe largely.
So it will certainly have that natural hedge.
It's really the operating income that is still going to be exposed.
And so again as we talked about in terms of the margin impact a 10% decline is going to have 0.2 0.3 basis points' degradation in margin if you saw a 10% decline.
So in any event it's still on operating -- still are operating results will be exposed to FX.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
So just a little bit more on that I mean will it hit the income statement though? The gain from the hedge or when...
Absolutely.
It will hit the income statement and it'll offset any operating income.
So there'll be an offset that will even out EPS impact.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then I guess just digging in a little deeper I mean obviously it does create a little bit of noise in your numbers but -- and my math could be wrong but like the actual EPS impact doesn't seem too material.
I mean I know you're more vulnerable with pound weakness but there is some element of matching on the expenses.
So I guess I'm just wondering given -- looking in the rearview mirror obviously the currencies have come down a lot.
But at this point I mean I'm just trying to think the methodology.
I mean is it sort of like something you guys are thinking you know what let's just take the currencies out of this we don't want to make any bets on anything? Because I just -- just from that standpoint I feel like maybe we're past a lot of this currency movement and maybe it doesn't make sense to do it at this time.
Well we certainly would hope that's the case.
We put the options really just as protection against any further strengthening of the dollar.
So we're not trying to do anything relative to where we are today.
The floor is at 1.493.
I think the pound is at 1.5 something right now.
So again if we see the pound start to strengthen from here my forecast around net revenue yields x performance fees would improve which would certainly help margins and any estimates around earnings.
So it's really -- we felt important just to protect us against any significant further strengthening of the dollar which again I don't think there's anybody who really knows clearly what is going to happen in terms of that story.
And so we just didn't want it to be an ongoing concern for our investors or for others and so we sort of just kind of took that topic off the table.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I got you.
So effectively you're protecting on more downside but if the pound did sort of change direction driven by whatever you guys still look -- position for upside.
Well positioned nothing lost yes.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
Perfect.
And then just in terms of investor sentiment I know it's been very early days with the European announcement.
Any preliminary sense that the risk-taking in some of the European areas is going to pick up or has picked up already from what the ECB did? Yes 2 parts to that.
I think no question I think the ECB move helped sentiment.
I think the anchor right now is what's happening in Greece and I think that's going to keep some volatility in the market until some greater clarity is there.
So one's a positive and you'll probably -- you just have to mention that the Greece situation gets into something that's a manageable outcome but lots of noise in the meantime until that happens.
The next question is from Greggory Warren from Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick look at your balanced segment over the last year.
Organic growth was down about 4% on the year.
It's traditionally been one of your better growth areas.
Yes I know Atlantic Trust was a big part of that historically.
But when you look at where industry growth was for that particular segment last year just wondering what potentially impacted that last year that's different from any other period was it performance was it distribution lack of interest? I'm not sure can you add some color there? Yes.
So Gregg thanks for the question.
It was really 2 primary things.
One you're quite familiar with I think in terms of IBRA.
IBRA is booked into that category so we've been seeing some strong outflows in the earlier part of 2014 progressively improving quarter-to-quarter.
So again we think from a trend perspective that is on a good plane.
We also saw just episodically lower -- outflows in a European high income lower.
So that was a balanced product and so that was just kind of a onetime thing.
So we don't think that there's anything this quarter on the balance side that's really worth saying that there's something fundamentally shifting other than we think there's a positive trend and we would expect to see balanced sort of go positive again.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Good.
Good.
And then just a quick follow up on what's going on in Canada.
You've got a couple of independent providers up there struggling a bit with poor performance poor flows the market shifting somewhat where banks are moving both into manufacturing and distribution of mutual funds.
Just kind of curious where you guys feel yourself positioned how you potentially get better growth out of the active piece of the business and then sort of what the plan is for PowerShares there.
So a couple things.
So first of all as you go back a number of years we struggled with performance investment performance lagging into the period of time.
Now we've had it's probably 3 years of strong growth and that's been really important to get in place.
So again the first principle in place have a range of capabilities performing well.
So that's been a good sign and that's been really what moved Canada to almost as breakeven last year in the retail channel.
It's always been broadening in the retail channel and PowerShares are in Canada and that has been another thing that has -- following the playbook that was used in the United States.
It is broadening the things that we can do for our clients up there so I think that's going to help a lot in the retail channel.
The other opportunity for us is that we think that that we should be able to do just much better in the institutional business in Canada.
So again a very important part of our business some real talented people there with some good capabilities.
And you are right Canada compared to I'd say almost anywhere in the world maybe Brazil would be about the same but the dominance of the banks is quite extraordinary.
Research Division</strong> Is there any sort of key to unlocking that to getting on those platforms? Is it just -- is it a fee differential? Is it a performance issue? Or is it just that they're more hungry for the business? Well I think you've hit it.
I mean it's -- they like selling their products more than they like selling other people's products and yes I mean it's -- when I got into the business decades ago I thought that would change and it's not changed a bit up there.
So again it just -- you really just have to continue to do a good job and just recognize the strength of the banks.
And also you have to expand your range of offerings beyond what they would be doing themselves and that's what we're doing.
The next question is from Bill Katz from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up and I did have to hop off for a second so I apologize if you did cover this in some of the other Q&amp;A.
You mentioned quant coming back a little bit more I asked earlier can you give me a sense of where the mandates are coming from? Is it replacement to active long only equity fixed income cash where are the mandates being funded from if you have a sense? So you're talking about the institutional pipeline Bill sorry? Research Division</strong> Well on the quant equity you mentioned that factor based investment is scientific.
Yes.
So it's again kind of [ph] in Europe is probably the strongest followed by the U.K.
and again Australia and emerging interest in Japan which is again I think relatively new and follow-on to sort of Abenomics and some interest in China.
Research Division</strong> I understand that but -- I'm sorry if my question wasn't clear enough.
Where you think the mandates are coming from in terms of from other allocations from equity within asset class or fixed income et cetera? Bill I wish I knew.
That's a good question I don't have the answer to it.
So sorry about that.
And so with that I'm showing no further questions.
Well again on behalf of Loren and myself thank you for attending and thank you very much for the questions and we look forward to talking to you next quarter.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today's conference.
All parties may disconnect.
Welcome to Invesco's Second Quarter Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now we'd like to turn the call over to the speakers for today Mr.
Martin Flanagan President and CEO of Invesco; and Mr.
Loren Starr Chief Financial Officer.
Mr.
Flanagan you may begin.
Thank you very much and thank you everybody for joining Loren and myself.
And those that wish to follow the presentation it is on our website if you are so inclined.
Today I'll review the business results for the second quarter.
Loren will go into greater detail around the financials.
And as our practice both Loren and I will answer any questions that anybody might have.
So let me start by highlighting the firm's operating results for the quarter you'll find this on Slide 3 of the presentation.
Long-term investment performance remained strong during the quarter.
75% and 79% of actively-managed assets were ahead over a three- and five-year basis respectively.
Strong investment performance combined with a comprehensive range of strategies and solutions we offer to help clients achieve their desired investment objectives contributed to long-term net inflows of $5.9 billion for the quarter.
Adjusted operating income was up 4.2% compared to the first quarter.
The quarterly dividend is $0.27 per share which is up 8% over the prior year.
We also returned $198 million to shareholders during the quarter through the combination of dividends and stock buybacks.
Turning to the summary of the results for the quarter assets under management were $803 billion at the end of the second quarter up from $798 billion in the prior quarter.
Operating income was $390 million in the quarter versus $374 million in the prior quarter.
Earnings per share were $0.63 per share the same as the prior quarter.
Before Loren goes into details on the financials let me take a moment to review investment performance during the quarter inflows.
Turning to Slide 6 investment performance remained are strong across the enterprise in spite of the volatility later in this past quarter.
Looking at the firm as a whole 75% of the assets were in the top half on a three-year basis.
79% were in the top half on a five-year basis.
I am now on Page 7.
I think we all recognize that every client has a unique set of investment objectives with a desired set of outcomes that can be achieved in a variety of ways.
We believe the greatest opportunity for clients to achieve those investment objectives is by using a well-constructed portfolio that is needs-based spans asset classes and considers both active and passive strategies.
One of the greatest strengths of Invesco is the broad range of active and passive capabilities we offer our clients.
It's a key differentiator for us in the marketplace.
Our focus on meeting client needs with a broad range of active and passive capabilities drove solid flows into our business during the second quarter.
Active and passive flows we saw across the globe reflecting continued efforts to deliver strong investment performance and provide excellent outcomes for clients.
Although retail flows were impacted by the macro event we saw strong flows in our institutional channel during the quarter.
The figures on Slide 8 reflect a broad diversity of flows we saw across our global business during the quarter which included strength in fixed income namely investment grade stable value global total return real estate and other asset allocation products.
Despite significant funding during the quarter the institutional pipeline of won but not funded mandates remains strong and diversified across asset classes.
We feel good about the results for the quarter.
In spite of the late volatility we saw in the second quarter we continue to see strength in Asia Pacific and EMEA particularly and across the broad range of asset classes.
These flows were the result of the continuing strong investment performance and our ability to meet client needs with a range of strategies and solutions which positions us well for long-term success.
And from my perspective this quarter really represents the value of being broadly diversified by channel asset class investment capabilities and the value of the investments we have made over a number of years.
Smart data in ETFs European cross border investments the institutional business globally alternatives fixed income.
We have a history of advancing our business during uncertain times whether it comes through markets or more recently the impact of such developments coming from the regulatory changes.
We believe we are positioned very well.
We believe we are making the investments to continue to strengthen our business while at the same time we recognize we are in an uncertain time and we will be thoughtful during this period.
Loren? Thanks Marty.
So now we'll go through the asset roll-forward and operating income.
So quarter after quarter you'll see that our total assets under management increased $5.3 billion or 0.7%.
This was driven by FX translation of $8.5 billion and long-term net inflows of $5.9 billion.
These gains were partially offset by negative market returns of $6.2 billion and outflows from money market and the QQQs of $2.6 billion and $0.3 billion respectively.
Our average AUM for the second quarter was $810.9 billion.
That was up 1.9% versus the first quarter.
However as Marty mentioned due to the market declines in June our end of period AUM came in at $803.6 billion which is in fact 0.9% lower than our Q2 average AUM.
Our net revenue yield was 46.2 basis points which represented an increase of 0.1 basis points versus Q1.
The drop in performance fees quarter over quarter accounted for a decline of 1.9 basis points which was more than offset by a variety of factors including an improved mix which added 0.7 basis points one extra day during the quarter which added 0.6 basis points favorable FX and higher other revenue each of which added 0.3 basis points.
Let's turn to the operating results now.
Net revenues increased $19.1 million or 2.1% quarter over quarter to $936.6 million which included a positive FX rate impact of $5.1 million.
Within the net revenue number you'll see that investment management fees increased by $59.7 million or 5.8% to $1.08 billion.
This was a result of higher average AUM one extra day during the quarter and the impact of the growth in higher yielding product.
FX increased investment management fees by $7.2 million.
Service and distribution revenues increased by $6.2 million or 2.9% also in line with higher average AUM and the increased day count.
FX increased service and distribution revenues by $0.2 million.
Performance fees came in the quarter at $13.1 million and they were earned from a variety of different investment capabilities which included bank loans real estate Asian equity and quantitative equity.
Foreign exchange had no impact on our performance fees.
Other revenues in the second quarter were $37.9 million which was an increase of $6.7 million and that line item benefited from a higher level of real estate transaction fees.
Foreign exchange decreased other revenues by $0.1 million.
Third-party distribution service and advisory expense which we net against gross revenues increased by $14.9 million or 3.7% and this increase was in line with our higher average AUM and higher day count.
FX increased these expenses by $2.2 million.
Moving further down on the slide you'll see that our adjusted operating expenses at $546.4 million grew by $3.3 million or 0.6% relative to the first quarter.
Foreign exchange increased operating expenses by $2.3 million during the quarter.
Employee compensation came in at $351.4 million a decrease of $11.3 million or 3.1%.
The decrease was consistent with the decline in seasonal payroll taxes and a reduction in variable compensation linked to performance fees earned in the first quarter.
These declines were partially offset by a full quarter of higher base salaries that went into affect on March 1.
And foreign exchange increase compensation by $1.7 million.
Marketing expense increased by $3.3 million or 12% to $30.7 million.
FX increased marketing expenses by $0.2 million in the quarter.
Property office and technology expense were $82.2 million in the second quarter.
That was up $4.4 million.
This increase was the result of higher property-related expenses and foreign exchange increased these expenses by $0.3 million.
G&amp;A expense came in a little bit higher this quarter at $82.1 million.
That represented a $6.9 million increase or 9.2%.
The increase in G&amp;A was the result of $3.6 million of additional fund and regulatory costs as well as higher professional service expenses associated with technology initiatives which amounted to $2 million.
Foreign exchange increased G&amp;A by 0.1 million.
Moving on down the page you'll see the non-operating income decrease $6.7 million compared to the first quarter and that was largely driven by lower equity and earnings from unconsolidated affiliates.
The firm's tax rate on a pretax adjusted net income basis in Q2 was 28.7% which was consistent with the guidance that we provided in the first-quarter call.
Looking forward our tax rate will return to the lower level of 25.5% to 26.5%.
Which you brings us to our adjusted EPS of $0.63 and our adjusted net operating margin of 41.7%.
Let me just take a few minutes to discuss Invesco's financial outlook before turning things back over to Marty.
At the end of Q2 clearly negative market sentiments and risk-off behavior on the part of many clients occurred and that was driven the situations in Greece and China.
As a result as I mentioned we find ourselves starting the last half of the year at a level of AUM that is in fact lower than what we average in Q2 and roughly flat to the average AUM we had across the first half of the year.
We continue to believe that Invesco is very well positioned for success and we face many significant growth opportunities many of which do require further investment on our part in order to realize.
At the same time we are aware of our needs to manage our expenses in a disciplined way especially when markets are particularly volatile and uncertain.
So as of today our expense guidance is still roughly in line with what we discussed with you in the first half of the year.
Nothing has changed.
However we will be looking closely at other areas of spend and investment with an eye to prioritize and look at certain non-critical projects and initiatives to see if we can delay certain events particularly until the market has stabilized.
However on a positive note in the last half of July we have seen some improvements in the markets and a significant positive turn around in the retail sentiment in Europe and our ETF business.
In fact just in the last two weeks of July we generated more than $1 billion of net inflows.
In addition we continue to see very strong institutional demand across a variety of our investment capabilities and we would say that should this improvement continue we do believe that our organic growth rate is on track to meet our plan of 3% to 5% for the year and our incremental margin target of 50% to 65% is achievable.
With that I will now turn things back over to Marty.
Thank you Loren.
Operator any questions? We have a first question coming from Michael Carrier Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thanks guys.
Maybe the first question and maybe for both of you.
Loren maybe just given what you said in terms of the shifting tone and sentiment in July.
You mentioned the last two weeks.
I don't know if you have a full-month picture but even more important than that you gave some color on the institutional pipeline.
Just on the retail.
When you think about maybe up through April all the momentum and the progress that you have been seeing versus some of the pull-back that we have seen in the past couple of months we just want to get a sense on which products continue to work where you are seeing that demand.
In the cross-border we have seen huge swings early in the quarter versus what we are seeing now.
I just wanted to get an update there since that is a big driver for you.
Michael I'll answer maybe the first one and Marty you can add whatever.
In terms of July I would say we are roughly flat in July on net flows.
So obviously those first two weeks were tough and they have been completely offset by the last two weeks in July.
The daily flows continue to be strongly positive from where we are today.
That is the good news.
In terms of the products that are absolutely on track and continue to be in high demand we're seeing alternatives generally as an asset class flow very well.
GTR in particular bank loans CLOs alternative fixed income continue to be a very strong provider real estate.
Those are going to be continued trends.
We're pretty certain that those didn't even really slow down that much.
Balanced also continues to be a strong area of growth for us.
IBRA we have got balanced product in EMEA and CE as well.
What we really saw was equity.
That took the hit from that April - May time frame and that was around -- very much a target of domestic equity got hurt pretty bad.
UK equities also got hit.
China got hit.
That was the real element that took the flows away.
The things that are still flowing and we think very positively that are going to continue to flow also I did mentioned fixed income which is another area where we have spent a lot of time and effort and investment to build out our capabilities and to allow our clients to understand those capabilities.
And we're seeing a lot of demand at both retail and institutional for those products.
So I'd say the themes are going to continue.
Hopefully the equity element which was really the part that hurt us is stabilizing and now we're going to see more continued interest in those products.
The ETFs as well clearly stalled for us for a while and that was because most of the flows going into ETFs was really centered on either the hedged foreign exchange hedged product or the international products which we don't have a presence in nearly to the extent to a sense that some of our competitors do.
We have as I mentioned in my commentary seen that turn around.
Our products are now selling across many of our capabilities in our ATF range.
That's helpful.
And Loren just on the expenses it sounds like keening an eye on things just given the volatility in the market.
I think in the past you have given some guidance on the line items and just particularly the G&amp;A.
You called out a couple of items that you have seen maybe were more elevated.
But I just want to get some sense going forward where these things should be running and I hear your comments on keeping an eye on the markets but just anything that was maybe more noisy this quarter? I'd say G&amp;A did pop up.
There were a lot of things that you would definitely circle as being one-time in nature.
Probably somewhere you could easily circle $3 million to $4 million of stuff in G&amp;A that was non-recurring.
I think the issue is that -- other things may fall off but other things may come on.
So there is a recurring non-recurring situation in the G&amp;A.
We are managing that line item looking very closely at it trying to manage through it and I would say it's probably at a very elevated level in the second quarter generally and we would hope to see that number decline from where it is.
In terms of giving explicit guidance as to where it lands harder for us to say exactly where that would be If I took a swag I would say somewhere in the $75 million to $80 million range is probably the right level but it is harder to really manage and forecast that line item just because there are certain things that are going to be related to product launches or certain needs around regulatory situations where we're just going to need to spend money to deal with those situations.
Okay thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from Glenn Schorr of Evercore ISI.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Maybe we could get a little more color on the Asian franchise.
I think I heard your comments on equities in China but in general that is $60 billion now.
$1.3 billion in positive flows and I think there was like $7 million in performance fees from the region.
If you could just get a high level what is working what do you still need to build across Asia because I think it held up a lot better than people might have thought.
Two points.
So we look at it as one of the fundamental strengths of the organization.
Lots of commentary about China right now but if you look three to five years it is a very important place to be.
We look at our greater China capabilities unique.
We look at our presence in mainland China as unique both retail and institutional.
And it may go through a challenged period here but we think we are uniquely positioned there.
What I would say is we talked about the institutional business.
The leadership in Asia Pacific.
The institutional leadership is new this year very very strong.
We think that and we are seeing greater results already which is frankly hard to believe and we're seeing it in Australia along also Japan is a very strong institutional market for us and historically that's not been the case.
We are seeing additional success frankly before I would have thought that was the case institutionally in the region.
And again we're looking for continued positive contributions from that region for us.
I'd say the things that are really working for us we have seen a lot of demand for fixed income product in Japan.
We're seeing a lot of institutional business generally.
Australia as well is taking on our GTR product.
Real estate continues to be a theme.
A lot of things working for us in many different regions within that Asia category.
Thank you.
Last quarter you mentioned on the institutional pipeline the won but not-yet funded was at an all-time high.
Any color? I hear you that the pipeline's good.
I'm just curious on how good.
It's really at the same level it was last quarter which is very very good.
I think the question for all of us and we would -- the uncertainty I think we'd all have to -- What will institutions do? When will they fund? I think if we're in a stable market we're going to see the funding of those which we would anticipate we don't have any indication otherwise but we have seen over the years when markets get unsettled sometimes the institution are low slower to fund it.
Won but not funded continues to be at record highs for us.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
And we have another question coming from Ken Worthington of JPMorgan.
Hopefully I got this right.
It looks like you won a larger series of large active US institutional fixed income mandates in the quarter.
Generally not an asset class I think of first when I think of Invesco and I mean no offense there.
But can you flush out what is happening where the mandates are being won and any color you can provide? We are seeing it across a broad fixed income stable value and we are seeing it both in terms of corporate activity our Taft-Hartley business.
It is spread across a variety of asset classes.
The one that we are probably most pleased with is the growth in the corporate side which has never been necessarily the strongest area we have played in.
We continue to add resources to be more meaningful to the corporate clients that we are working with.
It's really in broad fixed income and stable value where the largest wins took place.
Ken just adding to that if you look add our fixed income performance it's really very strong.
And the client results are frankly sooner than I would have thought and I think you'll see we talked in prior years we thought we were going to miss this whole fixed income cycle and it was just really making sure we had the capabilities for the next one.
That said I would say we're making progress before I thought what would have happened.
So it's all very good from my perspective.
Great.
And then maybe my follow-up.
Invesco made a large push in product development in marketing into alternative products in the US and Europe over the last 18 months.
So the track records are still young and developing but Q2 would seem to put these products to the test.
So the question is how are the products performing? Are they meeting your expectations? And given maybe the change in sentiment how are conversations evolving with the intermediaries to really sell the products both in the US and in Europe? Thanks.
Very good question Ken.
Our view is that if you are taking feedback from the clients the feedback has been quite clear whether it be retail or institutional but retail in particular is relatively new that allocations are going to go from 5% to 15% to 20%.
Whether they get that high who knows but let's just say they go to 10%.
That is just quite an opportunity.
We have had the investment capabilities internally largely for institutions.
We as you know put probably the broadest range of alternatives into the retail market beginning at the end of last year.
Our view always was think of no shorter than three years before you're going to get results because of as you say developing the track record and the like.
And every once in a while you get some success before its time.
The first one that came on was IBRA.
You all know how successful that has been.
It continues to be successful.
The one that is an early success right now is GTR and it's in the UK on the continent in the United States.
Asia the derivatives component slows that down in that region on a retail basis.
So we think it's going very very well and it's nice to have another early surprise if you want to call it that from a client response in GTR.
With regard to your question the volatility of the markets.
Did we see disproportionate flow into the alternative bucket on the retail side? We did not.
I think that's too early.
I think if we continue to have a couple more quarters of this the intention is going to be there.
One limiting component continues to be the distribution channel's ability to get alternatives on their platform.
There is high desire but the mechanics of getting them on the platform are still slow.
It's not a criticism they're just being very very cautious.
Just recently GTR has been added to a couple of very important platforms here in the United States.
That should be a good development in the future.
And just on GTR.
The good news is GTR is now at $6.5 billion in terms of AUM and if you add in the won but not yet funded component it would be at $9 billion.
It really just continues to grow and again a very attractive fee rate on that product.
Roughly 100 basis points.
Good to know.
Great thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from the line of Patrick Davitt of Autonomous.
In these past quarters where there was a pretty significant decline in the stock price you have ramped up your me purchase quite a bit.
Didn't really seem like that happened this quarter.
Could you walk through the thought process around that given the weakness in the stock last quarter? Patrick I think we have debated internally for some time about how to react to certain market dislocations and it's always unclear when to go in big because you have to have a real strong view on the market and tactically you can get in and you can do some.
We did buy more this quarter than we did last quarter.
At the same time we are still feeding some large products as the large feed capital needs that we need to balance across the buy-back opportunities.
And we are still looking to maintain $1 billion in excess of what we have from the regulatory capital perspective.
And so there's a balancing act that continues to exist our prioritization of how to use capital.
The first call on our capital is always going to be the internal one in terms of organic needs which would be the seeding.
And so I think given the size of the seeding this is probably the largest element in terms of being a little bit more circumspect doing more on the buyback.
We will continue to be very systemic in our buyback.
And again the stock may go up.
We're going to continue to buy.
Stock may go down we're going to continue to buy.
And so we have seen our ability to forecast markets as a challenge.
And it's probably better on our part to be more systematic as opposed to trying to time the markets in a big way.
More broadly it seems every day now there is either a regulator or a press article talking about bond liquidity.
And you always enter that conversation given your size in the bank loan markets.
Curious if all of that kind of noise is bleeding into your conversations with clients and to what extent you feel like that conversation is going positively for you? It's a good question.
Look I think when you read the public commentary generally in the papers it's too shallow of a commentary quite frankly the thing to say.
Money managers including ourselves have been constructing portfolios for decades.
It's the fundamental strength of what we do as an industry.
In portfolio construction you are always looking at liquidity needs and the like and there's an assumption in the paper that if you are in bank loans you have 100% in illiquid hard to trade bank loans and it is just false.
So if you look at the combination of our bank loan products or others there is a high liquidity component to it.
There are back-up lines of credit.
The clients absolutely understand that it's just the public commentary doesn't.
But I will say the industry is working things like shortening settlement periods and the like in bank loan markets and doing the things that we should just to continue to make the markets more efficient more effective for the benefit of our clients.
That is our perspective on it.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from Bill Katz of Citi.
So just trying to run the math a little bit if you're feeling pretty good about the 3% to 5% organic growth rate and July is basically a push and we know the first half of the year.
It would suggest the theme here is the institutional business is doing pretty well but the thrust of the question is I think you have to have some pretty big numbers coming through in the second half of the year.
Are you at a point now where you are starting to really take advantage of scaling some of the products? Obviously you gave the disclosure on GTR terms.
But just more broadly one of the pushbacks has always been oh you have a lot of small funds but nothing that is really sizable.
Do you think you're at a nice inflection point now where you are starting to scale some really scalable assets globally? It's a good question Bill.
You get scale by doing good things for clients and I think you start by if you look at our performance it's really very strong.
That said you have to do something about it.
We as a firm for the last couple of years in particular have refocused again on taking those capabilities that can become offered globally to clients and taken to clients globally and that is what we have done and that's what you're starting to see whether it was risk parity GTR bank loans real estate.
So that is an absolute focus of the firm where it makes sense to do that and we have been making progress and we are focused on accelerating that progress.
And I think you're seeing that.
The opportunity around the products that have global demand whether it's IBRA or GTR or some of the bond products that is absolutely what we're focused on and I'd say we're making progress.
It's not something where for fixed income we said it is happening faster than we thought actually but we're probably not at a level where you would say we're at the same scale of some of our larger competitors.
But again we value the diversification too.
I make that point that we don't want to be probably as large as our competitors in certain products.
We like to have a series of diversified capabilities all that work on a global basis.
That's helpful.
And I think you mentioned in your prepared remarks that the regulatory pressures are building in terms of the costs.
Is that idiosyncratic to Invesco or is that more of an industry dynamic? Where are you seeing it? And then if you still feel pretty good about the incremental margin range and we know the GA does that suggest there's a little more operating leverage on comp from here? Let me take the first part.
The regulatory thing it is hitting everybody.
Not like the banks but we think it's quite overwhelming the amount of regulations that have come this way.
Where it's hitting the most so again it will depend on if the firm is global or not.
If you are a global firm the UK was probably the most dramatic in its change and its regulatory environment and the demands on a firm the investments we have made around that are material.
You also have impacts of things like RDR and what does that do.
We have talked about that over the years.
We thought we would be a winner.
We are a winner in it but by the way you have to make changes along the way.
The continent is another area where again much more complex regulation impacting the business and the like.
Yes we're spending money.
But what I would say too it also increases the barriers to entry which I think that is fine for us.
It's probably too bad for the market.
But longer term the bigger stronger firms that can make investments will and will frankly probably do better than the mid-sized smaller firms.
You come to the United States we have had again an awful lot of regulation come out.
It wouldn't be to the same magnitude there.
I think some have paid close attention to which you have all have is what happens with the fiduciary rule.
That could have some incredibly negative consequences ultimately to all of our clients.
Well-intended but currently proposed not very thoughtful.
That said we think we are going to be one of those firms that is quite well positioned if some version of this rule comes out.
I think others are going to be at quite a disadvantage.
It really is an influence on businesses like I have not seen in my career and we do feel that we can take advantage of opportunities that emerge as business models get changed through the regulatory dynamics.
To answer the last part of your question Bill the answer is yes.
It's leverage on all the line items.
We are seeing with the now renewed strong growth in cross-border flows in EMEA for example that the trend on the fee rate should be more positive.
FX has improved slightly as well which is again very important in terms of getting that operating leverage in some of our most scaled products.
I think those elements will help and as you know our compensation line item is probably most strongly driven by investment performance.
It's probably reasonably stable so there isn't sort of a sense of large needs to change compensation.
For those reasons we think that 50% to 65% opportunity on incremental margin is there as long as the trend comes back or it continues where we are seeing the flows come back in the most important places.
Okay.
Thank you for taking both of my questions.
Our next question coming from Eric Berg of RBC Capital Markets.
Marty and Loren why do you think there is such a bifurcation such a difference between the behavior of institutions and individuals during the quarter? And by that I mean if one pieces together the different pieces of information that you are giving us and the different tables that show the flow of assets it looks like it was a fixed income-led institutional-led US-lead advance.
And active advance.
And there wasn't nearly as much retail activity and I should say fixed income and alternatives.
But so heavily institutional.
What is your sense obviously you can't get into the heads up of individual investors everywhere.
That's impossible but from talking to your colleagues and distributors what is your best sense of why there is such a difference of behavior by retail investors and institutions? That is a really good question.
I think this is something we have all studied over our careers here and for all the education that we all try to put into the market with clients et cetera not just us but distributors consultants and the like you continue to have different behaviors.
Institutions frankly do a better job of being consistent in investing for the long term.
And I think what you have seen on the retail side the bigger element probably I don't have this number exactly in front of me was not so much redemptions as much as retail investors stopping.
Instead of making the decision I'm going to put more money into -- I'm committed to this monthly investment plan into my US equity capability they are until they're not.
I think they get really scared with what was going on in Greece and what was going on in China and even with advisors and I think advisors are really really important for our retail clients the idea of just holding off is very very common.
And it is as simple as that but it was pronounced.
If I could ask another high level question to you Marty.
During the course of this call we have talked about all of the many businesses in which Invesco competes other than active equity investing.
We've talked about risk parity global total return bank loans other alternatives real estate and so forth.
My sense is that there is a view in this business by many people who follow it that somehow active equity vesting is the holy grail it's a good business and that everything else especially fixed income is not as good.
What are the merits of that whether people believe that? What is the truth about your business? By that I mean that as Invesco transitions to these other businesses in many quarters other than active equities is that a good thing? Should I feel good about it should I feel bad about it or indifferent? Good question.
So here's our answer.
So it gets to the comment that I made earlier.
Every single client whether retail or individual has a unique set of investment objectives and you can get there through a variety of ways to meet their outcomes.
What we are committed to and how we have built the firm is having a broad range of investment capability to meet those needs.
High conviction capabilities whether they are active or passive.
So when we talk about passive we believe in smart data.
It is a better data and you get better information for your clients.
The combination thereof is how we think we can generate the results for our clients over time.
I can't pass on my individual judgment on how somebody should build their portfolio.
That said I'll put on my personal advice.
Over time always active management will give you the greatest returns for the level of risk of investment.
That is a fact.
That is not common wisdom right now because the period we have come out from 2009 on and the bounce off the bottom three rounds of QE et cetera et cetera.
It is an absolute mistake to be giving up on active equity investing.
And I will say you go cap weighted passive investing the best you can do is an average minus fees.
I don't think that is how you serve your clients best.
And Eric just on the purely Invesco-specific financial point the margins on those capabilities fixed income or alternatives are certainly as good as what we have seen in active equity.
So there isn't a financial give-up in terms of us moving from one active class to another particularly as long as we have scale and those capabilities.
I come back Eric just to make the point.
Our view is if you are looking to invest in Invesco our absolute focus is on our clients first and we think if you do a good job for clients and you run a disciplined business Invesco is going to do really really well.
I think that is really an important thing to understand too.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from Daniel Fannon of Jefferies.
My question is again on the institutional side.
Just curious with the strength you are seeing there are you having success cross-selling to existing institutional clients or are these new relationships mostly? Just trying to get a sense of kind of the breadth? Quite frankly many of them are new.
And frankly an area that we are focused on to improve is having a greater number of relationships with each of our institutional clients.
Not just what's in but a number of them are multinationals and just doing a better job of serving them around the world.
And again we think we are one of very few organizations that can do that so we look at that as an opportunity for us.
Great.
And then just also just thinking about the backdrop volatility and what that presents potentially opportunistically for you.
Has your views around M&amp;A changed at all? Do you think about potentially being more aggressive in a market like this where maybe some peers or others aren't in as good a position as you are? Our views haven't changed.
The criteria is still focused on what are the skill gaps or product gaps that we are missing and that is the first criteria.
We try to build them first internally but again I wouldn't say we're there.
In challenged markets it's amazing what presents itself and again we're not there but we're not -- we'll just have to see what happens.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from Luke Montgomery of Bernstein.
So coming to the ETF business you have got a foothold there.
It's a number four position.
Still a small fraction of the overall market and fairly concentrated for you by AUM flows in a few products.
But you have talked a lot about growing the platform with smart data.
Seems like more and more of your competitors are talking about it too.
I thought perhaps you could speak to whether you feel if you have a comfortable lead in the race here.
What your competitive advantages are and whether you think there's a first advantage in some of these product ideas.
Any thoughts on that competitive landscape? I think others coming into it just verifies that it's a good idea and that there is -- that it's a good thing for clients.
So the others coming in we think that's a good thing.
There is absolutely in the ETF market in particular first mover advantage.
Very differently than institutional mandates or another retail mutual fund.
So product development becomes very important and it's really what two or three of the same products and that really takes up the shelf space.
And so being first or second really matters in that.
And we also think our competitive advantage in smart data is that if you look at our product range it's the broadest smart data product range out there.
It's also the oldest.
When you start to look at track records you're not doing models and looking backwards it is the product range that has the longest experience in the marketplace and that is valuable over time.
So coming new into the market you are disadvantaged by those facts.
Thanks and then coming back to the fiduciary rule I think most of the focus has been on how this impacts intermediaries.
There's been a little bit of talk about how this could be more challenging for bundled defined contribution providers but at least in my view it seems rarely supported by anything specific in the legislation that would accelerate any of the pressures that already existed or introduce any new pressures.
As you think about the opportunity in DCIO any thoughts on how the rule changes the competitive landscape for the legacy providers? Yes it's a good question and I think everybody is searching exactly for what the right answer is.
I think if it does go through in its current form which I doubt because it is absolutely unworkable and it does any number of things but if it did I think it would be quite unsettling to the whole marketplace.
It would put a value on size which could be quite frankly one of those catalysts for combinations that you would not have imagined previously.
It also in some of the support commentary it is very specific in sending people towards types of investment strategies types of investment products types of vehicles that will clearly have unintended consequences for investors.
We have the unique position from being in the United Kingdom and with RDR and there's corollaries there.
So trying to create purity is a wonderful goal but what you have seen in the United Kingdom is individual investors.
There are more people not taking advice right now because of RDR and their total cost has gone up.
I believe you're going to have that same type of thing here.
The people that most need advice won't get advice and they'll be disadvantaged by the whole process.
So it's hard to answer the question until we know what comes out at the other end.
But as currently I think it would be quite disruptive.
Okay thanks so much.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from Brennan Hawken of UBS.
First off congrats on the quarter particularly in what has proven to be a really difficult and challenging environment for a bunch of your peers.
So I just had one question left at this point.
You highlighted that towards the tail end of July volatility in Europe is subsiding.
Now that you are seeing flows and trends come back what is different in recent experience versus earlier in the year or is it just a return to the products that were popular and working before? And is there any difference between retail and institutional.
Just some color from there would be helpful.
It feels largely like a return to the previous part of the year as opposed to some new trend emerging that is different from what we saw before.
Maybe there's a little less interest in corporate bond product than we saw before still but that is being offset by some other products that fixed income long-dated corporate fixed income maybe less so.
That is about the only thing that I can point to that feels a little bit different.
And then one small one.
There was a little noise around New York tax in the quarter.
Is that going to have any impact on the tax rate going forward? No.
It was just a one-time situation that is no longer going to affect our P&amp;L.
Okay thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from Michael Kim from Sandler O'Neill.
A little bit more about the opportunities you see to leverage the breadth of product across the franchise to build customized offerings across both active and passive strategies as well as maybe other alternative quantitative or allocation services and I know it's still relatively early days but any early read into relative economics of what I would assume would be chunkier mandates if you will? And you got cut off at the beginning but I think I got the gist of it.
It's really -- the question around solutions and how do you put together the various capabilities.
It is an area that we are very very focused on.
I would say we're early days of success.
It depends on where in the world probably -- opportunities are probably greatest at the moment for us in Asia probably in China in particular.
We're also seeing it on the continent.
We also believe there should also be an opportunity here in the United States.
It has just been relatively slower in those two regions.
And early read on relative economics of chunkier mandates.
We have seen no change in terms of the attractiveness of the mandates that will stay around stable value.
The broad fixed income was one where we don't have as much scale and so it's improving significantly as we generate more AUM in that category.
So that's the two big movers.
In terms of GTR the economics are excellent similar to what we see across the cross-border range so rates tend to be at the high end.
So other than that I think we have sort of discussed the other elements.
They are all at margins that are very attractive to -- should be attractive and accretive to our margin overall.
Got it.
That's helpful.
And then just in terms of some of the newer vehicles we are seeing on the actively-managed ETF front just given your market presence with power shares and as you communicate with your client how important is non-transparent actively managed ETFs? Is that something that investors are really looking for or is transparency in terms of portfolio holdings not really that high on the list for your clients? The conversation has been going on for some period of time.
And if you remember we have introduced two or three active ETFs five or six years ago.
We were one of the firms ahead of the exemption.
And I think I have said in the past we still have them.
They might have $3 million in them across the board and it's probably our CTFO.
And those are transparent.
Those are transparent.
So again I'm just a big believer that at the end of the day people don't invest in vehicles per se.
They invest in investment strategies first to meet their desired outcomes.
The mutual fund vehicle is a spectacular vehicle for a long-term investors and we all know the disclosure period on and the like we have just not seen a lot of demand for non-transparent ETFs from our client base.
And some of the things that we look at the things we are pointed to of the advantages we think that you can solve any of those through share classes within mutual funds too.
That said we are indifferent because we could do active ETFs ourselves we have our existing ETFs and mutual funds.
So we're just really -- we study it and we're capable but we're just not seeing demand which is very counter to the commentary that you might be reading in the papers.
Got it.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thank you.
Next question coming from Robert Lee of KBW.
Thanks.
Most of my questions have been asked but I did have one.
This hasn't come up on your calls in a while but relating to a potential M&amp;A.
You have done most of your product building in house for the last several years post the -- I can't remember the name of the acquisition.
The Morgan Stanley acquisition.
Haven't really done much and you have talked about it being a low priority.
But I am just curious as you went through the product build-out cycle have a lot of oars in the water so to speak.
Is there anything that as you've gone through that you've said gee we would have liked to have built this and we just for whatever reason maybe it wasn't a capability we thought we could do and does that at all kind of shape your thoughts about maybe going back and looking at some M&amp;A here and there? Obviously maybe nothing large but just your updated thoughts on that.
Good question.
They have not changed too much.
I think you're right and as Loren has said and we have said we first look to advance the business looking internally organic development and that is what we have done.
If you look at the range of capabilities right now we don't see a lot of gaps and during that process we thought the gaps we had we did solve internally so we don't see gaps right now.
That said that's continuing why it puts M&amp;A on the back burner because we look to M&amp;A when we can solve the problem with the capabilities that we have.
Where we have done it though Rob it's more in India that was a market that look over at a very long term a good thing to do when we saw a way to get into India and a relatively small investment and we think it's a good investment over the long term.
So it was more country than capabilities.
But as I said earlier on the call nothing looks obvious at all right now.
That said if the market does get very challenging it's amazing what pops up in those periods but it's not apparent at this time.
All right.
That was all I had.
Thanks for taking my question.
Thank you.
And we have another question coming from Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.
A couple of quick questions.
One is on the alt and distribution.
You mentioned earlier in the conversation that there is a high bar on the distributor side to accept alts.
At least that is my read of what you said.
I am just wondering what is there for it and is it simply a matter of time and performance over time to prove out to get on platforms or is there other things going on? So I think it's a good question.
The reality is although the desire is there it's complicated; right? So really the distributors are working through a mechanism of what do they want on the platform? How do they get it on the platform? Education into the sales force is critical.
There's a lot of focus on making sure -- suitability and so these are -- to me those will all really good developments.
We don't want to be on a platform and none of us want a bad outcome for our clients so it has really been educating sales force.
What are they trying to accomplish? What are the distributors saying? What capabilities do we have confidence in from the money manager and so that's really what slowed it down.
There are just a handful of alternative capabilities on the various platforms.
We probably have as many as anybody in the market.
Right.
I think it will change though.
I think it will pick up the pace as people get more confident.
So it's dedicated sales team into distributors as well as just helping them understand the various products? Yes.
To be clear I am also saying the distributors themselves like a Morgan Stanley are spending a huge amount of time on education for the sales force there.
Right.
They want them very focused on suitability.
It's jointly solving that problem.
That is really the element where it's taking an awful lot of time.
I got it.
I think it's appropriate by the way.
Right okay.
And then separately.
There has been -- a know your customer requirement regulatory requirement in the asset management community as well.
I think it's called FATCA.
I'm wondering if that had any implications for flows not only in this quarter but into the next couple of quarters because I thought it went live July 1 and I was wondering if that was something that you could benefit from? As far as I know we have been working on FATCA for two years now.
It has not been anything that has surfaced in any of our conversations with any of our distributors or regions about clients being somehow disturbed or displaced or acting differently than they otherwise would.
So at least from where I sit today and what I have heard it's sort of been a non-event.
It's probably been a lot of work but it's not created a different demand behavior.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from Chris Shutler of William Blair.
The long term net inflows continued to average somewhere in the mid to upper single digit billions per quarter so quite encouraging.
Just looking out over the next couple of years recognizing it's tough to predict but what do you think are the biggest opportunities and risks to that range from an asset class product perspective? I certainly recognize that part of your value proposition is having that diversification to be where the demand is but I just wanted to get your take there.
I think the biggest opportunity for us is people coming back to equities.
It has been a long time and I think they will.
You can go back to the same percentages because of demographics and et cetera et cetera.
That said if you look at us as a firm it's the historic strength of the firm it is the broadest range of capabilities.
When you get any active movement back into active equities it is going to be quite a difference for us.
What is the risk? You get into a very difficult bear market right now and that could extend that outcome for quite a period of time.
That said everything we have been talking about today is the other side of -- it's a broad range of capabilities that puts us into an easy position.
And Loren you mentioned that it sounded like maybe you are pulling back on a little bit of spending here.
What are you maybe delaying in terms of project spending and what magnitude of dollars are we talking about? Thanks.
It's an active discussion right now so we are not at a point where I would say we would provide any different guidance than what we have in the past.
As I said our current guidance is pretty much in line with what we said before.
It's going to be more of a discussion as we continue look are we in a really turnaround where flows are coming back.
I'd just say it's one that we are looking at day-to-day.
In terms things that you could be delayed there's certainly things that are prioritized and delayed relative to other things you absolutely have to do because of client need or a regulatory need.
That is the kind of thing that we are looking at is could you delay three months or six months and not really affect clients in a regulatory situation.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
And we have a last question coming from Gregory Warren of Morningstar.
Yes thanks for taking my questions although a lot of them have already been asked here.
I may have missed it but we talked about the fixed income flows being heavily influenced by some institutional mandates.
Was that the same case for the balance because that looked to spike up during the quarter? Well the balance -- we saw a lot of interest in balance.
That was really a continuation of interest in Europe.
We have a very well-performing balance product that is managed out of our industrial perpetual team combines the capabilities of our equity teams and our fixed income teams.
We also saw a lot of interest in balanced product in China.
And in the balance category we also have IBRA which we have talked about institutionally has been of great interest and we're winning some good interest there.
You had mentioned the fact that the organic growth target on long-term assets is between that 3% and 5% range for the year.
Do you just have a bit more clarity? Is there more institutional stuff in the pipeline? I think right now we are sitting in the 2% to 2.5% range.
I think we absolutely see interest in the big institutional pipeline as Marty said all-time high plus with retail coming back.
Obviously July was a bit of a lost month and we are making good headway but if we stay -- even if we stay at this $2 billion a quarter sorry $2 billion a month type of rate we're going to be at that -- probably at 4% just doing the math myself.
So I think we're -- and I also think we can do better than that.
That's good to hear.
Thanks for the color.
Thank do you.
As of right now we don't have any more questions on queue.
Thank you very much and thank you everybody for joining Loren and myself and have a good rest of the day.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And that concludes today's conference.
Thank you all for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to Invesco's Third Quarter Results Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session.
Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to the speakers for today Mr.
Martin Flanagan President and CEO of Invesco and Mr.
Loren Starr Chief Financial Officer.
Mr.
Flanagan you may begin.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you very much and thank you for joining us today.
I'm on the call with Loren Starr our CFO and we'll be speaking to the presentation that's available on the website if you're so inclined to follow.
Today as we typically do we'll review the business results for the third quarter.
Loren will then go into greater detail on the financials and the two of us will then answer any questions you all might have.
So let me begin by highlighting the firm's operating results for the quarter and you'll find that on slide three if you're following it along.
Long-term investment performance remained strong during the quarter 73% and 83% of actively managed assets were ahead of peers over three years and five years respectively.
Strong investment performance and continued focus on meeting clients' needs were not enough to offset the impacts of the volatile market and a single large institutional client withdrawal which resulted in net long-term outflows of $3.9 billion for the quarter.
Adjusted operating margin for the quarter was 41.4% versus 41.7% in the prior quarter.
The quarterly dividend remains at $0.27 per share which is up 8% over the prior year.
We also returned $292 million back to shareholders during the quarter through a combination of stock buybacks and dividends.
Assets under management were $755 billion at the end of the quarter down from $803 billion in the prior quarter.
Operating income was $373 million in the quarter; this was down from $390 million in the prior quarter but roughly in line with the operating income in the first quarter of this year.
Earnings per share were $0.61 down $0.63 from the prior quarter.
We repurchased $176 million of stock during the quarter.
Before Loren goes into details on the financials let me take a minute and review the investment performance that's on slide six.
Our commitment to investment excellence and our work to build and maintain strong investment culture help maintain solid long-term investment performance across the organization during the quarter.
Looking at the firm as a whole 73% of assets were in the top half on a three-year basis and 83% were in the top half on a five-year basis.
The one-year number results partially reflect increased exposure to energy by certain of our equity teams who also during the quarter took the opportunity to make investments in those positions which positioned very well for the future.
The results also reflect our European corporate fixed income portfolios which short in duration during the period in corporate bonds to position themselves again for a continued long-term success.
Our investors are taking advantage of the short-term market dislocation for the benefit of the long-term results for clients.
I'm highly confident our clients will continue to benefit from this high conviction approach to investing.
On page seven you'll see active flows reflect the macro environment during the quarter as investors reacted to volatility in the markets.
Within ETFs 60% year-to-date net flows have come from international ETFs and 50% of the international flows have come from currency hedge products to areas where we do not have an offering.
This narrowing of client demand impacted demand for passive capabilities in the short-term year-to-date.
Also during the third quarter specifically traditional cap-weighted ETFs captured 80% of the net flows again an area that we do not focus on.
So the combination of these is a unique abnormal thing that we've seen.
We suspect it's short-term in nature.
We saw positive institutional flows during the quarter in spite of the volatile markets and a large single institutional client withdrawal.
We view this withdrawal as an isolated event.
Retail flows were impacted by the macro environment as investors weighed their options during the volatile quarter.
We did see continued strength in number of asset classes asset categories and – Global Total Return European Equity Investment Grade Fixed Income Diversified Dividend to name a few.
Additionally it's early in the fourth quarter but quarter-to-date we have net flows of about $700 million and in the different areas we've seen ETFs come back quite strongly.
Traditional ETFs net inflows are about $1 billion in total about $2.1 billion from the QQQs which is more interesting from a market – investors' sentiment point of view.
Core retail flows continue to be challenged but we're expecting them to be better than they were in the month of September.
Asia Pac EMEA continue to be in net flows.
In the institutional pipeline of one but not funded remain near all-time historic highs.
We feel good about the results of the quarter continued strong investment performance.
Our focus on meeting client needs contributed to solid operating results despite what we saw in the markets.
We continue to see strength across the global business in particular within Asia Pac EMEA and the institutional business globally.
Our focus remains on strengthening our efforts to deliver strong long-term investment performance that help clients meet their investment objectives and running a very sound good business.
With our comprehensive range of capabilities and broadly diversified business we believe we are well-positioned to succeed over the long-term regardless of where the markets take us in the short-term.
That said we continue to see numerous short-term opportunities which will advance our business.
Given the strength of our capabilities and the disciplined manner in how we run our business we believe we are uniquely positioned to take advantage of these opportunities including for example ETFs after investing in the institutional business globally alternatives and solutions to name a few.
Now I'll turn the call over to Loren so he can review the financials before we answer your questions.
Thanks very much Marty.
Quarter-over-quarter total AUM decreased $47.8 billion or 5.9% this was driven by foreign exchange translation of $5.9 billion long-term net outflows of $3.9 billion and a negative market return of $35.6 billion combined with outflows from money market and from the QQQs of $1.5 billion and $0.9 billion respectively.
Average AUM for the third quarter was $788.9 billion which was down 2.7% versus the second quarter.
Our net revenue yield was 45.8 basis points a decrease of 0.4 basis points versus Q2.
Other revenues accounted for the decline of 0.5 basis points and a change in mix reduced the yield by 0.1 basis points.
These are offset by an increase in performance fees in the quarter which added 0.2 basis points.
Now turning to the operating results.
You'll see that net revenues declined by $33.6 million or 3.6% quarter-over-quarter to $903 million which includes a negative FX rate impact of $1.4 million.
Within the net revenue number you'll see that investment management fees fell by $45.2 million or 4.2% to $1.04 billion.
This reflects the lower average AUM during the quarter.
And FX decreased third quarter management fees by $1.8 million.
Service and distribution revenues decreased by $4.8 million or 2.2% also in line with lower average AUM during the quarter.
FX reduced service and distribution revenues by $0.5 million.
Performance fees in the quarter came in at $17.6 million and they were earned from a variety of different investment capabilities including $9.4 million from UK equities.
Foreign exchange decreased performance fees by $0.1 million.
Other revenues in the third quarter were $27.6 million and that was a drop of $10.3 million due to lower transaction fees from real estate and UIT activities.
Foreign exchange decreased other revenues by $0.1 million.
Third-party distribution service and advisory expense which we net against gross revenues fell by $22.2 million or 5.3%.
The movement was in line with the lower revenues derived from retail AUM and foreign exchange decreased these expenses by $1.1 million.
Moving on down the slide.
You'll see that our adjusted operating expenses at $529.6 million declined by $16.8 million or 3.1% relative to the second quarter.
FX decreased operating expenses by $1.6 million during the quarter.
Employee compensation came in at $346.9 million a decrease of $4.5 million or 1.3%.
The decrease was due to a reduction in variable compensation for the quarter.
FX decreased compensation by $0.9 million.
Looking forward assuming AUM flat to current levels we'd expect compensation to run between $340 million and $345 million for the fourth quarter.
Marketing expenses decreased by $4.9 million or 16% to $25.8 million.
The decline was driven by seasonally lower expenditures for advertising literature travel and client events.
FX decreased marketing expenses by $0.1 million in the quarter.
Marketing costs will ramp back up in Q4 as it usually does coming in somewhere we believe between $32 million and $35 million.
Property office and technology expenses were $79.9 million in the quarter which was down $2.3 million.
The decrease was the result of reduced property-related expenses and lower outsourced administration costs in EMEA.
FX decreased these expenses by $0.2 million.
In Q4 we'd expect property office and technology to be around $80 million to $83 million.
G&amp;A expenses at $77 million decreased $5.1 million or 6.2%.
The decrease in G&amp;A was a result of non-recurring fund and regulatory costs in the prior quarter as well as lower professional services expenses.
FX decreased G&amp;A by $0.4 million.
Our Q4 G&amp;A expense we believe should be in the range of $77 million to $80 million.
Continuing on down the page.
You'll see that non-operating income decreased $15.8 million compared to the second quarter.
The third quarter had unrealized mark-to-market losses on our trading investments and on our consolidated sponsored investment products compared to gains that we saw in the prior quarter.
The firm's effective tax rate on pre-tax adjusted net income in Q2 was 26.5% down from 28.7% in the second quarter and consistent with the guidance that we provided in the second quarter call which then brings us to our adjusted EPS at $0.61 and our adjusted net operating margin at 41.4%.
And with that I'm going to turn things back over to Marty.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Operator can we take questions please? Yes sir.
Our first question coming from Michael Carrier of Bank of America.
Thanks guys.
Marty maybe first just on the flow trend in the quarter but then probably more importantly the outlook.
You mentioned on the institutional side the pipeline being really strong.
I just want to get a sense on the retail side.
Obviously the quarter was pretty volatile.
Given your guys' exposure both in the U.S.
and then outside the U.S.
just some of the trends that you're seeing some of the products that are still gaining some traction or there's still demand for versus the areas where you've seen the let up.
And then you mentioned like the October trends.
But what do you see shifting? Particularly the areas where you feel like the performance is still there and in a more volatile environment there's going to be demand.
Just want to try to get a sense of which products can work in this environment.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So more retail focus was that right? Yeah because it sounds like the institutional was good.
If you had that the lumpy amount or the one institutional outflow number that too.
But just wanted to get a sense on the outlook.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good question.
So what we're seeing and I can't speak for other organizations but it really has been moving very rapidly.
September being a very volatile quarter in particular.
Where you saw it impact the most I would say would be the U.S.
retail business and even not just mutual funds but ETFs.
It was a really different environment.
It feels like it's changing already in October and we're seeing that as I said sentiment.
You're seeing traditional ETFs again really looking quite strong for us.
And again I used QQQs as an example of follow that for sentiment.
That was actually pretty strong.
Where the flow is you're seeing it still in things like Diversified Dividend.
I think it's confidence international equities and the like.
But I think as confidence comes in there's a broad range of things that I think could work.
I will say what's also interesting is the broad range of retail alternatives that we have perform extremely well during this period.
So things like GTR and the like again you test those things in these periods.
And so that would be an area within the U.S.
Outside as you frankly Loren and I we're in Frankfurt Germany now and so you really get a pulse on the ground.
The retail business continues to really look strong.
Europe Equities actually in particular is sort of a core retail focus here has been an area and also Asia Pac retail is back in net flows.
And it tends to be pretty broad but it feels like again it's early but confidence seem to be coming back more quickly in Europe and in Asia than in the United States in the retail market.
Yeah.
And then I would also just – a couple points too on flows.
The other thing around flows I think there's about $700 million of the institutional outflows that was just related to fundings in or dispositions – sorry in real estate.
So that's good news.
I mean it's also a part of the process as we sort of provide returns to our shareholders.
So it had nothing to do with performance.
It's really just part of a lifecycle of some of these funds.
The things that are really showing up in October more recently and we're seeing good positive flow activity in October to-date is around GTR.
We're seeing Pan European Equities continue to flow nicely.
It continues to be of interest.
Fixed income is a very strong driver generally both on the retail in the U.S.
as well as outside of the U.S.
So it's sort of broad-based in terms of what's coming back in October and certainly Marty mentioned it but it's important the ETFs are backed significantly the traditional ones which were an outflow.
We're now seeing strong inflows close to $1 billion of continued inflows and that's across a variety of different capabilities within the ETF spectrum.
Okay.
Thanks for the color.
And then just as a follow-up Loren just on the guidance that you gave I think you mentioned the comp in that range.
Obviously the markets are a bit stronger than maybe flat for the AUM.
So any color on that.
And on the revenue just given the volatility that we saw this quarter maybe relative to the expectations and performance fees and other kind of any color on the outlook? I know both are tough to gauge but just any sense.
The comp estimates were based on sort of current asset levels as of today.
So we're in that – a little bit above $790 billion in AUM.
Obviously that could go up or down depending on day-to-day activity.
But it's sort of based on current levels...
Got it.
...which is obviously above where we ended in September.
So I think again management around it are sort of comp-based and expenses will be in line with what you'd expect.
In terms of the revenue outlooks and performance fees traditionally are not seeing sort of one area produced performance fees in the fourth quarter and so again we would probably tend to sort of guide conservatively in that space for Q4 but it probably without knowing much we're talking about $5 million something like that.
The other issue on other revenues; definitely saw a slowdown in Q3 just given the volatility of what was going on that happened around transaction fees.
We could see a pickup on that line item in Q4 could get it back to the $30 million $35 million range in Q4.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from Luke Montgomery of Bernstein Research.
Hey good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey.
Just on the operating margin I think you speak to incremental margins in the 65% range.
Average AUM was down about I think 3% on a period end 6% on an average basis.
Revenue was down 4% and yet the margin held in really well.
So I guess I'm wondering how we think about incremental margins on the downside.
It seems like you've been pretty successful at controlling comp in spite of I think some significant head count growth over the last couple years.
So I'm not sure what that says about your ability to ramp it down in lower markets.
And then maybe how we think about other expense levers to pull in lower markets.
I think we would – as we've said in the past and I'll obviously reiterate again.
In a declining revenue situation it's just hard it's next to impossible to – smartly to have expenses go down in line with revenue declines.
We saw this a little bit in advance in the quarter and we might have even talked a little bit about it in – at our last call.
But we ultimately did put out some signals within the business to try to slow things down think about prioritizing our investments within the quarter because we just didn't know what it was going to – what was going to happen.
And so I think – we were successful in terms of holding off certain discretionary elements of our spending in the quarter.
We gave some guidance obviously to the fourth quarter.
Some of those expenses are sort of going to be in line with this last quarter but perhaps up a little bit.
I mean there are investments that we continue to need to make want to make which will help improve our success and positioning strategically going forward.
Again with that said we're going to continue to work really hard to – think about our investments and we'll continue to watch the volatility of the assets.
And so the pressure is still on internally in terms of thinking about how to be smart around our investments just given the uncertainty of our revenues and AUM.
So we can't really sort of say we're doing a better job now.
I think we're doing a good job as we've always done in light of volatile markets where we're trying to sort of pause and take a breather on certain investments that can be paused without doing much damage.
Okay thanks.
And then just a technical question about how you mark AUM for FX.
Is it once at the end of the quarter? Is it month-end or some kind of daily average approach? It's done monthly.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I just do want to reiterate Loren's comments.
We have – we are as we always have very focused on running a thoughtful business and we're always looking to what we call create capacity to continue to invest.
And we just see that there are a number of areas where we think we can continue to create an advantage for us and our clients whether it'd be in ETF that we're investing global institutional businesses we've been talking about alternative solution.
So we're working that balance very diligently and we will continue to do that.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Patrick Davitt of Autonomous.
Hi good morning.
Historically when you ramped up repurchases like you did in the third quarter it's kind of been a one quarter or two quarter event.
I guess could you kind of speak to how you're thinking about the sustainability of this level or is it purely just where the price is? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So look we do like the approach that we've had.
We think we have strengthened the financial position of the firm while at the same time focus on these capital returns.
Where the stock is priced you just can't help but buy in the stock and it looks like still where the stock is right now we think it's very very attractive.
And probably something seem more consistent this quarter to what you saw last quarter.
Okay thanks.
And then just to clarify the $700 million did that include or exclude the QQQs? That excludes it.
Okay.
The QQQs were like $2 billion – $2.1 billion and the traditional ones were close to $1 billion.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from Craig Siegenthaler of Credit Suisse.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Craig.
So we ran the new guidance numbers and it looks like the adjusted margin may dip down into the 39% range versus the strong 41% result this quarter.
And I realize you didn't provide any adjusted operating margin guidance today but would you make any additional steps to protect the margin in 4Q if it trended down into the 49% range? So yeah we definitely are continuing as I mentioned focus on this as a topic.
The guidance is you know somewhat of a based on what we know right now we would like to do better.
But again based on what we know right now the guidance is – make sense for us to provide.
We would agree generally with what you're sort of identifying.
We don't think it's a great result.
And so we're obviously trying to do better.
Thanks Loren.
And just as my follow-up Asia flows slowed but remain positive.
I'm wondering if you can provide us a quick update in terms of what Andrew Lo and team are seeing across Asia from a product demand standpoint.
Yeah.
I think I mean Asia is definitely in the numbers that we're seeing through October.
Asia is quite strong quite positive in terms of its flow pattern.
It's very much driven by the institutional business which continues to take on significant follow-on fundings as well as new fundings across fixed income bank loans equities as well so it's a pretty well diversified element.
They now have GTR in Asia as well so that's very interesting.
So I'd say the level of optimism around the fourth quarter for Asia Pac is at a much much higher level than it was in Q3.
Thanks Loren.
Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from Michael Kim of Sandler O'Neill.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
First can you maybe talk at a high level about sort of business with sovereign wealth funds just trying to get a sense of sort of the risk of attrition assuming commodities pricing remained under pressure and then any sense on sort of relative fee rates versus the overall weighted average for the firm? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Let me hit a part of that Loren and chime in.
So just generally an area that we don't talk about specifically the clients; that said we have no indication that there'll be redemptions in that area.
And I know it's very topical within the industry but that's what we would know right now.
In terms of relative fee rates obviously we saw a little bit of a mix impact which was negative point I think it was 0.1 basis points in the quarter.
That was largely due to just the market impact on our percentage of assets that are equity-based.
We still are seeing good flows coming in from cross-border so we don't think the story around fee rates is – we think it's going to continue to march forward as we grow.
Okay.
Okay and then Marty I know you've been quite vocal in terms of the DOL's fiduciary standard proposals.
And I understand sort of the broader concerns around less advice less options and maybe even higher costs at the end of the day for investors.
But just curious to get your take on some of the consequences for asset managers specifically in terms of potential changes to the economics of distribution as well as maybe from a product development standpoint.
Yeah it's a fair question.
I'd say it's too early to know because we're not exactly clear what the outcome is.
That said I will tell you obviously I think the people that are going to be more strongly placed are those organizations that have a really broad range of investment capabilities.
Those organizations that have ETFs those organizations that are strong and smart beta factor investing and also have the ability to create share classes that are very stripped down that will be really investment fee-type share classes only that will be much more sought-after and will ultimately be sort of unified accounts on the retail side.
So that's been our focus.
That said otherwise it's going to be a guessing game to see where they end up.
But those would be the areas that I would look at that we've been focused on and how we are positioned then to – what might come out of this.
Okay.
And then just one minor clarification.
So you mentioned the $700 million of inflows quarter-to-date.
I know you said that does not include the Qs.
But does that include the traditional ETF inflows? Yes it does.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Glenn Schorr of Evercore ISI.
Hi thanks.
I think in your prepared remarks you mentioned some money is going into some products that you don't have capabilities.
And I think you mentioned cap-weighted and currency hedged.
I'm curious on two-fold.
One is it too late to start investing in things like that just to continue to constantly broaden the product suite? And then other parts where you think you might have blind spots where you might be investing? Yeah it's a good question.
I guess at one level you don't know the blind spots until you're blind.
Well put.
So the currency hedged international capabilities it really has been quite the area over the last year or so.
And I will say within the ETF world it's hard to have more than handful of firms with offerings that are successful so being pretty quick matters a lot.
That said we won't ignore it.
But I will say if you look at the fundamental strength that we have is the longevity and breadth of all the smart beta products that we have and low volatility offerings in particular.
So again we are always asking ourselves what are we missing what are clients needing and trying to respond.
So hopefully that's helpful.
Absolutely.
And then the overall performance is in very good shape three-year and five-year you pointed out.
In the one-year there's some slippage particularly in equity.
I didn't know if you mentioned or if you could mention any specific factors that you think are particular to your business that a certain market might respond better to? Yeah so good question.
I was trying to address a little bit in my comments and this is a better way to get to it.
So the one-year performance quite frankly a handful of capabilities are just under 50%.
I mean maybe 50 basis points off.
So the dispersion from the top half is very very little.
And it tends to be those areas where people have invested in energy in particular.
I personally think it's going to be a great investment.
Timing is always a question.
That said I also think confidence that they have been continuing to have add-on investments in those areas during this period and I think probably I don't have the numbers but from September 30 on I think that could only be a good thing.
So we have really good – high level of confidence in what our investment teams are doing and where they're positioned as opposed to probably what you're trying to get to is are we concerned about the quality of one of the products.
And we don't feel that at all right now.
Okay I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from Bill Katz of Citi.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks so much.
So certainly I appreciate the tactical volatility of the markets and your expense guidance within that.
But sort of stepping back as we look out into 2016 what's your latest thoughts on incremental margin opportunity? Are we at the end of the incremental margin opportunity based on some of the quarter-to-quarter guidance? Or is that just more timing around market impact? Yeah so again where we are right now Bill like $790 billion in AUM we'd sort of be right in line with our average AUM for 2015 maybe even a little bit below.
So we'd actually all things equal expect revenues if you're just flat no market impact which is the way we tend to look at things you could see revenues down year-over-year if we didn't have any organic growth or anything like that going on.
So the topic of margin incremental margin it's an important one.
But it's not necessarily one that applies perfectly in this environment.
Obviously we want our assets to grow with market and our assets will grow with organic growth.
Both those things said we're absolutely going to see that 50% to 65% incremental margin impact be there.
If revenues are down you'd want it to be as little as possible.
If revenues are up you want it to be as high as possible.
We certainly get that point.
We're obviously working hard to position the firm for results in terms of margin that the Street will certainly respect and appreciate.
We're still working it through and you're going to get a lot more color in terms of thoughts around guidance for 2016 on expenses at the next call.
Just know that we're very aware we're very tuned to it and we're working hard to try to manage the expenses in light of this volatile market.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Bill what I would add though I would say subject to this short-term volatility that we have in the downdraft nothing has changed in our long-term outlook.
In fact I couldn't feel more confident about that and that in a more normal market that is where we are.
And also at the same time what we are absolutely trying to do is deliver the financial results that would be expected of us while at the same time not be penny-wise and pound-foolish and not investing things that really separate us from a competitive advantage in the marketplace and also we believe generate the results for the client.
So we are trying to do both and we're very focused on doing that.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And then just as a follow-up I appreciate your update for the October flows.
So it sounds like the active business is in still slight outflow mode.
From your comments it sounds like Asia is doing pretty well and maybe European Equity.
Is it U.S.
that continues to be the bugaboo? If that's the case any strategic thoughts on how you try and ramp that to may be more of a positive market share opportunity? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah much of it if you look at the overall industry results that really is frankly where the U.S.
mutual fund industry is.
Now that doesn't make anybody happy in the short-term.
I still have a high degree of confidence in – may be in great products and great things for clients.
And we continue to generate the performance that will ultimately serve clients very well and serving the distribution partners in a way that will be more important to them moving forward.
So I think we're doing all the right things.
I would also say I mean we're continuing to be good traction with some of the liquid alternatives getting put on platforms.
Some of the performance on these products again like GTR we have this market neutral product is spectacular.
So it's exciting.
We're seeing the daily flows around GTR even in the U.S.
grow every single month.
So there's definitely some element of potential here.
Then other products like Diversified Dividend has been positive I think every single month for the last year.
And definitely growing in its traction too.
So there's definitely some positive things despite the market overlay which has been somewhat negative for Domestic Equity.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you guys.
Thanks Bill.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from Dan Fannon of Jefferies.
Thanks.
Just wanted to highlight the – or discuss the institutional pipeline.
It seems like a lot of the same names in terms of the funds are in there in terms of the strength.
I guess is there anything that's may be fallen out given some of the implications of the third quarter or may be the outlook isn't as good or and also just kind of walk through the funds that obviously are in there? Yeah Dan.
I think nothing has fallen out.
Everything is sort of moving in line with what we've been seeing.
Probably again the biggest grower continues to be GTR.
Real estate continues to do very very well.
We're seeing broad fixed income really move – a big mover and so that continues.
General multi-asset IBRA as well continues to flow well.
International does well fund – is also – so it's pretty diversified across many many different capabilities and also across all the regions too.
So we don't feel at all like the institutional story is weakening.
If anything it may be that we'll have – something is funded and – but we're near the all-time high and we expect to sort of see those all-time highs continue to get hit going forward.
Great.
And then I guess just on GTR could you give us some specifics on kind of the way that AUM sits in terms of the overall complex and kind of where that product is being marketed today? Yeah so it's probably mostly focused in the UK that's where the greatest asset base is retail as well as institutional.
Europe it is absolutely getting traction – traction now.
Asia really early days so nothing really to talk about.
And then as I mentioned in the U.S.
getting viewed and rated by the consultants which is important.
And then on the retail platform growing every single day.
I think of the total assets right now $10 billion pipeline $1.4 billion on top of that.
So again it's definitely continuing to impress.
And very encouraging thing is in this last market environment performance has been outstanding.
So I think people are really paying attention to it.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from Robert Lee of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Just a question on capital management and Marty I heard earlier and I think maybe it was Loren on the share buybacks obviously accelerated this quarter kind of find the stock at a level that probably is still prone to buyback more than your average.
But I think back this quarter you did the debt offering.
I think you more or less reached the liquidity levels you've long talked about wanting to maintain on balance sheet.
So in light of that and the fact that you really haven't aren't too interested in M&amp;A I guess going forward is it reasonable to assume that notwithstanding the near-term pickup in share repurchase that we could see just an ongoing higher level of repurchase going forward than maybe we've seen the last couple years as you don't have to kind of build cash on the balance sheet to get to your targets? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Let me make a couple comments and Loren can chime in.
So – it's exactly the right question the reasonable question to ask.
Part of what we said with the target so it's also getting some clarity in the regulatory environment.
And I don't think we've come to the end of that honestly.
And so we just want to continue to be a little bit cautious there.
We're feeling better than we felt 12 months ago for sure.
We also continue as I've said a couple times on this call that we really do see some really important investments that we can make in the business that frankly will generate better returns in us buying back the stock and limiting our ability to make those investments that we need.
But we like buying our stock and that's for sure (42:29).
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> I'll just ask as maybe the follow-up to that.
I mean I know the last couple years your level of seed capital has risen has gone up.
And do you feel like that's starting to get to a point where it's more about recycling or do you see that there's just given the opportunity do you see that that actually going to continue to grow somewhat next year or so? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I guess I can comment on it.
I mean it is – because the alternatives continue to be such a point of focus for investors and the need to co-invest alongside important parts of our business that really require co-investment.
It probably is – continue to be a theme for us.
And it's a competitive advantage in many ways the fact that we can do this where others may be more capital constrained and not able to do it.
So it's something that's part of our planning process and we look at the products that we know we're going to need to put capital behind and earmark some of that for those types of activities which again sort of leads us to be perhaps just a little bit more conservative than some others who may not be using their capital in that way or don't have the capabilities that need capital the way the real estate and others do.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay and then maybe one last question and thanks for your patience on ETFs.
You touched on earlier flows rebounded quarter to-date that's great.
And but it feels like competition is coming out of the woodwork particularly in the so-called smart beta space...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> ...where you operate.
And some of those competitors seem intent to compete on price.
I'm just curious if you're seeing that have any impact on on demand.
I mean apparently not since your flows are good.
But just kind of your thoughts around that dynamic and how you think about responding if you need to? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah take a step back and I think when you put on your U.S.
hat we tend to think of smart beta we tend to think of ETFs as one thing.
We have separated them as a firm in a way that we approach it and it's a combination of actually our quantitative team actually in Frankfurt we're with who have a very very long track record and systematic factor investing.
And outside of the U.S.
the continent in particular in Asia you're starting to see it more different separate account-type mandates in the area.
So it's the combination of that and the vehicle the ETF being so we look at it as important parts of the world there's an opportunity for us and when you look at the breadth of team the depth of team the length of track record and I think that's the other thing that people – you don't need to pay attention to.
You are in much better position when you have a long track record in anything right? And if you look at the track records of our smart beta capabilities in ETF it's the broadest capability.
It's the longest tenured capability with the results.
So I think more people coming in is just confirmation that we're doing something right and that there's demand for it.
And we just look at it as a very important part of our business going forward.
And to the pricing conversation it's – we're not seeing much different than what we've seen over the last number of years.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Great.
That was it.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Rob.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from Ken Worthington of JPMorgan.
Hi good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Continuing with the theme so first PowerShares can you talk about what you're seeing in terms of ETFs outside the U.S.? And to what extent are you seeing evidence of kind of a ramp in the UK with RDR kind of getting underway? And then in line with that or understanding a smart beta is gaining momentum especially in Europe especially with institutional investors so is there a way to kind of link what's happening with PowerShares in the U.S.
in ETFs to what may be demand by institutional clients in Europe for smart beta? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah so good question.
That's what I was trying to get to so I'll try to be more clear Ken.
So ETFs outside – so RDR it really has not taken off like we thought it would take off.
That said our focus with our ETFs the U.S.-listed ones it really tends to be through the Capital Markets' desk and that has been a helpful thing.
But we've not yet seen the uptake of it with RDR.
We're thinking about it that actually smart beta factor investing however you want to call it it might make more sense to be bringing in a different type of vehicle more an open-ended fund for RDR.
And our engine is not limited to PowerShares but it's our quantitative team again like – who have this very long deep track record.
And you're right.
So we're seeing it in particular on the continent and we're actually seeing it in Asia Japan China so it is really – but again it's not limited to the ETF package.
And I think that's also what's very important.
Got it.
Okay.
And...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Does that answer your question? Yeah that gets to the heart of it.
And then we'll try this.
Talk about the changes going on in the Japanese postal service.
And if it's appropriate would you tie what seems to be changing opportunities there to what is your very big presence in Japan? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I hear the question.
I'm not going to speak specifically of institutions but what I will say is that Abenomics has changed things.
It is creating real opportunities outside of local JGBs and pension plans.
And so it's been an expansion into Japanese equities it's been an extension into fixed income investment grade type fixed income bank loans so it is really broadening.
And it looks like for the foreseeable future I'm sorry it's dangerous to say but let's put it this way.
It continues to be quite an opportunity I'd say within Japan.
I'd say – also to say that because of the investments and the time that we've spent building out our fixed income capabilities in our team there's a lot of interest in the products the fixed income products that we're now offering that I think may be displacing others who maybe at levels of concentration that the clients don't feel comfortable with.
So I mean there may be some of that that's going on too that's helping us now that we have a very very strong offering.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Ken.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from Chris Harris of Wells Fargo.
Thanks guys.
First question on IBRA yeah you guys sound like you're pretty constructive on that particular product.
But the data we're tracking which given it's very limited it's limited to just U.S.
retail is showing kind of outflows there.
So just wondering if you guys can expand a little bit on where you're seeing the demand for IBRA is it institutionally-oriented at this point? And then if the U.S.
retail is an outflow I'm wondering why that is.
It seems like this quarter given all of the risks off would have been a good quarter potentially for that product.
So any color you could provide there would be helpful.
So you're right.
Retail is out in the U.S.
on IBRA institutional is positive so we're seeing continued take on IBRA.
Obviously in the retail space IBRA is competing with a whole variety of different types of funds with different capabilities for the institutional investors much more specific someone is looking for a risk parity product they're going to come to us because we have one of the best capabilities that's available.
So – and the risk parity offering is one that's getting more and more acceptance in the consultant community.
So that's why IBRA is doing well I think in institutional.
I think the fear is right now for IBRA on the retail side is what's going to happen with the Fed raising rates and how you know how will it form.
And again we feel quite comfortable that our product will perform well under sort of a rate hike increase.
But people are skittish at this point and generally the market is skittish about that one topic overall which is keeping people a little bit off side.
The product still has a very good strong long-term performance around one year three years five years.
And so it's not a performance topic it's entirely I think just an investor apprehension topic at this point.
Okay.
And did you guys disclose the large institutional redemption that you had this quarter? And if you haven't yet can you disclose it? And then maybe a little color on why that particular redemption occurred.
So all we're really going to say about that particular thing because we don't talk about clients it's our policy not to talk it's about $2 billion in size.
Asian Equity was the mandate.
It wasn't at the highest fee level it was fairly below a normal retail product well below.
And we felt as Marty said it was an isolated event.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from Ken Hill of Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good afternoon to you guys there.
Last quarter I think you discussed a little bit on the liquidity for your products.
I'm wondering if you've had any discussions with regulators regarding maybe some of your more alternative style ETFs PowerShares franchise.
And has that sparked any concern internally or with the SEC? And how might you think about that moving forward? I guess really are you looking at regulation causing any sort of disruption going forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah it's a good question.
I think we've just seen the beginnings of the liquidity framework coming out from the SEC.
The industry is very involved have been very involved will continue to be very involved.
And so at a specific company level too we are very involved in those conversations wanting to get to the right place with those and so it'd be too early to describe a point of view.
Obviously we know what the regulations are trying to get to and at the same time we want to make sure that they understand the framework they've put in place doesn't cause unintended consequences.
So I still think we're a good number of months before having a view on the exact end game there.
It's just an unknown at the moment.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
I guess then just a little bit more generally on Europe I know you guys have worked very hard to build a strong platform there and we've seen some more positive sentiment around further easing there.
How would you characterize the opportunity for higher flows in Europe? And on the back of some of the monetary easing what are you trying to do to capture that longer term? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We have been quite successful the last number of years here but it came from multiple years of improving the range of capabilities the service levels et cetera.
We are still relatively early innings on the impact that we can have on the continent.
Strong team in place strong products in place good performance.
What we are now getting through and improving is the acceptance of our products as top-tier partner-type recognition.
Within a number of the big distributors we've made good progress but we're not done.
So that makes us feel that the future will be quite bright.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thanks for taking my questions.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah sure.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from Chris Shutler of William Blair.
Hey guys.
First just based on the product mix where you sit today and where you're seeing flows just wanted to get your thoughts on the fee rate going forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Chris again the product will have some impact so will the geographies in which they are being sold.
We think overall the product mix is leaning more towards alternatives and that's helpful.
We have never been traditionally an enormous provider of lower fee fixed income products for example or in our ETFs as you mentioned as we know kind of at the higher fee range.
There's a lot of expectation that Europe and Asia will continue to grow.
And they have certainly significantly higher net revenue yields in aggregate relative to the U.S.
So all that said I think we would believe our fee rate will continue to march up from where it is based on mix.
Okay.
That makes sense.
And then secondly just wanted to get an update on the Wilbur Ross business.
You haven't talked about that in a while and just the outlook for performance fees there over the next few years.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So again without – because I'm not (56:20) terrible at predicting performance fees.
I know that.
The performance on the products have been good.
It's been a very volatile market though so things can move around quite dramatically.
Based on everything that we know the embedded performance fees and carry within the products that we would be able to access in terms of performance fees which would be Fund 4 and Fund 5 are significant and it's probably an aggregate something on the order of nature of something you've seen for a full year for us in the past.
So it's a pretty significant element.
Timing-wise is a big unknown.
Very unlikely to be realized in 2016.
More likely than not 2017 just given the fact that the dispositions that would have to take place in those portfolios would be significant before we from an accounting perspective would be allowed to recognize any performance fees.
There's still a fair amount of time to go so that's why we don't talk about it that much because anything can happen in markets and there's a lot of things that can happen in a year.
But based on right now it's pretty significant pretty attractive.
Yeah.
Understood.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
Next question coming from Brian Bedell of Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning folks.
Marty or Loren just to circle back on GTR and the pipeline.
How do you think about the fee rate overall I think it was 100 basis points roughly? And correct me if I'm wrong on that.
And then just bifurcating between retail and institutional in that fee rate and how you see the pipeline on the institutional side for GTR versus the retail demand.
And if you can say what GTR flows were in the third quarter if I missed that.
Yeah so again I think on the retail side our pricing is transparent.
You can see those numbers.
I think it's like 90 basis points to 100 basis points.
On the institutional side I don't think we get into disclosing those fees.
Its prices are in line with I'd say the normal differential you'd expect from a retail versus institutional.
So it's a nice price very very attractively priced.
In terms of the pipeline and the opportunity I think we're seeing really just because it's easy to see the huge take on on the institutional side that is giving us a lot of comfort that it's going to be growing certainly on the institutional side.
Retail capabilities probably even larger.
But it's hard to quantify ultimately how big it could get.
We know just how large some of the competing products are on the retail side.
And so and again in terms of I guess just even in the third quarter the flows were about $3 billion for GTR in aggregate across retail and institutional.
So it has a lot of capacity to grow on both sides.
And it's just brand-new as we mention in the U.S.
and just really kicking off in Europe and Asia it's also brand-new.
So great opportunities.
Inc.</span></strong> That's great.
That's helpful.
And then Marty just if you want to talk a little bit about on the institutional solution strategy as you mentioned I think you're not seeing the – some of the redemptions in sovereign wealth funds like others are seeing.
But if you can comment on your view of pension plans certainly in the U.S.
reallocating more to fixed income into fees and liabilities and how you think you've been developing your solution strategy to capture that to basically retain the assets with the client.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah so our approach to solutions is really is literally again they tend to be the most obvious is the larger institutions.
And it's really facing off to understand them when you're more (1:00:26) what they're trying to accomplish.
And it ultimately is bringing a number of different investment capabilities to meet what they are trying to achieve.
And again I'd say that's really early days for us but also very important.
On the retail side where people are less focused it also is an opportunity where more and more of financial advisors and sort of the higher end financial advisors are also looking for – they have the ability to get that type of feedback and guidance from money managers.
And that's the other area where we've been having some early successes.
So again I'd just look at it as a part of – just what you need to be doing as an organization and I think we're doing it reasonably well but we sure have some room to do better than what we are.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Just one lastly on the buyback.
I assume you're sort of locked up until earnings are through.
Is that – when are you able to go back in the market for buying back your stock? Well just a day after earnings.
I think we can get back in 24 hours...
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Eric Berg of RBC Capital Markets.
Hi good morning.
This is actually Rosa Han standing in for Eric Berg.
Our first question is how do you perceive the rise in interest rates would affect your fixed income flows? And would those flows necessarily turn negative? Again simple question harder answer because of the magnitude of it.
But yeah probably what you'll see is a lot of the credit type capabilities will probably still be in demand.
They seem to be in demand and that's what clients are looking at right now as they anticipate a slow rise in interest rate.
So if it is a slow rise in interest rates we don't see a big rush to the doors.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
And it just helps at some of our largest well-known funds like the bank loan capabilities would tend to do well and we're seeing actually – in October our bank loan ETFs and positive inflow just as people are beginning to expect a rate hike in December sometime.
Okay great.
And then what are your latest thoughts on how the SEC's proposal to strengthen the mutual fund liquidity might affect your company? Yeah.
Again we were speaking to it little bit earlier.
It's – again it's – the early feedback the industry is very engaged on it.
There is some thoughtful comments in there.
And there's some areas where there really needs some improvement.
And we're not going to know for a number of months what the outcome is.
So it's hard to predict to give you a specific answer until we get through that process.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from the line of Patrick Davitt of Autonomous.
Hi.
Thanks for the follow-up.
It may be too soon for this but I thought I'd throw it in at the end if we had time.
We're expecting the final method two rules next month.
And I'm curious how much preliminary work you've done on what it could mean for your business either expense-wise or margin-wise and if you have done a good amount of work maybe give us some an early read on what you're thinking.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Like us everybody that's operating over here is dealing with it and it's been in the works in our organization always coupled for a good period of time.
So it's really well embedded.
And we don't see any immaterial consequences to our business really at all from it.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our last question coming from the line of Michael Kim of Sandler O'Neill.
Hey guys.
Just a quick technical follow-up.
Just want to understand the dynamic between the 5 million share repurchases during the quarter versus the average share count being down just a bit less.
Was that just a function of timing or is there anything else in there that might have impacted the calculation? Yeah.
Michael it's just timing.
Yeah.
Okay.
The buyback happened late in the quarter.
Yeah got it.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Okay.
Thank you very much everybody.
Thanks for participating.
Loren and I appreciate the questions and the engagement and we'll be speaking to you soon.
Thank you.
And that concludes today's conference.
Thank you all for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to Invesco's Fourth Quarter Results Conference Call.
All participants will be on listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I'd like to turn the call over to your speakers for today Mr.
Martin L.
Flanagan President and CEO of Invesco and Mr.
Loren Starr Chief Financial Officer.
Mr.
Flanagan you may begin.
Thank you very much and thank you everybody for joining Loren and myself and I'll briefly review the 2015 highlights before getting into a review of the business results for the fourth quarter and then Loren will go into the more depth of the financial results and then of course we will open up to Q&amp;A as we always do.
So let me start by providing a brief overview of the operating results for the full-year and if you're so inclined I'm on page 3 of the presentation.
Long-term investment performance remained very strong in 2015 79% and 85% of actively managed assets were ahead of peers over three-year and five-years respectively at the end of the fourth quarter.
Strong investment performance combined with a comprehensive range of strategies and solutions we offer helped clients achieve their desired investment objectives contributed to long-term net inflows of $16.2 billion for the year.
Our efforts to deliver for clients while taking a disciplined approach to managing our business resulted in an operating margin of 41% for the full-year off just slightly from the very strong prior year.
The annual dividend totaled $1.08 per share which represents an 8% increase over the prior year.
We also returned more than $1 billion to shareholders during 2015 through dividends and stock buybacks.
Assets under management were $775 billion at the end of 2015 down from $792 billion at the end of the prior year mostly reflecting some late-year volatility.
Average assets under management were $794 billion for 2015 versus $790 billion for 2014.
Adjusted earnings per share for the year were $2.44 versus $2.51 in the prior year.
As you can see on Slide 4 foreign exchange had a significant impact diluting earnings per share by $0.15 per share from the prior year.
During 2015 Fitch upgraded the firm's credit rating to positive outlook and we repurchased $549 million worth of stock.
So let me take a moment and look back over the achievements over the past year which will provide insights into our continued long range plans.
First and foremost of course we made focus on delivering strong long-term investment performance which continued to drive to grow our business.
And as I mentioned 79% and 85% of the assets were ahead of peers on a three-year and five-year basis respectively at the end of 2015.
By delivering strong investment performance and focusing on clients needs we achieved further growth across the business.
In the U.S.
Invesco was the only firm to appear in the top 5 over one five and 10 years in the Barrons Best Fund Family Annual Ranking.
Our Asia-Pacific business continued to grow and we saw strong inflows and a range of strategies resulting in net sales of $5.7 billion the stronger showing in the region since 2011.
Institutional sales of $14.2 billion nearly doubled to prior year.
We also saw continued growth in our EMEA business driven by a focus on delivering strong investment performance and meeting our client needs.
Cross-border and institutional were particularly strong with $7 billion and $4.5 billion in net inflows respectively and we remain in a very dominant position in the United Kingdom.
We continue to invest in capabilities where we see strong client demand or future opportunities by hiring world-class talent upgrading in our technology platforms launching new products and providing additional resources where necessary in 2015.
The ability to leverage the capabilities developed by our investment teams to meet client demand across the globe is a significant differentiator for our firm and we will continue to bring the best of Invesco to different parts of our business where it makes sense for our clients.
By delivering strong investment performance Invesco Global Targeted Returns achieved strong flows in its second year of offering with assets under management surpassing $11 billion globally at the end of the year.
We continue to invest and strengthen our fixed income platform in 2015 which is enhancing our ability to meet our client needs.
We also invested in our institutional business in 2015 refining our global strategy bringing on additional highly regarded talent to more effectively aligning ourselves to the opportunities in the marketplace.
We are seeing some early successes from this work institutional flows during the first quarter were amongst the strongest in past several quarters in spite of a very volatile market.
We are very focused on bringing together the full range for our capabilities to help meet our client investment objectives; the Road Island mandate of $7.2 billion is an example of the success we are achieving with our Invesco Solutions effort.
Throughout the year we continue to innovate and expand the range of alternative products we offer leveraging our strong teams and capabilities for the benefit of our clients globally.
Two years ago we began leveraging our presence in China to explore and better understand the opportunities in digital and mobile technologies in the marketplace.
We've also been exploring the possibilities with market leading firms in Silicon Valley.
Our acquisition of Jemstep in mid-January is an outcome of this research.
Jemstep is one of the first digital platforms that focus exclusively on advisors and is the market leading provider of advisor focused digital solutions.
Invesco Jemstep platform enables wealth management home offices and their advisors with a full suite of technology solutions that are highly flexible customizable and easily integrated into their existing systems.
This acquisition represents an investment in our partnership with the advised community and highlights our efforts to participate in the technology evolution within our industry.
Turning to the fourth quarter let me take a moment to highlight the results which you'll find on Slide 8.
Strong investment performance contributed long-term net inflows of $3.9 billion for the quarter.
Adjusted operating margin for the quarter was 40.1% versus 41.4% in the prior quarter.
Quarterly dividend remained at $0.27 per share.
We also returned $329 million to shareholders during the quarter through dividends and stock buybacks.
Assets under management were $775 billion at the end of the fourth quarter compared to $755 billion we reported in the prior quarter.
Operating income was $356 million in the quarter down from $373 million in the prior quarter reflecting the very volatile markets we saw in the quarter.
Earnings per share were $0.58 versus $0.61 in the prior quarter.
We repurchased $214 million of stock during the quarter representing 6.5 million shares.
Turning to page 11 and looking at investment performance as I mentioned during the quarter it continued to be quite strong was 79% of the assets in the top half over three-year basis and 85% were in the top half on a five-year basis.
We also improvement in the one-year number which was 60% of assets beating peers.
Turning to flows on page 12 you'll see that active and passive flows were positive during the volatile quarter.
Active flows during the quarter were driven by a variety of capabilities including Global Targeted Return Investment Grade Fixed Income Real Estate and Quantitative Equities to name a few.
Passive flows were positive with renewed strength in Invesco's PowerShares ETF which saw net inflows of $2 billion.
These flows were offset by $1.2 billion outflows associated with the Invesco Mortgage Capital deleveraging.
This did have an impact across a number of categories.
If you look at passive institutional fixed income in U.S.
and if you add $1.2 billion each of those categories you will eliminate the impact of the deleveraging of the Invesco Mortgage Capital during that quarter.
Retail flows were relatively flat during the quarter impacted by the macro environment as investors waived their options during the very volatile quarter.
Institutional flows were particularly strong driven by inflows in the fixed income real estate and reflecting our continued focus on this part of the business.
The pipeline of one but not funded mandate remains at near all time highs and is up more than 28% versus the prior year.
Notably this excludes the previous announced $7.2 billion Rhode Island 529 win which is expected to fund sometime in the third quarter.
Hope we feel good about the results for the year and the fourth quarter and that puts us in a strong position heading into a volatile year 2016.
Continued strong investment performance our focus on meeting client needs contributed solid operating results despite a very volatile environment.
We continue to see strength across the global business in particular in Asia-Pacific and EMEA.
Our focus remains on strengthening our efforts to deliver strong long-term results and help clients meet their investment objectives and enhancing our comprehensive range capabilities.
But given the very volatile markets we are taking a disciplined approach to managing our business balancing our goals of reinvesting the business for the benefit of clients with a need to run our business effectively and efficiently as we have in past very volatile markets.
I would now like to turn the call over to Loren to go through the financials in more depth.
Thanks Marty.
Quarter-over-quarter our total assets under management increased $19.8 billion or 2.6%.
This was driven by market returns of $21 billion long-term net inflows of $3.9 billion and inflows from the Q of $2 billion offset by negative FX translation of $5.3 billion and outflows from money market of $1.8 billion.
Our average AUM for the fourth quarter was $783.7 billion and was down 0.7% versus the third quarter.
Our net revenue yield came in at 45.2 basis points a decrease of 0.6 basis points versus Q3.
FX translation reduced the yield by 0.4 basis points and change in mix reduced the yield by another 0.4 basis points.
These impacts were offset by an increase in performance fees and other revenues in the quarter which in combination added 0.2 basis points.
Next let's turn to the operating results.
You'll see that net revenues declined by $16.9 million or 1.9% quarter-over-quarter to $886.1 million which includes a negative FX rate impact of $8.1 million.
Within the net revenue number you'll see that investment management fees fell by $29.3 million or 2.8% to $1.01 billion.
This reflects the lower average AUM during the quarter as well as changes in the AUM product and currency mix.
Foreign exchange decreased fourth quarter management fees by $10.1 million.
Service and distribution revenues decreased by $7.2 million or 3.4% again reflecting the change in mix and lower average AUM during the quarter.
FX reduced service and distribution revenues by $0.1 million.
Performance fees came in at $18.8 million in Q4 and this was earned from a variety of different investment capabilities including $9.8 million from real estate and $3.2 million from UK equities.
Foreign exchange decreased performance fees by $0.1 million.
Other revenues in the fourth quarter were $29 million an increase of $1.4 million driven by a higher real estate transaction fees.
Foreign exchange decreased other revenues by $0.1 million.
Third-party distribution service and advisory expense which we net against gross revenues fell by $17 million or 4.3%.
This movement was in line with our lower retail management fees and service and distribution revenues.
Foreign exchange decreased these expenses by $2.3 million.
Moving on down to slide you'll see that our adjusted operating expenses at $530.4 million increased by $0.8 million or 0.2% relative to the third quarter.
Foreign exchange decreased operating expenses by $3.9 million during the quarter.
Employee compensation came in at $338.8 million a decline of $8.1 million or 2.3%.
This was due to lower incentive compensation for the quarter.
FX reduced compensation by $2.3 million.
Marketing expenses increased by $8.8 million or 34% to $34.6 million.
This is a function of seasonally higher expenditures for advertising and other marketing costs particularly in EMEA.
FX reduced marketing expense by $0.4 million in the quarter.
Property office and technology expenses were $80.4 million in the quarter an increase of $0.5 million over the third quarter.
FX decreased these expenses by $0.5 million.
General and administrative expenses came in at $76.6 million and that fell by $0.4 million or half percentage points.
FX decreased G&amp;A by $0.7 million.
Going on further down the slide you'll see that non-operating income decreased $3.3 million compared to the third quarter.
Included in the fourth quarter were a $7.3 million loss on the disposition of private equity partnership interest as well as a $2 million mark-to-market on paid money investments.
These were offset by gains from consolidated sponsored investment products compared to a loss in the prior quarter.
The firm's effective tax rate on pre-tax adjusted net income in Q4 was 26.6% up slightly from 26.5% in the prior quarter which then takes us to our adjusted EPS of $0.58 and our adjusted net operating margin of 40.1%.
And before I turn things back to Marty I would like to provide a little more detail on the business optimization work that we began to implement in Q4 in light of the current market volatility and as well as in light of our lower AUM levels.
We believe this optimization work will make Invesco an even stronger company further increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of our operating platform.
The business optimization work that's underway is primarily focused on our use of our shared service centers outsourcing automation and office location strategy.
In the fourth quarter U.S.
GAAP results we recognized $16.2 million of expenses primarily in the form of staff severance cost and we expect costs associated with the optimization initiative to continue through 2016.
Total costs for 2016 are estimated to be up to $85 million.
Reducing our run rate operating expenses in 2016 and in future years is an important outcome of this work.
And we expect the ongoing benefits of this project will be well in excess of the projected one-time implementation cost I just discussed.
We anticipate the project will achieve cash payback within less than three years and it will add an estimated $0.06 to $0.08 EPS accretion in fiscal year 2017 and beyond.
Finally in terms of reporting and consistent with our past approach to dealing with material one-off expenses the incremental optimization charges will continue to be adjusted out of our non-GAAP presentation but will be detailed and tracked each quarter in the U.S.
GAAP reconciliation table within the earnings release.
Additionally we will provide you updated estimates of the implementation cost and benefits of this initiative to the extent that these change in any material way.
So one additional item for me to note is that new for this quarter we've included a schedule detailing the impacts that the change in foreign exchange rates had on our non-GAAP operating results and expenses for the quarter.
The amounts presented on Slide 17 represents the impact of the change in exchange rate movements in the quarter and the year and were calculated by applying the prior period FX rates to the current period non-U.S.
dollar earnings.
Going forward the schedule will include each quarter and can be found in the Appendix of our earnings presentation.
And with that I will now turn it back to Marty.
Thank you.
And so Loren and I happy to answer any questions people might have.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question is coming from Mr.
Michael Carrier of Bank of America.
Sir your line is open.
All right thanks a lot.
Hey guys may be just first on the flows in the quarter and then I guess the outlook.
It seems like a lot of the strength Marty you highlighted you're coming from the institutional side of the business.
And then Asia you mentioned a pipeline near at all time high.
Just wanted to get a sense from a mix standpoint what's driving may be that pipeline.
And then when we think about it may be for Loren like from a mix shift on products obviously the market or the beta side is having an impact for everyone.
But just wanted to try to get a sense on how that pipeline is relative to the current mix or the fee rate? I will be happy to pick that up Mike.
So the pipeline is being driven really in four big buckets probably one of the biggest is direct real estate probably 30% of the pipeline continues to be strong driver.
Fixed income generally across broad fixed income alternative fixed income stable value probably another 30%.
And then the remainder is split between asset allocation and multi-asset solutions and then quantitative and regional equities would be other.
So it's fairly well diversified and generally high fee.
And so when we look at the fee rates of the pipeline it's actually at one of the highest levels we've ever seen it it's well above our current net revenue yields for the firm as a whole.
And so as these assets come in it will be accretive to our fee rates which is great news.
Obviously the negative that we've seen in our fee rate is due to the compression on equities just given what's happened in the market and then foreign exchange has also had an impact as well.
But in terms of the mix overall on the pipeline institutional pipeline we think it's very positive for our fee rates.
Yes so I don't know if I could add much to it other than it is a part of the business where we turn our attention.
It's really seemingly getting stronger and stronger frankly in each region in the world in the Americas and EMEA and in Asia-Pacific and it is really quite broad-based.
So it's a very positive.
And the other thing I would just mention I mean we would expect our fee rate I mean given stability in assets and stability in FX to grow across 2016.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just quick follow-up Loren usually or sometimes you will give some guidance just on like the expense lines and I don't know if it's because of some of the work that you guys are doing here to streamline the expenses as you get into '17.
But just any I guess color I think comp you typically had the 1Q seasonality but may be the marketing you have some 4Q seasonalities.
So any color on the expense outlook just given the volatility in the markets right now.
Yes I would say given the volatility we're probably going to not give any explicit guidance around line items at this stage.
There is a lot of work obviously that I discussed being done around some of this optimization work which will have some impacts on those line items as well.
Generally we are working hard to bring expenses down.
Right as you can imagine year-over-year decline in expenses.
Our compensation generally moves and flexes in line with operating income so those will be down.
Some of the optimization work especially around we just mentioned some of the severance will also help bring some of the compensation line down.
But the benefits of the optimization work will probably spread across most of the other categories other than marketing explicitly.
But looking at marketing that's another interesting topic for us it is one of these conundrums when you're in this market your clients want to hear from you and you want to be out with them but at the same time it certainly is a discretionary expense in this format where we're continuing to look at.
So I'd say we're obviously going to be very vigilant to making sure that we manage expense very smartly in this environment with no presumption of snapback or some reversal.
The other thing I would like to just mention there is some impact just to the acquisitions that we discussed in terms of Jemstep and in terms of Religare Asset Management completing our 100% ownership there.
It's absolutely immaterial in terms of the earnings impact so you don't have to worry about EPS impacts but it does add probably roughly $15 million of expense and although bit more in revenue in 2016.
So you will see some of those line items go up just as a result of those acquisitions but offset by obviously higher level of revenues.
So we normally wouldn't be surprised by that.
The optimization work that we're doing should have a benefit in 2016 that you will see.
So again we will quantify that as we get through it.
But that will help drive expenses down year-over-year.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Yes I would just add to Loren's point.
I mean we feel like we're really quite capable at this and if you look at our history we use these volatile periods to really advantage of opportunities as they show up.
It is a period where I think '16 for the industry is going to be quite interesting where clients will be looking for those firms that are in a position of strength and we're one of those firms and we feel we're operating from a position of strength right now.
And so we're going to be very responsible on the expense side but we have some real opportunities that we want to continue to advance at the same time.
So that's what we're working through and we will continue to make sure that we're communicating very clearly with everybody.
Our next question is from Daniel Fannon of Jefferies.
Sir your line is open.
I guess first can you expand upon the 529 mandates.
I think the $7.2 billion you mentioned is going to fund in the third quarter.
Is that -- can you talk about the mix of products that's going to be and then also it's obviously very large is that something that is a new channel for you guys or can you talk about how that evolved and may be the other opportunities within that sub-segment? Yes so it will fund in January -- July.
Excuse me in July.
It's two plants.
The vast majority of the money is in one plant is just the Rhode Island alone that's ETFs alone sort of a broad range of ETFs.
It was -- it's driven by our Solutions team so they are building the portfolio consistent with what's Rhode Island the CIO has set their as a set of investment objectives with a much larger part of the plan which is probably $6.8 billion of that is a broad range of active and passive capabilities again managed by our Solutions team.
And from my point of view Rhode Island has been very very thoughtful and it is really well constructive approach and again as our Solutions team is managing the capabilities.
With regard to the channel it is new channel for us; from the standpoint of as we all know many many people use 529s for kids and et cetera et cetera.
And so it will be available in the advice channel throughout the country and it's one of the largest 529 plans in the marketplace and we just think it's going to be that much more competitive.
Our goal is to help Rhode Island meet the needs of the people in the portfolio but frankly they also want to grow their plan too and we work very hard to do that.
Great.
And then you mentioned part of the strength in the fourth quarter has been in Asia and Europe I think that has been for some time I guess.
Given the volatility to start the year as this demand changes as this demand kind of trends changed at all or kind of how would you characterize the start of the year? It's really hard to -- I think we all know the psychology day-by-day week-by-week changes.
It does feel like it's as the markets are seeming a little more calm and you're getting some more clarity I will say business in Asia last week and all the business I have were all very very strong so I would anticipate continued strength there as Loren said in EMEA but it feels like we're starting to see a little bit more positive reaction to the environment.
But again it's so early to say anything with dollar.
I mean I think your point that you made before Marty is good I mean institutional the strength on the institutional side is actually strong across every region.
Right.
Great pipeline.
The retail behavior has been sort of hard to gauge sort of in and out as pharmacy go off.
But generally I would say in EMEA we feel very very comfortable and confident that the retail side is going to be quite strong.
The GTR product is doing very very well pharmacy has been quite strong and we think that will help continue to allow us to grow both in the UK and in Europe on the retail side.
Great.
And the other thing is the quantitative product as well is unbelievable off the chart performance so also very very strong performance and demand.
Thank you.
Next we have Glenn Schorr of Evercore ISI.
Sir you may proceed.
Quick follow-up on the 529 I'm just curious on how the fee structure works.
Do you get a fee on each of the underlying assets is it a wrapper up top and is it at a normal institutional rate? Yes it's -- I can't remember exactly where it comes.
But just think of an institutional rate on the whole on the portfolio -- And that's down to somewhere around 35 basis points.
Right.
Something like that.
Yes that's going to sorry net down to something around 35 basis points on the basket.
Got it.
Helpful.
And then a question on Jemstep I saw your details and rationale for growth in the slides.
I just had a follow-up question.
How do you expect the distributors to use it and then more importantly how do you differentiate because I'm assuming there's going to be many large asset managers having their version and may be even the distributors doing their own version.
I'm just curious as to say early mover advantage that it makes their lives easier but just curious how you expect that to shape up? Yes that's a great question.
So I think you’re going to and we are expecting the large distributors will have some version of their own.
That's historically what we've done in the past.
We've still contacted them and but that would be our -- what we're going to anticipate.
It's really just sort of the other channels though there is a high degree of interest in this.
And really what it is it's just partnering up with our distribution partners and more effective we can be with them at the end of the day that's a good thing for their clients and for us also.
I don't believe that they're going to be let me say it the other way I believe strongly there is a first move advantage to this because quite frankly multiple distribution partners are not going to have yes multiple I think three four five six 10 of these within the system they don't need it.
And it's like any other application is it's education and investments to move it forward.
So that is our other core belief.
To that end is that your point with we have 300 people on the ground selling and educating as we speak? Yes.
Okay good.
Last one Loren with the cash balances hitting your internal hurdles and the valuation in my words at a ridiculous level.
How you think about the payout ratio relative to the past like can we start seeing 100% payouts even through you have a lot of things going on? I think you saw something probably very close to that this last quarter.
So again we certainly have demonstrated our willingness to respond when the stock is as you call ridiculously low and we would tend to agree with you on that one just given our sense of optimism around our ability to grow over the long-term.
So you should expect us to continue to pay a lot of attention you know our needs for internal organic growth CDs and so forth are still pretty sizable lot of opportunities so we need to balance those against returning capital.
But you should certainly expect us to be operating in the stock buyback around in a non-business as usual approach which is somewhat similar to what you're seeing in the fourth quarter may be not at the actual level but something between business as usual and what you've seen us do.
Next we have Mr.
Bill Katz from Citi.
Sir your line is open.
Just trying to reconcile some of the numbers on the optimization program you delineated a little bit Loren.
You mentioned that you spend; I guess roughly $100 million between the charge in the fourth quarter and then what you expect for this year and sort of in the three year payback $0.06 to $0.08 accretion in '17.
Is it accretive to non-GAAP earnings for '16 and the reason I'm asking is I guess you got to run the expenses through the GAAP line.
I presume if it's a three-year recovery either you really back ended in '18 or you would get some pretty sizable savings this year as well.
I’m just trying to figure out the cash flows? So the execution of the optimization is going to happen all through 2016.
So the three-year payback is really going to be in at full throttle in 2017 and beyond.
We will get savings in 2016 probably somewhere around $15 million is what our non-GAAP run rate positive impact would be -- are -- is what we expect and that would certainly ramp up significantly into 2017 and on.
So again our estimate is based on what we know today based on the activities that we're engaged in today.
But we're going to be pretty that's the way we do believe that it won’t be no more than $85 million in terms of what is required for us to implement that long-term run rate savings which again is somewhere $30 million to $45 million in run rate cost savings post 2017.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then Marty may be both of you guys you gave a nice delineation also where by region and by product but the one area that seem to sort of not be within that list was more traditional equity mandates.
What are you hearing from clients on the institutional side is a still more this barbell notion or is there any sort of interest in more traditional playing vanilla type of mandates? Yes so there are actually I mean this again I'll just use the A structures because I was there but I wouldn’t limit it to there.
I mean you’re actually seeing institutional clients recognize this is probably the time to increase their exposure to the equity markets.
So you’re actually hearing very constructive things and also you’re starting the year by the way this is a time where active management can really start to add value in a way that was harder from sort of a beta run from 2009 on.
So I think you're at a point where you're actually going to see if you're a high conviction manager you're going to continue to start to do well.
So I don’t know what you put in traditional but clearly international equities are high we’re seeing a lot of regional capabilities people are interested in.
So I think it's just where we're in the market cycle and I think you're going to continue to see excuse me you will begin to see much more commitment to active management.
Thank you.
Next we have Mr.
Patrick Davitt of Autonomous.
Sir your line is open.
I have another follow-up on the Rhode Island mandate.
One maybe I misunderstood how you frame this.
But does this mean that there is a $7.2 billion of outflows coming from other people ETFs and funds on this fund? Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
And then two I imagine that that approval of capital like this has a pretty stick inflow stream.
Is that the case and if so can you kind of help us frame what the organic growth of it has been kind of over the last few years? It's a very good question; I don’t think I have a satisfactory answer.
What I would say is that the first decision was to engage us to meet the program of the investment that they had in place that was the first desire.
Secondly they recognized the depth and breadth of our retail distribution capability with some very important distribution partners throughout the country and so their anticipation of growth in the plan is part of what the decision was and obviously we’re very interested in it and we think it will be a new channel for us and we think we'll be quite successful with it.
And I guess the other way to put it in context and again I don't have to assist -- they were successful enough to become I think as the third largest 529 plan in the country and we would look for growth to be stronger than what it had been in the past.
And I would agree with your characterization about it being sticky right? Right.
As long as performance everything else continues right.
Right.
And finally I guess on that again.
Was this kind of a broad kind of beauty show what was kind of the decision process in terms of that? Yes you've to think about it as typical institutional beauty show and obviously you -- we have the choice of anybody they wanted to work with in the country and who is very competitive and because we know this is the largest 529 transfer that's happened in the industry.
Our next question is from Michael Kim of Sandler O'Neill.
Sir you may proceed.
First any early read into quarter-to-date flow trends particularly given the seasonal step-up we typically see in retirement accounts in the first quarter.
And then related to that I think in the past you sort of targeted may be a 3% to 5% organic growth rate.
So just assuming a more cooperative market backdrop going forward which realizes a big assumption these days.
But in that sort of environment is that still sort of a reasonable range to expect? Yes I'll make a couple of comments and Loren continue.
So we still look at that 3% to 5% organic growth rate is very achievable.
And again as Loren and I have talking about such as this ever previously we just continue to see ongoing strength throughout the regions both retail institutional so we think that is fully in place.
You're now talking about a few weeks of January very very hard to anticipate the quarter quite frankly and this week is a whole lot better than the first week of January.
So I wish I could give you some great insights I really can't.
That said I do know and Loren made this point very clear that the institutional investors are continuing to move forward the retail investors tend to be more risk on risk off depending on the daily movement in the markets although it feels like that's coming down probably the best I could describe at the moment.
Could you add? Yes Marty I think that's about right.
Probably say there is lot of risk cost behavior in the early part of January and so it's getting healthier.
Okay fair enough.
And then so if we focus on kind of the alternatives bucket net flows have been consistently positive for a number of years.
I know the real estate business represents a big chunk of those assets but there is also number of different strategies that are in there.
So just wondering if you could sort of give us a sense of where you're seeing the best growth opportunities.
And then as it relates to fee rates any sort of color there because I think the range of the respected fee rates within that bucket can be pretty wide? So Mike I think the other probably even larger in terms of what we're seeing certainly in the fourth quarter is GTR I mean just continues to grow.
I think it's brought in about $1.5 billion in net flows in the fourth quarter; it's about $11 billion in total size to-date.
So that is one that certainly outside the U.S.
has really taken on a lot of good momentum and I think the product that it competes with in the marketplace had some issues around its performance.
And so the positioning is even better probably now than it's ever been.
Still early days in the U.S.
for us and so we like nothing more to see GTR sort of reach its appropriate timeframe and sort of get through all the hurdles that we need to get through for it to be on the platform.
But I think that in real estate and then perhaps as well alternative fixed income is still an area where we believe we can play at a much more significant level than we have in the past and there are lot of products that are still sort of early days in terms of their track record.
So I think it's really GTR and real estate right now are the primary drivers for us and where the demand is.
Got it.
Okay.
And then just one quick one you mentioned or you called out the $7.3 million realized loss related to the disposition of private equity partnership interest.
Can you just sort of give us some more color on exactly what that related to? Yes so that was previous time where we were warehousing partnership in just before they were put into a vehicle for our clients and unfortunately the mark-to-market on that really hit us before I got into the vehicle and so that's what that is.
Normally we would be able to get it in there faster but there was just again some exposure to a pretty volatile market and that's what you saw.
Next we have Craig Siegenthaler of Credit Suisse.
Sir your line is open.
I was looking for a little more color on excess capital.
I think historically you would like to provide a sort of guidance here in terms of cash and investments versus long-term debt and they're pretty close here.
So could you just provide an update here and may be you're pretty comfortable where it is right now? Well so I think you'll see that we had about $1.85 billion in total cash at the end of the quarter.
The amount that is required from a regulatory perspective in the UK and Continental Europe is around $550 million.
So we are about $1.3 billion in excess of our rate capital requirements we've talked about in the past that we want to be at least $1 billion.
So again we are feeling strong in terms of our cash position and our ability to use our capital to the benefit of our clients probably better than we have in a long time.
And with that said assets have dropped a little bit and so our cash flow is definitely having some -- there is some impact to our operating cash there.
But overall we are feeling very very strong and then optimistic about our ability to deploy our capital for the benefit of our shareholders in terms of return on capital.
That's very helpful Loren.
And then just my follow-up on Jemstep.
I just wanted to get a better understanding for how this business will function how it will generate profits and sort of what really attracts you to do this business? Yes well I probably said what's the attraction as I said we -- our view is it's a mistake not to pay attention to what's going on in the digital world and it’s really easy to just ignore we think that's a mistake that's why we went and spent some real good time researching what is happening and we came to the conclusion that a digital mobile tool that could help us with our distribution partners will be a very wise thing to do.
It's a simple thought and your thought is that.
There will be a combination of and I don't want to get into pricing on Jemstep where there will be a combination of things that we think will be accretive if you want to call it to the organization.
First of all the most important thing is well deeper relationships with our clients; we will be able to do better job with our clients.
We'll be able to offer more effectively the broader range of investment capabilities we have to our clients and those at the end of the day will ultimately result in increased assets under management if we again that we have to be performing et cetera all the obvious.
But we think that's the fundamental thoughts of why we try Jemstep was very important development for us.
Thank you.
Next we have Mr.
Ken Worthington of J.P.
Morgan.
Sir your line is open.
First also on capital management.
We're getting to the point in the year where I think you will be recommending to the Board the dividend increase for the coming year.
In recent years the dividend increase has been particularly big.
But given where the stock price is how are you thinking about the kind of the mix of capital return between dividend and buyback as we look forward to the next year? I think it's probably not great for us to be talking about this in event of our discussion with our Board.
But generally it's I think our sense of more modest a modest dividend could be appropriate stride in light of the fact that that will create more capital for buybacks which I think given the market pricing of our stocks may be the better way to use that cash.
But again we need to wait before we get in front of our Board before we sort of signal anything quite honestly.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then just little ones the pound hedge the pound obviously fell a lot in 2015 can't really tell how much you made at the end of the day on that.
Bill said in your release you're hedged out to March I thought you were actually hedged out to May.
How are you thinking about hedging out the currency as we think about 2016 and actually what did you end up making in 2015 on it? Thank you.
Yes great question.
So the hedge as you know was structured hedges were structured 1.493 that is reflective to the average rate for the quarter and so there was no quarter in 2015 that had a rate that averaged below 1.493.
So we made nothing this year or last year in 2015.
On the current quarterly hedges definitely in the money and again so again more to come on what the value there is it's moving around.
But it's certainly something we would see at this rate noticeably notable number.
We are expecting to hedge our currency going forward around the pound.
In particular we believe that the pound is potentially going to be still a little volatile in light especially with the BREXIT discussions that are going on.
And so those are again as we've done in the past hedges we put in place that would be out of money puts that really will protect us from the downside allow upside to occur and again would protect our cash flow in particular as opposed to operating results which we can't really protect against.
Thank you.
Next we have Brennan Hawken of UBS.
Your line is open.
Most of my questions have been asked and answered.
Just one left as far as the U.S.
equity performance you saw some deterioration here this quarter.
Could you speak to that? And I think that you referenced last quarter that there was some loading up in energy stocks did that play a part here? It did.
And again my perspective on that is overall the performance is still very very strong and is very short-term in nature and frankly it didn't improve last quarter to this quarter.
But it's -- then again it's all very short-term.
But yes moving into this year it just continued to strengthen.
So those portfolio sets will have the energy exposure we think that plays very very well and they are going to do hopefully do very very well for our clients.
And the other thing I would say is that the improvement that we saw in the one-year numbers relative to Q3 were due to our small cap growth equity team as well as our growth in income products.
So there were definitely some equity capabilities that can show improvement in the quarter relative to last quarter.
Our next question is from Robert Lee of KBW.
Sir your line is open.
Hi I have got two questions.
The first one is kind of curious -- Hey Robert it's hard to hear you.
Sorry.
Is it any better? Good thank you.
Okay.
Couple of questions you did mention in the release a couple of regulatory targets strictly private equity.
Kind of curious what that is and even though adjusted that for EPS should we expecting quarters a filling quarter it's kind of -- Hey Rob we're really having a hard time in hearing you.
I don't know you kind of grabled.
You know what I will call you offline.
I'm on a cell phone that's probably not working well.
Sorry about that.
Sorry Rob.
We're getting every other word.
Next we have Mr.
Chris Harris of Wells Fargo.
Sir your line is open.
A few questions on PowerShares.
Are you guys seeing any fee pressure at all in that business? And then sort of related to that given how competitive smart beta is and it just keeps getting more and more competitive do you think ultimately we might see new pressure in that area? So a couple of things.
I think when you want to think about us think about it beyond smart beta it is really factor investing.
So one of the delivery mechanisms are PowerShares ETFs but factor investor team is really the one team you’re seeing real demand for factor investor team outside of the United States both retail and institutional institutional in particular in Europe institutional in particular in Asia and we’ve been doing it for 20 years.
And I think the other thing if you look at the PowerShares line up what is important is that differently than mutual funds you really can’t have more than three in a category.
So there is a first mover advantage topic within ETFs is something very very real.
And if you look at the length of the time that our smart beta ETFs have been in the market they have liquidity they have real track records and when you're the incumbent you're really in a strong position.
So we think other people come in into smart beta areas it's a confirmation that it’s a better way to create exposure and to passives.
And again we're just seeing continued strength within PowerShares in particular in fact investing outside of the United States.
Okay.
My one follow-up would be on the cost optimization plan.
Can you guys give us a little bit more detail about what those costs really are; I mean is it a combination of project spending and layoff comp or is it something else.
And then sort of related to that I’m wondering why the spending is taking sort of it's sort of backend loaded if you will you would think it was layoffs are something of that nature it would -- benefits would be pretty immediate? Okay yes it's good question.
Thank you.
So we will make sure it's clear.
These are long dated infrastructure type program.
So many years ago we have a low hanging fruit is we call that's long on it's been long on for long time.
So these are efficiency related undertakings hardcore system upgrades process improvements type things.
So it's large projects by having all of our institutions but they're pretty broad right now.
Yes in many ways they are transformational around processes and the way we do things.
So it's not just trimming people that kind of behavior you're right.
That could be done very quickly.
This is very thoughtful that will make us a stronger better company at the end of the day.
And again in an environment like this we will move more quickly to get those things done they have been on our list and we have all these things that we would like to do to continue make ourselves a better company.
But we’re absolutely accelerating a lot of these activities right now but they do take time to implement thoughtfully.
Operator Next we have Mr.
Chris Shutler of William Blair.
Sir you may proceed.
So on U.S.
and Global Fixed Income you have really terrific performance over $10 billion of active flows in 2015.
Can you may be just talk about that area with rates may be rising a little bit here with changes in the credit markets and how you see the pipeline shaping up for '16 and beyond? Yes so I'd say the effort that we started three years ago broadening our fixed income capability probably almost four years ago now is really proving to bear real fruit and as you said if you look across the fixed income performance it is very very strong.
And we're seeing growing demand all channels all regions within fixed income and some of it is still not at the level that we anticipate because some of the capabilities don't have three-year track records.
So getting close but we're starting to get new commitments on them simply because the performance is quite frankly institutions in particular looking for another high quality provider of fixed income capabilities.
So not just the performance but we do think it's -- we're not seeing the highest level of contribution yes from that area.
So we're very positive on it.
It's only growing for us.
I mean it's such a big market and we're still underpenetrated that our opportunity to continue to grow even if there is some rate impacts.
I think they is significant.
All right.
And then may be a last one topic.
The DOL fiduciary standard just given the increasing thought that that's going to through; I just want to get your latest take there on.
And realizing that the final rule is not out what could be the impact to Invesco's strategy and may be any impact on expenses that we should think about? Yes it's a good question and again I think we're all -- we're imagining right so it's hard to imagine.
But what I can say and this probably gets back to some of these other topics that we talked about.
The breadth of capability depth of capability matters a lot.
We think quite frankly high conviction managers in fundamental investing and factor investing is really important.
We think we're obviously one of very few firms that has and do the range of those types of things.
And quite frankly the other thing that Jemstep does it's an enabling tool for our advisory clients to get broader deeper relationships with their clients and serve clients that may -- yes individuals that could ultimately totally disadvantage by the fiduciary role that's been put in place so that's part of the work we’re thinking of how Jemstep can help us and our clients with a rule that we don't know exactly what is going to be at the moment.
But so that's how we've been thinking about it and so hopefully that's helpful.
Next we have Alex Blostein of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Bigger picture on the expenses.
When you take a step back I understand that the initiative may have been in the works for some time but the revenue probably accelerated some of that.
But when you take a step back and you look at your fixed expense base versus the variable expense base to achieve that kind of 3% to 5% organic growth what kind of inflation and investment do you need to see in your fixed portion of the expense base to achieve that target? Nothing more than what we have quite frankly so.
And we’re just leveraging in many ways capabilities that are in our view sort of not -- and we can scale much more than they are today and taking capabilities that are some are focused in a particular region and unlocking them on a global basis we can use existing sales people we can use obviously existing teams.
So there is no sort of new infrastructure that we necessarily need to put in place to support that activity.
It's more a matter of coordination and education and sort of making sure that our teams our sales teams in particular understand these products and can articulate the benefit to their clients.
Got it.
And then I guess along those lines when you think about the product dynamic and the sources of organic growth that we've seen in the industry this quarter and frankly for the last couple quarters European retail UK retail has been a source of strength for you guys for BlackRock to some extent for Threadneedle to some extent.
So some of the bigger US players.
What -- when you take a step back how has the competitive dynamic evolved in that market? And I guess more importantly are you seeing share gains from other firms or is the pie kind of still growing from whether it's bank deposits coming into the investment products or some of the captive asset managers just continuously losing market share? So is this in particularly in the UK? UK and the European market.
So if you look over the last four years and let's do kind of Europe first I mean it has been really the independent global asset managers largely U.S.
that have been continuing to take greater share on accounts.
I know there are some other good competitors -- very good competitors that participate but that has been the fact for whatever reason.
And over the last number of years as you've seen I mean we just continue to make stronger and stronger inroads on the continent we still think that is the case we still have we think quite a way to go to penetrate the market and that continues for us.
In UK it's really quite different.
I mean it is really competitive markets; very few very few non-UK firms are successful in the UK.
And it is really that the heritage of our presence in the UK is why we're so strong there and again it just continues to be competitive but we're very well placed there and we think we will continue to do well.
But that would probably be another market that largely driven by regulatory developments and really what I would say what's starting to happen here in the United States very difficult to be a smaller firm and I think we're strong just going to get stronger in UK that's going to be the case in the United States too.
Next we have Mr.
Brian Bedell of Deutsche Bank.
Sir your line is open.
Hi thanks for taking my question.
Most of them have been asked.
Just this one on the solutions asset Marty if you want to talk a little bit more about that.
I guess first of all would you consider that Rhode Island wins one of your best successes in the solutions effort? And how do you think you might be able to leverage that whether you will use this as a template to further broaden the effort across your sales force.
Yes so Rhode Island would be the highest profile in the United States I would say.
But again we're seeing -- one of the components of being able to do that I mean it is really those combination of broad range of capabilities and from our point of view high conviction factor and fundamentals.
So we have both of those and I think that is actually really important if we’re going to be successful in solutions and it’s continuing to carry on through us in each of the regions so the U.S.
Asia-Pacific frankly China in particular and on the Continent in particular.
And so will this continue to go down that path and there is growing opportunity in the area.
And again I think it's you really have to be a broad gauged set of offerings to be successful and that's where we start and then the overlay of very some talented people that can do the solutions work for the clients.
And would just say in terms of the effort going forward on this and your 3% to 5% organic AUM to organic growth targets would just say solutions is a very substantial part of that? So it is hard to when we probably like you and everybody else we do our looking forward to try and understand where the strength will come.
It's -- it will be a contributor for sure and a growing contributor over the two or three years out from where we are right now.
So that's another reason why have such confidence in sort of the 3% to 5% range.
Okay.
And just may be just lastly on the solutions side do you feel that's more fixed income oriented or really completely broad --or I should say fixed income alternative oriented or really completely broad across your asset classes? It's been 100% broad across the asset class utilizing anything from as I said really factor based capabilities two alternatives.
So it’s client dependent but it has used the full range of capabilities in most cases.
No further questions sir.
On behalf of Loren and myself thank you very much for your time and look forward to talking to you next quarter.
Have a good rest of the day.
Thank you.
That concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.