Good day and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call for Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.
[Operator Instructions] Any statements made about future results and performance or about plans expectations and objectives are forward-looking statements.
Actual results and performance may differ from those included in the forward-looking statements as a result of factors discussed in the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010 and in our other reports filed with the SEC.
The company disclaims any undertaking to update and revise any forward-looking statements.
A transcript of this call will be posted and available on the company's website.
A web audio replay will also be available for download.
Information and the link can be found on the company's website.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Colin Dyer Chief Executive Officer for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you very much operator.
Hello everybody.
Thank you again for joining us for this review of our results for the first quarter of 2011.
With me today in a wet and windy Chicago is Lauralee Martin our Chief Operating and Financial Officer and in a moment she's going to review our financial performance in detail.
First let me give you the headlines for the quarter.
Our revenues totaled $688 million which is up 18% from the first quarter of 2010 and that's a 16% increase in local currency.
Net income was $1.5 million or $0.03 per share compared to $200 000 or $0.01 per share in the first quarter of 2010.
Our pipelines are growing steadily across the businesses and across all geographies.
Our Board of Directors have declared a semi-annual dividend of $0.15 per share of our common stock and that's up from $0.10 per share in the prior period.
To put the results which we'll talk about shortly in context let's first look at conditions in the global economy and our real estate markets around the world.
The world economy is expected to grow at around 3.5% in 2011 and 4% in 2012 and that's according to Global Insight.
Annual GDP growth is expected to be 2.1% in developed countries and 6.4% in emerging countries which include the BRICs.
So despite political turmoil in the Middle East; sovereign debt problems in Europe and to an extent the U.S.; and the devastating effects of Japan's earthquake tsunami and nuclear crises the multi-speed global recovery continues.
To give you a sense of conditions in key real estate markets we've posted slides in the Investors Relationship section of our website www.joneslanglasalle.com.
Slide 3 shows the Jones Lang LaSalle investment sales clock which we update for you each quarter.
It provides a picture of conditions in major markets around the world at different stages of the real estate cycle.
You can see that in the first quarter of 2011 values are rising in most markets with the pace of growth even beginning to slow in just a few.
Our preliminary figures indicate that global investment volumes totaled just under $94 billion in the first quarter which is up substantially from the first quarter of 2010.
Capital values for prime real estate assets continue to increase strongly in many top-tier office markets increasing at an annual rate of over 20% across the 22 largest markets worldwide but with significant regional differences.
The downward shift in prime yields has showed significantly during the past 2 quarters however as rental growth replaces yield shift the key driver of capital appreciation.
Turning to Slide 4 you'll see a snap shot of conditions in leasing market worldwide which tells a similar story but progress here continues to lag the recovery in global investment sales.
The strongest office leasing markets continue to be in Asia Pacific but first quarter regional net absorption increased by 30% year-over-year.
We did see a pause in the European office market growth with net absorption down 20% on the first quarter of 2010.
Office vacancy rates continue to trend down gradually from that early 2010 peak and our provisional global office vacancy rate across 104 cities now stands at 14% down 1.5% from the first quarter of 2010.
Regional vacancy rates vary from 16.8% in the Americas 10.9% in Asia Pacific and 10.3% in Europe.
Rental growth on prime assets in top markets is at its strongest since the first quarter of 2008 averaging 8% year-over-year across 22 major world markets.
The strongest growth has been in Hong Kong Singapore Shanghai São Paulo and Moscow.
Rental growth is also returning to some central business district office markets in the U.S.
notably Washington D.C.
and San Francisco.
But for most office markets worldwide rental stabilization is now the main theme.
So with that general background I'll now pass the call over to Lauralee.
Thank you Colin and good morning to everyone on the call.
Similar to previous quarters I will not repeat the financial results as outlined in the earnings release but rather will focus on a handful of key items that impacted the quarter's results.
Overall we were pleased that our strong revenue growth continued and importantly our pipelines are ahead of where they were a year ago.
The increase in our expenses was driven by certain unusual items that we explained in our earnings release.
Given the seasonal nature of our profits these items have a pronounced impact in the quarter but they will be insignificant as the year plays out.
Together the unusual items totaled more than $9 million and directly impacted our operating income.
Excluding the unusual items our operating income margin was consistent with the first quarter last year and our EBITDA margin would have shown improvement.
While we are not designating these items as restructuring they are unusual in nature and we are disappointed in our margins this quarter because of them.
Also affecting the quarter was a decision to hold regional business meetings to kick off and accelerate our strategic plans and goals for the year meetings that have not been held for 2 years due to the downturn.
The impact of these meetings was approximately 1% of revenue but already we are seeing the benefits of improved business going into the second quarter.
The meeting cost taken together with the unusual items reduced our operating margin just under 2.5%.
We continue to be committed to our medium-term operating income margin objective of 12% or an approximate 15% EBITDA margin.
Further we have very positive revenue trends in each of our regions that I'd like to talk now about briefly.
In the Americas revenue increased 26% from the first quarter of 2010 for $288 million.
The most significant increase was in Leasing which grew 35% or $37 million to nearly $144 million.
In the quarter we hired 41 net new brokers 21 of whom are in our Industrial business lines.
We continue to expand our market positions and capabilities as our powerful platform continues to attract top talent.
We recently completed the acquisition of Keystone Partners in North Carolina which will also contribute to continued momentum in our Brokerage business.
Capital Markets &amp; Hotels revenue more than doubled from last year to $20 million of revenue in the first quarter.
We incurred approximately $3 million of accounting-accelerated compensation expense related to acquisitions that normally would be amortized over a 3- to 5-year period.
You will notice new account lines on the balance sheet this quarter for warehouse receivables and warehouse facilities that resulted from our acquisition of Primary Capital Advisers in Atlanta which provides us the capability to offer our clients agency financing.
This acquisition nicely complements our existing Capital Markets service offerings and allows us to expand our multifamily service adding the origination and servicing of multifamily mortgages.
While operating expenses have increased for the Americas in total the increases are primarily variable in nature and attributable to higher revenue-generating activities and future business prospects.
Revenue in EMEA increased 11% from the first quarter last year largely in our Project &amp; Development Services or PDS business lines.
PDS includes our Tetris fit-out business where the accounting required subcontractor costs be included as a revenue gross-up.
These gross-ups also contributed to increased operating expenses.
Overall while total EMEA operating expenses increased $20 million or 13% compared with the first quarter of 2010 more than $8 million of the total was due to higher subcontractor cost pass-throughs.
Europe remains in a variable state of economic recovery which is reflected in our transactional revenue results.
There are some countries still producing strong results and with quality pipelines and importantly the large markets such as Germany England and France.
But with such varied recovery to date on a country-by-country basis the transactional results reflected in the region taken as a whole are mixed.
Looking ahead our pipelines are strong and we've selectively added revenue producers to take advantage of markets as they recovered more broadly across the region.
In our Asia-Pacific region revenue increased 22% in the quarter with growth across all business lines.
There were notable increases in India Singapore and Greater China which includes China Hong Kong Macau and Taiwan driven by $4 million of leasing revenue increase.
There were smaller yet meaningful increases in Korea and New Zealand.
Looking at business line results Property &amp; Facility Management was up $16 million and PDF was up $7 million.
Like in EMEA subcontractor costs are reflected in revenue and expenses of Asia-Pacific's PDF and Facility Management business dependent upon the contract terms.
Across these two business lines there's nearly $8 million of vendor cost pass-throughs included in the year-over-year growth of revenue and expenses.
Total operating expenses increased 23% for the year inclusive of these charges.
We want to publicly recognize both Jones Lang LaSalle and LaSalle Investment Management colleagues who are tackling the significant challenges imposed on them by the tragedy in Japan while still continuing to strongly support our clients and our investors.
In the quarter we had minimal financial impact to the firm's results and although early to determine we do not expect the total year to be different.
Included in the firm's results was a JPY 100 million or $1.3 million contribution to the Japanese Red Cross relief efforts.
LaSalle Investment Management had a solid quarter with revenue up 9% compared with the first quarter of 2010.
Advisory fees were up 5% due in part to favorable valuation increases in the Securities business.
Our 2011 net equity commitments raised in the quarter totaled $1.5 billion including $1 billion in new and expended separate account mandate.
Assets under management rose to $43 billion at the end of the first quarter from $41.3 billion at December 31 2010.
LaSalle's investment performance continues to exceed most benchmarks.
The firm's balance sheet remains strong.
Cash flow activity during the period was broadly consistent with historical first quarter activities driven by cash payments of annual incentive compensations.
Our net bank debt and total net debt which includes the deferred acquisition obligations have decreased significantly from the first quarter last year and we remain well-positioned to take advantage of market opportunities in a continually consolidating industry.
Let me now turn the call back to Colin who will discuss some of our recent business wins.
Thank you Lauralee.
So to give you a sense of how we generated our first quarter results Slide 5 shows a few examples of recent new business wins.
Starting with our global large Corporate Outsourcing business we won 12 new assignments during the quarter renewed 7 contracts and expanded our relationship with 3 other clients.
Our pipeline for additional new business remains strong and consistent with last year's levels.
Some selected corporate solution wins include in the Americas Belk the major retail chain who retained the facilities management and global engineering services with its 28 million square foot portfolio across 16 states in the Southeastern USA.
Canada and Europe retained us as a preferred provider for strategic consulting valuation and transaction management services.
Across in China we were appointed facilities manager for the 883 000 square foot FedEx Pacific logistics hub in Guanzhou.
The Australian Customs Service awarded us a 3-year contract to manage its 2.9 million square feet portfolio and these totals and selected wins do not include activity in our U.S.
Market Corporate Solutions business which areas focuses on relationships with mid-market corporate occupiers and supporting these client needs in transaction management project management lease administration and consulting services.
During the first quarter alone we won 15 new assignments totaling nearly 30 million square feet of space in this rapidly expanding segment.
Turning to the first quarter investment sales activities in the Americas we completed the $460 million sale of a 8-property multi-family residential portfolio in the suburbs of Washington D.C.
In Mexico City our tenant rep and Capital Markets team joined by their Corporate Solutions colleagues in Germany executed a $100 million sale and lease back transaction for Nestlé's new regional headquarters.
In the U.K.
we advised Hermès on the GBP 235 million sale of 20 Gresham Street and just last week we represented a confidential Asian client in the GBP 288 million acquisition of the Aviva Tower in the city of London.
In Singapore we advised on $800 million of transactions the majority of large buildings sold there to date this year.
And in Beijing we advised on the sale of the 410 000 square foot Mapletree Tower Beijing's largest office transaction facilitated by a third-party agent since the beginning of 2010.
Among the Leasing and tenant representation transactions which we completed during the quarter again in Washington D.C.
we represented the Piedmont Office Realty Trust in the 600 000 square foot lease renewal of the NASA headquarters.
In Moscow we were appointed exclusive marketing and leasing agent for the 2.6 million square foot Aviapark shopping and entertainment center and in Germany we advised syncreon on leasing 215 000 square feet of logistics and office space to Garbe Logistics.
Turning to Asia-Pacific.
In Singapore's largest leasing transaction to date this year we represented Credit Suisse to secure a new 300 000 square-foot lease and anchor tenancy status at One at Changi City.
And also in Singapore or largest ever property and asset management win in Southeast Asia we won the mandate for Asia Square a new 2.65 million square foot mixed use development in the center of Singapore.
What Lauralee mentioned in her comments of the $1.5 billion in net new equity raised by LaSalle Investment Management in this first quarter about 2/3 of the total came from separate account mandates with most of the rest placed in corporate securities.
The separate accounts included about $600 million from 2 new separate accounts in Europe and $400 million from 2 expanded relationships one in the U.S.
and the other also in Europe.
La Salle's plans are clearly maintaining the long-term allocation to real estate and LaSalle is continuing to focus on delivering excellent performance as indicated by its out performance against many of the benchmarks against which they are measured.
In other first quarter highlights we welcomed 2 new members to the firm's Board of Directors Hugo Bagué and Martin Nesbitt.
Hugo is Group Executive for  Rio Tinto with overall responsibility for Human Resources Health &amp; Safety Communities and Corporate Communications.
Marty is President and CEO of PRG Parking Management a Chicago-based owner and operator of off-airport parking facilities which he conceived and co-founded.
We're fortunate to have 2 individuals with such strong credentials and experience joining our Board of Directors.
We also pursued our policy of expanding our global footprint in response to new business opportunities and client needs.
We moved into 2 new countries during the quarter opening our first office in Switzerland with the acquisition of Zurich-based Sal Oppenheimer.
And we established a presence in the newest member of the BRIC countries South Africa with the acquisition of Johannesburg-based  Bradford and McCormack Associates.
We also expanded our leading presence in India and China opening new offices in our Aminabad in India and Chongqing in China.
In line with our policy all of these new offices are fully owned by Jones Lang LaSalle.
Looking forward prospects are encouraging across most of our world markets.
In investment sales we now think that based on current momentum and existing transactions our preliminary forecast of $380 billion to $400 billion dollars of total annual investment volumes should be revised upwards to more than $440 billion 35% to 40% above 2010 and that represents the highest total since 2007.
Also as rental growth on prime assets accelerates stronger capital appreciation is expected to occur in most top-tier office markets for the rest of the year.
Hong Kong Moscow Washington D.C.
and San Francisco are projected to show the highest capital value growth in 2011.
In global Leasing markets subdued development activity in North America and Europe is going to help further erode vacancy rates throughout the year.
But with Asia Pacific approaching the peak of its development cycle the vacancy rate in that region is probably going to increase modestly in 2011.
As we noted earlier the rental growth on prime assets in top markets is at its strongest since early 2008 and with a limited supply of quality space and strong occupier demand rental growth is expected to continue accelerating in the course of this year.
In the funds management sector we believe institutional investors in commercial real estate will as I described earlier continue to increase their capital allocations to the asset class.
And finally while the world is rightly focused on the humanitarian toll extracted by the devastating natural disasters and political unrest that have occurred in the past year it's obvious that these events are having little or no impact on overall economic activity in the world.
Many Middle Eastern and North African markets locally are clearly struggling.
For example our office in Cairo however is now seeing renewed interest in activity among multinational corporations who want to be on the front foot and be prepared for potential growth following upcoming Egyptian elections.
Japan anticipates no economic growth this year because of the disruptions to trade and manufacturing caused by the earthquake tsunami and nuclear crisis.
The reconstruction efforts are expected to produce low GDP growth of 3.6% next year and the government has already announced a $50 billion down payment for those activities.
As already mentioned as a firm we are confident about the resilience and recovery of the Japanese economy and we'll be investing in it.
Just recently in fact LaSalle Investment Management announced a $170 million investment in a logistics development project in Japan.
And as Lauralee said we both want to extend our special thanks to our 600 colleagues at Jones Lang LaSalle and LaSalle Investment Management in Japan for the tremendous efforts they're making to get the country our plants and our firm solidly back into business.
So to close our remarks as is our custom we'd like to mention some of the awards which we've received and which reflect our commitment to superior client service and to our position as leader in real estate services and investment management.
During the first quarter and for the fourth consecutive year the Ethisphere Institute selected Jones Lang LaSalle as one of 110 leading global corporations to be named as one of the world's most ethical companies.
And the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency has named us ENERGY STAR partner of the year for 2011 the third time we've earned this honor.
And we were named the Fortune's list of the World's Most Admired Countries (sic) [Companies] and for the third year in a row were selected as one of the World's 100 Top Outsourcing Providers by the International Association of Outsourcing Professionals.
In the Asia Retail Congress we won the prestigious International Property Consultancy of the Year award for the third consecutive year and we won 5 categories of the Property Council of Australia's Retail Awards.
In the U.K.
we won Office Agency Team of the Year honors in the 2011 Property Week's Awards.
And in Russia for the sixth consecutive year we're named Consultant of the Year in the 2011 Commercial Real Estate awards.
So with that list of wins outlook on current business circumstances and some accolades we'll now move on to questions.
So operator could you please explain the Q&amp;A process? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Sloan Bohlen.
Colin and Lauralee I'm wondering if maybe you could kind of reconcile -- obviously some of the margin hit in the first quarter was due either the pull forward for some hiring expenses and obviously strategically you're trying to grow in markets like the U.S.
but maybe if you could reconcile the 15% EBITDA margin target with how you're looking to expand market share in those markets at the same time.
Well generally as we add people there is a slight reduction until they get completely up to being productive.
But we do look at that because when there's enough momentum in the core the incremental costs don't make that material of a difference and clearly in the totality of the year they would make almost none.
It's really -- I think the reflection in the first quarter is when we typically don't make meaningful money and so any adjustments there show up more dramatically.
I think is your comment specifically on compensation? I think more we're trying to get a sense of the pacing of hiring and how we should think about the impact for the first quarter and is it an over-extended impact this quarter versus what we should see in the back-end of the year? Both the costs the margins which we showed in this quarter in these results were actually slightly ahead of what we had expected in our budgeting and planning process for the full year.
So when we talk about being comfortable and confident for the full-year outlook we're saying that against background of having planned for these sorts of levels of results which means to say we expected to be investing the cost which we invested in producers and any other underlying business footprint and expanding our office space and so forth and we also planned for the business meetings which Lauralee described which we held for the first time in several years.
So all of that's quite within what we planned before and as I've said we're entirely comfortable on the basis of this first quarter with our overall thinking for the year our confidence in our pipeline and so on.
So this is the first quarter and as we constantly said each year it's by margin our weakest quarter.
If you go back to Q4 last year we produced something like 40% of our total net income in that last 3 months of the year that's our seasonal pattern.
So we don't feel overly concerned with the position of the margins in this quarter and it is consistent with building towards the full year and towards those 15% EBITDA margin targets which you've described.
Switching gears Colin.
Maybe your comments on sort of your raised guidance for sales volumes for the year is that a comment based more on volume or on asset value appreciation? Or does some of the hiring and increased market share add to that estimate as well? Yes the numbers I gave were total market figures.
They were not intended to be estimates of our revenue or the volume of transactions that we're involved in.
They're intended -- they're for our researchers and they're estimates of the strength for the total world market.
So we talked about 35% to 40% growth in transaction volumes and investment sales that's global that includes everything in commercial real estate worldwide.
The reason for that uptick is firstly Q1 activity and capital markets was stronger than we had estimated so that sort of flows through the full year and a basis of that is there is increased transaction activity and the a pricing has moved up as well.
So you've got the double effect and more being sold and pricing moving up.
It feels compressed.
We’ve said that is still going quite strongly in some markets but it's beginning to tail off for example London Paris New York Washington and reaching mid to low 5 on quality asset in terms of cap rates and so that's the moment we'll pause but we do see as we described the start stronger underlying trend in rental rates and so that in itself will against the fixed cap rate level drive up transaction values.
So a number of virtuous things happening together which causes to uplift that estimate.
And your next question comes from the line of Michael Muller [JP Morgan Chase].
Its Joe Dazio here a question about the regional business meetings going forward and more of a normalized market environment would you expect those to occur annually or a little bit less than that? Every couple of years.
We will skip next year and do it probably again in 2013.
Yes the U.S.
does hold an annual business meeting and that will continue next year but the other regions do not.
I'm afraid prior to our Investment Management business which will not hold a meeting next year.
And then also a question on the Leasing business.
I know Colin you touched on it a little bit but looking specifically at the Americas how do you look at kind of growth as you move through the rest of the year given that it would seem like comps probably will be a little bit tougher from where they were Q1 a year ago.
So you do think that 35% up in Q1 might be a little bit tough to repeat as the year progresses? Well we were very pleased with that obviously because that's a strong performance.
We're pleased with our leasing activity across the U.S.
It maybe because again is it's the lowest quarter of the year in the market in terms of the whole.
It may be kind of an outlier on the upside but if you just step back from the number there's nothing in the commentary which we've given you nothing that we can see which suggests any break or change in what we've been describing for years a normal cyclical upswing.
So across Leasing across Capital Market activity across rental pricing we're seeing a solid global underlying upturn in activity and pricing.
The one exception to that I commented on in the commentary was Europe where we did see what we've described as a pause in activity and Leasing in Europe but just this quarter.
We don't think it's underlying.
Our pipelines are strong.
There's some big transactions coming through in the course of the rest of the year.
We can't say exactly where they'll fall.
So we just believe this quarter was a sort of what you get in a normal cyclical process.
And your next question comes from the line of Will Marks [JMP Securities].
I have a question on the cash or rather the net debt repayment you put in your slideshow presentation of $184 million.
That number trailing 12 months was $250 million at the end of 2010 and can you maybe comment on why it would be declining? Well we did pay larger bonuses and so as you look at that which we are pleased to do because our people have had a couple of years of very depressed compensation.
So it would principally be because of that but its compensation well-earned and now we're getting back to more normal bonus levels.
We also have stronger cash flows as a consequence as well.
And would you expect the number to be absent any acquisitions or higher dividend would you expect that net debt repayment for 2011 or just the cash flow to be stronger than 2010? Yes.
I mean we expect the cyclical recovery in our performance.
Clearly every time that occurs there's stronger cash flows and we continue to be very disciplined on the management of it.
So at this point in time the primary uses of capital are acquisition activity where we have it and it's been modest so very nice with some of the transactions that I talked about and Colin talked about debt paydown and then the modest use of cash so far that's come out of co-investments for LaSalle Investment Management which we do expect to start increasing as the buying pace picks up.
So the dividend -- the total cash cost of the dividend is sort of $7 million to $8 million a year.
Speaking of acquisitions do you care to quantify that? I know it's fairly nominal but the acquisitions to date the cost or maybe they'll be in you Q.
In this quarter? I mean it's a mixture of some revenue cost which go through P&amp;L and the capital cost but it's all up about $30 million.
And then lastly for me is on just new hiring.
You seem to have stole market share and I'm wondering how much of this is from your better production from your people or new hiring and maybe if you can quantify at all you've done this I think in the past and how many people you've added? If there's anything like that you can say for the quarter? In the U.S.
we did add net 41 new brokers.
Around the world we've added people as well.
It's a little bit harder to get to that number around the globe but we've added in Europe and in Asia particularly in the growth markets of India and China we've added fairly significantly and the revenue more than supports that on a year-over-year basis and profit.
And the 41 new brokers that was just in the first quarter? Yes.
Yes.
And what is that approximate base the number of brokers in the U.S.? It's about 1 000.
So that says you're getting a stronger sort of operational leverage effect from productivity improvements than you are from providing numbers.
And on adding new brokers I assume there's nominal costs.
You generally have the space for it and there's not typically -- word from your mouth not typically upfront payments to these brokers? Modest upfront.
It's just still through the transition of leaving pipelines behind and coming over to us.
If it's in offices as hires you're correct.
It's an incremental modest amount so it's basically technology and so forth.
If we do an actual acquisition like we did in South Africa or Switzerland there we picked up an entire fully-functioning office.
So in that case you will get really the average of the margins in those business coming in but you would also immediately get pipeline.
And your next question comes from the line of Eric Glover [ph].
I was wondering if you guys could comment on your energy &amp; sustainability services and how that performed in the quarter? And what's your outlook for the year in that segment of your business? I think the energy -- in the energy and sustainability world not to put them together but it's become such an integrated part of our offer as we think about whether it's our PDF work.
So if you think the work we do in Tetris is automatic for them to think about retro-fitting space and also doing it in an environmental way.
Our Energy Management business continues to grow.
What we're very excited about now across the world is the work we're starting to do in alternative energy solar.
We've had a track record in wind advising on most of the wind farms off of Scotland but now we're picking up advisory work on solar across Europe and across the U.S.
and are shortly about to announce some exciting new work with clients.
So it's a growing part of the business but I would describe it as more and more a requirement to do business in our space which is why we've invested in the expertise that we have.
And I was also wondering if you could talk a little bit about market trends in say the middle markets or smaller property types within the U.S.
Beginning to pick up.
We talked a little earlier about the typical shape of the cyclical recovery.
It starts with the best assets in the biggest cities and then it filters out from there or trickles out from there.
So the less good assets in the big cities and then it goes up in the secondary markets.
What's happened to the comments I made earlier is that the cap rate compression in the big and best assets has been really quite remarkably fast coming out of the recession such that you've got as I said in the major cities cap rates back in the 5s low-5s even.
We're hearing high fours in some places and so against that investors looking for yield are already moving out along the risk curve and risk means secondary assets or it means smaller markets.
And so selectively we're seeing investors going out investing in stable assets in lesser markets financing harder for that.
So that's a slow process.
They're investing -- it will value-added investors in kind of half finished development deals with the financings coming to difficulties as you're seeing those sort of trends emerging.
But it's a process rather than an event and I'd say it's going to be ongoing in the course of this year and next.
And your next question comes from the line of a David Ridley-Lane [Bank of America Merrill Lynch].
What drove the acceleration in projects in Development Services? And can you just remind us given some rough idea of the type of -- revenue by type of work you're doing there? Yes the driver in the European theater was very simply a policy decision to expand our French business which we already described Tetris into other geographies so Belgium Italy we're looking at England Germany and Russia to further expand that.
And its work is largely around -- well has been traditionally largely around investor driven to that work and now they're transferring that across to corporate fit-out work as well.
Mostly in assets that we ourselves would be involved with Leasing or investment sales.
It's part of the linked and bundled set of services around the real estate markets.
So that's been one driver and we're pleased with progress there and it's come out as largely being driven by our French business.
Across the U.S.
Lauralee you want to comment on that? It's just a strong recovery in CapEx spend and helping retailers reposition their storefronts et cetera to be more competitive.
It goes with our tenant work with our Leasing markets.
And in my comment on Asia which has been very strong as well we've seen tremendous growth in India as really the corporate activity is looking at that marketplace as being very cost competitive very talent-rich in terms of the disciplines that go into to the outsourcing marketplace.
And we really have a market reputation as doing very quality work in that marketplace and so therefore pickup pretty much all the major corporate work not just multinational but now local Indian multinationals.
Just to clarify depending upon the contract terms and Tetris is one of those and some of the work in India we are required to gross up what is called the vendor spend because we're managing it.
The underlying contracts underneath our work and so we did highlight the year-over-year part of the growth of that comes from that.
It shows up because there's been such a robustness of growth in both of these markets on more of a steady state as you run off a contract and get a new one and you won't be seeing that level of dynamics.
But even without that we had a very strong growth in both of those markets and business we're very pleased with it.
It almost is an annuity like because of the contract that runs for a 3- to 6-month period of time with a nice margin on it.
Just clarify that that's not a change in accounting rules you've always had to do that just to yell out the projects in this work? That's correct.
And just a rough breakout by the type of work you're doing.
If you could put in say 2 or 3 buckets? If you take the sort of drivers and coming from that angle yes the rule effects we'll be seeing or have seen since quarter 4 last year is particularly large corporations regaining our confidence and beginning to invest again.
And they're investing in the space context which is what we're describing here in the developed markets such as the U.S.
and Europe in consolidation moving down from 3 offices to 1 just sort of rearranging their floor space.
There's some maintenance which has been delayed which is catch-up maintenance work there's some refitting of tired space where people have put that off for a couple of years and that's happening now as well.
So in the developed markets it's largely that sort of internal spend.
In the developing markets to Lauralee's description of India you can say the same for China and Brazil Russia as well even.
You're seeing the investment by local and international corporations for growth and we are developing we are benefiting from both types of growth because in China 50% of our revenues is with local corporates and 50% international and in India it's even more focused towards domestic corporations.
So there is a sort of sense of the different types of work we're doing and it's largely fit-out work.
There is some base construction management which we do but it's largely fit-out work.
And then if you think about the trajectory of SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue in 2011 you had such a great leverage in 2010 what's your sense of SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue as you go through this year on a year-over-year basis? Well if we just look at the first quarter what we would call our fixed cost of our office our technology and those -- we had a very healthy improvement and we would continue to leverage those lines.
Clearly unusual items made it a little hard to work through that improvement.
The biggest piece of the variable expense change was in travel and also in marketing.
As markets recover you do spend in order to get ahead of that revenue growth opportunity and then you get to a steady state with that.
So we have jumped ahead in order to have the revenues for the year but we would expect that to fall back to a normal level and continue to be an area that we can leverage.
So net-net I would not expect an increase in our OREO and we would continue to drive that down as part of our overall margin goals.
Okay all right.
That's very helpful.
If I could just sneak in one or more.
If you add up all the acquisitions made in the quarter was that -- did that add up to 1% because of your revenue growth? Or is that still circling around down to zero? You'd see almost nothing in the quarter because there's generally a lag on that.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim O'Connor [ph].
So you mentioned the uptick in capital markets clienteles that impacted your IM business and are you finding places to put the capital to work? Yes.
If we have the hunt for it.
The sort of take it easy pickings and high quality assets of low prices were very short-lived as the recession ended and so our investment sales business is having to work hard to find good acquisitions.
That being said in the quarter our total acquisitions were around $1.5 billion so that will raise net-net and it's spread pretty evenly around the world with some [indiscernible] some in the U.S.
Probably it's about 40% of that total.
So due to that we have to unfold them.
We're seeing in particular our Asian businesses looking out along the risk curve and moving into development activities again moving opportunistically at the situations where the other survivor sort of the capital survivor is distressed over where the equity in a platform or the investors in the platform want to see changes in their in-structures and managers and so were having opportunities seeing opportunities to move into that.
But it's -- as the total level activity in the capital markets picks up as we described so there's also numbers that we sort of forecast for the year.
That's a good healthy market with a lot of transactional volume and depth of activity.
The challenges there's a lot of equity supported by increasing allowance of debt we're looking to get into particularly quality real estate.
They're attractive asset class we've seen as we said the institutional investment community at least maintaining or sometimes stepping up proportions investment real estate and as the equity markets have recovered just keeping those proportions in line as we've been seeing that more dollars flowing into the rest of the markets.
So it all feels pretty healthy at the moment and the challenge is finding good quality deals at decent prices.
You also mentioned some broker hiring in Europe.
Where are you hiring brokers? And are you having any difficulty sort of right-sizing the business with stronger labor laws there in the areas there where you're not hiring? We've been hiring in the major economies France Germany England which is really [ph] going to make a big difference.
We are very cautious about who and how we hire everywhere in the world obviously particularly in those economies because of the labor law factors you mentioned.
But as the business is growing we right size the business through the recession.
We took the numbers across Europe down between 10% and 15% by country and -- restate that we took our labor costs down by 10% to 15%.
Some of that sacrifice and a good deal of it was reduction in core performers.
But we kept our teams together and we've seeing as the European markets picked up by 20-plus percent last year and the 13% we saw this year we've seen productivity improvements but we've also seen the opportunities to hire good people again focused on those major economies.
And then last one do you see tax rates drifting upward especially with the momentum in U.S.
leasing as it becomes a bigger share? We still think that we can manage for the year at about a 25% tax rate.
And your next question comes from the line of David Ridley-Lane.
Just one more follow-up.
You gave some nice color on leasing by geography.
Could I beg you for some color on leasing by property type? Retail office and so forth.
That's more complicated because you have to get geography by geography in order to sort it out but let's try some sort of broad pictures.
In the emerging economies you've got a huge strength the closer you get to the consumers so lots of strength in the multifamily construction and sales and leasing.
And there's good strength in China and India and retail again and distribution to domestic retail.
So those exit [ph] is quite strong.
Again in developed economies just as you awaited money now domestic money trying to get into real estate means that they also got quite good performance in the office sectors as well.
And in China just as an example cap rates for good city-center office buildings were in the 2's or 3's as local domestic investors are moving in heavily and frankly out-pricing international capital.
You move to the more developed economies where across Europe and the U.S.
in general the consumer has not opened his pocketbook early in the recovery and there's still a good deal of apprehension.
Then the retail sector has been generally not as strong higher in demand for space you're seeing 8% vacancies across U.S.
malls in total and relatively slack demand for investment sales in retail.
And the same would go across good parts of Europe.
In contrast to that the city center office markets in the big gateway cities has shown a very rapid recovery and there's a lot of demand for that space and as I said earlier the cap rates there are back the 5s and even the high 4s.
So beyond that you really have to go market by market and we'll be very happy off-line if you want to get some more color on that to either provide you with written detail or talk you through it.
We produce quarterly a global market perspective and that's about to come out in the next few days.
It's a sort of 50-page document which covers these [ph] issues around the world in both the Leasing and Capital Markets and again if you get on to Joe Romanesco [ph] in our Investor Relations department we'll make sure you get that if don't already have yourself on the circulation list.
Actually if I could add one more thing if you go not to put in an ad for Apple but if you are an iPad or an iPhone user if you go to the Apple store and get the JLL app which is a free app and you can download it.
You will have instant access on the ready basis to all of our research news market trends green blogs et cetera et cetera on a very current and realtime basis.
It's a lot of fun too.
And your next question comes from the line of Bose George [Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods].
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> So I just have a question on your acquisition of Primary Capital the multifamily originator.
I think it's -- the focus there is Freddie Mac.
Do you wonder if you already had a Fannie Mae capacity? And also can you just discuss the synergies between having a bigger mortgage capacity and a poor brokerage business and whether we'll see more focused net area? The answer is it is a Freddie.
We do not have a Fannie capacity.
We really felt that Freddie was the best structure for what we wanted to accomplish in the multifamily space and it really is principally around capital for that product type.
The synergies for -- are that our capital market teams have access to broad base of investors have access to a broad base of products and going back and forth around that means that just our reputation and credibility goes up across the board.
So it's really responding to what our clients asked us for.
In terms of as they think about their asset diversification and their portfolios and being ready and able to serve.
We have expanded our debt capability as you know we did acquisitions at the end of last year in that capability so that we we're able to bring the debt at the same time we're able to help the seller get a better price for their asset and bring the synergy around them.
So it is it's a cohesive connection of the service offer in that space.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay great.
Thanks.
And just the Fannie versus Freddie distinction as you earlier just said Freddies are more sort of A-type properties is that the main difference? You know you're now out of my element.
We can get you in touch with our experts so they can answer that.
[Operator Instructions] Well it sounds operator as though we're through with the question phase and if there are no more questions showing? And there are no questions from the phone lines.
Okay well with that we'll finish today's call and I'd like to thank you all again for participating and for your interest in Jones Lang LaSalle and obviously we will be speaking to you again at the end of the second quarter.
Have a good day everyone.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to Second -- the Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call for Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.
Today's call is being recorded.
Any statement made about future results and performance or about plans expectations and objectives are forward-looking statements.
Actual results and performance may differ from those included in the forward-looking statements as a result of factors discussed in the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010 and in our other reports filed with the SEC.
The company disclaims any undertaking to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
A transcript of this call will be posted and available on the company's website.
A web audio replay will also be available for download.
Information and the link can be found on the company's website.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Colin Dyer Chief Executive Officer for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator and hello to everybody joining us for this review of our results for the second quarter and first half of 2011.
With me today on the call is Lauralee Martin our Chief Operating and Financial Officer and Lauralee will review our performance in detail in a few minutes.
To summarize our results we were encouraged by another successful quarter of strong revenue growth.
Second quarter revenue totaled $845 million up 24% in U.S.
dollars and 17% in local currency terms compared to the second quarter of 2010.
Year-to-date revenue was $1.5 billion an increase of 22% over the first half of 2010 or 17% in local currency terms.
We reported net income of $44 million or $0.99 per share for the quarter up from $32 million $0.72 per share for the second quarter of 2010.
Adjusting for restructuring charges and other acquisition costs net income was $50 million or $1.12 per share.
First half net income was $45 million or $1.02 a share compared to $32 million $0.73 a share one year ago.
Adjusted for net -- adjusted net income was $51 million or $1.15 per share.
The highlight in the quarter was our successful completion of the merger with King Sturge the highly regarded international property consulting firm and joining forces with King Sturge makes us the clear industry leader in the U.K.
and continental Europe greatly enhancing our platform and our ability to provide clients with the best service in the region.
In doing this we welcome more than 1 600 new colleagues to our combined firm and look forward to what we'll be able to achieve together going forward.
Before Lauralee discusses our results in detail I'd like to put them in context by looking at conditions in both the global economy and in real estate markets around the world.
According to IHS Global Insight's latest projections the global economy is expected to grow at 3.3% in 2011 and that is down marginally from earlier estimates.
Growth in advanced countries is projected to average 2.2% while most emerging economies continue to be strong and their growth is expected to average 6.5% this year.
So broadly speaking the multispeed global recovery continues.
However we have seen confidence weaken recently amongst both our corporate and investor clients as concerns about government finances in a number of countries job growth stagnation in certain economies and political tensions in the Middle East have affected the mood of both businesses and consumers.
To give you a sense of conditions in global real estate markets we posted slides in the Investor Relations section of our website that's at joneslanglasalle.com.
Slide 3 shows the Jones Lang LaSalle investment sales clock which we update each quarter and which is a picture of conditions in major markets around the world at different stages of the real estate cycle.
You can see that in the second quarter of 2010 some investment sales markets we still find in the bottom of the cycle while more had begun to reflect rising capital values.
One year later values are rising now in most markets and only a few major markets remain at the bottom of the cycle.
Global direct commercial investments totaled more than $100 billion in the first quarter -- second quarter 50% higher than the second quarter of 2010.
All these regions -- all 3 regions registered dollar growth in market volumes compared to a year ago led by the Americas with a gain of 128% to $49 billion although that was obviously from a low base while in Europe year-on-year market volumes were up 18% in U.S.
dollar terms to $36 billion but that meant they were flat in euro terms.
Volumes increased 11% in Asia to $19 billion but were also flat in local currency terms.
Compared to the first quarter of the year Americas volumes increased by 56% but EMEA and Asia Pacific investment volumes were both down by 2% and 32% respectively.
This is an unusual picture because the normal seasonal pattern is for Q2 volumes to exceed Q1 and it reflects the pausing sentiment that I referred to a moment ago.
Capital values for prime assets continue to grow strongly in many top tier office markets increasing at an annual rate of 20% across 23 major markets worldwide.
The pace of growth is slowing however but here compression disappears in most advanced markets with a notable exception of the U.S.
Turning to Slide 4 you'll see a snapshot of conditions in leasing markets worldwide.
It tells a similar story.
The movements here continue to lag the recovery in global investment sales.
The strongest office leasing markets continue to be in Asia Pacific where the highest gross leasing volumes were in greater China and India however both Hong Kong and Sydney volumes were down by more than 50% from the second quarter one year ago.
In Europe quarter 2 leasing volumes were up 4% from a year ago with 29 million square feet of take up.
Gross absorption in Jones Lang LaSalle U.S.
target markets was up 18% to 12 million square feet.
Office vacancy rates continued to trend down gradually from their third quarter 2010 peak.
Our provisional global office vacancy rate across 94 major world cities now stands at 14% down 1/2 of a percent from the peak in the third quarter of 2010.
Vacancy rates are falling in all 3 regions to 17.2% in the U.S.
and to just over 10% in both Asia Pacific and Europe.
Rental growth on prime assets in top markets is at its strongest since the first quarter of 2008 averaging $0.11 year-over-year across 23 major world markets.
The strongest growth has been in the BRICs in Moscow Beijing São Paulo where rental -- and rental growth is also becoming entrenched broadly across Asia Pacific in the U.S.
gateway cities and in selected European markets.
So with that broad market background I'll now turn the call over to Lauralee.
Thank you Colin and good morning to everyone on the call.
Similar to prior quarters I will focus on providing additional details of our quarterly performance and business highlights beyond what is covered in the press release.
As Colin mentioned we are very pleased to report another quarter of very solid revenue growth and performance across the vast majority of our service lines and geographies and resulting in 24% consolidated revenue growth.
In the Americas region quarterly revenue increased 18% to $348 million led by leasing and capital markets.
Leasing was up 13% in the quarter 22% year-to-date.
In the second quarter our prior year revenue was a tough comparable due to several large leasing transactions that were completed.
As a result the 13% growth in the quarter is impressive after factoring in last year's strong performance.
While our overall revenue performance in the region was strong our public institutions business line is experiencing softening revenue.
This business has been driven by U.S.
government contracts where decisions are being delayed or taking much longer to conclude given the budget and funding uncertainties that exist at the federal government level.
We expect cost pressures in the federal government to continue although other public sector clients such as state and local governments universities and nonprofits should provide business growth to offset these pressures.
We have added sales and delivery teams into our local markets to better access this business.
We previously advised we anticipated flat year-over-year margins in the Americas as we pursued market share expansion.
In the quarter operating margins declined year-over-year in the Americas as we absorbed business wins and aggressive sales -- and continued our aggressive sales activity.
We anticipate the margins for the total year to continue to improve as we move through the second half of 2011 and be within 1% of what we achieved in 2010.
Concluding on a positive note revenue in our capital markets and our hotels businesses in the Americas more than doubled to $32 million from $14 million in the second quarter of 2010.
We've been pleased that the expansion of our capital markets platform in the Americas was well timed to match the market's recovery.
We are also encouraged by our recent business wins and in particular by the performance of the new hires who have joined our firm over the last 12 to 18 months.
Turning to EMEA.
Leasing revenue performance across the region was positive with an increase of 29% in the quarter to $61 million while also picking up momentum from quarter 1.
As we've noted previously recovery across the region continues to vary by country.
Revenue growth in capital markets across the region was soft.
Confidence as well as the availability of financing continues to be impacted by the euro zone debt uncertainty.
Capital markets and hotels revenue was up 5% in local currency for the quarter consistent with our year-to-date performance.
We do have good work-in-hands in many of our markets and are cautiously optimistic that the transaction levels will pick up in the second half of the year.
Project &amp; Development Services or PDS revenue was $46 million in the quarter up 67% another strong quarter revenue growth across this business line which includes our fit-out business.
As a reminder the fit-out business revenue includes subcontractor costs which we account for on a gross basis with offsetting amounts running through the region's operating expenses.
In the second quarter these gross [indiscernible]  have increased more than $10 million over the prior year.
Finally in EMEA as Colin said earlier we are delighted to report the successful completion of the King Sturge merger this quarter.
The transaction was completed on May 31 for $319 million with half paid upfront and the remainder to be paid over 5 years.
King Sturge adds approximately 1 600 employees 13 of whom are based in the U.K.
The combined firm is the largest real estate service provider across the EMEA region and there are a number of complementary service offerings that will be -- allow us to bring significant benefits to our clients.
We are off to a very good start in the hard work of integrating our 2 platforms and we want to recognize our colleagues across the region who are committed to making this transaction a success.
Regarding the integration costs of King Sturge we recognized about $6 million in the second quarter for transaction costs such as legal and professional fees as well as staff retention.
We estimate there will be about $25 million of integration costs the majority of which will be recognized in the first 12 months as we transition IT and combine our offices.
We also project $25 million of retention payments to King Sturge non-equity partners to be paid over 12 to 24 months.
Although the King Sturge equity partners agreed to allocate this amount of their purchase price to their colleagues the accounting will show up as compensation expense on the Jones Lang LaSalle income statement.
The expense of these payments will be spread roughly 2/3 over the upcoming 12 months and 1/3 over the following 12-month period.
We have not yet finalized intangible valuations but we recognized nearly $2 million of amortization in the second quarter which negatively impacted EMEA margins by approximately 75 basis points.
Adjusting for the $2 million of amortization our operating income margin in EMEA would have improved on a year-over-year basis.
We anticipate a total remaining amortization of approximately $30 million.
We will recognize half of this over the next 12 months and then we'll run about $2 million annually after that.
We will continue to separate these acquisition-related expenses out as we report our results.
The Asia Pacific region delivered outstanding performance in the quarter in both revenue and profit growth.
Revenue across the region was up 39% 26% in local currency while operating income nearly doubled to $22 million compared with the prior year.
Performance was driven by Greater China India and Australia.
We demonstrated our brand strength and delivered capabilities winning significant new business in the quarter and expanding relationships with domestic corporates particularly in India and China.
On a business line basis performance was largely driven by improved transactional revenues.
Capital markets &amp; hotel revenue nearly doubled to $34 million from just over $17 million in the second quarter of last year.
Leasing also significantly -- increased significantly to $49 million from $36 million last year.
Moreover the region's annuity revenue stream from property &amp; facility management continue to show strong improvement and was up 25% in U.S.
dollars to $89 million compared with last year.
We're also pleased with the solid quarterly performance from LaSalle Investment Management.
Advisory fees increased to $65 million in the quarter up from $56 million in the second quarter of 2010 principally as a result of higher assets under management in the public securities business.
Fundraising activity was again strong as LaSalle raised $2.3 billion of net equity in the second quarter $1.9 billion in the public securities business.
We recently announced the acquisition of Trinity Funds Management in Australia for approximately AUD $9 million.
Trinity will add AUD $690 million of assets under management and will give LaSalle instant credibility in Australia which is a significant targeted market for us.
In addition to the purchase price Trinity holds approximately AUD $20 million of co-investment alongside its clients which we will purchase as part of the transaction.
We expect to close this transaction in the third quarter.
Looking forward we anticipate LaSalle will realize incentive fees in the second half of this year driven by property sales and maturing funds that take advantage of the Asian market recovery.
The timing and amount of these fees are difficult to forecast but this is definitely a positive for our clients and our business.
In summary we are very satisfied with our performance this quarter.
We've had another strong quarter of revenue growth.
We have solid pipelines in hand and we reported significantly improved net income with the second quarter of last year.
We're encouraged by the opportunities that will result from our recent acquisitions in both EMEA and LaSalle and are upbeat about our potentials for the second half of 2011 while still mindful of the uncertainties all global businesses are facing due to the inconsistent market recoveries and the unclear government responses.
I will now turn the call back to Colin.
Thank you Lauralee.
So now to give you a sense of our continued success in the second quarter.
Slide 5 shows a few examples of recent business wins.
Starting with our global corporate outsourcing business we won 20 new assignments during the quarter renewed 5 contracts and expanded our relationships with another 12 clients.
These numbers do not include activity in our local market-level Corporate Solutions business which focuses on mid-market corporate occupiers.
There we continued to gain momentum in a growth segment where we won 30 assignments totaling 75 million square feet of space to date this year.
Corporate Solutions wins including the Americas retention by the Apollo Group a leading company in for-profit higher education to provide them a range of services for their 8.5-million-square-foot North American portfolio.
In Europe Doosan Power Systems a leading provider of green technology products and services selected us as exclusive provider of real estate services for their 2.5-million-square-foot global portfolio.
And in Australia we won a 3-year extension from the Department of Innovation Industry Science and Research to provide services for its 1-million-square-foot portfolio.
Turning to first quarter investment sales activity.
In the U.S.
we represented Pinchal &amp; Company in the $240-million sale of a 19-building industrial portfolio.
In London we advised on the GBP 288-million purchase of the Aviva Tower.
And Australia's largest agency-negotiated real estate transaction to date this year we completed the USD $481 million sale of a 50% interest in Melbourne's Northland's Shopping Centre [Northland Shopping Centre].
You can also see examples of growing momentum in our global hotels business where transactions completed during the quarter included the sale of Morgans and Royalton Hotels in New York and the Ayers Rock Resort in Australia.
The quarter's major leasing and tenant representation transactions and management assignments included representing Skadden Arps in Washington where we helped the law firm consolidate its presence by transacting lease extensions in 3 buildings and reducing its occupancy to 400 000 square feet from 450 000 square feet.
In Germany we won the leasing assignment for the 1.1-million-square-foot Businesspark Kienberg in Berlin's new Brandenburg Airport.
In Tokyo Morgan Stanley awarded us its 350 000-square-foot tenant representation mandate cementing our #1 tenant reposition in the large Tokyo market.
In Singapore we completed a 300 000-square-foot lease for Credit Suisse consolidating 3 locations into 1.
And in Australia we were appointed to manage the Rialto complex the largest office tower in Melbourne.
Turning to LaSalle Investment Management.
To date this year LaSalle has raised $3.8 billion in new equity a figure which includes $2.4 million (sic) [$2.3 billion] of public equity capital.
As Lauralee mentioned in her remarks in mid-July we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Australia's Trinity Funds Management a profitable and highly respected investment manager based in Brisbane Australia with about $690 million of assets under management.
That will strengthen LaSalle's competitive position in a country where we see strong growth opportunities both for investing domestic capital within the country and for exporting Australian capital to global real estate investment.
Around the world LaSalle's clients are maintaining their long-term allocations to real estate as LaSalle continues to focus on delivering excellent performance.
This is reflected in the outperformance which shows against many of the benchmarks against which LaSalle is measured.
So let's now look ahead and to turn the near-term prospects in real estate markets.
First in global capital markets.
Despite the quarter-on-quarter slowdown which we saw in Europe and Asia Pacific we are now forecasting full year 2011 investment volumes to exceed our original projection of $440 billion.
Within this total the pattern of growth in the capital markets has shifted from earlier this year.
The recovery in U.S.
capital markets has been very strong.
The momentum there is still building.
This in addition to improving debt markets -- this in addition to improving debt market liquidity and continued attractive spreads at least until very recently suggests that the second half will be even stronger than the first 6 months of this year.
So we've upgraded our full year forecast for the Americas from $155 million of transactions to $175 billion an 80% increase on 2010 levels.
In Europe by contrast Q1 momentum was not maintained in the second quarter in some key markets.
And across the continent the sovereign debt crisis is impacting investor appetite for risk.
It's taking longer for larger deals to close and so while we continue to expect growth in European volumes in the second half we've lowered our full year forecast from 35% -- 30% gross -- growth to 25% growth year-on-year.
As noted earlier the pace of growth in capital values for prime assets is slowing with yield compression disappearing in most markets.
And in this environment we expect that additional capital appreciation this year will largely be driven by rental growth.
In global leasing markets with new deliveries at a cyclical low we expect global vacancy rates to continue to decline by a further 50 basis points to 13.5% at the year end.
Despite economic concerns rental growth prospects remain good in the top tier office markets with double-digit increases expected in many markets where the balance is shifting in favor of landlords.
In the funds management sector investors are cautious about taking on high levels of leverage and are moving back into real estate primarily through the core and core plus strategies or through REIT investments.
The investment management industry continues to consolidate in the aftermath of the financial crisis but managers like LaSalle who demonstrated the ability to manage risks well and to be totally transparent with clients during the downturn are gaining share as investment performance continues to recover.
To close our remarks however we'd like to mention some of the awards which we received which reflect our commitment to superior client service and our position as leader in real estate services and investment management.
We won numerous awards at the 2011 Asia Property Awards (sic) [Asia Pacific Property Awards].
First and foremost we were named Best Property Consultant in the entire Asia Pacific region.
At the country level we won Best Property Consultancy awards for 6 Asia Pacific countries and received highly commendable positions for another 4 markets.
We were the first company in the program's history to win so many awards in a single year.
Early in July LaSalle Investment Management was named Property Management -- Manager of the Year in the European Pensions Awards.
And in the U.S.
we won Best Places to Work awards in Florida and in Los Angeles Orange County and San Diego.
And finally in April we won Office Agency Team of the Year honors at the 2011 Property Week Awards in the U.K.
and I think that's particularly appropriate and a great illustration of the strategic rationale behind our merger that King Sturge was named Investment Agency Team of the Year at the same event.
So with that let's move to questions.
Operator could you please explain the Q&amp;A process? [Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Sloan Bohlen with Goldman Sachs.
First just a question on the investment sales volume.
In the U.S.
can you maybe give a little bit more color with regard to the strength there? Is it a matter of the amount of capital that's on the demand side of the equation or are you seeing an increase in supply of what's available for sale? And where is that market meeting itself? I think all of the above.
The Asian and European investment sales markets as you would've noticed from earlier quarterly calls which we've held we covered ahead of the U.S.
unusually.
And for whatever reason you saw the major cities in Europe and in Asia all picking up ahead of the major gateway European cities.
So the U.S.
recovery was later and we're still in that early bout stage in the U.S.
of markets recovering rapidly from the extraordinary low positions that they had at the end of 2009.
So that's the first effect.
There is a lot of equity capital available in the U.S.
and both domestic and international capital coming into the country.
So the equity side is strong.
As I mentioned in my remarks the debt markets have been easing and the CMBS markets have been opening up again.
And we've seen $25-plus billion of CMBS issued so far this year.
Spreads have been coming down so -- and loans have been available after we saw 70% loan-to-value ratio levels again.
So you've seen both the equity and the debt side easing up.
And then on the supply side the constraint which we saw throughout 2010 in many markets including the U.S.
that's also now easing.
We're seeing more product coming to market both willingly but also increasingly in foreclosures and just sorting out of distressed financing structures around real estate.
So all of those things are combining in the U.S.
to move the market forward strongly.
And as we certainly expect that picture to continue for the short-term the immediate sort of question mark around that picture would be "What happens to the sovereign debt issue in Europe?" It has a minor impact in the U.S.
but certainly the U.S.
government discussions that are ongoing this week could cause a significant slowdown if it's not resolved.
Okay.
And Colin just maybe one more question on that topic.
You commented about spreads maybe not compressing much more for a lot of the core assets.
Can you reconcile that with where we should expect the incremental transaction volumes to come from meaning should we expect secondary cities to be the area where we see some more transactions going forward? Well cap rates we said in the major cities are back in the 5s in the U.S.
So you talk -- the east to west coast cities.
And what we're saying is "that's not likely to move down very much".
So you won't expect to see much capital appreciation through that effect.
But what is -- but that's pricing.
What you're referring to I think is transaction volumes and we're expecting transaction volumes to step up in line with the effect that I described earlier on.
And that'll be in the major cities and core assets.
So that markets we've got a huge amount of demand in it and relatively limited product supply.
But you can expect the recovery continues to see the market spreading into the secondary cities and the suburban areas of the major cities.
So the usual kind of cyclical recovery process.
Okay.
And then one question for Lauralee and I'm -- I apologize if you guys commented on this earlier.
I had to jump on late.
But with regards to the timing of expenses versus where we should see kind of the operating leverage in the business sort of kick in.
A lot of the expense growth you guys talked about was set up for -- to reap its gains in the second half of the year.
Is that what we should expect -- I don't know if you commented on what your margin expectations are throughout the full year but at what point can we start to see those expense growth slow? We had modest margin increase in Europe as we sort of seen that market selectively continue to improve.
That's adjusting for the amortization piece of the King Sturge.
So we had a modest increase year-over-year in Europe.
We had a very significant increase in Asia.
And so really the overall margin of the firm was impacted by the Americas.
We had said at the start of the year "we were not choosing to have our margin grow in the Americas this year because we thought our best opportunity was to take advantage of this window of being able to grab talent grab market share and so forth.
And that would translate into better performance for us this year and more importantly longer term".
So the long-term margin target for the U.S.
operating income margin is 12% to 14%.
We were just under that last year.
So we were very close which is why we said we were comfortable going for market share versus pushing hard on margin.
We have in fact been aggressively taking advantage of that window.
We've added 60 net new leasing brokers.
We've added I think 25 capital markets brokers.
We've added in hotels.
And we've also done some acquisitions and that -- some of that amortization of their pipelines run through our margin as well.
So we have had some year-over-year decline in the Americas.
But that window being able to get the talent as the market picks up is closing.
So we're happy with our decision to get it early in the year to get it in that window.
It will be harder and harder now to sort of grab that talent as they get pipelines and particularly going into the end of the year.
So we haven't changed our margin targets.
But what I said is "we could be as much as 1% less on our margin in the U.S.
than we were last year".
We actually hope we can close that if all the production comes through but we haven't changed our overall targets at all.
The next question comes from the line of Joseph Dazio with JPMorgan.
Couple of questions for Lauralee.
First do you have offhand the contribution to EBITDA from King Sturge this quarter? The operating contribution because obviously with the onetime charges it was negative on a GAAP basis was pretty close to neutral.
I can tell you it was modestly positive but not enough.
You can say it kicked into an earnings per share piece of it.
They are a business that last year did about $260 million worth of revenue.
Their year-end on their books was the end of April so their seasonal last quarter actually was very similar to our seasonal last quarter.
So that occurred right before our acquisition.
So we're actually coming into their low period as they build that back up.
We will not be changing their compensation programs this year.
We will just have a cutoff period that is shorter.
That could change some year-end thinking and how that cycle works though at the moment we're not anticipating that.
And then we will have new structures together going forward next year which will probably put them more on a seasonal pattern similar to ours.
So their revenue contribution in the month that we have them was only about $15 million.
But we expect this year that you'll probably take that $260 million and at least the way we look at it you'd probably do a straight line unless seasonality comes into it more strongly because of the change in behavior.
Great.
Also one other question.
The facilities management business I think in EMEA was down a bit year-over-year.
Was there anything specific driving that? We don't report that separately so I'm not -- Oh I see.
But you're talking about in terms of the -- that's a combination of property management and facility management.
And sometimes we will look at contracts and not be as pleased with looking at them on a renewal basis so I would not take that as a negative.
It's not just facility management.
That includes our also very large property management businesses in the U.K.
as well as Germany and some modest property management elsewhere.
In fact part of the King Sturge business mix is a very robust property management business.
So expect that to be one of the lines which sees a kick up [indiscernible] in King Sturge.
Okay.
And then one last question for Colin.
In your closing remarks you provided a lot of good detail on what you guys are now expecting for investment sale volumes in the U.S.
and EMEA.
Wondering if you could go into a little bit more detail on Asia Pacific and in particular focus a bit on Japan.
I don't know if it's a fair statement to say that the second quarter for that region was negatively impacted by everything that went on there and if you expect that could tick up a little bit in the back half of the year? Or are you expecting the trend to be similar to EMEA? Well Asia Pacific is a region which has always been extraordinarily sensitive to sentiment.
It's sentiment driven which is why it's so very cyclical in its business patterns.
The influences on -- and you will have seen from our remarks that the Q in -- Q2 in Asia Pacific was down both on Q1 and on last year.
When we talked with our regional people on that they gave us a number of reasons for it.
The major one is sentiment because the Asians are looking at Europe and the U.S.
and they are concerned at the impact of all of the government debt issues which the 2 developed regions are dealing with.
They're having their concerns on the impact that that's going to have on global capital markets and therefore in Asia.
So that's one impact.
The second impact is that India and China have both got significant inflationary pressures.
And you've seen the Indian government raise interest rates 15x since March last year.
The Chinese government's rate -- raised its interest rates 6 to 7x to try to choke off inflation in the commodity sector but it's also having an effect of dampening the availability of capital and the price of capital into investment sales activity.
You've got Australia doing the same thing to dampen it.
So part of it's economy.
So the local market inflationary pressures which are also having an impact.
And then when you move specifically to Japan the investment sales market in Japan was quite strong in Q1.
It was actually the momentum from deals which were negotiated last year continued.
It's got very flat in Q2 because those deals would have been originated in the back end of Q1 when activity slowed very significantly because of the tsunami.
What we are hearing from our hotels group and our capital markets group in Japan is that activity is now picking up the pipeline is filling again and the pipeline coming for -- through domestic offers of buildings and interest in purchasing from both domestic and international capitals.
So we expect that pipeline to pick up in the course of Q3 and Q4.
And just one clarification on Jones Lang LaSalle in Japan we talked about this when the tsunami did occur.
The majority of our revenue is strongly annuity based.
We have a large facility management contracts with significant Japanese corporates there.
We have LaSalle Investment Management who has their logistics funds there and we also do a fair amount of property management.
So we're -- we have a good annuity base there and we're the leader in tenant representation.
A lot of the capital markets activity actually done in Japan is controlled by the trust banks.
And then as Colin said we were able to influence the international monies that come to Japan.
And clearly we'd like to see the confidence of those investors into that marketplace pick up.
The next question comes from the line of Will Marks with JPMorgan Securities.
It's Will Marks from JMP.
Just to follow up on the last question.
I'm sorry did you give an APAC forecast for capital markets growth? We did.
We said it would be up year-on-year.
From memory 20%.
We'll check it out.
And our G&amp;P is coming out here shortly that will cover all the markets.
Okay great.
In terms of the margin could you give a little bit of an indication of what would happen in the Americas? And I'm wondering if EMEA and APAC in investment management I believe are trending better in terms of growth.
Could we see offsetting margins there? So the overall margin actually grows in 2011? That's a little more specific guidance than we normally give.
But clearly we are pushing those other parts of the world to do both growth and margin given they're below the targets.
And we'll continue to -- unless the confidence dramatically changes in Asia the momentum is quite good.
Okay great.
Colin you talked about in your opening remarks some weakness from clients I think on the leasing side and Lauralee you mentioned the government in general.
I'm wondering if you can be a little more specific on maybe markets.
Because your clocks don't really show -- aside from a few markets London and some APAC markets we're not really seeing any slowing in leasing but yet there's chatter out there about New York and maybe some other Americas markets where you're seeing slower leasing growth.
So maybe you can be more specific? Yes.
I think the way of thinking forward on the remarks you made largely based on the -- on an environment where the U.S.
sorts out the budgetary challenge and Europe gets to grips with and deals with the sort of big economy issues as well.
In -- first off all resolving and complete it but at least in a way that settles the capital markets down.
If either of those events don't happen in other words if we get a situation in the U.S.
where the budget's receiving is breached or there's no agreement then you can expect capital markets to get skittish and business confidence to be impacted as a result.
And it's quite hard to predict how that will be or how that will come through.
At this point we're saying those are things which still have to happen and we are thinking forward on the basis of business as usual.
Out of those circumstances what you're seeing in leasing market demands worldwide pretty much reflects what you know about economies.
So within Asia Pacific it's India and China where demand is booming.
And as I said in my remarks we're seeing Hong Kong and Australia activity levels actually declined a little.
In Europe the direct demand in France and Germany is still quite robust.
It's been slowing significantly in Britain which has got the economic issues which have been well publicized.
Across the U.S.
we're seeing continued steady demand.
It's stronger in -- still in the gateway cities than the secondary cities and it's still in our mind in a recovery mode.
Okay great.
Couple of other quick things.
First any update on CapEx maybe what second half spending should be? For the total year we had given you guidance of about $75 million.
With the King Sturge we'll add probably another $10 million to that.
So for the total year about $85 million and -- one second I'll get you what we've spent the year-to-date.
Year-to-date we've spent about $37 million.
Okay great.
And final question on cash flow.
You gave in your slide deck A figure that shows flat operating cash flow year-to-date with last year roughly up slightly.
And any comments on that? Is -- can we attribute that to what you said about just spending in advance of good revenue growth? Hold on a second.
Sure.
Give me give one second we'll check that.
Well there's 2 pieces.
One is working capital.
We did pay more bonuses so you do have the impact of the bonuses.
But I think actually what you're talking about is total cash available.
We did have some deferred acquisitions that we paid out in the second quarter.
So for example we increased our ownership position of what we bought in India and we also had some modest other acquisitional pieces.
So if we look at it our CapEx was a little higher than last year.
Our acquisitions obviously were up significantly.
Dividends modestly.
And then the balance would be working capital with bonuses.
Okay that's helpful.
But the -- I was more referring to the specific line on Slide 12 cash from earnings was $123 million versus $120 million a year ago and...
Yes.
You are going to have the -- some of the acquisition cash.
Remember our GAAP number versus our adjusted number? So if you think about that included in the GAAP it's going to the onetime cost relative to closing the King Sturge.
And that will fall into cash from earnings? Yes it will because the cash from earnings is a GAAP basis.
So if you look at the way we reported the adjusted differential that would get you the explanation for that.
And if you want to take it offline with us we can walk you through it in greater detail.
The next question comes from the line of David Ridley-Lane with Merrill Lynch.
Yes.
So last quarter you detailed roughly a $15  million nonrecurring cost.
And I'm just wondering was the increase that we saw x those costs sequentially in the second quarter is that all recurring SG&amp;A increase? Because it's a pretty big sequential increase or are there some additional nonrecurring costs in the second quarter? You're referring to the total dollar value of costs? Yes.
Yes.
They would step up quarter-on-quarter as we're adding people to our business in the way that Lauralee described and that'll be across the entire business space but particularly in the U.S.
There'll also be additions as some of the smaller acquisitions which we did in the past 12 months click into our cost basis.
Can I just clarify your question? Are you referring to in the first quarter we highlighted $9 million of unusual items that we said are not nonrecurring? Is that what you're referencing? Yes.
I mean I'm referring to sort of onetime cost in the first quarter backing those out and then looking kind of the sequential increase there and it's a pretty big step up.
No.
The $9 million was not in nonrecurring.
We highlighted it as unusual expenses that could not be carved out for nonrecurring.
The nonrecurring in the second quarter are legitimate nonrecurring items that relate specifically to the merger with King Sturge a very different item.
And relative to that $9 million I can tell you we did not have any significant unusual items in the second quarter that would be in any way shape or form comparable to the first.
All right.
And can you give us maybe some primaries around interest expense next quarter given the additional data and the renegotiations of the loans? Well that -- the balance that we have right now has covered the interest for the King Sturge first payment the half payment.
We'll have deferred payments which we accrete interest on.
In this month we will be paying another installment to -- for the Staubach acquisition which we'll transfer that out of deferred obligations where we accrete interest noncash interest and put that into our bank line where we will pay cash interest.
So we will have some movements back and forth in that.
So our cash interest will go up very modestly maybe $0.5 million and our noncash interest which we accrete will go down about equivalent amount.
And net-net on the income statement net interest expense should be about where it was in the second -- There's not much different.
Not much different.
All right.
The next question comes from the line of David Gold with Sidoti.
LLC</strong> Just a couple of questions.
One on King Sturge couple of months in and presumably I guess about a quarter of the integration charges that you've sort of pointed to.
Can you give us an update as to where we are there integration-wise? Sure.
Broadly speaking across Europe and that's where the bulk of the people are in King Sturge you have to respect the national laws around the integration process of individuals.
So these are labor laws.
And in general they require periods of consultation of 60 to 90 days during which you're limited to just to the amount of true integration you can do both in terms of sighting but also people and roles and responsibilities and so forth.
And so we're seeing that phase of respecting the national labor laws.
And so as those periods burn off during the course of this summer we'll begin to move offices together.
In fact the first one the first regional office move has taken place.
We'll begin to consolidate national teams.
We've got compensation systems responsibilities and roles largely worked out in our own minds and we'll begin to execute on those.
In general as I've observed the groups working together the teams are very compatible.
As we always do we've made a very strong -- we did a lot of research around the cultural affinity of the 2 groups because for us that's a very strong motivator for doing an acquisition.
And if cultural alignment is not there it's a demotivator and we don't do them.
So we've got 2 groups that work well together.
There's a great deal of professional respect on both sides and so we believe that will help with the integration process.
And there's a general sense of excitement with the teams when they get together can achieve more together than they can separately as both groups have -- both sets of clients can be exposed to the other company's services and we can cross-sell services to the market as a whole.
So broadly speaking positive no loss of people so far and we don't expect to indeed to see much of that.
So at this point nothing other than very comfortable with what's happening.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then one broader question.
I mean you brought up comments in the release.
Obviously you sort of highlight the caution in some of the geographies from economic growth and government finances but there's some offset there presumably from -- of course some optimism with the cyclical recovery.
Just broadly speaking at what point do you -- or should we be nervous of -- that the slowdown in economic growth will hinder or impinge more broadly on the overall real estate cycle? And so at what point do those 2 sort of connect? And does it start to make you nervous? Well our basic view of the market as I said right at the beginning is that this global cyclical recovery which normally runs sort of 3 4 years 5 years in some cycles is only about 18 months 24 months old.
So we're still -- that recovery process is still intact.
And it's the impact of the uncertainty around government activity which is just causing some lack of confidence in both investor and corporate clients.
But the underlying tone is positive.
As far as we're concerned we're taking share.
We're trading very well and we are confident that we can -- unless it's a full-blown recession we can continue to show growth on the revenue line and the profitability line through pretty much anything that these current market conditions throw at us.
So that means broadly based global recovery some attenuation around the confidence issue around government debt.
But at this point we can see no signs of there being any trip in the real estate markets into a double-dip recession.
David I think the -- we said it a couple of times and maybe it didn't come through.
If we just look at our pipeline we would feel really good.
It's just the concern that if something happens in the broader market do -- does that lack of confidence mean that that pipeline won't convert.
So we -- that's why we're optimistic but then have to put a little caution on it because we've seen what happens when confidence gets disrupted.
LLC</strong> And I guess presumably there were are also some signs that not just [ph]  confidence to your point there's some pausing so to speak.
In certain areas there's some.
But again to Lauralee's point the business we're seeing coming in the pipelines we have in progress are robust.
So funny sort of market dynamic at the moment.
The numbers you can see are very good.
We've got good forward-looking pictures in our pipelines but there's this broad-based concern amongst both investors and corporate clients around what is happening to government finance.
And it has become stronger over the last 3 months.
The next question comes from the line of Brandon Dobell with William Blair.
Maybe you could update us on how you think about the back half for LIM? I know in the past quarters you talked about some other funds being reset in terms of fees capital given back.
And then obviously you've raised a decent amount of money here but potentially at a lower fee structure given public securities.
How should we think about the -- I guess back half of the year and little longer term with where all those things are starting to converge.
Well the nice thing about public securities is that you invested instantly in instant fee flow which is very nice.
We're seeing actually a good -- an interesting flow of funds in from new sources.
We're seeing some significant opportunities with government wealth funds government funds.
We're seeing high net worth family offices coming with sums to invest in real estate.
We are taking -- continue to take on business from existing clients including for example a $400-million sterling allocation just this week from an existing client in London.
We're seeing continued business flowing from U.S.
teachers funds and the public securities money is coming in from a nice spread of geographies.
So broadly speaking we're seeing good funds flow in.
We talked to you about some of the funds which begin to run off at least in the investment phase over the next few quarters.
But broadly speaking for the second half of the year if you put all that together in the mix we're expecting continued steady performance from LaSalle.
Okay.
And then Lauralee you I think threw out a couple of kind of headcount data points within the U.S.
business.
A couple of questions there.
One I guess trying to figure out if that -- those were year-over-year kind of quarter-on-quarter.
And maybe some sort of sense of scale where you guys are now especially in capital markets in the U.S.
from the headcount point of view if you compare it now to I don't know maybe where you were in '07 or where you were at the bottom.
Just so we can get a sense of potential opportunity as that business recovers.
Okay.
For the year in capital markets we've added about 25 producers which -- that's net.
So some out some in but net new.
We added 40 last year.
So that would say year-over-year we're up about 65 in capital markets.
Leasing in the quarter we added about 20 which brings us to 60 for the year.
We added 75 last year.
Our goal is to add -- to get another 30 by year end.
And then in hotels which is also capital markets we've added globally but specifically we've added 12 in the U.S.
So that would mean if we put them together with the capital markets we'd be up just under 80 year-over-year.
LLC</strong> Okay that's definitely helpful.
In terms of the leasing pipeline.
And I guess maybe kind of more of a qualitative question.
In the U.S.
given what's kind of been a lackluster couple of months for job creation is the pipeline I guess dependent on companies thinking that they're going to see a recovery in hiring? Does it not matter that much just given that nobody turned anything for a couple of years so there's still demand even without kind of major job creation? I guess I'm trying to figure out how you look at the next 2 to 4 quarters if jobs remain lackluster in the U.S.
Do you see that pipeline not converting in leasing or is it not going to be as tied as one might suspect? Well the pipeline we have today are things that need to happen.
I mean you can have some extension in that where we might try to do -- you don't have to -- maybe after you probably have 12 months 18 months flex on that.
But these are where the client has already made a decision or is definitely considering a decision to do something we believe by the end of the year.
So that would not require job creation in those decisions.
Now I guess if they totally lost confidence they would delay that decision and say "Gee I need to think about my existing employee base." But we haven't heard any indication that companies are talking about going backwards.
It's just a question of their confidence about forward.
So for this year we remain I would say reasonably confident that things will get converted unless there is a disruption.
Your longer-term question is around job creation.
I think when you get into next year beyond because we're dealing today with the normal lease terms of market consolidation decisions portfolio repositioning taking advantage of things such as Colin described in his comment about a major client reducing the amount of space that they have making those kind of decisions but that doesn't impact this year that's a longer impact.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Glover with Canaccord.
I just wondered about the King Sturge acquisition.
Can you talk about why you think the transaction will be accretive to the higher end of your EMEA operating -- target range? Two things.
Number one the margin that the business ran when they were independent and the fact that there should be some benefits of scale as we're just bigger.
So combination of the 2 of that feels pretty good to us.
Yes.
Cost synergies turn in.
[ph] Okay.
Can you provide some more color on those potential cost synergies? Well not large.
But they'll be around back-office sort of back-office support functions certainly not in the producer area.
And when should we expect to see the transaction actually be accretive? Would that be after the first year? Yes it could be modestly accretive in the first year but definitely in the second year.
But we're -- we are targeting a modest accretion hopefully even this year depending on how the seasonality of the business works.
So again -- and that's carving out the onetime charges so -- which we did.
And I commented on them on the call but I just thought it might be helpful because I know I went through them rather fast.
The appendix pages of our deck that -- with our earnings release on Page 19 in the bottom we give the specifics of about what I mentioned.
So there's a fair number of onetime charges that definitely come through on the first 12 months still a fair amount into the first 24 months but those are nonrecurring.
And the underlying business will be accretive as we -- which we think about next year for sure.
Okay.
And finally just so I understand the seasonality of their business you think will be similar to yours in 2012.
However for the remainder of this year should we just assume that's roughly half of what their annual revenue will be -- will fall in the second half of your year? Yes.
If we compare it to the Staubach merger Staubach ended their year in the middle of the year and clearly the -- our second quarter was their largest quarter with their year end.
They came onto our structures in the first year.
They picked up a little bit of seasonality.
I guess it sort of naturally happens because the teams integrate.
And clearly by the second year we're fully on a seasonality that looks like Jones Lang LaSalle.
We're expecting that will be very similar to the King Sturge.
Clearly we have to experience it.
But at this point in time I think considering about a half contribution of revenue is reasonable if not modestly conservative.
Our final question comes from the line of Bose George with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> This is actually is Ryan O'Steen on for Bose George.
Just one quick one.
Could you give any detail on the $4 million of equity earnings that you took this quarter? And then just kind of your outlook for that line item? Yes.
Two things.
We normally have in the underlying equity portfolio because it had principally been co-investment into our funds which had been largely value add or opportunistic.
The operating expenses on that tend to run at a modest negative sort of $1.5 million to $2 million a quarter.
And then with normal property sales we can get that back to a neutral or a positive.
We in fact have -- those portfolios are maturing so they're looking to be more income producing and then they actually move into having less of an operating cost carried.
So that was one piece of it.
And then we're also starting to see properties actually being sold particularly in Asia with gains coming in.
So we in fact had a property sale which had about a $2.8 million gain which then got offset by still marks and the other operating expenses which gave us the positive in the quarter.
I think you're referencing the swing to last year which actually was the negative.
So the year-over-year change was in fact in that $4 million range but the actual number in the quarter was just a touch over $2 million.
And we would expect going forward that until we put more co-investment capital into value add or opportunity a lot of it right now will go into core product.
So I mentioned the $20 million that will go into Trinity as co-investment capital.
That is principally core product.
And so there will be that contribution as well as we do expect as we -- I mentioned incentive fees potentially in the second half.
That will come from liquidating portfolios where we also think there could be some equity gains.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Great.
And do you have the dollar amount of write-downs or impairments this quarter? I think it was about $800 000.
[indiscernible] And there are no further questions.
Good.
Well thank you operator.
Thank you everybody for listening in to today's call and for your interest in Jones Lang LaSalle.
We look forward to speaking with you again following the third quarter results shortly.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call for Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.
Today's call is being recorded.
Any statement made about future results and performance or about plans expectations and objectives are forward-looking statements.
Actual results and performance may differ from those included in the forward-looking statements as a result of factors discussed in the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31 2010 and in our other reports filed with the SEC.
The company disclaims any undertaking to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
A transcript of this call will be posted and available on the company's website.
A web audio replay will also be available for download.
Information and the link can be found on the company's website.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Colin Dyer Chief Executive Officer for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Hello to everybody joining us for a review of our third quarter and year-to-date results.
Our Chief Operating and Financial Officer Lauralee Martin is here with me today in Chicago and she'll be reviewing our performance in detail in a few minutes.
Firstly to summarize our results.
In the third quarter we've reported adjusted net income of $50 million and that's $1.12 per share which is a 30% increase over the same period a year ago.
Year-to-date adjusted net income was $101 million or $2.27 per share which is a 25% increase on the first 9 months of 2010.
Third quarter revenue was $903 million a 28% increase in US dollars 23% in local currency from the third quarter last year.
And revenue totaled $2.4 billion for the first 9 months of the year which is 24% increase 90% in local currency.
And our Board of Directors has declared a $0.15 per share dividend.
So in addition to this healthy revenue and earnings picture we did continue to make selective strategic investments in profitable growth.
In Asia Pacific we became the leading real estate services firm in Indonesia the world's fourth most populous country with the acquisition of Procon a top competitor in an active emerging market.
And in October we acquired DST International in Singapore both as part of our plan to establish full complementive high-end residential property services in the regions.
Both acquisitions build on the leadership position with we've earned in other key Asian markets such as China and India and support our aim to establish the firm as the clear industry leader in all of the high-growth Asia Pacific economies.
Also in October we established a market-leading presence in the U.S.
Pacific Northwest by merging with Pacific Real Estate Partners.
In EMEA we're making good progress with the King Sturge integration combining offices quickly so the mixed teams of former King Sturge and legacy Jones Lang LaSalle colleagues are now located and working together to service our clients.
We can see our market leadership reflected in such industry rankings as property [indiscernible] UK investment agents table where we're now far and away the #1 in UK property sales.
And finally on the acquisition front LaSalle Investment Management transition and -- finally on the acquisition front at LaSalle Investment Management transition and integration activities following our acquisition of Trinity Funds Management in Australia are progressing on schedule.
Lauralee will share details in her comments that Trinity is part of our push to expand and deepen LaSalle's global access to and distribution of real estate investment capital.
To put our results in context and summarize current conditions in global real estate markets we've posted slides in the investor relations sector of our website joneslanglasalle.com.
Slide 3 shows the Jones Lang LaSalle investment sales clock which we update quarterly.
It's a snapshot chart of conditions in major markets around the world at different stages of the real estate cycle.
Capital values for prime offices continue to grow in virtually all major markets during the third quarter increasing by 14% year-on-year across 23 major world markets.
Global investment sales volumes held steady during the quarter totaling just under $100 billion about the same as in quarter 2 with 36% higher than in quarter 3 2010.
Market volumes in the Americas at $37 billion were down by 24% from a very strong second quarter with most of the pullback in secondary markets while the appetite for core assets particularly in major markets remain strong.
Year-on-year market volume gains were impressive in the Americas up 56% from the third quarter of 2010.
Investment volumes in the European markets were also strong with $41 billion transacted during the quarter a 15% increase on quarter 2 and a 38% increase above a year ago.
And in Asia-Pacific transaction volumes totaled $21 billion a 13% increase over the second quarter and 7% of our Q3 2010 levels.
Prime office yields held steadily in most major global markets during the third quarter thanks to attractive spreads and continued robust investor demand for high-quality well assets.
Moving to Slide 4 which summarizes conditions in major leasing markets around the world.
Sentiment was cautious in global office markets during the quarter with U.S.
office leasing activity weakening down 26% year-on-year.
In Europe leasing volumes remain relatively stable with notably strong activity in Paris Germany and many Central and Eastern European office markets.
Office leasing activity was also stable across most of Asia Pacific and particularly markets dominated by domestic corporations.
Vacancy rates continue to move downwards worldwide to 13.8% across 94 global markets the lowest level in 2 years.
The Americas and Asia Pacific reported the largest of these declines.
Prime rents continue to grow.
Our global office index which attracts the rental performance of prime office space across 81 major markets increased by 1.1% in quarter 3 slowing marginally from 1.6% in the second quarter but up 5.5% on the year.
Echoing the comments which we made during our second quarter call it is clear that concerns about the Eurozone debt crisis and the pace of global economic growth did make corporate occupiers and real estate investors more cautious during quarter 3.
Nevertheless our business capital markets and our leasing activities continue to grow during the quarter and we saw improved performance in our Asia Pacific business and at LaSalle Investment Management.
As one of our colleagues put it sentiment may be soft but our numbers are solid.
I should add that our strong business results are thanks entirely to the incredible contributions of our people around the world.
And Lauralee and I want to thank them for their efforts.
We  currently owe a very special debt to our colleagues in Thailand who continue to serve their core clients while battling the floods which is devastating their country.
So to discuss these results in more detail I'll turn the call over to Lauralee.
Thank you Colin and good morning to everyone on the call.
As Colin mentioned we're pleased to report another quarter of very solid performance across the vast majority of our service lines and geographies which resulted in 28% revenue growth and 30% adjusted net income growth as a consolidated company.
In the Americas region quarterly revenue increased 22% to $379 million in comparison to last year.
This growth was broad-based as each of the leasing capital markets and Property &amp; Facility Management were significant contributors to the growth.
The 22% growth in leasing revenue outpaced broader market-leasing volumes.
And the 44% quarter-over-quarter and 79% year-over-year increases in our Capital Markets and Hotels revenue continue to reflect the successful expansions of our Capital Market's platform in the Americas.
Furthermore transaction pipelines for both leasing and capital markets continue to look good heading into the remainder of the year.
Year-over-year margin comparisons in the Americas continue to be negative as the business upgrades its service delivery capability.
But we remain on track to achieve our goal of having a margin to be down no more than 1% from last year.
Our progress is demonstrated by a sequential quarterly revenue growth of 9% which delivered a sequential 20% operating income growth excluding equity earnings.
Turning to a EMEA.
Our acquisition of King Sturge has compensated for year-over-year market pressures and we are realizing the benefit of their positive impact on the revenues across the region.
The acquisition contributed approximately $60 million of revenue in the quarter across service lines with the most significant impact seen in capital markets.
The region's 2011 operating income and operating income margin improved excluding the impact of the $5 million of intangible amortization from the King Sturge acquisition.
Our market cost presence is largest in those countries best position to manage through the current market challenges that being the UK France and Germany.
But recovery across the region continues to vary by country.
While market recoveries remain challenged we are looking more aggressively at synergy opportunities to take additional cost out of the business as a supplement to our acquisition immigration action.
Regarding the integration of King Sturge and Jones Lang LaSalle platform which continues to go quite well we recognized approximately $16 million in the quarter for staff retention lease exits and some severance and other transaction costs.
Of the $16 million $6 million was part of the purchase price which the King Sturge partners paid as retention to their non-equity partners but is accounted for on our books as part of the transaction costs.
Turning to Asia Pacific.
The Asia Pacific region delivered solid performance in the quarter in both revenue and profit growth.
Revenue across the region was up 22% 12% in local currency while operating income increased to $14 million from $7 million in the prior year.
Revenue growth was balanced among leasing transactions and annuity-like revenue streams from Property &amp; Facility Management.
Our improved results benefited from continued strength in operating performance driven by our teams across greater China and India.
Asia Pacific increased operating income and EBITDA margins by 250 and 180 basis points respectively from the third quarter of 2010 to the third quarter of 2011.
And while quarterly margins declined between the second and third quarters this follows the same seasonal pattern between the second and third quarters of last year.
We expect Asia Pacific to continue to perform well over the balance of the year.
LaSalle Investment Management delivered significant increases in both revenue and profitability in the quarter driven by higher incentive fees from the sale of properties and maturing funds as our team delivered investment performance to clients.
Advisory fees were $59 million in the quarter and $185 million year-to-date maintaining an annuity run rate similar to the prior quarters and last year.
We delivered this solid performance against the expiration of investment periods for 2 large funds in Asia towards the beginning of the quarter.
Regarding our public securities business while there has been general market talks related to Japanese investment flows we have seen less than 2% withdrawal from our securities business over the last month which translates to roughly $1 million of the firm's annualized revenue.
LaSalle continues to prove its competitive strength with a track record of investment performance and increased it's year-to-date capital raise to nearly $5 billion of net equity.
The acquisition of Trinity Funds Management during the quarter with an additional $700 million of assets under management is providing LaSalle with credibility in Australia and importantly access to Australian investors who expect -- we expect to benefit from La Salle's global capability.
We continue to maintain our investment grade balance sheet and are benefiting from the resulting low interest expense.
We have reduced our year-to-date interest expense to $27 million from $35 million a year ago.
And in the third quarter our cash interest was less than $4 million.
In the third quarter we made our second installment payment to Staubach for $150 million.
The non-cash interest expense to this payment had an interest rate of about 6% which is now funded on our credit facility at an interest cost of under 2%.
We also repaid net debt during the quarter funded the Trinity acquisition in Australia and co-invested just over $45 million about half of which was related to Trinity and the rest were assets as we felt [ph] against new rounds of fundraising.
Our balance sheet strength remains a differentiator within our clients and an important priority for us.
In summary we are pleased with our performance this quarter.
We've produced another strong quarter of gross and revenue and adjusted earnings per share and we have solid pipelines in hand in the face of inconsistent markets.
I'll now turn the call back to Colin.
Thank you Lauralee.
So if you now turn to Slide 5 you'll see a few examples of recent business wins.
In our corporate outsourcing business we won 15 new assignments during the quarter renewed 9 contracts and expanded our relationship with 9 further clients.
These totals do not include activity in our local market level Corporate Solutions business which serves the needs of mid-market corporate clients.
In quarter 3 we won 11 new assignments totaling 37 million square feet of space in this growing business area.
In terms of specific corporate wins we renewed expanded and won new business from HSBC in all 3 of our global regions.
We renewed our service contract in the U.S.
expanded the relationship to include the bank's trading portfolio and HSBC also selected us to serve as strategic property partner in the Middle East North Africa and across the whole of Asia Pacific.
Also adding to my earlier comments of our growth prospects in Indonesia and our recent acquisition there during the quarter we won facilities management assignments for the 2 million square feet portfolio of Pertamina's Indonesian government-run oil and gas company.
Turning to investment sales activity.
In the U.S.
we closed the $144 million sale and also arranged $123 million of financing for 1700 Market Street in Philadelphia.
In the largest investment transaction to date this year in the city of London we advise legal and general on the 350 -- sorry GBP 305 million acquisition of the Rolls building.
And in Australia we acted for Abacus structure of US $628 million joint venture with the Hartman  [ph] Group.
The quarter's major leasing and tenant representation transactions and management assignments included representing MetLife in the U.S.
for 276 000 square feet of lease in Lower Manhattan.
In Europe we represented AXA to lease 538 000 square feet in the capital in Brussels.
And in Japan AIG Edison Life awarded us the management assignment for 1.9 million square feet of portfolio of office buildings.
Moving next to LaSalle Investment Management.
As Lauralee mentioned LaSalle has raised nearly $5 billion in net new equity to date in 2011.
Assets under management now total $48 billion up from $41 billion at the start of the year.
Investors are maintaining their allocations to real estate but are focusing on core strategies and on real estate securities both of which play to LaSalle's strengths.
Managers such as LaSalle with proven performance who are stable and have a strong platform will continue to gain market share in this environment.
And as for the Trinity acquisition we will continue to strengthen LaSalle's ability to attract and invest capital globally.
So let's now look forward to consider the near-term outlet -- outlook in real estate markets.
Our current projections for 2011 direct real estate investment volumes indicate a range of $400 billion to $440 billion for the full year and that will be up 25% from last year's $320 billion.
Globally we expect hiring yields and cap rates to remain broadly stable with some tendency of weakness in those euro markets where sentiment is poor.
In global leasing markets 2012 net absorption levels in Asia Pacific will be positive despite some softer demand.
In Europe we expect -- we project overall leasing volumes in 2012 to run about the same level as this year.
And in the U.S.
the pullback in sectors such as finance and government do point to lower leasing market volumes over the next few quarters even though other sectors including technology and energy continue to register strong positive activity.
Rental growth expectations for 2012 remain positive with most major office markets expected to register at least single-digit growth over the next year.
However Hong Kong and Singapore where growth has been long and strong may see some softening in rentals.
To sum up global real estate market fundamentals are probably now on a firmer footing than for several years.
Prime western real estate -- prime western leasing markets are fairly tight with no major oversupply looming.
There is substantial equity capital looking for real estate.
And with healthy balance sheet corporations are well placed to make capital investments.
We would expect a cyclical recovery reflected in our quarter 3 numbers to continue unless the Eurozone debt situation further damages business confidence.
In our own business we continue to keep a careful watch on market conditions and we are focusing closely on managing our costs effectively.
But we also continue to see healthy pipelines we're clearly gaining share and were investing judiciously in productive resources.
Our fourth quarter is typically our strongest so we are approaching the end of the year with some confidence.
We like to close these remarks by mentioning some of the awards we've received and which reflect our client service focus and reinforce our leading position in real estate services and investment management.
In the prestigious 2011 Euromoney Real Estate Awards which are voted on by clients and by industry peers we won a host of global regional and country awards 64 in all.
They included Top Global Real Estate Advisor and Consultant Worlwide; #1 Overall Advisor in Asia Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East and North Africa; and Top Advisor and Consultant in the Global Research and Valuation Categories so some very comprehensive wins.
So with that we'll now move to your questions.
And operator would you please explain the procedure? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes the line of Sloan Bohlen.
Research Division</strong> Just a question Lauralee.
I'm not sure if you can do this but we were wondering if you could break out the numbers for EMEA x the King Sturge acquisition just to try to get a sense of what the same-store growth would've been in different segments? What we did is we provided you the revenue which is about $60 million and then we provided you that the change in the gross accounting for our Property &amp; Facility Management was about $10 million.
So if you actually look at the balance it was not very robust.
That's the best way I would put it.
So we're extraordinary pleased that we got the timing right on King Sturge.
It's filling in some of the holes.
And we think if the markets continue to recover we'll just take advantage of all that consolidated position.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is it fair to say that the $60 million it tilted towards capital markets more than it is leasing? Yes.
The strongest position is in capital markets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right switching gears maybe a little bit.
Colin you talked a little bit about Asia potentially maybe looking slower next year.
And it sounds more like it's tougher comps over some very strong years we've had recently.
But can you maybe talk about the potential for slower growth rate in China? What impact that may have in your different regions in Asia? China actually had a very strong quarter 20% plus growth numbers in revenue.
The general market position in Asia is interesting.
You're right they had an early strong bounce coming out of recession leading the world you'll recall.
But from quarter 2 onwards our sense has been that the Asian market operators have become very sensitive to what's going on in Europe.
And in fact the first time we've heard noise about Europe affecting investor sentiment was from our Asian people in the course of quarter 2.
And it's that Asian phenomenon where the investors and corporates there just have always been extremely sensitive to market conditions.
So they go hard when conditions are good and they slam on the brakes when things are poor.
You've had that traditional cyclicality particularly in the major centers of Hong Kong and Singapore where money flows and business flows are so volatile.
So what you've got there at the moment is a basic underlying strength of economic growth across the region including India and China -- we'll come back to that.
But with this kind of worry around what the implications for the world financial systems and therefore for Asia of whatever happens in Europe.
On China and India what you've seen there is the government through the Central Banks reining in or trying to rein in the rate of inflation.
Principally in foodstuffs because they're concerned about inflation hitting the popular or the mass markets and they are affecting people's income levels of the max level of markets.
And so they've been raising interest rates to choke off inflation and that had an impact on the cost of availability of capital in the board of business sectors.
But this -- so far at least as I just reflected on China with 20% plus growth rates for us in the quarter.
It really hasn't had a marked impact on activity.
We're still seeing good strong pipelines in both leasing and capital markets in our broader management business.
And still so far we can't see anything that would indicate that that rate of business growth and really economic growth would be negatively impacted.
Like everything else in the world we get the point [ph] everyone's watching Europe.
Sentiment is sensitive to that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe just one last question.
Coming back to Europe Lauralee you hinted at taking a look at some costs.
Maybe could you talk a little bit more or elaborate on what your view is as to what you could do for cost and how we should take a look at how to see that in your numbers? We're currently working through the integration of the big King Sturge acquisition which is basically around central costs which will happen here in the fourth quarter.
But as we go in to our budget process which is now going to commence clearly everybody's going to take their outlook going to take a look at what they think their opportunities are.
And that's really determine how aggressive -- we need to think about cost as we look at next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's outside of the King Sturge acquisition or just -- it sounds more that it's kind of tied to what level of activity you guys are projecting in Europe.
It would be across-the-board.
Yes.
It will be a stronger focus on the cost growth in Europe.
We were anticipating further growth in the revenue line.
It's just a question of tightening up the control of the cost side.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is there a good target that we should look for whether it be your EBITDA margins? Or how we should think about how you're thinking about trying to manage at least some target? We manage both to the operating margin and the EBITDA margin.
If we look at the third quarter and exclude the King Sturge acquisition which really impacted Europe about 2% on the actual number so they would have been up sequentially over last year.
They would have been 6.2 versus last year's 4.4.
So they're clearly focused on margin as well and we will be looking at -- we have not backed down from our medium-term targets anywhere in the business.
Your next question comes the line of David Gold.
LLC</strong> I was curious if you could give a little bit more color sort of the upbeat or the confident fourth quarter outlook as far as pipelines and then -- and conversations that you're having with clients.
Basically sort of give some color around that as to -- obviously we've just come out of a tough period were you performed well.
But basically it sounds like we don't see much anything being pushed off into -- not anything but much being pushed off into next year so to speak.
Well we're very careful about forward-looking statements and so we've given you as much as we can give you on the position.
Pipelines are good and strong.
It is our strongest fourth quarter and we're feeling good about it in terms of how we get from here to there as it were.
Pipelines are strong but we'll be watching very closely the rate of closure of transactions both in the leasing and the capital markets area.
It's obvious that in Europe in particular secondary markets it's becoming harder to close transactions as debt availability is reduced with the banks deleveraging and shrinking their own balance sheets.
But transactions are getting closed people are finding access to debt to to match up with a very considerable levels of equity that is still there.
So we just anticipate that there will be a normal closure rate and these pipelines will be converted into revenue in the normal healthy way.
And that's the basis of the statements that we've made.
Just also David capital markets is the one place where things can change rather quickly.
But as you know we've significantly reduced -- we haven't the market has -- the percentage of that is a total of our revenue and the balance of that revenue when it's in the pipeline.
It's pretty hard to slow a leasing transaction when you're this deep into the process and so forth.
Part of it is what we've done with the mix of revenues more annuities knowing those pieces of it and even on the capital market side seeing that places where we might have thought it would drop off haven't focused on distressed debt and the core markets -- it still is performing pretty well.
I'll use your question to expand a little bit on sentiments.
I've said in the Q2 call the basic mindset of investors and corporates at the moment is they want to move forward.
They are not looking to go into a recessionary lockdown.
They are looking to move forward.
And what's if anything restraining them and causing them to be cautious is the whole situation around Europe.
Fortunately the U.S.
has kind of gotten better that it was in the summer with the debt crisis at least for the short term put aside.
But the European situation is certainly getting investors and corporates pause for thought.
If that were removed I think we'll be in a very strong market position across corporate and investor markets worldwide.
It's just the uncertainty that's holding -- and the news flow which flips around on a daily basis which is holding people back.
Nevertheless even in that environment we produced the revenue growth that we did so in a way you can see that we -- I think in many cases business people have sort of gotten used to what's happening.
It's getting cause to be cautious but they are finding ways to move forward and that's reflective of sort of the growth numbers that we've produced.
LLC</strong> Got you.
Okay.
And just one other if I may.
As you comment in the release on market share gains and I was curious if you could add a little bit there -- what geographies you see that.
And then also if you can give a sense of where is it coming from larger competitors or smaller competitors or somewhere in between? It's across all geographies and most business lines.
The thinking with an ongoing process which is not a short-term thing it's a whole decade-long process of consolidation which is not just people buying people in our industry it's client seeking advice from bigger and more professional firms on a continuous basis which is why the you're seeing the big growing -- the larger firms growing and smaller firms particularly the middle-sized smaller firms having difficulties.
If you add to that the increasing cross-border nature of many transactions where investors and the corporates both are looking for service providers who can deal with them across multiple geographies in a consistent way that also helps to the process of market share gain.
And you can -- if you want to look for the sort of the negative side of the whole picture you can see some very large competitors in both the U.S.
and in Europe who have very large and public issues around their potential for continuity.
And that's also obviously driving business and operators towards our platform.
So you put it all together and you can do a side-by-side with the published numbers from some of our competitors and see some share gain against that as well.
That's the basis for our statement.
Your next question comes from the line of David Ridley-Lane.
Research Division</strong> Advisory fees as a percentage of assets was a bit behind this quarter.
I think Advisory fees were down year-over-year.
What drove that? I'm sorry could you please say that one more time? I didn't quite understand that.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
In LaSalle Asset Management Advisory fees were down year-over-year I believe in the third quarter.
As I said in my comments and actually we've been advising every quarter on our call that we have 2 -- we had 2 maturing funds and they did in fact mature at the beginning of this quarter where we were earning Advisory fees on committed amounts and we've obviously released those committed amounts with the funds now maturing.
So we've said that our goal was to actually maintain to a level in totality the last year and we've proven to do better than that.
So we're very pleased with where we're going and we're making that up really by growing the assets under management elsewhere.
Relative to those 2 funds we are back now out in the market in capital raise mode.
And clearly we'll be -- hopeful to be announcing success at that probably in the first quarter of next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I think your assets under management are reported with a one quarter lag.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us a rough ballpark for the size of this? The total assets under management was $48 billion as mentioned in the end of Q2.
The Securities business net marks on a daily basis so that's the end exception.
That'll be end of Q3 number.
So we've been -- in addition to the capital raising for funds we've been out bringing in new clients with some significant mandates from both new clients and in large mandates from existing clients on both sides of the Atlantic.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how does your outlook impact your own appetite for acquisitions going forward? Pretty much as we laid it out I think.
We said that we are positive.
We like our earnings.
We've got a great balance sheet with significant capacity for the debt if we choose to use it.
We are yes looking at acquisitions.
We've continued to invest in external growth.
We'll continue to do that but we're being very duly cautious about what's happening in the world as a whole.
And so when we think about our forward planning we are ensuring that our balance sheet can take some very significant stress test which we applied to it.
And so those stayed very well clear of our covenant ceilings in any forward cash planning.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then -- I know you're hesitant to give forward outlook but for the Americas adjusted EBITDA margin to down 100 basis points in the fourth quarter.
If you look out past the fourth quarter '11 is 2012 going to be kind of a year of flattish margins or could we see potential leverage in that region? Our goal is to get to medium-term margin.
And that business has done a combination of -- it had lot of growth and a lot of investments this year.
This is proving that they're getting performance on all of that.
And so you can see that we're now translating that into sequential better operating margins.
Planned to do that in the fourth quarter and get to our medium-term market -- margin as soon as possible.
Your next question comes from the line of Joseph Dazio.
Research Division</strong> On the leasing launch particularly in the U.S.
I'm wondering if you could tie together the comment about the pipeline looking really strong with -- I think you guys mentioned that in 2012 you could see volumes down a little bit due to I guess [indiscernible] slow down.
Do you think there's any shot that the fourth quarter of '11 could see some declines? If I recall correctly I think fourth quarter '10 was a pretty strong quarter.
Or you think you have enough visibility such that you'll still see some growth in volumes there year-over-year? Leaving the market aside our visibility on pipelines in the leasing area in the U.S.
gives us confidence that we'll see growth year-over-year.
How much? We want [ph] venture to say at the moment.
We clearly have our plans but we won't them out there.
As to the market as a whole we'd like to comment about 2012 which given the season starts now  [ph] this picture of hesitancy in the government sectors which had been previously strong in the financial sector which has shown some bounce over the bottom.
That's temporary at least come to a whole but there are other sectors that still continue to move ahead strongly.
We mentioned tech advertising is another.
So it's a -- the market as a whole will be determined by the balance of the activity in those sectors.
But our numbers our own position we feel pretty good about.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then really quickly on the acquisitions in the quarter particularly those in Asia and then I guess the Pacific Northwest is there any detail that you guys would be comfortable sharing there in terms of just order and magnitude and I guess business concentrations? Well they're all modest so that's why you don't see the numbers.
I would say the one we talked about the residential businesses it's very modest in size very important strategically.
King Sturge entered us into the high-end resi market in London which is very much a global activity and particularly with sources coming out of the Asia market.
So to connect our already good flow there and add to that was really the importance of that strategic position as well as in making sure King Sturge continues to be better and more successful with us than they were on their own.
So small but strategically important.
Again we talked about the Procon.
It's a smaller market so it's a smaller acquisition but it made us the market leader by quite a large amount.
And the Pacific Northwest is probably the larger in terms of all those still very modest.
But focus test on that Northwest corridor picking up Seattle and Portland that gets into the ports and logistics the tech space and all of that.
But again closes out the strategic pieces that our clients tell us are so important to them but all relatively modest.
Modest in Lauralee's definition means sub-$25 million revenue.
Your next question comes from the line of Will Marks.
Research Division</strong> First I want to ask the $60 million from King Sturge do you have a comparable number for last year? It was about flat which we view as very positive given the disruption of sort of coming in joining us and all those things.
So they clearly have not disappointed us when we think about we purchased a trailing EBITDA and we continue to have that be delivered to us.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then in terms of the King Sturge integration cost in the fourth quarter what should we expect? And anything next year? Yes again we have most of the amortization rolling off sort of by third quarter of next year.
There will be a tail after that.
We're going to have some severance that will now be done mostly in the fourth quarter.
We've given you the $25 million number so we're sort of $16 million into that of which -- we've given you a $50 million number including the King Sturge's piece and our piece.
Of the $25 million $16 million that we talked about to date $5 million of that -- I'm sorry $6 million of that was actually into the King Sturge's $25 million.
So you can take the $9 million that we have into our $25 million and sort of get an idea of what's still left most of which we'd like to get down sort of by the middle of next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the balance sheet can you break down that you have deferred business obligations? How much of that is King Sturge versus Staubach? King Sturge acquisition was a little over $300 million of which we paid half upfront.
So that -- and Staubach has a remaining $150 million.
And then the balance of those are a series of other acquisitions that we've done because our pattern is to have a deferred amount to really keep retention and focus of the people that come across.
Research Division</strong> And those are discounted back correct? Yes that is correct.
And then they accrete in until the point in time that they're paid.
So we talked -- I talked about the 6% interest rate that we had on the Staubach transaction.
Because of where interest rates are today the King Sturge is actually lower at a 4% level.
So again they get adjusted but all of them tend to be higher than the cost on our own credit line.
Research Division</strong> A few other things.
Do you break down anywhere the LaSalle Investment Management transaction fees versus incentive fees? We didn't but of the number I can tell you about $15 million of it was incentive fees and the balance of it was transaction fees.
Research Division</strong> Americas hiring in the past 2 quarters -- you've given some numbers to show your -- how many people you've hired.
Can you expand on that? In terms of brokers? Research Division</strong> In terms of brokers.
It's a relative modest number Will at this point in the year.
A combination of getting late in the year -- and brokers at this point in time are going to hang on to -- and finish up their year.
Research Division</strong> And on a related note would the general slowdown in hiring potentially lead to a better margin.
I know you kind of gave some margin outlook in the Americas but on a maybe global basis is that a reason for margin improvement in the future? It's clearly a reason for us to be confident.
We know we could pull the eagles there [ph] because we're looking at strong growth.
And you can't produce this growth rates without having some cost to the business.
I think the question is getting the balance right between how the costs come in and how we respond to the demand growth.
But clearly we can attenuate that back.
And to the extent we feel the markets are growing -- our markets -- our revenue performance is about to grow less strongly we'll dial it back across regions.
But just at the moment the happy position we're in is that with that strong top line we're able to simply apply the breaks to growth in cost as opposed having to remove cost which is a much harder activity.
And I should say that as we look at that we're not taking a blanket across-the-world approach one-size-fits-all.
We're looking by country by business line and how we should be setting ourselves up for 2012 which is our customary approach.
Research Division</strong> A couple of other things.
One the cash flow in the quarter looks as if it were -- as if it's lower than 3Q '10.
Is that right? [indiscernible] Very good observation Will.
It's interesting.
The last day of the quarter happened to be the last day of the month and so we had an unusual payroll run that in the Americas and I'm sure if we went to country by country probably around the world.
So -- which means we'll get the benefit of that in the fourth quarter just because of the timing of that.
So we had one additional payroll run that is normally not in a quarter.
Research Division</strong> So without that you think there would have been cash flow growth? Significant yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just my final question.
On -- it kind of has to do with market share I think.
I look at your reports that you put out for your clients I know they're not really for Wall Street that public reports on.
For example you have a U.S.
report that showed the U.S.
leasing and I think it is volumes down 26% in the third quarter.
And it's an industry note and yet your leasing was up 20-plus percent.
And some of that's just revenue versus volume and some of it's market share.
But maybe you could just talk a little bit about the differences and also as it ties to -- when you discuss 2012.
I know you're talking about the industry in volumes and -- could higher rents and more square footage take in impact things as well? First of all a drop we've noted in the report was around office and our numbers are a mixture of office and residential and retail and industrial so different market sectors.
In addition to which we are focused in obviously better markets so we tend to be in the larger markets.
And so the number that you quoted was our number for the Americas as a whole.
And we did say that that drop has been concentrated in the non-top markets secondary and tertiary cities and secondary and tertiary districts in cities.
And so when you get to the better end of the concentration the bigger cities where we tend to operate the picture was more positive.
So that's point 1 in terms of a market background.
And point 2 we believe we're still taking share.
And those numbers would tend to support that belief.
That's the basis on which make that statement.
As to the outlook the general comments I made around sentiments on business apply to the U.S.
If you put a hierarchy of how people seem to be affected the Europeans are obviously -- European business people are obviously most impacted by what's going on.
They're living it on a daily basis.
The U.S.
and Asia less so because it's observation from a distance but they tend to get on with things.
So we feel fairly good about business sentiment next year unless things take another big strike downwards.
And we've made the comments about the sectors in the U.S.
market office market in particular which we believe will grow and those [ph] which will be pressured around Wall Street and Washington.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Prouty.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions going back to Europe.
Could you do a scene kind of sector or end market analysis over Europe as you did in the U.S.
where you're seeing strength and weakness from an end market standpoint? Again we made some reference in the script to some of the things we're seeing.
In general if you take some of the biggest single market in Europe which is London you'll see rent going up and you'll see vacancy rates extremely low in the West End.
But when you get to -- which a broad market with a broader base of demand.
When you get to the city there are levels of vacancy and there are some softness in the rental picture because the demands there is less strong.
Same in the investment sales side of that particular market.
They've got a lot of demand lots of bids on [ph] properties offered in the West End.
And you've got significantly less interest in city properties at this particular point.
And again these sentiments can bounce around quite rapidly.
Get outside of those 2 markets and things drop off pretty rapidly in the rest of the English market.
As if you go to Paris you'll see quite strong demand and quite strong capital market activity.
Not [ph] outside of Paris it's slower.
Germany is fairly broad in terms of demand in both sectors.
And then we mentioned strength in Eastern Europe the Nordics and Russia which is going very strongly in both investment sales and demand for space.
Those comments are mostly office-based comments.
I haven't got anything in like that sort of detail to give you in the industrial retail sector.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then maybe also just a little bit of commentary on -- it doesn't sound like you've seen anyone pushing off projects or whatnot so are we not building up any potential pent-up demand if the European debt crisis gets solved? Or do you think  there's a little bit of hesitancy out in the market that could get released? It could be a little bit of a sort of a small wave of activity which people have held back on both in Asia and the U.S.
That could be a much larger wave potentially in Europe where we've seen some drops in demands quarter-on -- year-on-year.
But if you want my personal opinion don't hold your breath and expect the European crisis to get solved anytime soon.
It could take again many quarters of activity.
And if you talk your banking analyst friends about what's happening in the banking markets in Europe that's a quite interesting conversation.
And there are no further questions at this time.
Okay.
Well thank you operator and thank you to everybody who listened in today for your interest in the company.
We look forward to talking to you in 2012 about our fourth quarter results.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call for Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated.
Today's call is being recorded.
Any statements made about future results and performance or about plans expectations and objectives are forward-looking statements.
Actual results and performance may differ from those included in the forward-looking statements as a result of factors discussed in the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010 and in our other reports filed with the SEC.
The company disclaims any undertaking to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
A transcript of this call will be posted and available on the company's website.
A web audio replay will also be available for download.
Information and the link can be found on the company's website.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Colin Dyer Chief Executive Officer for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator and hello to everybody joining our call today.
I'm in Singapore where it's 7 a.m.
This is one stop on a 5-week trip that will take me around Asia of our -- 8 of our Asian markets.
And with me this morning is the CEO of our Asia Pacific business Alastair Hughes who will comment on market conditions and on our successful achievements in this key strategic region where we're doing so well and I'm sure he'll be happy to take questions from you later on.
Lauralee Martin our Chief Financial and Operating Officer also joins us.
She's in Chicago and she'll be discussing our financial results in greater detail in a few minutes.
But first to put our remarks into context here are the headlines on our performance and some comments on the market environment in which we achieved them.
We are pleased with our 2011 results.
Revenue totaled a record $3.6 billion for the year up 23% from 2010 and a product of double-digit year-on-year growth in all of our operating segments.
Full year net income was $154 million or $3.70 a share.
Adjusting for certain charges net income was $215 million or $4.86 a share a 39% increase from $166 million in 2010.
Performance in the Americas was led by our Leasing and Capital Markets business improved results in Europe benefited from integration of our King Sturge merger and from our strong Capital Markets' results overall.
Asia Pacific delivered record revenue and profits outside continued growth in market-leading businesses in India and China.
Our LaSalle Investment Management delivered strong investment performance to its clients earning increased incentive fees.
So all-in-all we completed 2011 in very good shape and we're well-positioned to generate continued growth this year.
Turning to current economic environment conditions.
IHS Global Insight forecast 2012 global GDP growth at 2.7% down marginally from the 3.7% in 2011.
The world's 3 largest economies: U.S.
Japan and China are all expected to grow.
With relatively favorable economic news coming out of the U.S.
recently there were various projections of 2% for the year.
Given lingering Euro-zone debt issues it is not surprising that economic risks are so skewed to the downside in Europe.
Asia Pacific is expected to grow at the region at 5% in 2012 with China leading the way and solid growth is also predicted while Japan continuing its recovery from the earthquake and tsunami.
Despite lingering economic uncertainties key real estate indicators for 2004 -- sorry it's Q4 2011 showed that most major markets continue to progress steadily through the recovery cycle.
Investment volumes are generally held firm although there is evidence of continued slide to quality assets to protect against downside risks.
Most markets have seen positive net absorption declining vacancy rates and modest prime rental growth.
To summarize current market conditions we posted slides on the Investor Relations page of our public website joneslanglasalle.com.
Slide 3 shows the J&amp;L investment sales clock which presents capital values in world markets at their differing stages in the cycle.
You can see that compared to a year ago working capital values continue to accelerate in most major markets however it has begun to slow in others and capital values have started to fall in Hong Kong and we anticipated Singapore will also move through the top of the cycle this year.
We also believe that this is a temporary correction however with value growth probably returning to both markets in 2013.
Direct real estate investment into commercial real estate globally totaled $411 million in 2011 a 28% increase on 2010.
Investment markets are proving to be resilient as real estate continues to attract capital from domestic and increasingly cross-border investors.
Volumes were up nearly 60% in the Americas in 2011 to $155 billion; up 20% in Europe to $165 billion; and Asia Pacific investment volumes increased by 6% to $91 billion.
However these increases were made in the first 3 quarters and in the fourth quarter investment volumes showed single-digit decreases over 2010 in all regions all that year of hesitancy.
Prime office yields had held steadily -- is steady in most major markets during the fourth quarter.
Rates were maintained on the back of 2 ongoing trends attractive spreads on the one hand and continued investor demand for high-quality core assets.
Turning to Slide 4 we see a similar story in major office leasing markets which remained resilient in the fourth quarter.
The U.S.
net absorption totaled  10.6 million square feet in Q4 up 10% on Q3 for the full year across 15 major U.S.
office markets.
Those absorption increased to more than 150 million square feet up 7% from the prior year.
Those tick up in on the Europe during the fourth quarter totaled 31 million square feet nearly unchanged from quarter 3.
For the full year it was a take up just 5% above 2010 levels.
In Asia Pacific there were higher volumes of gross lending activity in India and same sale levels in Greater China and Australasia lower activity volumes in Tokyo Singapore and the emerging Southeast Asian markets.
Office vacancy rates continued to reach downward in all regions.
In the U.S.
at year end total vacancy rates dipped to 17.6%.
That's 20 basis points below the third quarter and a whole 90 basis points below the prior year picture.
Europe's vacancy rates fell 30 basis points to 9.9% and Asia Pacific's vacancy rates stood at 10.4% at year end down 1% from the prior year number.
Prime rental growth slowed in the fourth quarter growing by less than 1% across 24 major world markets.
Beijing was more than 9% vendor growth; and Sydney a plus 6% or the quarter's strongest performance.
However Singapore Hong Kong Chicago and Washington DC both moved negative in our view a temporary supply/demand imbalance.
And we expect to see a return to positive rental growth in 2012.
So if you summarize all of those trends what you're seeing globally is a continued cyclical recovery in demand for both rental space and investment service properties.
We're seeing a slight hesitancy in Q4 but a good demand base to progress in 2012.
So with that to discuss our own results in more detail I'll pass the call over to Lauralee.
Thank you Colin.
Before I begin my prepared remarks I want to note that a portion of our earnings information were somehow accessed and posted publicly about an hour prior to our intended release time.
As soon as we learned of the situation we immediately contacted the New York Stock Change which briefly halted trading in our stock until we were able to fully disseminate our full earnings release through all public channels.
We are investigating how it happened to ensure that it does not happen again.
Now back to my formal comments.
Echoing Colin's comments particularly given the global economic challenges we faced during 2011 we're very pleased to have finished the year with strong performance across the major majority of our service lines and geographies which resulted in 23% revenue growth and 29% adjusted net income growth for the consolidated company.
In the Americas region annual revenue increased 21% to $1.5 billion.
This growth was delivered across all service lines led by our transactional businesses.
Our Leasing businesses delivered double-digit revenue growth in each of the 4 quarters of the year and Capital Markets &amp; Hotels revenues increases of 38% for the fourth quarter and 62% for the year reflect the continued successful expansions of our Capital Markets' platform in the U.S.
as well as in Brazil and Hotels.
With our strong fourth quarter performance we improved our full year operating income margin as we said to with 1% of the prior year.
Heading into 2012 our transaction pipelines for both Leasing and Capital Markets look solid and we are well-positioned to continue to improve on our margins in the Americas.
Turning to EMEA.
The positive impact across the region of our King Sturge acquisition becomes more apparent with each successive quarter.
We moved quickly to integrate our businesses and consolidate our platforms and the effectiveness of the integration is evidenced by both the top line and the bottom line results that the region delivered in the fourth quarter.
As we noted in our last call our presence is largest in those countries that are best positioned to manage through the Euro market challenges that being the U.K.
France and Germany.
And our revenues in each of those countries as well as in Belgium Russia and in Central Eastern Europe were all up significantly in the fourth quarter against the prior year.
For the year EMEA revenue increased 34% to $974 million and operating income adjusted for King Sturge amortization approximately doubled to $39 million.
Regarding the King Sturge integration we recognized the charges in the fourth quarter of approximately $21 million and $43 million in the year for staff retention lease exits severance and other transaction costs related to the acquisition.
Of those totals $8 million in the quarter and $16 million in the year was part of the purchase price that the King Sturge partners paid as retention to their non-equity partners although we account for those amounts on our books of as part of the transaction costs.
Apart from the King Sturge integration we also took actions and incurred additional restructuring charges in the fourth quarter to respond to uncertainties in the economic environment across Europe taking costs out of the business in places where market recoveries remain challenged.
Our Asia Pacific region completed a year of strong performance despite the impacts on its Capital Markets &amp; Hotels' revenue of decreasing investment volumes in the broader market in the fourth quarter with particularly low Hotels' volumes in the quarter.
Revenue across the region was up 20% for the full year to $816 million while operating income increased 34% to $66 million.
Revenue growth was balanced across service lines including increases in leasing and also on annuity revenue streams from property and facility management.
Our improved full year results benefited from continued strength in operating performance led by our teams across Greater China India and Australia.
Turning to LaSalle Investment Management.
We completed a second year in a row with approximately $5 billion of net capital raise.
Both our private equities and our public securities businesses benefited from the capital-raise activities which was spread across geographic regions of the globe.
We put over $4 billion of capital to work during 2011 in new investments for funds and separate accounts also across all geographic segments.
Furthermore we completed sales activity in excess of $2 billion worldwide generating positive returns for clients and incentive fees and equity earnings for the firm.
And last but not least our investment performance for clients was at or above benchmarks during the year for all business segments.
While some shakeout in the industry continues LaSalle Investment Management consistently proved its competitive strength through its leading investment performance its capital raise abilities and the resulting steady base of advisory fees.
Regarding our overall financial position we continue to maintain our investment grade balance sheet and benefit from low interest expense.
We reduced our full year interest expense to $36 million from $46 million a year ago of which our cash interest in the fourth quarter was only $3 million.
In the fourth quarter we completed acquisitions in Singapore Indonesia and the Pacific Northwest of the United States while also reducing net debt by $184 million during that period.
Our balance sheet remains a differentiator with our clients and an important priority in positioning ourselves to be able to respond to marketed opportunities in a consolidating industry.
In summary we are very proud of the performance our people delivered in 2011.
We have completed the year in a stronger operating and financial position than where we began we continue to take market share and we're well-positioned to continue increasing the strength of our it business in 2012.
I'll now turn the call back to Colin.
Thank you Lauralee.
Let's look now at the business which drove those results.
If you turn to Slide 5 you'll see a few example of recent significant business wins.
To supplement our corporate outsourcing business in 2011 we launched 62 new assignments expanded our relationships with 38 clients and renewed 41 contracts.
Our overall market level of Corporate Solutions business which serves mid-market corporate clients won another 51 assignments in 2011 up from 35 in the prior year in rapidly growing area of our business.
In terms of specific corporate wins GlaxoSmithKline selected us as the single real estate provider with 80 million square foot global portfolio.
We've supported GSK since 2001 working alongside other service providers and we will now be a lead provider for this top pharmaceutical and healthcare company.
In the Americas AMC Theaters the intent is to deliver project managing services of 4 million square feet of remodeling projects and UBS reappointed us real estate advisor in 27 countries across Europe.
Turning to investment sales activity.
In Seattle we completed the $77 million sale of 1800 9th Avenue.
The transaction marks the first closing of the investment sales professionals who joined us in our October merger with Pacific Real Estate Partners to which Lauralee referred a moment ago.
In the U.K.
we advised Legal &amp; General Hermes and LaSalle Investment Management the GBP 312 million sale of the U.K.
Logistics portfolio.
Now the major hotels transactions completed during the quarter.
They include the $295 million sale of the W Hotel in London.
In leasing and tenant representation transactions and management assignments completed during the quarter including -- included representing DIRECTV to lease 630 000 square feet of space in El Segundo California which was the largest office transaction in Los Angeles in the last 10 years.
And in Slovakia we negotiated 2 leases totaling 460 000 square feet of logistics space to Tesco International Clothing.
Alastair some wins in Asia Pacific? On general property [indiscernible] the world's leading exporter of these products which is based in New Zealand we think that's providing project management services into China production facility with a total land area of over 4.4 million square feet.
In Singapore we sold [indiscernible]  Office building for USD $161 million.
And the year's largest office leasing transaction in Seoul [indiscernible] we leased the entire 700 000 square feet [indiscernible] Tower [indiscernible].
And finally we have the fund's management area where industry changes continue successful businesses like LaSalle Investment Management continued to do well.
In the fourth quarter LaSalle raised $750 billion of separate account capital commitments and the year-end results performance exceeded benchmarks for all of its business segments.
Assets under management totaled $48 billion at the yearend.
Finally investors advisors and financials institutions continue to confirm LaSalle's position as an industry leader with that the comments that  included Euromoney's 2011 Best Global Investment Manager in the third consecutive year in which LaSalle has won this prestigious award.
So let's turn to consider the all-important near-term prospects for real estate markets worldwide.
Our current projections call for 2012 direct real estate investment volumes to match 2011 levels at around $411 billion with upside potential in the Americas.
If you look at Slide 6 you'll see that we expect dollar volumes in the Americas to increase by 10% to 15% this year hold steady in Asia Pacific and softened by 5% to 10% in Europe.
High-quality well-leased commercial buildings in major city centers around the world will remain an attractive asset class for long-term investors.
And at Jones Lang LaSalle we expect to continue to gain market share in this environment.
If you turn to Slide 7 you'll see our projections for changes in rental and capital values in the prime office sector for this year.
Total we expect increases in capital values to slow in 2012 but nevertheless remain positive overall with an average increase of about 5%.
We see a large range of growth prospects on a market-on-market basis however from 20% or more in Beijing to minus 5% to 10% in Singapore and Hong Kong.
Property yields will remain generally unchanged in most markets this year with current levels supported by continued investor demand for core assets.
One exception to the flattening trend is the U.S.
prime office market where we expect yields on cap rates the top 4 product to continue to see downward pressure boosting capital appreciation.
Global leasing volumes in 2012 will be similar to last year's levels.
Corporate balance sheets are strong and confidence is growing with sustained corporate occupier activity.
The rental value outlook for 2012 shows most major markets expecting to see positive growth with Beijing Toronto and San Francisco emerging as the strongest performers.
And Alastair just some comments on Asia Pacific? Thanks Colin.
As you said the economies of Asia Pacific were forecast to grow again this year.
And with the exception of the big international banks we are seeing this reflected in the real estate growth plans of all of our multinational and domestic Asian clients.
We have decent levels of demand for space and there's a healthy level of supply in most markets.
And these 2 factors will support good levels of leasing activities.
There's not a lot of western money coming into the Asian investment markets right now but there are a lot of Asian buyers.
And we expect investment volumes to be about the same as last year.
Geographically the fastest growing markets will be China India and Indonesia.
We have leading positions in each of these markets and our teams will invariably helping our clients to grow.
Well broadly we see 3 trends playing out this year.
Firstly the corporate outsourcing world is going to continue to grow and particularly in Europe as companies search further efficiencies to deal with the local issues that they're facing.
Second and as I've already said we expect the U.S.
markets to see solid cyclical growth and Asia Pacific to see both cyclical and fundamental growth in real estate activity.
Europe market growth will be generally flat.
Thirdly institutional money and emerging market high-end work money will continue flowing steadily to real estate globally as property continues to be viewed as a safe haven against long-term inflation and possible short-term dislocation in Europe.
In our own business we are very positive about our prospects for the year across all markets.
In terms of actions for headlines we will continue to focus on our clients' success in markets around the world.
We will maintain our financial strength and flexibility so that we can continue to respond to opportunities and also to handle any unexpected challenges.
We'll continue to manage our costs aggressively working to our long-term margin targets.
And we'll also continue to invest selectively and strategically in future growth and profitable market share.
We're always proud to close these remarks by talking about some of the awards which we received.
Honors which we believe to see -- which we believe reflects our commitment to superior client service and which underscore our leading position in real estate services and investment management.
In Europe we swept the highly regarded Eurogold Property Awards for Central and Eastern Europe we won for all the main agency categories.
In U.K.
we won 3 awards at the Hermes Responsible Property Investment Awards in 2011.
In the U.S.
we won Best Place to Work Awards in 7 major markets and we also won the Australian Facilities Management Association's Service Provider Excellence Award.
And if I may Colin given the conditions which our  people in Thailand contended so diligently last year from floods to [indiscernible] I'd like to highlight 2 honors we received there.
First we were named Best Property Management Company in Thailand in the Thailand Property Awards 2011 and the [indiscernible].
These are [indiscernible] Thailand was awarded the country's Multi-Business Person of the Year Award which recognized the individuals who have made outstanding achievements in both their working and private life.
And to finish certainly a fitting recipient for that honor.
We thank you as well to all of our staff in Thailand for seeing our clients through the recent flooding.
And thanks to all of our people around the world for their continued commitment to our clients and the dedication to Jones Lang LaSalle.
So with that we'll move on to questions.
Operator could you explain the process please? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Brandon Dobell of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to focus a little bit on how we should think about the cost structure for 2012 and I guess kind of a bit 2-level question.
One it felt like the -- some of the charges came a little faster than we had thought this quarter.
So a how should we think about how those flow through the P&amp;L during 2012 related to the King Sturge acquisition and retention efforts? And then -- how I think about I guess either cost savings or cost containment efforts in the different regions relative to where you finished up the year? Let me take that in pieces Brandon.
First of all we've taken -- of the $56 million of restructuring charges we've taken $13 million of that was for non-King Sturge.
So we have taken actions in order to position ourselves in markets for whatever the economic environment is.
So the balance of that was King Sturge and the principle pieces of that was to consolidate offices and to do some backroom activities.
So between all of those that sort of a run rate savings payback of about $12 million a year with $6 million of it coming from King Sturge synergies and the balance of it from rightsizing.
And then relative to the balance of what we have left we've spent about 2/3 of our retentions that we've talked about.
So there'll still be more retention.
The amortization again we are pretty much through the backlog.
So we'll have 2 quarters where the amortization runs about $2 million a quarter and then it drops down to where it's a little bit less than $600 000 a quarter.
So the amortization will run off here fairly quickly going into the new year.
We do believe we have about $5 million-plus -- it's less than $10 million but more than $5 million of further consolidation for King Sturge that principally runs around backroom and technology.
So there'll still be some one-time charges potentially mostly done in the first quarter that will get us through that.
And as a broad gross picture Brandon this year as we've said we be very cautious on adding new hires.
We have pretty much got a hiring pause on until at least we get through quarter 1 and we can see what's happening around the Euro issue.
The exception of that is global.
The exception to that would be some of the more obvious momentum areas like China parts of India.
We won't be -- we aren't hiring people because the market demand continues to be very robust.
We will not be adding new offices this year with the exception of our usual [indiscernible]  China where we're moving across at already 2 to 3 offices a year.
Research Division</strong> And maybe a follow on to that.
You briefly mentioned the longer-term margin targets.
Maybe any -- I mean narrow that down to kind of what your definition of long-term would be or if there's any change in terms of how you -- what you think those margin targets should look like now that you're past the King Sturge acquisition? Well we haven't backed off of our margin commitments which breaking them down the Americas is 12% to 14%; EMEA 8% to 10%; Asia Pacific 10% to 12%; and then LaSalle runs 20% with the upside on that for incentive and transaction fees.
We will continue to move towards those goals through this year in the Americas and Asia Pacific.
So our goal is to get there in sort of the next 18 24 months.
EMEA it's dependent upon the Euro situation.
Yes.
We were doing fairly -- we're making fairly good progress towards those numbers in Q1 Q2.
Again we'll weight it harder and after that you'll see it's the way the euro kicked in last year it already had a significant effect.
Your next question comes from the line of David Ridley-Lane of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> When I think about Leasing U.S.
leasing volumes and I look at the slide that has the change and the projected change in 2012 rentals what kind of difference or -- it looks like most of the cities in the U.S.
are up between 0% and 10%.
How does that compare to 2011 rental volumes? And what I'm trying to get is how much will rent increases benefit your leasing volumes in 2012 versus 2011? Yes.
We think the overwhelming impact would be on leasing volumes rather than the rental levels David.
Overall broadly we think that the market activity levels will be flat.
That's our planning assumption for this year.
But what we are seeing and you'll see in new last year's numbers even in relatively flat markets across the U.S.
and I'll claim that internationally as well even in relatively flat markets we are able to pick up market share very healthily.
And so for us flat markets are just fine if.
We'll continue to grow off the back of the available business.
I'd just say in general the -- our sense of business confidence in the U.S.
is really quite good almost as though it's ahead of what you're reading in the press.
Quarter 4 GDP numbers in the U.S.
were 3% to 3.5% growth and that is happening against all of the misery that's going on in Europe.
So despite the unsettling economic views U.S.
grew quite robustly in Q4.
And you see it come through in some of the employment numbers as well.
Well our sense is that there is actually a bit more underlying momentum in the U.S.
than forecasters and even our own forecast give us credit for.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just maybe one follow up.
In this quarter we saw operating expense growth slightly below revenue growth.
Can the company continue to grow costs more slowly than revenue as -- if we see revenue growth decelerate through 2012? Yes.
Well that's the aim.
As you heard we're pausing hiring in Q1.
We are very focused on the margin issues.
If for no other reason then the uncertainty around where the euro ends up certainly affects Europe and has a knock-on effect a secondary effect in the other major regions at LaSalle.
So we're being very cautious on cost base.
We're focusing strongly on that particularly in the first quarter and half of this year.
So we're expecting to see good results from that.
Your next question comes from the line of David Gold of Sidoti.
LLC</strong> A couple of follow-up questions.
First I guess the 2 sort of go hand-in-hand.
One I was curious if you can comment a little bit more on debt targets.
We know first quarter typically have some stuff up as presumably we have some catch up for payout and bonuses.
But where you think debt will be maybe on average for the year? And then part 2 feeling at this stage on acquisition landscape? And would you -- are eyes still open? Would you be comfortable doing going something or do you pause on that as well as you pause on hiring? Well let's let Lauralee talk to debt and I'll pick up the acquisition point.
Our priority at the moment as we think about cash is things that grow the business.
So that would be if there are acquisition opportunities which Colin can address.
Our CapEx we ended up a little bit less than $90 million and so a touch more than the $85 million that we told you.
But we think will be down $85 million or less next year and co-investment is about $45 million level.
So we had a very strong year end.
You can see the receivables on the balance sheet which we aggressively go after collecting.
We do pay our bonuses in the first quarter but we feel very good about this powerful cash flow that we have for this year.
We also have very little in the way of deferred payments for our acquisitions this year.
The bigger payment comes next year so there's a modest call on that.
So we'll be weighing all of that.
But at the moment it's a progressive down on the debt level.
As a bridge from that to your second point David I -- we are expecting the euro situation to kind of be managed through this year and that to be no major further distractions.
Nevertheless we do have our contingency plan and in doing that -- doing stress testing our own forward projections which are more stringent even than our usual ones.
We are holding more cash against any liquidity issues resulting from euro disruption.
So we are being very cautious.
That then means that in the acquisition area we'll continue to maintain an even higher level of prudence in our balance sheet.
We're going to keep that investment grade rating preciously intact through the year.
And within that context our approach to acquisitions is going to be very very cautious.
If we do anything it will be relatively small-scale.
If it's debt-funded it is strategic easily targeted.
But we are looking at opportunities and looking out for opportunities across the regions and in LaSalle Investment Management.
But again all of that against the backdrop of the extreme caution in our financial structure.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Lauralee would you be able to give us a sense for how much the acquisitions done through the year contributed to the fourth quarter? We -- even with King Sturge we no longer have that as a separate operating entity because as soon as we can consolidate we do that.
But what we do know as you can see the market share gains as we performed above market levels in Europe and in the U.S.
and all of those are part of those acquisitions.
So no I can't give it to you explicitly but I think the momentum clearly is there.
Your next question comes from the line of Sloan Bohlen of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a question maybe we can follow on that.
For Lauralee to have performance on the capital markets side in the U.S.
and Europe will it be possible to try and break out what the King Sturge impact was in Europe and then what the acquisition impact would be in the U.S.? Again we don't have that.
Though King Sturge brought us a very robust capital markets capabilities.
So the fact that we have the performance that we had broadly they'd obviously integrated well with our teams and were big contributors.
In the U.S.
where we added early to staffing not just in '11 but back in 2010 to be well-positioned clearly you can see that in our results.
We had also very strong performance in Brazil.
As you know in the first quarter of 2011 we talked about a hotels acquisition that we had to run through comp.
And clearly we had very strong hotels activity in the Americas in the fourth quarter so we feel good about those decisions.
And then what we've also done is picked up the capability and a lot more product types where we had historically been primarily if not solely office-focused where today we have retail industrial multi-family as well as our debt and investment banking capabilities.
So all of that is either acquisitions or acquisitions of teams and new people joining us.
So it's a robust decision on our part.
You've gotten in early in that cycle and I think you're now seeing the payback.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then somebody has asked this question I think earlier but at these in the U.S.
can we expect that the -- sort of that early expenditure on acquiring talent that maybe the margin impact is now done and the potential we could see some margin step up for the Capital Markets business in the U.S.? First the Capital Markets business where we have indeed this year tracked the margin and seen it move very healthily forward.
But we are expecting further progress in the course of 2010 but also more broadly across the U.S.
business as we move to improve margins through cost control and just to building the business volume of a more relatively fixed cost base.
We did have a large number of a brokers early in the cycle.
We continue to do that but in a very much more restrained way as the cycle proceeds.
It becomes harder as the cycle goes on to pull people out of competitors simply because they are locked into business flow.
It just becomes hard for them to leave it behind.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is there -- I know Colin you mentioned that no new offices outside of maybe China and India.
But is there a broker-focus that you're looking to hire? Is it still in the U.S.? And are there any markets or segments that you're looking to expand in? Yes the broker folks in the U.S.
clearly we have said we are building our Capital Markets business strongly.
That is a strategic priority for us.
As I've said showing good results.
Our broker business continues to add selectively where we find really good people.
And generally we will the best and remove the less good so that our net is less than our gross hiring.
And that is largely focused on the cities where we're currently present.
So we are not looking to expand hugely short term and in terms of the numbers of cities in which we are operating in the U.S.
it's more adding people to existing bases which is of course in terms of margin accretion and efficient process.
Your next question comes from the line of Will Marks from JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> I want to first focus on investment management and the AUM was down slightly in the quarter but you continue to raise capital as -- I assume it's a figure we would expect to grow in 2012.
The answer is yes.
We did have a slight decline in our securities business but we had more than that offset in terms of separate accounts and our funds.
We have announced that we will be exiting one of our funds in Asia during 2012.
But for the assets going off is that sale occurs we would be growing our business with new capital raises and investment dollars against that.
So in terms of advisory fees they're relatively I don't want to say flat but not a high growth year as we replace those assets going forward.
Research Division</strong> And are there any some meaningful incentive fees associated with that? We are expecting both equity earnings and incentive fees in 2012.
Incentive fees most likely not until the third quarter.
Equity earnings possibly first quarter maybe second depending on -- of the timing of everything.
While we are raising new money Will we're seeing very successful separate accounts not only people are prospecting or watching our fees for [indiscernible] but also continuing to take over selectively from other managers.
I mean the funds world we -- it's obviously been very quiet period for the last 2 years plus.
We are out with a couple of funds currently are getting better reception than we expected and certainly a lot better than 12 or 18 months ago.
So that market feels as though it's beginning to warm up where we have a track record.
It's very much around the points we've made about the outperformance which all of our businesses are showing against benchmarks is obviously hugely helpful in going out and talking to limited partners about the fundraising.
Research Division</strong> A few other things.
One in the first question you were asked -- discussing the restructuring charges.
Can you just in total tell me what is left.
And it sounds it's weighted towards first quarter.
We have about $5 million of restructuring to go.
We would have amortization next year of about $6 million give or take.
We're 2/3 to our retention so I think the total is like about $26 million and we've taken about $16 million.
And other than that it's probably mix-and-match if that's helpful.
Research Division</strong> You've taken $16 million of $26 million so about $10 million left? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay on APAC Lauralee you mentioned that the -- with the investment sales or capital markets one of the reasons for the decline was the Hotel business.
I mean there was a pretty meaningful decline.
Is that the sole reason or I guess -- I think Colin had mentioned that single-digit declines for the industry.
Yes.
I would tell you that Asia was a factor.
But Alastair was there some broader sort of Asia Pacific issues in capital markets? Yes I think Will.
There were significant market volume declines in Q4 probably because there was very little distress in the system.
So the sellers are holding firm on the prices but buyers are a little bit twitchy because they're hearing effects about the euro.
And that slight standoff means that volumes decreased in Q4.
Our revenue didn't decrease as much as market volumes because we were taking share.
And we're also involved in a couple of quite big transactions that didn't happen in Q4.
But will happen we think in Q1.
And generally speaking we expect market volumes in Q1 to be pretty healthy across the Asia Pacific and we've got a very good strong pipeline as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If we look at further into 2012 broadly speaking Colin or Lauralee is the first half of the year a tougher comp than the second half? Yes it is.
There's obvious reason.
Q1 last year generally we were talking a clear global cyclical upswing.
That came -- sort of hit the flashpoint mid-year both in the U.S.
and in Europe for sort of domestic fiscal reasons.
And then Asia as Alastair was just kind of indicating for our Q3 as well.
So half 1 in 2011 was relatively stronger than half 2.
So when you get into the next year we're coming off as upon weaker relatively weaker second half into a relatively strong first half comps.
So yes that's certainly the pattern we would expect that relatively second half of the year to be easier just reversing the trends I've described.
That's one way of looking at it.
Our perspective is simply that we feel we've got good momentum.
We've indicated we're feeling good for the year as a whole.
And we're looking just to sort of pickup on the business growth quarter-by-quarter throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> And just one final big picture question.
On margins if we look at the ability to grow the margin in 2012 it seems that if the comp and benefits line has stayed pretty flat the last few years in terms of margin or as a percentage of revenues.
Should we look at that as not really an area of savings and rather than the operating administrative in other line instead? Yes.
I would say that that's probably a pretty steady number.
I mean we'll -- we will look to leverage our support staff for our business producers as much as possible as our growth comes through.
And that -- as we do that that's a mix of some compensation though a small part of that total piece.
And then also just the overall spend that goes with that.
But generally that's not going to move that number significantly.
So it's mostly going to be out of G&amp;A.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> My question was answered.
And your next question comes from the line of Mark Byford[ph] from Bloomberg Research.
Colin I was wondering if you could comment on the CMBS maturities that are expected to mature in Europe.
I think the estimate is around $100 billion.
And just in terms how your Capital Markets business and your outsourcing business could benefit from a lot of banks trying to push that off of their balance sheets in 2012? CMBS maturities in the U.S.
So the biggest maturing -- some of maturing debt worldwide is U.S.
bank debts in 2011 and 2012.
And the CMBS peak is 2014 and '15 from memory.
And in all of those next 4 years it will be a $300 billion a year to be refinanced.
That's going to have significant sort of crowding out effects on new lending in the U.S.
markets.
That's also going to challenge refinancing capacity as well.
That against the background with the U.S.
CMBS market last year struggled against the $35 billion against a hundreds plus 5 years ago.
So there's quite a significant refinancing pay coming through the pipe over the next 2 or 3 years.
That is in turn beginning to drive the reverse effect or the reverse side of that refinancing level which is -- refinancing [indiscernible] which is a level of sales of distressed assets note sales banks selling off debt and that's being purchased by funds which are being formed and will be in place in several years to pick up the activity.
What has happened today has been that in both Europe and the U.S.
there's been relatively little pressure to deal with these distressed issues of poor financing structures.
We see that beginning to change and it's been changing because banks regulators are forcing actual activity and in the banks balance sheets have now been rebuilt particularly in the U.S.
to the point where they can take the losses to deal with issues.
Having said that it's not a tsunami.
It's a stream of activity.
It sort of supports the numbers which we have described at our total capital markets projections for the year so overall flat with some slight ups in the U.S.
and some slight downs possibly in Europe.
So it contributes to the activity.
But it isn't going to produce any increases above the number we projected for markets as a whole.
Okay.
And then just lastly I'm just wondering if you could provide some color around what you're hearing from decision-makers for commercial real estate investors in terms of fund flows making decisions based on any kind of currency movements.
I mean I think the Financial Times said in article how that talked about how Japanese funds are being pulled out of the Brazil market because there will be depreciation of the yen and some of the regulator -- because the Japanese regulators are looking at those markets more closely and there is concern given the amount of inflows that we're seeing into the U.S.
market that that might -- last year that that might cause some outflows potentially given that it's been -- the Japanese yen has been depreciating against the U.S.
dollar.
Are you seeing any of that or hearing anything on those types of decisions from real estate investors globally? Well overall picture we're seeing money continue to flow into real estate into core assets in particular still not a lot of taste for high-risk activities.
So its core and core plus that people have been looking for.
That makes the European -- some of the bigger European cities and the big liquid U.S.
markets obviously attractive because of those characteristics seeing we'd go for Tokyo.
In terms of where money is coming from we're seeing a lot of money flowing from Asian and Middle Eastern sources of capital.
And that's sovereign wealth its high net worth and some corporate money and it's slowing into the U.S.
and Europe.
We're seeing money as Alastair said within Asia investing a lot in Asia so those flows are established and robust.
We're now seeing a lot of American -- sorry we're not seeing a lot of U.S.
money look to go outside of the U.S.
at this stage in the cycle it's very domestically focused.
And as for the currency risk issue people don't really invest with that upfront of mind although in real estate it tends to be at over  a sort of 5- to 7-year or plus hold cycle where people really have trouble taking a position on a currency.
But what we have heard -- I have heard just the last few days in Asia Pacific is German funds investing in Asia and saying "Please don't worry about hedging the euro." In other words they're bearish on the euro and they're quite happy to see that exposure unhedged and take any appreciation they see through Asian currency exposure against the euro.
I would just add to that.
I could agree with Colin.
It tends to be one -- just one of the factors.
So if you look at all the Asian money from Malaysia Indonesia Singapore Hong Kong [indiscernible]  Market the reason that it's blended is in fact the buying there -- is that they're applying different regions.
And right at the end it is [indiscernible].
It's just another reason but it's not the driving reason.
And there are no other questions in queue at this time.
Well thank you all for that.
And we'll close today's call.
Thanks all of you for joining us again today and for your interest in Jones Lang LaSalle.
And we look forward to speaking to you again at the end of the first quarter.
Have a good day.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the First Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call for Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated.
Today's call is being recorded.
Any statements made about future results and performance or about plans expectations and objectives are forward-looking statements.
Actual results and performance may differ from those included in the forward-looking statements as a result of factors discussed in the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 and in our other reports filed with the SEC.
The company disclaims any undertaking to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
A transcript of this call will be posted and available on the company's website.
A web audio replay will also be available for download.
Information and the link can be found on the company's website.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Colin Dyer Chief Executive Officer for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and hello to everybody.
Thank you for joining us for this review of our results for the first quarter of 2012.
Lauralee Martin our Chief Operating and Financial Officer is with me today in Los Angeles and in a few minutes she'll review our financial performance in detail.
First of all a few headlines.
Our revenue totaled $813 million for the quarter an 18% increase from the first quarter of 2011 and we were pleased with the broad geographical spread of growth across all of our reporting segments.
Adjusted net income was $22 million or $0.50 per share compared with $1 million or $0.03 per share in the first quarter of last year.
Adjusted operating income margin improved in all operating segments and on a consolidated basis the overall margin improved to 3.4% from 1.9% last year.
And our Board of Directors has declared a semiannual dividend of $0.20 per share of our common stock which is up from $0.15 per share previously.
To put these very encouraging results in context here is a look at conditions in different economies and real estate markets around the world.
The global economy continues to move forward with growth driven by improving conditions in the U.S.
and in emerging economies and by injections of liquidity in the Eurozone rising equity markets and strengthening business and consumer sentiments.
According to the latest forecasts from the IMF the global economy will grow by 3.5% in 2012 down marginally from 2011.
Annual GDP growth is expected to be 1.4% in advanced economies and 5.7% in emerging and developing countries.
For largest economies the IMF forecasts 2.1% growth for the U.S.
8.2% in China and 2% in Japan.
To summarize conditions in key real estate markets we've posted in the Investor Relations section of our website joneslanglasalle.com some slides which we'll now review.
Slide 3 shows the Jones Lang LaSalle Investment sales club depicting capital values in major world markets at different stages of the real estate cycle.
Despite our positive stance on global growth this year our figures indicate a relatively quiet first quarter with direct investments into real estate totaling $77 billion globally 21% below the first quarter of 2011.
We predict that volumes will pick up during the year and total around $400 billion by year end or about the same as last year.
You'll see that year-on-year capital values are still growing in virtually all major markets although the pace of that growth has been -- has begun to slow in a number of them.
Prime office yields have remained stable in most major global markets the result of attractive spreads and continued investor demand for high-quality well-linked assets.
We have seen some yield compression in Hong Kong and Singapore while in the U.S.
yields temporary softened in New York Washington D.C.
and Chicago.
Turning to Slide 4.
You'll see a picture of conditions in leasing markets worldwide.
Compared to a year ago growth in rental values has began to slow in a number of markets and values have actually begun to fall in Singapore and Hong Kong.
In Asia Pacific leasing activity decreased during the quarter due to corporate caution and slow economic growth with net absorption falling by 50% quarter-on-quarter and year-on-year to around 600 000 square meters.
Gross leasing volumes fell by about 30% quarter-on-quarter and in Europe gross pickup in the first quarter totaled 2.3 million square meters 15% below the first quarter of 2011.
Absorption in the U.S.
remained positive but was 23% the quarter one -- below the quarter one 2011 levels.
These declines may be explained in part by tenants delaying decision on space during the fourth quarter of 2011 at the peak of concerns on euro-related issues.
Those delayed decisions may have had an impact on the first quarter of 2012 market volumes.
Office vacancy rates continued to trend down during the quarter with vacancy rates across 94 global markets now standing at 13.4% its lowest level in more than 2 years.
Regional rates vary from 16.4% in the Americas to 10.2% in Asia and 9.9% in Europe.
Rental growth on prime assets in cold markets also slowed during the quarter growing 0.4% across 90 major world markets compared to 0.9% growth in the fourth quarter of 2011.
The majority of major global office markets registered modest or unchanged prime rental growth whilst the strongest growth was seen in Beijing and São Paulo.
So all in all an ongoing but rather hesitant recovery and a relatively slow start to the year.
But as Lauralee will now tell you in this environment we continue to gain market share posting double-digit growth in all 3 of our geographic segments and across all of our real estate service business lines.
Lauralee? Thank you Colin and also good afternoon to everyone on the call.
To add to Colin's comments we feel good about our start to the year.
We saw a strong performance across all segments of our business in the seasonally slow first quarter which resulted in 18% revenue growth improved operating income margins and $22 million of adjusted net income.
We generated this performance despite declines in transactional activity in many significant markets around the globe.
As noted in our earnings release and as we've discussed in our quarterly calls for the last year we continue to seek strong growth in property and facility management and project and development services.
These are business lines we value for the consistency of their annuity revenues.
However many of these client assignments required growth accounting under U.S.
GAAP.
This accounting requires that vendor and [indiscernible] contractor costs are included in both revenues and expenses.
With our focus on cost discipline and increasing our margins we've broken out these costs in our results to show their impact.
Transactional activity such as capital markets and leasing are not impacted by this accounting and the accounting also does not impact our profits.
We've defined revenues excluding these growth contract costs as fee revenue.
In the Americas fee revenue increased 15% from the first quarter of 2011 to $327 million.
The most significant increases were in Capital Market up 41%; and in property and facility management up 32%.
These strong increases demonstrating that we are achieving payback on the investments we've made in people staffing and in our platform.
The 5% increase in leasing revenue reported in the quarter follows a 35% year-over-year increase in the first quarter 2011 and well outpaced the year-over-year change in market volumes indicating additional market share gains.
Moving to EMEA.
Fee revenue increased 31% in local currency from the first quarter last year driven by significant increases across most service lines.
We had a strong quarter in France with significant revenue increases in leasing Capital Markets and in our [indiscernible] business which is reflected in our project and development services business line.
The King Sturge acquisition has been integrated and is performing well particularly where it was historically stronger in England and in Central and Eastern Europe.
Looking forward our pipelines are strong particularly in England and in Germany and we remain focused on managing the cost space across the region and achieving the savings expected from our cost sections taken over the last 9 to 12 months.
In our Asia-Pacific region fee revenue increased 14% in local currency over the prior year.
Colin mentioned that transaction activity across the region's broader marketplace fell significantly compared to the first quarter of 2011 as economic growth by country was mixed.
Despite these conditions we achieved leasing revenue growth of 12% and growth in capital markets and hotels revenue of 19%.
This growth was achieved by the success in the local marketplace with local clients which filled the voids of lower international client activity levels.
Also the 12% increase in property and facility management fee revenue reflects continued expansion of our high-quality platform serving corporate occupiers.
LaSalle Investment Management generated significant profits in the quarter with total segment revenue up 24% driven by a $5 million increase in incentive fees primarily from a Canadian fund and $14 million more in equity earnings than in the prior year driven by a gain on the largest portfolio of sale in Asia Pacific in the quarter.
We will lose the advisory fee income from this portfolio of approximately $1.7 million per quarter until we successfully rebuild assets under management with new investment.
However we are anticipating a significant incentive fee from this portfolio sale later in the second half of this year to more than offset the short-term financial impact.
Assets under management remained steady from the prior quarter at $47 billion.
In total LaSalle Investment Management continues to deliver leading investment performance demonstrated solid capital raise abilities and provides a steady base of advisory fees.
With respect to our financial position the firm's balance sheet remains investment-grade.
Cash flow activity during the period was broadly consistent with historical first quarter activities driven by cash payments for annual incentive compensation.
Interest expense was down to $7 million in the quarter and we're happy to be in a position to increase our semiannual dividend to $0.20 per share.
In summary we're pleased with our first quarter results.
We continued to take market share we continued to enhance our operating and financial position and we are well-prepared to continue increasing the strength of our business in 2012.
Let me turn the call back to Colin who will discuss some of our recent business wins.
Thanks Lauralee.
So let's look at some of those business wins to give you a sense of how we generated our first quarter results.
We were obviously pleased with our business generating momentum and Slide 5 shows a few examples of recent new assignments.
Starting with our global corporate outsourcing business we won 30 new assignments during the quarter renewed 8 contracts and expanded our relationship with another 12 clients.
And our local market level corporate business which services mid-market corporate clients one business totaling 36 million square feet of space from 14 further clients.
Our corporate solutions wins included a new assignment from Ericsson to provide project management services for the telecommunications companies 26 million square foot global office portfolio.
Looking at first quarter investment sales activity in the largest ever single-asset property deal in the Netherlands we advised Philips on a EUR 425 million sale of their High Tech Campus in Eindhoven.
Major leasing and tenant representation assignments completed during the quarter included a 355 000 square foot lease in Dublin from Merck/Schering-Plough.
LaSalle Investment Management continued to deliver strong performance for its clients during the quarter generating healthy incentive fees and equity earnings for our firm as Lauralee has described.
LaSalle has invested approximately $1 billion to date this year on behalf of clients exceeding its total for the first quarter of 2011.
LaSalle is also actively marketing and raising capital for a number of new products for investments in the U.S.
Europe and Asia.
Capital raising for commingled funds is beginning to become easier and we believe this will also add to LaSalle's ongoing success in winning single-client mandates.
Looking forward we anticipate that prospects will continue to improve the different speeds in most markets.
As I said earlier we believe that the investment sales volumes will increase during the year to reach levels similar to 2011 totals approximately $400 million.
The weighted capital dedicated to real estate remains strong and further inflows are expected from other asset classes.
We expect prime yields or cap rates to remain relatively stable for the remainder of 2012 so any further capital appreciation will echo rental growth rather than further yield shift.
Most major office markets are expected to continue to record positive rent and capital growth in the range from 0% to 10%.
Outperformers showing 10%-plus capital appreciation includes: Beijing São Paulo San Francisco and Toronto.
Full year lease volumes will be slightly lower than 2011 down 5% to 10% in Asia-Pacific and Europe and flat in the U.S.
In the funds management sector the institutional investor community is committing new capital-only cautiously to real estate and LaSalle remains focused on raising new capital for its funds and winning new individual client mandates.
To close our remarks we like to talk about some of the awards we've received which reflect our commitment to superior client service and our position as leader in real estate services and investment management.
So already in 2012 we were named one of the World's Most Ethical Companies for the fifth consecutive year.
In the U.K.
we topped the Estate Gazette's 2011 league table for both -- most letting agent and most active investment agent.
We were named best medium-size company in Ireland by the Irish Independent newspaper.
In Russia we won Consultant of the Year 2012 honors the eighth time in 9 years that we've received this award.
The Asia retail Congress named us International Property Consultant Of The Year for the fourth consecutive year and in India we were honored as Property Consultant Of The Year in both commercial and residential segments.
General Motors awarded us its Supplier of the Year Award for the fifth consecutive time and we've seen that client obviously through bad times and now into better times and we've received the U.S.
EPA's Energy 2012 ENERGY STAR Sustained Excellence Award.
Looking ahead our 12 priorities will continue to be strong net income growth through market share gains improved margins and increased productivity.
So with that summary we'll move to questions.
Operator would you please explain the Q&amp;A process? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of David Gold.
LLC</strong> A couple of questions for you.
One making impressive headway obviously by way of market share and I guess we can see that presumably a couple of different ways.
But I was curious -- 2 things: One how do you think about or measure that? And two what do you sort of do to continue down that road? Or has the hard work basically been done already as far as adding and now is it just productivity increasing? The hard work is never done David.
But with the way we measure it first of all we presage all these remarks with the comments about market developments.
And I think what you heard on the call this afternoon was us describing markets which in Q1 were broadly down in both leasing and capital markets activity across all 3 major world regions and against that you obviously heard our own numbers which indicated market share gains.
We have some competitive metrics we could compare with other published numbers in different regions around the world and so those 2 together are the basic stats that we use to make those statements.
In terms of how we've achieved it well there's obviously a mixture of some small acquisitions some medium-sized acquisitions in there one in particular obviously.
We've been adding numbers of people teams individuals around the world and particularly transaction activities and those teams as they become more productive through the sort of initial 12 24 months with the firm begin to contribute significantly to revenue.
Add to that the fact we just seem to be ongoing as a consolidator in the industry and clients do seem to be moving that business towards a small number of large providers of services and you draw out of that together the picture we've described.
LLC</strong> Okay that's helpful.
But prospectively going forward I mean on a couple of fronts: One I would love thoughts on continuation and making progress.
And two presumably I mean you're very clear about the climate certainly changing maybe it's just that the margin were changing for the worse a little bit or slowing a little further.
What do you do differently from here? Well I'll just comment in the market and then Lauralee will pick up on the things that we do from here as you put it.
What we tried to describe to you is a world in which the economies seem to be gradually picking up across the U.S.
and continue to grow in Asia.
So 2 or 3 major regions at least are in reasonably good shape and have some momentum to the underlying economies.
Europe is a mixed bag with some strength in Northern Europe the Baltics Russia and parts of Eastern Europe and obviously the well-advertised issues in Southern Europe.
But overall the economic picture is one of fairly steady growth and we took the IMS number of around 3.5% as a kind of measure.
That's real economic growth world-wide and that underpins the basis of our activity.
We also described on top of that real estate markets which have been progressing in a-- what we believe is a pretty predictable cyclical upswing albeit that this first quarter we saw some hesitancy and some issues around activity probably driven by the confidence phenomena I've described where Q4 last year investors and users of real estate were all hesitant around the issues which were being experienced in Europe and around the euro.
And decisions we believe got delayed and that had a sort of knock-on effect into Q1 this year.
So we're feeling sort of okay about the prospects for economic growth and real estate market growth.
The fact there's been a hesitant first quarter in the markets not with us.
We believe you can look through that.
And David where we focused our investment strategically have been were we really have sort of wide-open opportunity to take share.
So for example in the United States we moved aggressively into the tenant rep space with the Staubach acquisition.
But subsequent to that we've been focusing on opportunities in industrial and now in the agency leasing where we have much smaller market shares.
So again it's an easier place to move in terms of advancing share just like the U.S.
capital markets.
If we go to Europe where we have a very strong capital markets and agency position we've been aggressively focused on the corporates and also on the retail business.
And if we go into Asia what we've done is now look into the next tier of cities in India or China to own that new piece of share as those markets overall grow.
And the last piece I would say in our corporate solutions business we've been always very aggressive in the big multinational corporates but as they've been much more cost-focused we've directed ourselves into the middle-market corporates and have been very successful in winning that next round of companies that are coming up.
So the investments have been strategically targeted in the areas where we see maybe an easier way to take share and a big opportunity to take share and we don't -- even though markets are slowing that market share opportunity is still wide open.
LLC</strong> Got you perfect.
And just one last if I can Lauralee while I have you.
The incentive fees that you referenced for later in the year possible to give us a sense for how significant that can be? Well they'll be double-digit low-double digits.
But the reason there's a delay is it's all-around income recognition there's still all the balance of the contingencies with the closing of that.
So it will be third or fourth quarter of the year but that was the portfolio where we performed very well for the clients and they and we will be rewarded as a result for that.
Your next question comes from the line of Will Marks.
Research Division</strong> I wondered just ask to you about the change -- and it seems like you had fairly positive or at least neutral comments related to global economies between let's say February when you last reported and today.
But the statistics or the figures you gave were worse than February meaning leasing volumes.
You said flat pretty much in all regions on the last call and now you're saying 5% to 10% decline in EMEA and APAC.
And then for -- on your tables and capital markets or commercial real estate investment you're showing greater declines in-- I believe in APAC and EMEA than you did in the past too.
So has there been some weakening there? Well you're probably reading from the tables and got exact facts.
But to my mind I don't think we changed a huge amount.
We said last quarter that leasing will be slightly up in Asia down in Europe and up slightly in the U.S.
We've kind of showed you that a little bit but simply based on the actual outcome for Q1 for the market stats as a whole.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
On the Americas or let's say U.S.
leasing it's just a big area for you you talked a little bit about the -- I think the absorption it's something like negative 20%.
Your Americas leasing figure grew about 5% and CBs grew in the low single-digits.
And I only point both of you out because you're too very big players in that business and I'm wondering who you're -- you're obviously both gaining market share.
Can you just talk a little bit about you're doing a lot of hiring I mean --  or kind of comment really on what they're doing but who is suffering in this environment? Well one can only imagine it's the smaller and medium-sized players.
And that we don't have any prospective on Will.
But I don't know what they are and the markets numbers are what they are.
They may get adjusted slightly but it's clear that -- I mean the phenomenon I described a little earlier on is an ongoing consolidation process in the industry and how has that been characterized in the last few months? Well one the medium to large- sized national player had a significant financial issue has lost significant numbers of people and got very close to bankruptcy.
And that has an impact on business activity.
I don't know what their numbers were and how much business they lost but it from that scale of medium-sized player on down one would imagine where market share or markets activities are being lost.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on margins a year ago I think it was the first 3 quarters of 2011 you showed year-over-year margin declines and it picked up in the fourth quarter and excellent quarter this quarter.
Are some of those issues behind us? I think part of the problem or one of the issues was just all the new hiring hadn't played out in terms of additional revenues can you just comment on that? Yes and we had taken on a number of large accounts and we were working through that.
We feel pretty good now that things are stabilized in that regard and the extra resources to get that in order are moving through.
If you take each of the various regions we made a lot of moves with the benefits of King Sturge to be able to take advantage of scale and that's helped Europe.
The Americas as I mentioned in terms of the contracts and Asia has just continued to stay very diligent about all its costs.
So we have a cost focus not one that's going to cut back service to the clients or one that is not going to continue to keep us in a leadership position in terms of investments.
But we think we're spending those investment dollars smartly and you're starting to see all those paybacks.
So I think we described in Q1 Will -- sorry on the Q4 call in the beginning of February that we are being very careful on hiring until at least we could see the results of the end of quarter one.
So when you put that extreme care on hiring together with the sort of activity level increases that we've seen you get generally beneficial effect on margin.
And Your next question comes from the line of David Ridley-Lane.
Research Division</strong> Several large European banks have exited commercial real estate lending altogether.
Do you foresee buyers having greater difficulty in getting financing for European capital markets' transactions in 2012? Yes it's a challenge at the moment.
European Euro-based banks have exited for example Russia and good parts of Eastern Europe where they were building businesses.
So that's created challenges in those areas.
They've reduced their lending or stopped it altogether within the Euro zone and indeed those European banks that have set up shops in America many of them are crimping there real estate lending or have indeed pulled out altogether leaving the portfolios behind which they're beginning as you said attempting to deal with or sell.
Against that we've seen other providers of real estate finance moving in particular in Europe.
The investment banks to an extent insurance companies private equity funds are all providing alternative sources of finance.
The difference being they're generally charging 100 or 150 basis points higher than the sort of lending we've seen from banks sources.
So it is a challenge.
In general deals are getting done.
There's been more use of equity sort of in -- and waiting for subsequent refinancing there's been the use of these alternative sources of funding.
But it's undoubtedly been part of the reason why there's been a lower level of activity in Europe.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I'm just sort of looking at the difference between total property and facility management revenue growth and the fee growth.
Does this suggest you're doing different types of work recently or maybe what explains that difference? It is the type of contract that is done whether it ends up being a gross accounting or a net accounting.
We've been doing gross accounting principally for a long period of time in Asia and in Europe.
The U.S.
left so just because of market nuances but there are times where the growth account is the desire of the client and also there is an opportunity for us to many times with really good management out of that have the absolute profit that we make off of that be actually higher even though the -- if you didn't separate out the various portions of that gross accounting versus the amount of money that comes to us it would look like a lower margin.
So because of that we felt it was good to expose that to you and it also shows that there's significant opportunity for us to continue to grow that business globally.
In addition that within the Americas we had a very nice bump in our property management activity in the quarter year-on-year.
So that explains that rather it partly explains a rather large uplift in the Americas.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Great.
And then just one housekeeping.
What was the approximate benefit from King Sturge in the quarter? We no longer can separate that because we've so integrated it in really all parts of the world.
I would -- I believe that if we were to be able to put their numbers with our numbers which we can't do perfectly because they have a different year end that we would have probably had flat revenue growth in Europe versus the uplift from the benefit of the acquisition.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of Brandon Dobell.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if we could focus for a second on the property and facility management.
You gave us some good I guess kind of outlook comments about the capital markets or transaction businesses but should we expect any directional change or kind of magnitude change in the growth I guess particularly in Asia Pac and the Americas looking out? Those 2 for those -- that segment sorry.
Our pipelines are as strong if not stronger than last year.
So obviously you've got to convert the pipelines into wins but we continue to win at the pace we always have.
So we remain very optimistic about the business.
Research Division</strong> And as those deals have on-boarded I guess especially through '10 and '11 have you seen a kind of follow-on revenue especially in leasing that you would have expected to see from those transactions or given all the noise in the economy has it been slower to pull-through? Well you can see our leasing numbers have been quite robust.
So whatever's going on in the broader leasing markets we were succeeding in building our leasing revenues.
Some of that undoubtedly would have been driven in the U.S.
in particular by the linkage with property management.
A proportion of our U.S.
property management has leasing attached but not all of it.
But that extra those extra property management wins which we had would have helped that overall picture the leasing activity picture.
What we don't do and can't do for you on the call Brandon is to break that out.
If you'd like us to try that we'll do it next time.
Again it will -- a little bit of a joke...
Research Division</strong> I know it's definitely challenging thing to do I realize that.
And I want to go back I think maybe just 2 questions ago to make sure I understand you've got to slowdown hiring a little bit in-- I guess in the context of trying to get a better idea of how the first quarter played out from a transaction kind of volume perspective and how the year would play out.
Given what you know now and the slight tweaks you made to let's call it geographic growth rates should we expect the pace of broker additions to pick back up? Or do you think that the market is just not robust enough in some areas I guess in the U.S.
in particular to resume the kind of pace or even close to the pace of hiring you had going on last year? Well as we said on previous calls we were trying to hire early in the cycle and we believe we were successful in doing that.
We do that for a couple of reasons.
First of all the economics work well for us because we then [ph] have the benefit of those people through the better parts of the cycle.
But they also work because earlier in the cycle brokers don't have as much vested interest in that prior place of employment with deals that are in the pipeline.
As things done at the moment we feel obviously with these Q1 numbers a little better about our prospects for the year because we've just seen a good performance in the first quarter and so we'd be tempted to move ahead a little more aggressively with hiring against that.
It's also clear that in the U.S.
in particular the market has got tougher for hiring brokers.
It's just got more price competitive.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then final question for me we saw some pretty good results out of HFF today in their debt origination business.
I know you guys have a small capability there but what are the thoughts on that market opportunity as you look out to the next couple of years? And do you think you can build that internally or do you have to go get some people? Or is that a business you think you don't need to be in given the relative size and scale of the capital markets business in the U.S.? Well from the comments I just made about debt availability in Europe it sure is an opportunity in the European theater and we've been building that capability specifically around the former head of our German business who's moved across to run what we call corporate finance in Europe.
So yes in Europe we are building currently organically if there's an opportunity to change that approach then we may look at that.
Within the U.S.
we already have the capability and we've been building it it's not the size of HFF obviously but we've been building it steadily but the real opportunity for short-term to help clients is in Europe.
And your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller.
Research Division</strong> 2 questions.
First of all Lauralee I think you mentioned there was about $1.7 million of fee income associated with the Japan fund that you sold.
Was any of that recognized in the first quarter or can you give us a sense of how much of that still has to come out of the run rate? It would be moving at -- that's about $1.7 million a quarter going forward until we rebuild the asset levels.
But like I said because we're getting -- we got equity earnings and we will get an incentive fee which is the normal churn in the fund that's what you want to do.
When you get the return for the client you want to execute get paid and have that sale that's a normal cycle.
But we pretty much have the transaction in most of the quarter most of the first quarter.
So it's going forward.
You recall in my comments I said we were raising funds commingled funds in the U.S.
Europe and Asia.
And that Asian comment was with respect to as Lauralee said replacing that fund with a follow-on version.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And secondly remember this time last year expenses ticked up and it was a function of-- I don't know if the correct term is conferences but you had bunch of meetings pulling people in from the different regions that were impacting the first quarter earnings and the expense margins.
Did that occur this year or is that something that is more of a every other year event? Yes you're right.
We were buzzing around the world Lauralee and I in Q1 last year doing conferences internal conferences.
You're right and many hundreds of people came together in various areas.
We didn't have a repeat in Europe or the U.S -- or Asia.
We did in the U.S.
where it's actually a big sales meeting and very productive.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of Todd Lukasik.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question with revenues up in real estate services it's 17% 18% is it generally fair to assume that overall headcount also grows sort of in that sort of a range? No way less than that.
We'll try to dig out the numbers if we can.
But there's a big productivity boost there partly us taking the shares structuring and partly the ongoing cyclical recovery which I described in my comments.
So it's a -- the headcount growth will be significantly below that.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Yes I'd be interested in that maybe I will follow-up later with Lauralee.
And then just with regards to the net and the gross accounting for revenue can you just remind us what your long-term expectations or goals are in terms of margins operating margins or EBITDA margins on a net basis? Yes.
Our margin figures have not changed.
Lauralee? Operating income target for the firm is 12% which depending on the acquisition activity is sort of 14.5% to 15% EBITDA.
And then they run in a range for the various businesses with the highest above that being the Americas.
12% to 14%.
Yes 12% to 14%.
Europe actually being 8% to 10% and then Asia being 10% to 12% and LaSalle Investment Management running in the 20s.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you think about those on a net basis? Yes...
Against the net revenue numbers.
We have no further questions at this time sir.
Okay well thank you operator.
We will finish today's call and I'd like to thank everybody on the call for your interest in Jones Lang LaSalle and we'll look forward to speaking with you again following the second quarter's earnings.
Good evening.
This concludes today's call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call for Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated.
Today's call is being recorded.
Any statements made about future results and performance or about plans expectations and objectives are forward-looking statements.
Actual results and performance may differ from those included in the forward-looking statements as a result of factors discussed in the company's annual reports on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 and in our other reports filed with the SEC.
The company disclaims any undertaking to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
A transcript of this call will be posted and available on the company's website.
A web audio replay will also be available for download.
Information and the link can be found on the company's website.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Colin Dyer Chief Executive Officer for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator and hello welcome to everyone joining this review of our results for the second quarter and first half of 2012.
Joining me on the call today in Washington D.C.
is Lauralee Martin our Chief Operating and Financial Officer.
Lauralee will review our performance in detail for you in a few minutes.
To summarize our results we recorded a steady performance in a cautious market environment.
Second quarter revenue totaled $921 million up 9% in U.S.
dollars and 13% in local currency from the second quarter of 2011.
Year-to-date revenue increased to $1.7 billion 13% higher than the first 6 months of 2011 and a 16% increase in local currency terms.
For the quarter we reported adjusted net income of $51 million or $1.13 per share compared with $50 million or $1.12 a share 1 year ago.
First half adjusted net income was $73 million or $1.63 a share compared with $51 million or $1.15 per share for the first 6 months of 2011.
Before Lauralee discusses those results in detail let me first put them in context by talking about conditions in the global economy and in real estate markets in particular around the world.
Prospects for growth in the global economy weakened during the second quarter as U.S.-earned problems in particular continued to weigh.
According to IHS Global Insight the global economy is now expected to grow 2.4% in 2012 marginally below earlier estimates.
As deleveraging continues growth in advanced economies is expected to be 1.3% for the year.
Prospects for emerging markets are lower than last year but growth is still projected to be at 5% year-on-year.
Turning to global real estate markets the investment market rebounded in the second quarter following a relatively quiet first quarter and office leasing activity also improved seasonally compared with the first 3 months of the year.
Both however are being affected by caution driven by economic concerns so the tone of the market is less confident than 6 months ago.
To summarize conditions in global real estate markets we've posted slides in the Investor Relations section of our website joneslanglasalle.com.
Slide 3 shows the Jones Lang LaSalle investment sales clock which depicts capital values in major world markets at different stages of the real estate cycle.
Global investment volumes reached $108 billion for the second quarter up 24% from $87 billion in the first quarter of the year with all 3 regions seeing a seasonal rise in transactional activity.
Year-on-year however second quarter volumes were down 9% of the Americas and 7% in Europe.
Asia Pacific volumes increased by 30% year-on-year led by Japan where investment sales activity was up by nearly 300% of a back of a recovery from the March 2011 tsunami.
For the first half of 2012 however Asia Pacific volumes were flat year-on-year.
Capital values on prime assets rose across 25 major office markets and increased at an annualized rate of 5.4% at the end of the second quarter.
Rates of annual capital value growth have been gradually slowing from 18.1% 1 year ago to 12.6% 6 months ago and 7.7% 3 months ago.
We believe that by the end of 2012 year-on-year capital value growth will be in the region of 3% to 4%.
Turning to Slide 4 we see a picture of conditions in leasing markets worldwide.
Office leasing activity improved in all regions during the second quarter compared to the first but year-on-year second quarter volumes were 11% lower in the U.S.
and down 14% in Europe.
Our second quarter leasing revenues increased 9% year-on-year in the U.S.
and 10% in Europe increasing -- indicating continued market share gains.
Office vacancy rates continued to decline the global office vacancy rate across 94 world markets now stands at 13.3% down from 14% a year ago.
Regional vacancy rates range from 16.2% in the Americas to 9.8% in Europe and 10.4% across Asia Pacific.
The sharpest fall in vacancy were recorded in BRIC markets Beijing Moscow and São Paulo.
Prime rents across 25 major office markets increased by 0.4% a marginal increase on the first quarter's 0.1% growth.
Beijing continued to show the strongest quarter-on-quarter rental growth at 8.8% while San Francisco with 6.8% led North American markets.
Modest growth was recorded in Tokyo Los Angeles New York Chicago and Tokyo.
By contrast Hong Kong and Singapore continued to register rental declines and rents also fell in Washington D.C.
Madrid Paris and São Paulo.
So all in all a hesitant economic environment contributing to cautious market sentiment.
Nevertheless Lauralee will now explain our new business pipelines remain healthy and our results indicate that we continue to take market share from competitors.
So with those opening remarks I'll turn the call to Lauralee.
Thank you Colin.
And good afternoon and evening to everyone on the call.
As Colin mentioned our consolidated results for the second quarter demonstrated the firm stability in the midst of a hesitant economic environment.
We grew fee revenue by 11% on a local currency basis over a strong 2011 second quarter.
We had solid performance from each of our annuity businesses in our real estate service segments across the globe.
The investments we have made in our platform over the last several years increased transactional revenue in key markets.
Significant improvement in operating income and EBITDA margins in EMEA reflect more efficient performance and the cost takeouts we completed in prior periods.
In total we are well-positioned with our balance sheet and our year-to-date results to have a productive second half of the year.
In the Americas fee revenue increased 13% in local currency from the second quarter of 2011.
The most significant local currency increases were in Capital Markets up 37% and in Property &amp; Facility Management up 15%.
These increases demonstrate continued achievement and pay back on the hiring decisions we have made.
The 10% local currency increase in Leasing revenue reported in the quarter compared favorably with year-over-year decreases in the overall office market volumes indicating we have continued to make market share gains.
Operating income and EBITDA margins for the quarter each increased by 50 basis points on a fee revenue basis.
Looking forward transaction pipelines in America are still healthy and we will continue to manage our cost base in recognition of the market risk.
In EMEA fee revenue increased 23% in local currency from the second quarter last year with significant contributions across all service lines and from many countries.
Strength in transaction pipeline such as we highlighted in England and in Germany last quarter are beginning to convert to revenue though markets remain challenging and uncertain.
The benefits of the cost takeouts actions we've taken over the last year or so can be seen contributing to margin improvements.
And given market dynamics we have continued to take cost actions in the region beyond those anticipated in the King Sturge merger.
Of the $17 million of restructuring and acquisition charges recorded in the quarter roughly 1/2 related to the merger retention in IT costs that we discussed previously and the balance related to more recent decisions to rationalize office space and headcount in the region in order to reduce our cost base going forward.
In Asia Pacific fee revenue increased 1% in local currency in the second quarter and increased 6% year-to-date.
Our annuity businesses Property &amp; Facility Management and Project &amp; Development Services both produced double-digit fee revenue growth in local currency in the quarter reflecting continued expansion of our high-quality platform for corporate occupiers both local and international while providing a steady base of annuity income for our results in the region.
Transactional revenue in Leasing and Capital Markets declined against a very strong second quarter 2011 that was well above our normal seasonality.
To refresh to last year our Q2 2011 Capital Markets revenue in the region grew 71% in local currency over the Q2 2010 driven by our Hotels business making it a challenging comparable to this year.
The subsequent quarter 3 and quarter 4 revenues were lower demonstrating the quarter 2 2011 seasonal deviation.
International client activity levels in the transaction markets continued to be lower than in prior years but we are offsetting this slowdown with success in local markets with local clients several of whom Colin will highlight shortly.
LaSalle Investment Management completed a relatively quiet quarter in terms of transaction fee and incentive fee activity but maintained advisory fees in line with the first quarter of 2012 levels despite the significant Asia Pacific portfolio sale in quarter 1.
Looking ahead additional incentive fees in the low double digits of millions are anticipated during the third quarter after finalizing all calculations related to the first quarter portfolio sale in Asia.
In total the second quarter results reflect a baseline level of activity to be expected from LaSalle Investment Management with future enhancements to be results to be driven by its capital raisabilities and continued delivery of its leaning investment performance.
With respect to the firm's financial position we paid down debt in the quarter.
We've continued to reduce our interest expense against the prior year and we've maintained our investment grade rating all of which reflect the continued discipline management of our balance sheet.
Combined with second quarter results which reflect solid growth in our annuity businesses increase in market share and focused management of our expense base this demonstrates stability and positions us to continuing -- to continue increasing the strength of our business in 2012.
Let me now turn the call back to Colin to discuss some of our recent business wins.
Thank you Lauralee.
Turning to Slide 5.
This shows a few examples of new business wins which contributed to our second quarter's results.
Beginning with our global corporate outsourcing business we've won 28 new assignments to date this year expanded our relationship with a further 21 clients and renewed 22 contracts.
Three of our largest long-term clients Procter &amp; Gamble BBVA Compass and Bank of America extended their relationships with us during the quarter validating our leadership position in the corporate outsourcing market which itself continues to grow with European corporates now increasingly embracing the outsourcing trend.
Activity in our local market level Corporate Solutions business which focuses on mid-market corporate occupiers also continued to grow.
To date this year we've won 29 new assignments totaling nearly 60 million square feet of activity.
In second quarter investment sales activities we represented the New York branch of Eurohypo to close the sale of $760 million in loans secured by a portfolio of office retail industrial and mostly multifamily assets in major markets across the USA.
Major leasing tenant representation and property and asset management wins in the quarter included being selected for asset management services at the 930 000 square foot Mori Asset tower in Shanghai expanding our relationship with a Korea-based Mori Asset.
The new assignment underscores our growing success of providing services within the region to major Asian companies.
During the second quarter LaSalle Investment Management was focused on new capital raising efforts with investors who are increasingly favoring individual mandates and tailored advice over co-mingled fund vehicles.
LaSalle's assets under management were in line with the previous quarter at $47 billion.
Looking ahead to the second half of the year we anticipate continued caution amongst investors and corporate tenants.
We do see some bright spots however.
For example while first half investment sales volumes were 7% below the first half of 2011 we project year-end volumes for markets as a whole to exceed $400 billion broadly matching 2011 levels.
Even if investor sentiment has seesawed in the first 6 months of the year we continued to see serious interest in quality real estate assets globally with prime yields still looking attractive compared to many other assets -- to  many other asset classes and our pipelines worldwide are generally robust.
While relocations and consolidations continued to support leasing activity cautious corporate occupiers and weak job growth are expected to contribute to reduced leasing volumes for the year at around 10% below 2011 levels.
In the U.S.
demand driven by the technology and energy sectors in Western and Southern U.S.
markets is being offset by weakness in the financial and government sectors in the East.
Central and Eastern Europe contained the regions most dynamic leasing markets but Europe's 2 largest markets London and Paris remains subdued.
Current forecast see growth tick up regions -- tick up in the region for 2012 to be around 10% lower than 2011.
And in Asia Pacific we expect overall leasing demand also doing 10% below the level of last year.
Asia presents a good example of the very market conditions we're seeing this year.
The region as a whole continues to generate positive growth but the picture is very different on a country by country basis.
China's growth is slower than 1 year ago but at a government projected 7.8% this year still very healthy.
Domestic consumer spending is partly compensating for challenges to the countries export sector.
The greatest uncertainty in the region however life in India were slower export growth and investment spending coupled with domestic policy uncertainties are constricting growth.
And you'll see today 640 million people without electricity in the Russia.
In the funds management sector institutional investors continued to commit new capital to real estate in a careful and focused way.
In this environment LaSalle Investment Management will remain focused on raising capital and winning new mandates this year.
As a firm we continue to concentrate on converting our business pipelines recording additional market share gains while maintaining continued cost disciplines and increasing our productivity.
To close these remarks we'd like to introduce some of the awards we've received which reflect our commitment to client service and our leadership position in real estate services and investment management.
During the quarter we were named to the Global Outsourcing 100 for the fourth consecutive year Diversity MBA Magazine recognized us as 1 of the 50 out front companies for diversity leadership.
We moved to the top of Europe's annual Top Brokers list published by PropertyEU.
In Germany we were voted the top real estate sector employer in Immobilien [indiscernible] annual survey.
We were named Russia's consultant of the year for the eighth time in 9 years.
We received a total of 12 awards in the International Property Awards Asia Pacific including Best Property Consultancy awards in 9 country markets.
We were ranked the #1 in investment brokerage in Asia Pacific in 2011 and recently released data from -- according to recently released data from Real Capital Analytics.
And finally we won the Superbrands award in Thailand for the fifth consecutive year the only real estate services firm to receive Superbrand status.
So with that let's now move on to your questions.
Operator would you please explain the Q&amp;A process.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question is from David Gold with Sidoti.
LLC</strong> I was hoping you could speak a little bit more on the Americas.
The only significant change if you will in your projections is for the Americas to be down 10% from -- and from what you were thinking previously.
And I was curious I know you commented that the government was a part of it but can you give some more color around that is it only government or are there other areas where we've seen similar slowing? Well as -- as we've heard from the Feds with 1.5% GDP growth we're not really creating any jobs in the U.S.
So just broadly there's a relatively low level of office demand space demand as a whole in U.S.
markets within that as you said the tech section the energy sector has been showing positive absorption and growing this space North and East the government is focused around D.C.
who's been a problem all year but the financial services sector is clearly also still contracting.
And that's hitting particularly the New York markets.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then one other -- on the cost adjustments taken in the region is that something -- are we largely through it or is it more sort of office rationalization and what not to be done there should we expect continued restructuring charges from it? Well the cost piece was in Europe David and we still have through the end of the year a little over $5 million of retention between their people and our people.
So that's just with our original plans and we still have another $1.5 million to $2 million of IT still part of our original plans.
The big change has been the -- some of the segments we've taken this quarter and some of the  previous that was over and above for the region and then lease activity.
I think we're through almost all the lease activity.
There could be $1 million or $2 million more by the end of the year but other than that we're pretty much through it.
Summing that up it means it could be sort of total $7 million $8 million between now and the end of the year for still King Sturge and those activities.
LLC</strong> Combined? Yes.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just one last if I might.
Curious from essentially on market share perspective the comment on market share gains is that largely -- is that entirely looking at the declines on the markets versus your growth? Or are there some other metrics that you can point to there? No it’s either our own research numbers on the market total market stats or numbers from independent groups we referenced RCA going through the text of our script.
So it's a mixture of the 2 and it’s our own performance relative to market performance.
Your next question is from and Brandon Dobell with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the leasing business I guess in particular in the Americas and EMEA and the tie between property management and leasing.
So is there a way to think about how the leasing business has acted in recent quarters if you take out the tie between those 2 different segments? Deals done for properties that you're manning or I guess even deals done that investment management has another purview? You're referencing most of the Americas Brandon? Research Division</strong> Yes I guess Americas and EMEA in particular those 2.
But yes.
Well I guess first of all of our leasing we are still predominantly on the occupiers side.
So if we look at last year we were about 15 plus percent agency and the balance occupiers.
So in that sense most of our leasing has been driven really by either growing into the agency side or the fact that we've just been expanding our market share and the tenant wrap.
I would say generally speaking in Europe they're pretty detached in terms of leasing and property management it's just sort of not market practice that it ties that closely together so it's a different model.
The growth that you're seeing in our Property &amp; Facility Management is primarily coming from our corporate side which would be the Facility Management side.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
Then as we think about second half margins in the Americas combination of the headcount and marketing [indiscernible] and things like that.
Did the first part of the year play out like you thought it would as you stood there back on the either third or fourth quarter calls from an expense point of view.
Are you happy with where you are right now or has the market not cooperated from a revenue point of view so you take a kind of second view with how the Americas cost structure looks? No I think we're pretty happy with our cost structure.
We tend to have more seasonality in our margins so that each progressive quarter the incremental contribution comes through with the strongest in the fourth quarter and we're ahead of last year so each quarter we were ahead and year-to-date we're ahead.
So we expect to continue to make nice progress barring a disruption in the marketplace but we think we're on track.
Research Division</strong> And then as you look at the EMEA pipeline and the transaction businesses as you finished out the quarter how do you characterize I guess both the pipeline as well as the mood around the pipeline in EMEA heading into the third quarter? I think you can take 3 cuts of that.
The moving Europe is sort of universally hesitant and that's you'd expected is undeniable.
The numbers we're actually producing are really better than the mood would suggest.
And we're pleasantly surprised with that but we're pleased with that momentum is in our business and we expect that momentum to continue.
The pipelines are actually even stronger but the challenge or the question is at what pace will the pipeline be converted? Because pipelines times velocity is the actual revenue number.
And the signs of the velocity is the challenge that people are hesitant in getting on the signing leases.
They are hesitant at completing transactions and due diligence is taking longer and they're being more careful.
But we expect with good solid pipelines in both transaction -- both transactional business areas to see decent second half trading.
Your next question is from Will Marks with JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions just to avoid reading the transcript I may have missed -- I know I missed -- you said leasing volumes for the industry is down 10% in Americas and U.S.
what was in EMEA? Year-to-date is about the same.
Research Division</strong> About the same okay.
Any expectation for about the same for the full year? We think -- yes you could be slightly more optimistic -- our focus is actually slightly more optimistic for the full year.
In fact I misspoke our numbers.
The market for the year-to-date is down 14% in EMEA we expect the full year to be down about 10%.
So a slight improvement on the performance to date.
Research Division</strong> Lauralee did you say King Sturge remaining integration cost is $7 million to $8 million? Is that the $7 million to $8 million you...
Yes that's correct with about half of that being the severance which is being paid by them and some to our employees.
And then we have IT just wrapping up and we may have a touch more lease exits.
Research Division</strong> My only other question really is on margins.
Last year at around this time or maybe it was a quarter later you started talking a little bit about your goals for the margin for the year and maybe in the context of that 14% to 15% medium-term target for EBITDA margin; one does your new accounting or your change in compensation structure impact that medium-term target? And 2 how should we be looking at this full year? Last year you were around 11%.
Could this year be a flat year which would actually be an up year if you took out those additional costs? What you're referencing is our elimination what we call our share ownership plan out of our bonuses which is really a timing.
So no it does not change our targets.
It will have a modest impact for this year.
What we said is you can kind of look at what the number was last year which was give or take about $10 million and what will happen is we won't have that amortized spending because next year we'll have another year where we won't have a deferral but we'll have less of an amortization by the time we get out into the third year there's no impact.
And relative to the benefit of shareholders it significantly lowers the dilution.
So therefore ultimately it’s a benefit to shareholders overall.
So it doesn't change our medium targets there will be an impact this year.
We're driving hard to not have an impact as materially and get close to our goals.
I know a lot of it depends on how the economy supports activities in the balance of the year.
Research Division</strong> Does -- you provided additional disclosure on the margin for some of your management services this quarter which is helpful but that's not a sign that there's any change in terms of margin goals is it? No we're not signaling any change in our commitment to the margin goals for the business for the medium-term goals which we've set out.
Research Division</strong> Okay and just a final question on that what does medium-term mean in terms of timeframe? Well we had set it out to be a normal market that has been a little bit harder to find.
So what we've said is we've been driving very nicely in the Americas and Asia.
We have not yet had a recovery in Capital Markets in Europe which is a big piece of it but we haven't slowed our activities there taking advantage of scale with the combination of the King Sturge and our operations in London in particular but in other parts of Europe.
So we're driving through that but there's no question some of it is impacted by a still significantly below normal level of Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And actually my final final question on looking at the third and fourth quarters individually is there 1 quarter that faces an easier comp than the other? I think other than the second quarter that we had in EMEA last year which was fairly abnormal in pretty much all the areas but particularly in Capital Markets we generally had a seasonal trend that was pretty consistent in EMEA and the Americas.
What we will have in EMEA is in the second half of the year a true like-for-like because we will now have -- the King Sturge came in as of June.
So the second half will be a like-for-like but everything else was a normal seasonal I would say the U.S.
was normal seasonal and the balance of Asia last year was a normal seasonal when you kind of just draw a line through it.
So I don't think there's anything that you'd want to call out.
Your next question is from David Ridley-Lane with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I have a bit of a hypothetical question.
If you were to see a change in sentiment for whatever reason in EMEA at what point would -- in the second half at what point would it be kind of too late for you to receive the benefit in terms of Capital Market transactions and Leasing transactions in 2012.
So for instance if things got better in September and October would that lead to better fourth quarter volumes or would that change in sentiment it would just be too late in the year to really get deals signed? Well it's encouraging David that you think a change of sentiment could be in a positive direction most commentators are the other way up.
But I share your point of view that its very interesting that Europe is trading as well as it is not just for us but the markets as a whole seem to be holding up business is carrying on.
And I think what's happened is what the business world has begun to get used to the uncertainty they're dealing with so whilst numbers are not euphoric in many markets people are getting on with life.
So if you go back to our comments on pipelines we're really pleasantly surprised with the pent up activities that is there.
And this sentiment point you referred to is the entire issue because if the sentiment turns bullish then we could see quite sharp uptick in activity and on the reverse is also true and the velocity will slow even further.
But any time before the Capital Markets activity anytime before September October you could see transactions which are underway suddenly accelerate and complete by year end.
It's hard to get through from a standing start a transaction in 3 months so most of these activities are kind of underway in some form or other.
So they're not sentiment goes bullish we're not starting from a standing start.
But it's very finely balanced at the moment and you make a good point that it could be positive as well as negative.
Research Division</strong> And then at least relative to my estimates I was a bit surprised in the comp and benefits line there was about 100 basis points of leverage in the first quarter.
It was flattish in the second quarter.
Would you expect to see leverage on that line in the second half? If you even those 2 out it's 50 basis points of leverage and I think that makes the point but year-to-date we're doing pretty well and this first half is relative to the cost base slightly stronger than the second half you seasonally start the second quarter if you seasonally adjust we're very happy with where we are for the first half and we'd expect that leverage to be continued into the second half of the year.
And remember we did have about $4 million that feeds into the comp line in the year-over-year comparison and actually was somewhat of a reversal of the first quarter when we changed our shared ownership program that would feed into that.
So you need to look at that with that adjustment which again is the timing it's not a long-term change in how we pay anybody.
Your next question is from Michael Mueller with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I think in the press release you referenced a tougher comp in Asia Pac as being part of the reason why the Capital Markets business was down significantly.
Number one can you kind of remind us what it was if there was something very chunky that pushed last year's up specifically? And then outside of that tougher comp just how did you look at the business that quarter? Does it feel like in the market share gains you were thinking about coming through the expenses? I mean just how would you size it up outside of just bumping up against the tougher comp? Well let me just give you the data because you can pull it from our slides and this is going from Q1 2011 through for Capital Markets in Asia.
So Q1 was 17.7 Q2 was 33.8 Q3 was 21.3 and Q4 was 22.
So when we got to Q1 of this year it was 21.6 and now this year Q2 23.8.
So you can see there was a real seasonal deviation in the second quarter of 2011 and we had some significant hotels activity in that quarter.
Our Hotels business globally has seen that -- just the dynamics of hotels in general are improving the RevPAR's and so forth.
They have -- all of our businesses talk about having very strong pipelines and are feeling quite confident about the second half of year.
Again barring some confidence change.
But again I think there was that significant change in them or significant amount of activity in the second quarter of 2011.
With respect to market share in Asia which I think you referenced specifically we'd expect for the full year to see continued growth in our market share across both Capital Markets and leasing activity.
We are in Asia -- we have in Asia raised salaries and that's a deliberate managerial decision to ensure that we retain our good staff and so that year-on-year raise in the cost base and we also in the second half of last year continue to hire people.
And so that well be in the cost base for the second half.
And whilst we stopped hiring for the balance of this year nevertheless those 2 factors will weigh in half 2 but we expect on balance the growth which we are expecting to see in our revenue line for the remainder of this year to balance those expense increases.
And we'd expect to see a full year which is roughly comparable with last year in Asia Pacific.
Research Division</strong> And then thinking about investment volumes and we've seen a lot of impact from just core product trading hands but are you seeing signs that there's a pickup occurring in middle markets to non-prime markets at this point? Not really it's very marginal.
There's a lot of talk about -- if you were a real estate professional investor and you see Europe in the -- cap rates in the 4 and 5 it does make people start thinking about moving to secondary markets be they secondary asset category or secondary pitches in suburbs.
And some of the more opportunistic investors are beginning to go out along that particular path along the risk curve.
But in general the bulk of money certainly for institutional investors from high net worth across regions is looking for secure safe cash flows and they're seeing 4% and 5% yield cash cap rates is actually pretty darn good compared to the 1 2s and 3s they're getting from bond yields.
So it's a comparative play still and we talked in our prepared remarks about further continued cap rate compression towards the year end or be it much less steeply than we've seen in the last few quarters.
So attractive markets for core lots of demand for core assets and supply generally limited because sellers have got little attractive reinvestment option for their money and the secondary markets beginning to pick up and confidence has to recover broadly speaking a little more before you see a real solid move towards secondary markets.
Your next question is from Todd Lukasik with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> The first one I may have missed.
I was wondering if you gave the estimated organic growth rate for EMEA absent King Sturge.
We didn't.
We are very merged now but we try to recreate a like-for-like.
If we looked at sort of them and us prior to being together we think we would be -- would have been down approximately 5% in revenue.
Research Division</strong> Okay and would that be on a U.S.
dollar basis or local? Yes.
Research Division</strong> My other question was just I was just wondering if you could give sort of an updated view on what I'd call debt driven sort of property sales.
So a few years ago I think there may have been a feeling that as loans that were made on purchases at peak prices at high loan to values came due but they may be either non-refinanceable in the current environment is that something that's playing out or is that something that still may play out in the future quarters? Or given lending practices or maybe the rise on asset values something that's likely to not play out? All of the above.
I mean every single permutation combination you can think of.
In Asia there isn't really much you're talking about the step -- distressed driven by financing structures put in place in better years it wouldn't be very much of an issue in there across Asia.
Within Europe there's everything happening because you've got some countries where the banks have got sufficient capital and the government's have got sufficient regulatory authority to push them to start taking write-downs on debt structures which were put in place in better times in Germany some are France but you've read what's happening in Spain the banks unable to deal with the real estate issues there.
Continued progress in Ireland is being stymied by a total level of debt between the banks and the country.
And the country of course owns that.
So you've got certainly there's still levels of distress in here.
It's really the pace of dealing with it is very variable.
And where it's being dealt with some of it's extended some it's new debt with haircuts some of it's debt taking possession of the asset and refinancing or selling as all sorts of permutations going on.
And generally the pace is not as rapid as everyone always thought 3 years ago in the depths of the recession when recovery was beginning.
Same comment in America it's a controlled process.
Can still being kicked down the road through refinancing and haircuts but it’s not the principal driver of activity in the market still.
Research Division</strong> Okay but it sounds like it maybe something that could contribute to a larger degree in the future? Yes albeit that the financial markets are continuing to sort of gradually heal and in doing so that capacity to refinance is improving and they're also continuing to discover new ways of handling these distressed structures when they do come due.
[Operator Instructions] It sounds like we're through operator.
That's correct we have no further questions.
Okay.
Well with no further questions let's conclude the call.
Thank you everyone for participating and for your interest in Jones Lang LaSalle.
We look forward to talking to you again following the third quarter results.
Thank you and good evening.
Thank you everyone for joining today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call for Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated.
Today's call is being recorded.
Any statements made about future results and performance or about plans expectations and objectives are forward-looking statements.
Actual results and performance may differ from those included in the forward-looking statements as a result of factors discussed in the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 and in other reports filed with SEC.
The company disclaims any undertaking to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
A transcript of this call will be posted and available on the company's website.
A web audio replay will also be available for download.
Information and the link can be found on the company's website.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Colin Dyer Chief Executive Officer for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator and welcome to everyone joining this review of our results for the third quarter 2012 and for the first 9 months of the year.
Before getting into the quarter just a few administrative points.
First of all thank you all for joining particularly those who are in the path of Hurricane Sandy over the last 2 days.
We hope you escaped reasonably unscathed.
We as a result as the operator just said will be posting a transcript of the call on our website and indeed will be recording this call for those of you who are unable to make it and we do have indications that there are few of you on the call as a result this time.
From our perspective with respect to our clients it's still much too early for us to tell the extent to which they have been impacted or damaged but clearly business in the New York and New Jersey area will be severely dislocated for the coming few days.
But our teams have been active over the last 24 hours in coming to client's assistance and will continue to do that.
Final point of administration I got stranded in Washington D.C telephones are down and so you're hearing me on a cellphone.
That should work well but if for any reason it doesn't Lauralee will take over with plan B on this call.
So Lauralee is joining me our Chief Operating and Financial Officer.
Lauralee is safe and sound in Chicago and she'll be reviewing our performance in detail in a few minutes.
To summarize our results we continue to win market share and recorded sound performance in what's remained a cautious and challenging market environment.
The third quarter revenue totaled $249 million which is up 5% in U.S.
dollars and 8% in local currencies from the third quarter of 2011.
Year-to-date revenue increased to $2.7 billion 10% higher than in the first 9 months of 2011 and a 13% increase in local currency.
For the quarter we reported adjusted net income of $55 million or $1.23 per share and that compares with $50 million or $1.12 a share one year ago.
Year-to-date adjusted net income was $128 million or $2.86 a share and that compares with $101 million or $2.27 share in the first 9 months of 2011.
We completed 2 M&amp;A transactions during the quarter acquiring Credo Real Estate a market-leading advisory firm in Singapore and merging operations with 360 Commercial Partners a leading real estate services firm in Orange County California.
And finally our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.20 per share.
Before Lauralee discusses our results in detail let me put them in context by summarizing conditions in the global economy and in real estate markets around the world.
According to IHS Global Insight the global economy will grow 2.3% this year consistent with earlier estimates as hesitant -- as the hesitant worldwide recovery continues.
Growth is expected to be 1.3% in advanced economies for the year and 4.8% in emerging markets.
Next year economic growth is expected to reach 2.6% globally developing economies grew -- slowing marginally to 1.1% growth while emerging markets grow at 5.1%.
Regionally the U.S.
is seeing steady growth around 2% with forward real estate market opportunities on the upside assuming postelection progress on government finances.
Europe continues to struggle as sovereign debt crisis still poses the most serious risk to deliver outlook and here risk weighted to the downside.
Growth in Asia Pacific is flat year-on-year with no signs yet of the shift from a downward trajectory which China and India have experienced in recent quarters.
However the most recent reports of accelerating industrial production retail sales and investments in fixed assets in China during September give some confidence that the Chinese economy is stabilizing and growth rates will begin to pick up from the fourth quarter.
So all in all we see continued gradual but fragile cyclical recovery although with very different conditions characteristics and potential risks from one region to another.
In this environment in real estate markets globally the investment market held relatively steady in the third quarter while office leasing activity was more subdued.
To summarize current market conditions we posted slides in the Investor Relations section of our website joneslanglasalle.com.
Slide 3 shows the Jones Lang LaSalle investment sales clock which depicts capital values in major world markets which were at different stages in their real estate cycles.
Capital values on prime assets across 24 major office markets increased at an average annualized rate of 4.4% at the end of the third quarter.
For the full year we expect values to increase by 3% to 4% as rates of growth continue to slow down from 24% in 2010 and 13% in 2011.
Global investment volumes totaled $100 billion for the third quarter which is 7% below the same period in 2011.
Investment volumes in the Americas were 8% above the third quarter of 2011 at $44 billion.
Market volumes in Europe totaled $33 billion and that's 22% lower than in the prior period of last year.
And Asia Pacific recorded $22 billion in investment volumes for the third quarter down 5% year-on-year but relatively steady on a year-to-date comparison.
On Slide 4 we project year-end global investment sales volumes at $400 billion broadly matching 2011 levels as prime properties continue to attract significant investor interest.
Turning to Slide 5 we see a picture of conditions in leasing markets worldwide.
Prime rents across 24 major office markets increased by 0.4% in the third quarter affecting further slowing in rental growth.
The trend does remain positive in most markets however.
The scattering of cities between 2011 and 2012 charts shows the widely divergent market conditions that we're seeing around the world.
Office leasing activity slowed during the quarter with year-to-date volumes in all 3 regions now running about 15% below the same period in 2011.
Our owner third quarter releasing -- leasing revenues increased by 15% year-on-year in the Americas.
Our European and Asian leasing revenues were down slightly in local currency but this taken together is further evidence of our growth in market share across all regions.
Office rate vacancy rates continue to trend lower in the quarter.
The global office vacancy rate across 94 world markets now stands at 13.2% and that compares with 14.5% at the peak of the vacancy cycle in the second quarter of 2010.
Vacancy rates ranged from 17.2% in the U.S.
the lowest level in 3 years to 9.7% in Europe and 10.6% across Asia-Pacific the sharpest fall vacancy and therefore the most market tightening recorded in Singapore Moscow Beijing and Mexico City.
In office markets globally cautious corporate occupiers and weak job growth are expected to contribute to reduce leasing volumes for the year around 15% below the 2011 levels.
And U.S.
technology and energy companies end markets in the West continue to dominate demand growth while some that build markets are starting to contribute to the recovery.
Across Europe current forecasts see gross take-up in the region for 2012 to be about 10% lower than 2011 but roughly in line with the 10-year average.
In Asia-Pacific we expect overall leasing demand to be moderately weaker in most markets for this year the result of slower economic growth and weaker corporate hiring.
Looking ahead to the final 2 months of the year and despite our healthy pipelines we anticipate continued transaction caution amongst investors and corporate tenants.
So all in all the uncertain economic environment continues to determine market sentiment.
Nevertheless as Lauralee will now explain our new business pipelines remain healthy.
We are managing costs tightly.
And our results indicate that we continue to take market shares from our competitors.
So with those opening remarks I'll turn the call over to Lauralee.
Thank you Colin.
As Colin mentioned our consolidated results for the third quarter demonstrated the firm's stability amidst varied market conditions across the globe.
We grew fee revenue by 5% on a local currency basis over the third quarter of 2011.
We had another quarter of solid performance in our annuity businesses particularly across Asia Pacific and the Americas for each delivered double-digit local currency growth in Property &amp; Facility Management.
The investments we made in our platform over the last several years have increased transactional revenue in key markets and contributed to market share growth.
We also have healthy new business pipelines that have positioned us for a good finish in the seasonally strong fourth quarter.
In the Americas fee revenue increased 10% in local currency from the third quarter of 2011 led by leasing revenue growth of 15%.
We continue to focus on building market strength and improving our share position and can report further progress this quarter.
Our 15% growth compares favorably to overall leasing volumes which were down 14% in the third quarter.
We have also expanded our Property &amp; Facility Management annuity revenue base achieving 10% local currency growth in the third quarter on a fee revenue basis.
Our Capital Markets &amp; Hotels business grew 8% in local currency 26% year-to-date and has a strong pipeline going into the end of the year.
Operating income and EBITDA margins for the quarter improved 50 and 60 basis points respectively on a fee revenue basis.
In EMEA fee revenue decreased 3% in local currency from the third quarter last year driven by slower transactional activity due to euro uncertainty.
While leasing revenue was relatively flat compared with last year down 1% in local currency we have built strength with the corporate occupier clients through our Corporate Solutions business which is helping to offset reduced market activity.
Capital Markets &amp; hotels decreased 9% in local currency where securing financing for deals remains a challenge.
Despite difficult underlying markets our people have a positive mindset about year end that is the result of winning new client mandates expanding market share and successfully integrating the merger with King Sturge over the past year.
We have continued to be disciplined on costs and our year-to-date expansion of margin demonstrate the actions we have taken to date have proven to be effective.
Included in the third quarter restructuring charges are additional costs for downsizing in the Southern euro markets as well as additional lease exit cost which will deliver future savings in 2013 and beyond.
In Asia-Pacific fee revenue increased 9% in local currency in the third quarter and increased 7% year-to-date.
Our annuity business Property &amp; Facility Management produced 17% fee revenue growth in local currency in the quarter reflecting continued expansion of our high-quality platform for corporate occupiers providing a steady base of stable income for our results in the region.
Increases were most significant in Australia Greater China and Thailand where we're winning business with locally headquartered multinational corporations and large investors.
Transactional activity was down across the region which has negatively impacting margins as transactional revenue tends to be higher-margin business.
The region also has been impacted by inflationary pressure across the region particularly India and China which has increased fixed compensation cost.
LaSalle Investment Management's third quarter advisory fees were consistent with the first and second quarter 2012 levels even after significant asset sales over the last 12 to 15 months.
As we mentioned last quarter we believe current levels reflect the baseline level of activity to be expected from LaSalle Investment Management but we expect future enhancements to their results driven by their capital raise-abilities and continued delivery of leading investment performance.
We're also pleased to report over $11 million of incentive fees reflecting our performance for our clients as well as more than $10 million of equity earnings in the quarter.
With respect to the balance sheet and cash flows we paid down $60 million of debt from a year ago $35 million in the quarter and remained committed to maintaining our investment grade rating.
Our year-to-date acquisition spend has been modest as we focused in the U.S.
primarily on hiring individual market makers and concentrated in Europe on integrating King Sturge.
We have co-invested to support LaSalle's efforts to raise new funds and to win new separate account mandates.
Our older vintage funds continue to be harvested often with equity earnings and incentive fees.
Our third quarter results varied by region but taken as a whole indicates solid performance across uncertain and cautious markets.
Increased market share solid annuity revenue growth and focus on converting our strong pipelines position us for a solid fourth quarter finish to 2012.
Let me now turn the call over to Colin to discuss some of our recent business wins.
Thank you Lauralee.
Referring back to the slides once more Slide 6 shows a few examples of the new business wins which Lauralee referred to and which contributed to our third quarter results.
Beginning with our Global Corporate Outsourcing business we've won 39 new assignments to date this year expanded our relationship with another 31 clients and renewed 31 contracts.
In Beijing for example after we secured the 270 000 square-foot lease for Renren the social networking company which is China's Facebook we were appointed to provide facilities management and project management services for a further 410 000-square feet of space.
That lease was Beijing's largest to date this year and facilities management assignment represented the first time that a Chinese corporation has engaged an integrated service provider to deliver the full scope of facilities services and the fit-out was our largest in China so far this year.
We also saw growth in our local market Corporate Solutions business which focuses on mid-market corporate occupiers.
To date this year we have won 45 new assignments totaling nearly 90 million square feet in this sector.
In second quarter investment sales activities we advised on the largest single-asset seller in France since 2007 a EUR 500 million sale of a retail complex on the Champs Elysee in Paris.
And in the Germany's biggest transaction this year we advised on a EUR 784 million sale of 2 landmark buildings in Frankfurt.
Major leasing tenant representation and property and asset management wins for the quarter included an 811 000-square foot lease in Calgary for Canada's Imperial Oil.
The big news at LaSalle Investment Management is that on October 1 we announced a public offering to raise up to $3 billion to our non-listed REIT.
The Jones Lang LaSalle Income Property Trust or JLLIPT is an open ended fund with a diversed -- diversified portfolio of high-quality income-producing assets located primarily in the United States.
The fund differs from earlier non-listed REITs in terms of its daily pricing improved liquidity and lower upfront fees.
We're especially pleased with the fund's distribution relationship with Merrill Lynch and their commitment to offer it through their 16 000 financial advisers.
JLLIPT is strategically important for LaSalle Investment Management and a significant step towards -- forward to expand our client base into the individual investor space.
Over time we expect the fund to grow assets under management for LaSalle.
In terms of market prospects we've already talked about conditions through to the end of this year.
Looking ahead to 2013 preliminary projections show investment sales volumes matching this year's levels at around $100 million -- $100 billion per quarter with potential upside particularly in the Americas where volumes could be as much as 25% higher than this year.
We expect capital values to an increase -- to increase by an average of about 3% next year.
We anticipate that global leasing volumes will be 5% to 10% higher in 2013 up 10% to 15% in the U.S.
5% in Europe while Asia-Pacific market volumes which have been in record levels in 2011 and '12 are expected to be down about 3% next year.
Prime rental growth next year is expected to broadly match this year's rates at around $0.03 on aggregate with most major markets registering a single-digit growth.
Slide 7 shows Beijing and San Francisco will once again show the strongest rental performance while London Moscow Sydney Tokyo and Hong Kong will also register above average growth in the 5% to 10% range.
In the funds management sector institution investors continue to commit new capital to real estate because it still offers attractive relative returns but they're doing so with great care and caution.
At its strong third quarter equity earnings and incentive fees demonstrate LaSalle Investment Management will be well-positioned to deliver superior performance to its clients in this environment.
So for next year we anticipate markets that are not going to get worse but at the same time not improving as quickly as businesses as might hope.
There are encouraging signs.
The U.K.
emerging from recession and China perhaps turning around its declining growth rates.
But there are also global-scale issues that concern business confidence the postelection fiscal cliff in the U.S.
and the ongoing issues with sovereign debt in Europe being the 2 principal examples.
Most of our annuity businesses will continue to grow.
Fee revenues in our Property &amp; Facilities Management business were up 10% year-on-year across our operations during the third quarter and grew 17% in Asia Pacific.
Large numbers of corporate clients will continue next year to look to outsource to manage and reduce costs playing to the strength of our Corporate Solutions business globally and indeed our European corporate business.
In our European corporate business the pipeline of new opportunities is up by more than 30%.
These annuity businesses are countercyclical supporting revenues when transaction's slow.
So we remain confident that we'll continue to grow next year just as we have in similar market environments this year.
We are confident that we'll continue to take market share which not only contributes to near-term performance but also puts us in a very good place when the recovery finally gains momentum.
We're maintaining our discipline on costs while also working to increase productivity across the business.
And finally we can expect competitors lacking a command in global platform to continue getting weaker.
To close our remarks today we'd like just to mention some awards we've received reflecting our commitment to client service and to our industry-leading position.
2 recent examples we were named Best Corporate Citizen by Corporate Responsibility Magazine the only real estate-related firm to be so honored.
And in Asia-Pacific we were selected as the #1 overall real estate adviser in the region at the 2012 Euromoney Real Estate Awards the second consecutive year in which we have received this top award.
So on that some positive and happy note I will pause and invite your questions.
Operator could you please explain the process? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of David Lane with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> You've had a bit of a slowdown in advisory and consulting revenue this quarter and if some of that is transaction-related and some is more contractually recurring in nature is there anything to read through from that 3% year-over-year decline in local currency for that service line? David only that as we described in the commentary on the market we're looking at very hesitant confidence around both leasing and investment markets.
And the advisory -- a part of the advisory work is very discretionary and it's the sort of work which when people feel good they move ahead with and when they feel less good they tend to dial back or delay on it so it's probably principally a reflection of that phenomenon.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And clearly great market share gains in the Americas leasing.
I was wondering if you can maybe review the headcount additions and wondering if you're continuing to add broker headcount here as well? Yes we are.
The pace of growth in numbers has been dialed back somewhat.
It gets tougher as you go through the year to do that.
And it actually gets tougher as you go through the cycle indeed to do that as brokers in competitive countries have vested interest in deals which are well underway.
So the numbers have been slowing a little bit.
Lauralee do you have it totaled? I think we're up about -- in U.S.
about 25 year-to-date in leasing.
In Capital Markets actually nothing in the quarter.
So to Colin's comment quarter was relatively slow.
And again what we have done is we're finding as people get closer to the end of the year they've got a lot in their pipelines and it's much more difficult to move them.
So we would expect we'll to start to see movement again when we open up in early '13.
We continue to have robust conversations people are very interested in our platform.
And so it's clearly one that we think has momentum but it's tougher to move people as markets get to the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
That makes...
But as you commented the actual revenue numbers are growing nicely and that's a good indication of the productivity of those people we have hired in the past year 2 3 is now coming through and growing as we would plan.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That all makes sense.
And then what's the relative size of the additional Southern Europe restructuring and what's kind of the ballpark for the estimated savings per quarter? Of the severance that we took in the quarter was $1.6 million for severance and other.
You don't get as much of a payback unfortunately out of European as you do otherwise.
So generally I would -- you'll see it in 2013.
But our view is it's more to offset what we think will be slower revenues than necessarily you're going to see an improvement in a bottom line margin.
It's really protection of bottom line margin.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so will you expect a few million dollars in the fourth quarter for structuring related to King Sturge or are we finished with that? The King Sturge that's left is still the contractual retention.
So if we think about that that could -- that's still another a little bit less than $2 million and we still are -- our IT -- we have IT in progress which is about $2 million as well.
So I'm guessing in the fourth quarter we could still have between the sum of 2 of those about $4-ish kind of million of restructuring.
What we're seeing on our European businesses -- Southern European businesses doing David is in addition to the restructuring activities there are leaders that they are also at their discretion taking salary haircuts and bonus haircuts.
So they're responding to market conditions in a way that we would hope them -- that they would which is encouraging.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of JMP Securities with Will Marks.
Research Division</strong> I guess first I want to ask about the equity earnings in the quarter.
I don't know if that was something that -- you talked a little bit about the incentive fee during the quarter I don't believe we knew ahead of time there would be a big equity earnings.
But more importantly I look back and you're about double the equity earnings from LaSalle Investment Management what you've been in any year I think in your history already this year.
What should we expect from this business going forward? That was an unusual quarter.
So you're right Will.
And it was broader-based than what we would have thought.
So it's a mix of things coming out Canada Asia et cetera.
So I think what LaSalle is doing is which is what we want them to do for their clients is looking at all the vintage taking advantage of where markets have recovered and giving the best return they can off of those vintage funds as the markets do recover.
So that's an unusual number.
We were delighted to have it because it reflects performance for our clients but I would not expect something like that going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I assume it's a pretty high margins or they are high-margin fees? Yes.
Research Division</strong> And I guess I'm going for -- as part of this because of -- if we look back at your equity earnings line it was negative.
Largely negative I think at the downturn.
And so is this part of -- you have an ability to markup and generate those equity earnings in the future? You are correct.
The markdown is when there's been permanent impairment and that was done through evaluating what was happening in those markets.
And we cannot markup on things where we are under that method of accounting until there is an event.
And so what we have had is events which means properties are being sold being realized at better than anticipated values which is very good performance by our people and then we do have the gain off of that.
So there's a mix of somewhere there may have been a markdown and somewhere there was not and we just actually had terrific performance.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
On your cash flow I see you do have the table as per norm in your PowerPoint presentation.
It looks to be because when I first saw that your cash flow over the past year was -- or your debt -- sorry net debt reduction was $60 million it seemed low.
But could you go through exactly or I guess maybe over 12-month period how much you've spent on acquisitions and I guess acquisitions CapEx and co-investment? Yes.
We -- to date our CapEx is about $55 million.
So we're on a normal trend as we gave you under guidance.
We have used about $26 million for business acquisitions.
So as we mentioned it's been modest this year.
We have been very much focused on integrating what we've already done.
And then we have had much more activity in LaSalle Investment Management to rebuild some of their new activities that we've talked about and we've had between them about $95 million of cash that's gone into that.
And then we get another $40 million of that back so there's a net piece that comes through.
And then additionally we paid $32 million for previous acquisitions that were deferred payments at King Sturge.
We'd be happy to spend more time off-line if any of that's confusing.
But I would say that the pieces -- if there's a way to summarize that for you we're managing the pieces that you want us to manage aggressively which things like CapEx.
We're making sure we're getting the returns off the business acquisitions that we have and are settling those down.
And then we're putting the money into where we think we have the best opportunities for growth.
And at the moment that's very much supporting LaSalle Investment Management as they get back into a capital raising mode to offset the -- what's really come out of harvesting the vintage assets that they are managing.
Research Division</strong> How much were the -- I think Colin had mentioned 2 acquisitions during the quarter.
I assume it's a pretty nominal amount.
I'm just curious if you can mention that.
Yes.
In the order of [indiscernible] million.
Yes but the cash out on those was $11 million to $12 million and the balance both head to deferred our typical structure.
So Colin's giving you a gross number but as you know we think it's very important for retention to have deferred payments.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly on the use of capital.
What about share repurchase? We haven't seen that in a while.
What's your strategy? So I'll get that.
Well we've discussed this a couple of times recently.
Our main focus currently apart from the cautious management of the cash flow and the balance sheet as Lauralee described in terms of other returns to shareholders has been in dividend payments which we've maintained through the recession and indeed begun to grow back again.
So our principal attention has been on moving the dividend forward.
If we get to a point where in consultation with our shareholders and our board we think it's appropriate to repurchase shares we will do that.
We don't have any plans at the moment.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Todd Lukasik with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if you could comment a little bit more on the Property &amp; Facilities Management business sort of may be characterized what inning you think we're in in terms of rolling that out around the globe in the 3 different regions? And also I guess how long do you think the double-digit fee growth there can continue? I'm not sure of any of the quitely [ph] appropriate thing to work a comparison to use it.
It's been a solid part of our business for a long time on the investor side of our operations where we've had very strong operations in Europe and Asia and we've been growing it with our leasing activity in the U.S.
that's on the investor slide.
So that solid business it's sort of midrange profitability in most places but exceptionally profitable for some Asian geographies.
The facilities management side of that that's the similar work which we do for investors but this time for corporate it's -- that is growing.
It's been a strong franchise for us in the U.S.
with our traditionally strong big Corporate Solutions business.
And as its growth will what has [ph] reflected the broader growth in our Corporate Solutions activity so from that U.S.
-- strong U.S.
base we grew it rapidly in Asia Pacific into 2005 2012 period.
And so that continues to show healthy growth.
As we referred to in the prepared remarks the Asian Corporate Solutions business continues to grow and develop and those Asian companies are professionalized and we referred to Renren in China giving us broader management activities for the first time for a Chinese corporation.
The good news and bearing improving news is in Europe where the traditional big corporate is very much self-managed their own real estate activities.
And we certainly saw post-recession a very significant wave of change in that traditional approach with larger corporations looking to outsource many of their traditionally self-performed real estate services including their facilities.
So we expect Europe to show continued healthy growth.
And indeed we had one particular very healthy win in Europe in the course of Q3 which we are not able to talk about at this stage but that's kind of in Q4.
Your next question comes from the line of David Gold with Sidoti.
LLC</strong> Just a quick question.
Essentially it seems that the commentary has been kind of mixed in minimum.
In one hand there's certainly some uncertainty in your tones -- in your tone given the global issues.
But at the same time there's commentary as to the robust pipeline and the healthier strong expectations for the fourth quarter.
Just wondering if you could give a little bit more color sort of on both essentially the goes-ins and goes-outs and basically to the extent that there could be some uncertainty as to getting transactions closed.
What the holdup is.
Is it purely the economy? But essentially I guess I wanted to get a little bit better sense of we're building a strong a pipeline but we're still uncertain about it.
So just if you could sort of gel the 2? Well I agree with all of that David.
That's perfect [indiscernible].
You almost answered it for us I think.
It's a very paradoxical sort of the world.
And I'll give you one particular quoting in there from our head of Europe.
But it's a world in which we see -- we believe we see that business is coming our way because of general uncertainty and hesitancy and that traditionally favors the strong brands in any markets and ours is no exception.
We've always seen share growth particularly strongly during recessions for example.
So we think there's as an effective kind of the money in the business coming our way for reasons of trust and confidence we're building share as a result.
And that's why our pipelines are pretty much around the world in leasing and in capital markets feel good feel strong are better than they were a year ago.
The whole challenge -- and that reflects if you like a general sense of people want to get on with business actually.
The question then becomes what happens with those pipelines and how quickly are they translated from intentions to the trade to actual deals.
And it's there that the whole question of hesitancy people keeping their eyes on the global news feeds around the big global uncertainties from the U.S.
elections to Chinese growth rates to corruption India to the Europe euro situation and any slight warble causes these people to be hesitant and not to move on and close the deal.
So the velocity is the big challenge and how fast can we move these deals through.
We feel our -- we're in -- well-placed.
Our people feel confident as Lauralee referred to in the European context.
It's all down to how much confidence do our clients have to finally move things across line and transact.
And the quote from our European head when we did our quarterly review from him was kind of -- and he's very cautious German Christian Ulrich.
And he said "It's really surprising just how good our numbers look.
And how good our people feel and how they feel they're really in a strong growth position against the context of everything we read in the newspaper everyday." So there you are.
That's about as good as we can do.
We're confident.
We hope we're conveying that to you.
We're positive about our own prospects and the way we're doing business but we're keeping our hands very firmly on the cost control and cash control levers as well.
LLC</strong> Got you.
Got to the topple in it [ph].
I guess from the distance someone interpreted that there is inventory and there is transaction interest but it's taking longer for things to close and so that adds to the uncertainty? Yes.
And this is -- we're just now coming into November and December when everyone's suddenly get their minds suddenly concentrated.
And we saw last year in particularly in December very rapid closure at the end of the year despite all that's going on 12 months ago around the year.
So it's sort of unpredictable.
We feel good.
Again the pipelines are good.
We'll just watch very carefully to see how our clients' confidence enables them to move their deals across the line.
LLC</strong> Perfect.
And then just last.
Just having some phone trouble but I didn't quite catch -- Lauralee did give any guidance as to fourth quarter either in kind of the user [ph] equity earnings expectations? I didn't comment -- whatever would occur we're not -- at this point in time I can't anticipate it because it would really be just if transactions do occur.
But it's not at this point anything that would rise to a level that I would be flagging it or making you aware because our people don't at this point know it either.
You have a follow-up question from the line of Will Marks with JMP Securities.
[Technical Difficulty] Research Division</strong> Sorry about that.
I don't know what happened.
I guess for Lauralee the interest expense line seemed high for the quarter.
Is it high or can you give us a little bit of a run rate for that figure? Yes.
I would say we do occasionally have lumpiness from quarter-to-quarter.
It tends to more be because they might be movement in some of our emerging markets around that.
I would go back to what you think is a normal trend.
So nothing of issue in there.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry meaning it was a little bit high during the third quarter? Yes because there were just some movements in emerging markets but nothing unusual.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- okay.
The -- on CapEx you had mentioned that you have given guidance in the past.
I know you have -- was it -- is it $75 million? Or you can you repeat what that is? Yes $75 million to $80 million and we're at about $55 million right now year-to-date.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on looking at the fourth quarter.
Last year you did give us a little bit of margin guidance and I think that's because margins have been so depressed before but I mean any thoughts on margin? Can you offer us anything? Well it's very much dependent on how much the transactional activities flow through as you do know each of our quarters contributes margin higher than what the year-to-date run rate is.
So we have given you on our investor deck what the margin was for the full year last year and then we've compared each time the year-to-date against that.
We are on a trend that if we have a good fourth quarter we would be continuing to make advances towards our goals but it's very much transaction-dependent.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just my last question on -- was there anything in the fourth quarter last year on the revenue side? It did seem that if there was down turn it happened at least the beginnings were in the fourth quarter last year in terms of global revenue declines.
Any thoughts on that? I guess what I'm getting at it's sort of a guidance question is is fourth quarter an easier comp? However you want to answer that if at all.
I would not say it's an easier comp.
No we had obviously a very good strong fourth quarter last year.
Pretty broad-based.
And so we're working hard to have a really solid end-of-year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one related note.
I thought that was my last question but your comp and benefits line was quite low I have to guess at 62.9% last year in the fourth quarter and I know it does drop in the fourth quarter.
Is that exceptionally low or is that a good number to think about for the fourth quarter? I think what you have to look at is we had not focused few on fee revenue last year as we have this year.
And we did have some contracts come in in the fourth quarter that on a gross revenue made that comp look lower than it would on a fee revenue.
So I would encourage you to go and back and look at the fee revenue comp to revenue ratio and that would give you better guidance.
And at this time there are no audio questions.
Good.
Well thank you operator and thank you everybody for your interest in Jones Lang LaSalle.
We look forward to talking to you all again in January at the end of our fourth quarter.
In the meantime thank you for your attention.
This concludes today's conference time.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call for Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated.
Today's call is being recorded.
Any statements made about future results and performance or about plans expectations and objectives are forward-looking statements.
Actual results and performance may differ from those included in the forward-looking statements as a result of factors discussed in the company's annual report on 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 and in other reports filed with SEC as well.
The company disclaims any undertaking to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
A transcript of this call will be posted and available on the company's website.
A web audio replay will also be available for download.
Information and the link can be found on the company's website.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Colin Dyer Chief Executive Officer for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Well thank you operator and hello to everyone joining this review of our fourth quarter and full year 2012 results.
I'm in Chicago today and Lauralee Martin is with us in our San Francisco office.
As you may know on January 1 Lauralee stepped into the role of America's CEO taking over from Peter Roberts who served in that position very successfully for 10 years during which time we increased revenue sixfold in the region.
Peter is now taking on new responsibilities as the firm's Chief Strategy Officer.
The search for Lauralee's replacement as CFO is well underway and she has agreed to continue in a dual role until the new CFO is on board.
So before Lauralee reviews our performance in detail let me summarize our results.
Gross revenues totaled $1.2 billion in the fourth quarter a 9% increase in both U.S.
dollars and local currency from the fourth quarter of 2011.
For the full year gross revenue reached $3.9 billion up 10% in U.S.
dollars from 2011 12% in local currency.
Full year adjusted net income was $245 million or $5.48 a share which is 13% higher than in 2011.
Finally during the fourth quarter we completed a $275 million 10-year bond issue further strengthening our investment-grade balance sheet.
Revenue growth in the Americas was driven primarily by our property and facilities management business and by our brokerage and capital markets business lines which both continued to take market share from competitors.
Improved results in EMEA benefited from a strong finish to a year characterized by very difficult market conditions.
Market share gains through the year productivity improvements and the full year benefit of King Sturge contributed to these improved results.
In Asia Pacific our leasing and capital markets businesses also grew year-on-year while market volumes and leasing activity were both down for the region as a whole again indicating increasing market share on our part.
Meanwhile our Asian corporate outsourcing business also had a very good year.
At LaSalle Investment Management our commitment to create strategic partnerships with major investors along with continued investor support for the core investment products that lifted our LaSalle strengths contributed to a solid year in our funds management business.
So taken together we completed 2012 in a strong position and we think that that will contribute to continued growth in this coming year.
So let's first discuss market conditions.
In 2012 global GDP grew by 2.6% led by Asia Pacific with 4.8% growth while growth in North America was just about 2% and Europe GDP was flat year-on-year.
To summarize current conditions in global real estate markets we posted slides in the Investor Relations section of our website jll.com.
Slide 3 shows the Jones Lang LaSalle investment sales clock which we update each quarter.
It's a picture of conditions in major markets around the world which are at different stages of the real estate cycle.
Capital values for prime offices in 24 major office markets continue to increase in 2012 up 3% for both the fourth quarter and the full year.
Global investment sales volumes were up significantly in the fourth quarter to $147 billion 24% higher than the fourth quarter of 2011.
2012's solid finish generated full year investment sales volumes of $443 billion slightly above 2011 levels.
As the clock indicates while capital values continue to increase in most major markets around the world compared to the prior year the rate of growth has slowed in a number of key markets.
Slide 4 summarizes conditions in major leasing markets around the world.
Office leasing activity was subdued in 2012 with full year gross leasing volumes down by about 20% on 2011 20% lower in the U.S.
and down 9% in EMEA.
The sharpest decrease about 30% was in Asia Pacific.
But this was against record 2011 results in that region.
For the fourth quarter take up was done 22% globally year-on-year and down 32% year-on-year in the U.S driven by concerns over the impact of the fiscal cliff.
Volumes are 1% lower in Europe and down 15% in select Asian markets.
The vacancy rates across 98 global markets remain stable in the fourth quarter at 13.2% as vacancy declines in the U.S.
and Europe were offset by increases in Asia Pacific.
Prime rental growth slowed in the quarter increasing 2.1% year-on-year while Beijing Sao Paulo Mexico City and San Francisco recorded the strongest rental growth in 2012 while demand falls so prime rent decreased furthest in Hong Kong Singapore Paris Madrid and Brussels.
So with that general market background I'll turn the call over to Lauralee to discuss our results in more detail.
Thank you Colin and good afternoon to everyone on the call.
As Colin mentioned we finished 2012 with a strong fourth quarter.
We had another record-setting year of revenue and drove a 13% adjusted earnings per share growth compared with last year.
We'd improved our transactional revenue performance particularly in the Americas and Asia Pacific through investments and market share gains.
And we're pleased with the improved margins in EMEA reflecting early payback on the cost actions we've taken.
We continue taking restructuring actions during the fourth quarter.
Some of those related to the ongoing efforts to fully integrate the King Sturge merger but we've also been aggressive in the areas of the business that are projected to remain economically challenged for an extended period of time.
Approximately $8 million of the fourth quarter total of $13 million of restructuring charges was the result of those focused efforts.
Turning to our regional results.
In the Americas fee revenue increased 11% in local currency over 2011 with the largest nominal contribution coming from leasing.
Our efforts continue to be focused on building market breadth and depth of services and increasing our market share.
We're pleased to report another quarter of improvement.
Our fourth quarter growth in leasing of 8% compares favorably to overall office leasing volumes which were down 32%.
Capital Markets &amp; Hotels also finished with a strong fourth quarter and delivered 25% growth for the full year compared with overall market investment volumes up only 11%.
There were 2 significant unusual compensation expense items both of which were acceleration not additional cost impacting our fourth quarter and full year results in the Americas which resulted in a margin decline compared with the year ago.
First as we've explained in the previous quarters our results were impacted by our 2012 termination of the stock ownership plan or what we call our SOP which in prior years facilitated payments of portions of bonus as restricted stock units that vested in future years.
As a result of terminating this program we recognize compensation expense in 2012 of just over $5 million that was not incurred in 2011.
Second we recognized an additional $5 million of compensation expense in the fourth quarter related to the acceleration of a $115 million of the final Staubach deferred payment.
As part of this payment acceleration the vast majority of Staubach shareholders who work in the firm extended their employment agreements with us.
Again both of these items are accelerations of expenses that would have been taken in 2013 or beyond.
Absent the impact of the combined $10 million of accelerated expense items our year-over-year EBITDA margins in the Americas would have been consistent with the prior year.
We're very proud of our results in EMEA against a down market.
Full year fee revenue increased 9% in local currency with year-over-year growth across all business lines led by project and development services.
We continue to thrive in the larger more stable markets across the region that of England France and Germany and had taken actions to rightsize those loss-making countries so they are at a neutral to positive financial positions.
We've seen marked improvement from both MENA and the Netherlands over the course of the year with each moving from a loss to a profit for the full year 2012.
Even a margin calculated on a fee basis for the year increased a full 1.5 points to 8% in 2012 from 6.5% last year with much of this attributable to an outstanding performance in the fourth quarter.
Fourth quarter EBITDA margin was 16.2% up from 13.5% last year.
We also had a very successful fourth quarter in Asia Pacific increasing both operating income and EBITDA margins by a full percentage point.
Fee revenue across the region was up 11% in local currency driven by 20% growth in the fourth quarter.
We had particularly strong revenue in Capital Markets &amp; Hotels resulting in 79% year-over-year local currency growth in the quarter indicating substantial market share gains as overall market volumes were down 13%.
This transactional revenue growth was broad-based across the region but there were noteworthy increases in our hotels business as well as in China and Singapore.
We're also seeing sustained growth across our annuity businesses in the region.
Property &amp; Facility Management fee revenue was up 13% in local currency for the year.
We've announced several new corporate solutions wins in the fourth quarter across Asia Pacific which Colin will discuss shortly.
You'll recall that we responded to inflationary pressures primarily in China and India with compensation increases in the first part of 2012.
Beyond those market-driven actions costs have been tightly controlled given the political and economic uncertainty that emerged in the middle of the year.
That cost discipline coupled with the revenue performance led to a very strong fourth quarter result for the region.
LaSalle Investment Management had a solid performance for the year with a mix of stabilized advisory fees and excellent incentive fees and equity earnings.
Assets under management have remained relatively unchanged from a year ago with assets from older funds being sold with good performance.
And at the same time we've been actively pursuing capital raising initiatives with separate accounts strategic partnerships and new co-mingled funds for future growth.
In 2012 we recognized $24 million of equity earnings and earned $23 million of incentive fees demonstrating performance for clients although the availability of remaining assets for sale to achieve these high-margin fees are not expected to repeat at these levels in 2013.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We had a highly successful and well-received $275 million bond issuance.
The 4.4% senior notes were sold to a diverse group of investors and further strengthened our liquidity and balance sheet position.
I mentioned we made a $115 million payment in the quarter to the majority of the Staubach shareholders who are with the firm and we also recognized additional earn-out obligations to be paid in the first half of 2013 bringing the total amount earned to $36 million.
The earn-out required compounded revenue growth over the last 4.5 years against an overall market that was down for a number of those years.
The fact that we are making this earn-out payment demonstrates the success of the merger.
To sum up we had a very solid fourth quarter that fueled record-setting revenue and helping earnings per share growth for the year.
We took market share across the Americas delivered margin expansion in EMEA continued to grow our annuity revenue base in Asia Pacific through the strength of our Corporate Solutions business and benefited alongside of our clients from the investment performance in LaSalle Investment Management.
Let me now turn the call back to Colin.
Thanks Lauralee.
Back to our slides and Slide 5 shows a few examples of recent wins across our business and geographies.
In our corporate outsourcing business we won 9 new assignments in the fourth quarter renewed 16 contracts and expanded 8 additional relationships.
Full year totals include 48 new relationships 47 renewals and 39 expansions.
These numbers do not include wins in our local market level of corporate solutions business which serves the needs of mid-market corporate clients.
During the quarter we won 13 new assignments in this segment representing more than 90 million square feet of space.
For the year we won 58 assignments encompassing in total 180 million square feet.
In terms of specific wins in the corporate sector just last week HSBC named us exclusive global facilities management provider for that bank's 58 million-square foot portfolio.
This massive expansion of our relationship with HSBC more than doubles the square footage we'll manage for the bank and the assignment represents the largest-ever outsourcing of facilities management service to a single provider by a financial company and follows an exhaustive and objective process by the bank to select a provider from amongst the industry's major players.
In the fourth quarter our European facilities management team also secured a global contract with Nippon Sheet Glass covering 500 sites in 30 countries worldwide.
And demonstrating our growing presence in China's domestic market we were appointed by Sinotrans a state-owned enterprise in shipping and logistics to project manage a new 1-point-million square foot headquarters in Beijing.
Turning to our investment sales activity in the Americas we represented the seller in the sale of 540 West Madison which is 1.1 million-square-foot office tower in Chicago.
The transaction was Chicago's largest office trade in 2012.
In Switzerland's largest-ever single-asset real estate deal we advised Credit Suisse of a $1.1 billion sale and leaseback of its Uetlihof building in Zurich.
And in Australia we represented McGrathNicol in a USD 260 million debt sale for a regional shopping center in Sydney.
Turning to major leasing and tenant representation transactions and management assignments for the quarter.
In the U.S.
we represented Wells Fargo on multiple leases totaling 480 000 square feet in Minneapolis St.
Paul helping the bank consolidate and reduce its overall footprint in the process by 20%.
In January Scottish Widows Investment Partnership renewed and expanded our property management assignment for its GBP 8.5 billion U.K.
portfolio.
And in the fourth quarter of the Barangaroo development in Sydney we represented KPMG to secure a lease for 370 000 square feet of premium office space.
While for the full year we leased nearly 1.3 million square feet of space at Barangaroo.
Turning to LaSalle Investment Management.
LaSalle's position in core investment strategies remain strong in 2012 although capital allocations remains slow for co-mingled funds.
However large institutional investors continued to seek significant single assets.
And as I said in my opening remarks LaSalle is addressing this market with its strategic partners program forming partnerships with major investors to target specific strategies and assets.
With its global presence and a great track record for complex transactions LaSalle is well-positioned to bring opportunities from around the world to these clients and has a talent and expertise to serve them successfully.
In addition November saw a successful launch of the Jones Lang LaSalle Income Property Trust a non-listed REIT which owns and manages a diversified portfolio of high-quality income-producing properties.
Merrill Lynch had been engaged to distribute the shares of JLLIPT.
So let's now turn our attention to 2013 and our near-term market outlook.
In general the economic recovery which has been hesitant from a worldwide perspective is set to continue.
But we expect that it will pick up momentum as business confidence rises driven by the understanding that the twin problems of U.S.
fiscal issues and the Euro breakup have been contained and can be managed.
This means that together with Central Bank easing and liquidity provisions they now represent much lower short-term risks to business and investment planning.
Confidence is rising as a result.
As you would have seen equity markets are broadly reflecting this sentiment.
Bank debt markets are healthy in Asia and increasingly so across the Americas while new providers of debt are showing interest in filling the gaps in Europe.
Taken together the economic outlook and general business confidence are more positive than 12 months ago.
Our latest projections show 2013 global GDP growth of 2.5% Asia Pacific is expected to lead the way with 4.5% growth followed by the Americas at 2% and Europe only marginally growing.
So what does this overall economic background mean for real estate markets? In investment sales market better-than-anticipated fourth quarter 2012 results indicate renewed momentum that will continue into this year.
We project global investment volumes to increase by 10% to 15% in 2013 reaching in total between $450 billion and $500 billion worldwide.
The strongest upside potential in this is in the Americas where we expect transaction volumes to increase by 15% to 20%.
We forecast that Europe will see a level of investment activity marginally below last year but with upside potential there as well particularly in secondary markets.
Asia Pacific investment volumes are expected to increase by a healthy 15%.
Sustained investor interest in core product in major markets is likely to keep prime yields stable.
And with this risk appetite improving and pricing looking full for best assets the cycle will progress to increasing interest in secondary markets.
Leasing markets appear less resilient.
Overall we expect 2013 global leasing volumes to rise less than 5% on 2012 levels with the year's second half likely to be stronger than the first 6 months.
U.S.
investment volumes are projected to grow by about 5%.
Leasing activity in Europe is expected to be flat and Asia Pacific is anticipated to register a 5% to 10% decline in volumes.
We expect the global office vacancy rate to continue to move lower this year to below 13% by year end with the largest declines likely in the U.S.
Prime rental growth is expected to match 2012 rates of between 2% and 3% as a global average with most major markets registering single-digit rental growth this year.
Against this background we see opportunities for continued growth in our own business.
In the Americas thanks to our investments and transaction teams earlier in the cycle we expect to see additional growth and market share gains in our leasing and capital markets businesses.
And our corporate outsourcing services continue to gain momentum as we win major global contracts and new mid-market assignments.
Our Asia Pacific business is also entering 2013 in a much stronger shape than at the start of 2012.
The market has equity to invest and more of it is being directed into real estate.
Debt is available from the banking system and confidence is improving in China thanks to the successful leadership transition and the reversal of successful anti-inflation credit controls.
In India the government has reversed the 2011 -- 2012 loss in business confidence by controlling inflation and picking up the stalled economic reform process with a vengeance.
Recovery continues in Japan where the new economics represent the most comprehensive move yet to kill deflation and energize growth.
We see solid momentum in growth in Southeast Asian countries also.
Given our leading positions in each of these markets we approach 2013 with optimism for Asia Pacific.
Economic and real estate market conditions in Europe are not expected to get worse this year but there will be some challenges.
So continued proactive management rather than improving market conditions will drive our continuing growth in Europe.
Europe will remain 2-speed market of both leasing and investment sales.
Largely Northern cities are moving along relatively well while markets in Southern Europe are obviously struggling.
There will be continued significant interest among international investors in core assets with many new buyers emerging from Asia.
The prime locations remain key and this plays to our market-leading positions in London Paris the major German cities Central Eastern Europe and Russia.
In LaSalle's world institutional investors are  maintaining and in many cases increasing their allocations to real estate attracted by returns that compare favorably to other investment options.
In addition the co-mingled fund sector which I have noted was effectively shut down for the last 4 years is showing very early signs of reviving.
Capital hasn't yet returned in substantial amounts but sentiment is improving.
In this environment we believe LaSalle Investment Management will continue to generate steady advisory fees by focusing on its core investment strategies while also introducing new products like JLLIPT and attracting new capital sources with initiatives like its strategic partner program.
So in closing as on past calls we'd like to close our comments by mentioning a few awards which reinforce our position as industry leader and reflect our client service focus.
Our fourth quarter recognitions included 3 Best Property Consultancy awards in the Southeast Asia Property Awards for Indonesia the Philippines and for our hotel team in China.
Intel's award for excellent service was presented to our facilities management team in Dalian in China; 3 electing agents of the year awards were received in Belgium's Expertise Awards; the Property Consultant Of The Year at the Health Investor Awards in the U.K.; and in the U.S.
Best Places to Work awards in Chicago Philadelphia Tampa Bay and Florida.
So that is enough monologue.
Let's now move to dialogue and take your questions.
Operator could you outline the Q&amp;A process please? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of William Marks from JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start out with a question on margins.
Did you -- I appreciate the color on the fourth quarter.
Did you say anything about 2013 or can you just on expectations whether it's Americas or global if you expect the margins to improve? Well we showed -- if you add back the various points of correction which we mentioned and included in that the accelerated amortization bonus payments and the Staubach compensation expense which Lauralee mentioned we did see an improvement in our overall operating margin on an adjusted basis in 2012 both for the full year and for the fourth quarter.
So on a true apples-to-apples comparison basis we are pleased with the progress we made.
As Lauralee said we're particularly pleased with the results in LaSalle and in EMEA for the year where we showed good progress against in EMEA's case in particularly difficult background.
I guess in an overall sense we had hoped to see a little bit more progress in the Americas.
Frankly we were surprised at how weak the leasing markets were in the fourth quarter and so we stepped the business up to handle bigger volumes than we saw in Q4 to the numbers we just mentioned.
We did show growth but against the market it was down 30%.
If the market in the U.S.
have been anything like sort of normal somewhere up between plus or minus 10% we believe we would have shown a nice performance on our margins in both in Q4 and the full year.
The mixed bag there when we look forward well we said before we'll continue to build and grow these margins.
We believe we have been hitting the right thing and doing the right things to the progress we showed last year.
We hope to see it continued into next.
Research Division</strong> Did the -- to take that a step further you mentioned the $31 million is deferred acquisition obligation we paid in the first half of 2013.
That could be a pretty significant hit to margin but we'll be able to -- you'll be disclosing when that's paid I assume? That's a balance sheet number so there's no impact to margin for that.
That's purchase price.
Research Division</strong> It will not okay.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> But the $5 million from the quarter did impact [indiscernible] That is correct.
What -- when we set up the deferred payments they were set up that we would accrete interest in.
So we've been accreting interest in at about a 6% level as it came due to maturity of that deferred payment.
Because of the fact that in fact we exchange that for some benefit in terms of employment that changed interest into compensation.
So it would have been an interest expense in 2013 it moved into a compensation expense in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's clear.
A question on investment management and just as you start to look at the significant quarters of 2013 you had a really strong first quarter of 2012.
And I guess you kind of implied we shouldn't expect that to be repeated and there was something like a 50% -- or $0.50 EPS number more normal years are single-digit EPS.
I mean I guess I know you're not going to guide but am I thinking about this correctly? It would be significantly lower.
Yes that's correct.
It was driven by debt payments and equity earnings in Q1 and Q2.
I think it was quarter 3 when we sold the large portfolio in Asia.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just my last question on balance sheet typically does weaken in the first quarter because of bonus payments.
Can you give us some indication of what we could see in the first quarter? Well you are correct.
We pay our bonuses in the first quarter.
That being said we also have pretty aggressive receivable collections in the first quarter off of our year end numbers.
We do...
Typically it's a couple hundred million dollars up.
Yes.
The balance sheet does have the accrued balances for compensation if that's a helpful way for you to look at it.
Yes I can look at that.
Okay that's all for me.
It will be the regular cyclical pattern Will.
Season I should say not cyclical.
Yes if you look at the balance sheet we had $30 million more of accrued compensation at the end of this year versus 2011 and you can look at last year's sort of bonus levels and probably work through that.
And your next question comes from the line of David Gold with Sidoti.
LLC</strong> So a couple of questions.
One was I wanted to get a sense there's some talk out there the way your fourth quarter particularly domestically of some delays in deal activity sort of on both sides leasing as well as a little bit of capital markets from the fiscal cliff issues that we had.
And was curious if you can give a sense for a if that may be weighed on your numbers a little bit in the fourth quarter and b if to the extent that's sort of coming back if we might see some of that in the first quarter? We arrived in terms of the perverse and diverse impacts of the fiscal cliff issue.
It looks as though it drove leasing volumes down as uncertainty caused the companies to wait to see what the implications of the fiscal cliff would be on overall demand.
And it drove leasing -- it drove capital markets activity up.
We think that's because people are trying to get out before any changes in tax regimes so you have this plus 40% in the market for investment sale and minus 30% in the overall leasing activity markets.
Against those numbers we were very pleased with our performance in leasing because we went up 9%.
As I said in a regular market that would have been a bigger growth we believe.
Whilst in capital markets our growth was up in the 20s percent so not quite as steepy as the market as a whole.
I would -- you would logically expect although this isn't a prediction that you would logically expect that with resolution of the fiscal cliff deal you'll see some of the leasing activity which might have taken place in Q4 come through in Q1.
And again logically you'd expect that perhaps the capital markets got ahead of itself and it might be a little bit of a fallback in Q1.
Having said that there does seem to be a lot of momentum in the capital markets as I reflected in my comments and so it just may pick up where it left off.
LLC</strong> Perfect.
That's helpful.
And then just I guess part 2 of that question.
I know you don't typically offer guidance.
We have never offered guidance.
LLC</strong> Although years ago you might have.
Just either following up I guess a little bit on Will's question.
If even though last year was pretty strong with some sort of onetimes if you will as we think about this year with the momentum continuing do we think about it more as a traditional nearly breakeven first quarter? Or do you think we could have some upside from that continued momentum? I think that leads you to draw your conclusions from the next year of the comments on the numbers and last year comparisons David.
But what we try and do in the way we present our market -- our forward market view we try to do that as helpfully and comprehensively as possible for you perhaps reflecting how we're thinking about the world we're trading in.
And so you can take those comments and spread them across our numbers and as I said draw your conclusions.
LLC</strong> Perfect.
One last.
Presumably as I think you said the Staubach -- the accelerated payment was a function of contract renewals.
Can you give us a sense for if you can put out there an average time period for the renewals? In other words when is the next time you'll have to worry about that? Well we haven't disclosed that.
We will not.
But what we can say is that the acceptance rate if you like the willingness rate for people to sign on for longer periods was extraordinarily high.
And David what we will say is they were to end mid '13 so clearly that gives you an idea it's got to be if it's worthwhile for us that's sort of when this -- it would have been before.
LLC</strong> Say that again I'm sorry? The contract expiration would have been when the payment was to have been paid which would have been July of 2013.
So obviously it's going to definitely move it out beyond this entire year period.
And your next question comes from the line of David Ridley-Lane with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just was wondering on the restructuring actions that you've sort of taken already in EMEA.
What would be the full year benefit that you'd see in 2013? Typically it's about an 18-month payback period for Europe.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you remind us the total restructuring charges taken in Europe for the full year? Yes I can get that for you just one sec.
For the entire period 2012 we took $35 million.
And I was just going to say that was a combination of people actions and then also we took pretty aggressive actions on lease consolidations and other things.
So those benefits beat in much more rapidly.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then you've got a number of moving pieces you've got the lower deferred acquisition payment and then you also have a new bond.
Any sort of help you can give us on interest expense? Well the Staubach payment was -- interest was accreting in at a 6% rate.
The bond interest will be at a 4.4% rate.
Our revolving line of credit is really at an insignificant rate in 1 percentage kind of range.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then are you seeing demand broaden out at all into secondary markets in the Americas capital markets business? Just a little bit.
It's a slow process because particularly in the institutional investor class.
They are really looking for security.
They had far too much fun losing money in the great financial crisis to be too adventurous too quickly.
But gradually as pricing creeps up in the most attractive sectors and begins to look a little rich and full for many investors we're seeing people look outside of the very highest quality assets.
And David that's inevitable when you see these sorts of activity volume growth that we see in this year.
So a normal cycle we'd see only 3 years into it 7-ish year cycle.
Normal activity would see -- normal cyclical activity would seek to move out along the risk curve and move out along the quality curve if you like into secondary assets.
But it's a slow process in the U.S.
It's even slower in Europe.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right well that's a little bit helpful.
The sense was a little bit more optimistic in Americas at least.
And then maybe I'll take one last cut at the margins.
In 2012 this was a year where the G&amp;A -- SG&amp;A growth was outpacing revenue.
Would you expect 2013 to be a year where you see less SG&amp;A cost come back in? There were a couple of factors in 2012 which were important.
We've mentioned these through the course of the year.
One was that we made a very deliberate effort in Asia to increase salaries to compensate for some heavy inflationary pressures in India and China which were causing us retention issues.
So that's one sort of excess factor on a year-on-year basis comparison.
And the second was we actually built our people base in the Asian region in expectation of faster growth that actually came through because Asia slowed remarkably through -- in Chinese and Indian factors that I referred to in my prepared comments so there was an exceptional kind of a backdrop in Asia.
And as it turns out the spurts at the year end as confidence began to come back helped us through that.
But nevertheless we're running with a higher cost base that we would normally have planned in Asia.
And I made my comments as well about the way that the Q4 numbers in the U.S.
came through in the leasing area at a slower level than we would have expected given normal markets.
And that was driven by this market depression due to the fiscal cliff issue which we discussed a moment ago with David David Gold's question.
So those things were attenuating issues or mitigating issues for the cost base in 2012.
Now going into the next year we've got no particular increase in the cost base which I -- such as the Asia ones I described and that against the market which we believe with the exception of some European countries is feeling better than it did 12 months ago.
So you put all that together you can again draw some conclusions.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
I lied one more.
Given the cost restructuring actions that you've taken in EMEA would you -- is there a range of revenue outcomes that could happen in EMEA where you would still be expecting margins to be up? And for example if revenues were down 5% in that segment would you still expect margin expansion there? I think the way to answer that is it depends on where revenues are down because clearly we've taken actions in places to just to where we think the markets are going to be.
So it's always that mix question but we had a modest amount of revenue to help us in Europe this year.
But clearly we made a dramatic improvement in the margin activity.
So we feel pretty good about where we are unless markets take a big step back again.
When your hypothetical 5% arises it's not just a geographical issue it's also which service lines it impacts.
The 5% reduction in capital markets business has a bigger impact than for example a 5% reduction in Property Management business just because of the margin impact.
Your next question comes from the line of Brandon Dobell with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to make sure I heard you correct Colin.
You're going through the geographic expectations for the leasing business.
I think you said EMEA kind of flat Americas up 5% and APAC down 5% to 10%.
But it also sound like you expect to outperform those numbers.
I'm just trying to make sure I heard that correctly.
Then also with those back to I think it's Slide 7 with the rental values you guys have laid out for expectations for 2013.
Well taking the leasing markets first of all we said overall leasing volumes to rise around 5% so another overall terribly blind market.
If you estimate volumes projected to be up about 5% Europe flat and Asia Pacific 5% to 10% decline.
That's the numbers more or less right? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay that makes sense.
So and then now I guess that overall 5% would be a combination of let's call it velocity and rental values.
So kind of volume and price or is there some other factor we need to think about in terms of how to model your leasing revenues this coming year? No these volumes are square footage or square meters so the basic things.
And you refer against that the comments we made on the overall market price.
I think we expect -- we said we expected on the global basis rental rates would increase by 2% to 3%.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And it doesn't sound like there's -- we should anticipate any I guess any noticeable changes in headcount trajectory in any of the geographies based on the kind of growth rates you are expecting but I just want to make sure that that's how I should think about it.
Or if there's given your -- the potential for secondary markets to improve this year if there's an eye towards adding some people in markets where you don't have a big enough presence either in Americas or EMEA? Well we take a very dissected view of what we do in adding people.
So if we see opportunities in the cities of Germany to add teams and we think the market will be positive then we'll go ahead and do that.
If we think that in some cities in the U.S.
volumes activity will be flat then we'll just simply in overall sense hold our numbers.
We've taken an overall approach which is particularly this time at the beginning of the year we're looking to keep our cost and therefore headcount tight watching for market developments and direction and then we can move to our numbers rapidly in some areas such as project management or property management where we're seeing new contracts of business coming through.
It's harder and slower in the transaction business areas where we have to -- where we have a different approach which is to have a constant list if you like of people we have in mind to hire good operators in specific markets and when lesser market is actually turning down.
We'll take the opportunity to hire those people as and when we can as and when they're prepared to move from their existing employers.
Research Division</strong> Okay that makes sense.
And then maybe one for Lauralee.
The kind of year-on-year delta around stock compensation or incentive compensation on the compensation line given that there is kind of a step up it's a bit nonrecurring.
How do we think about next year as a delta versus this year modeling stock compensation? And then maybe even on a longer-term basis is there a way we should think about it relative to other headcount growth or overall G&amp;A expense that we can get a little more visibility into? Well the -- I think what you're referencing is the share ownership plan our SOP program.
And what you have there is a portion of the current year bonuses would have been deferred so not in the expense of the current period.
And then that amount would get amortized over a 30-month period.
We now have 2 comparable years where there is not a deferral.
There's a little bit of tail of amortization left from the prior 2011 but I would say generally for modeling purposes I would look at it and say 2012 now can be used as a proxy.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And then final one for me.
Any thoughts on CapEx and co-investments in '13? Should we think about it like '12? Or is there going to be a step up in either one of those line items? Right.
We have CapEx of about $80 million this year.
We have some planned technology investments in 2013 so we think that $80 million will go to about $90 million.
We actually had a robust coinvestment outflow for LaSalle Investment Management one of the most robust we had in a long period of time over $105 million.
We also had because of the portfolios we sold a lot of money coming back.
So net-net it was not that large of a number.
I think about $27 million if I remember correct.
I would say we typically tell you net $40 million to $45 million and I think that's probably a good place.
If something were to change we would advise you on a quarterly basis but right now I think that's probably a good number for modeling purposes.
We were very pleased by the way with the money going out because it's a start of building that new portfolio to get the potential for the coinvestment fees and building the portfolio and obviously getting equity earnings as well.
And your next question comes from the line of Todd Lukasik with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> Just on the leasing volumes.
I guess first of all I think in recent years maybe 2010 2011 there was a feeling that some tenants may have tried to take advantage of the low lease rates at that time coming out of the downturn by renegotiating leases maybe 1 year or 2 or perhaps even longer before their existing leases expired.
And I was just curious what your sense was for how that played out in 2012 and whether or not that phenomenon is still ongoing at all or whether it's back to more of a normalized environment? Yes there was a little bit of that behavior Todd in earlier years.
It didn't seem to impact 2012 too badly until we got to Q4.
In other words we were looking at fairly regular lease markets in the U.S.
until this big dip in Q4.
So I think it's one of those things one of these phenomenons which was a lot of talk and a lot of fear that didn't seem to play out too much in fact.
And of course as we get into 2013 we're getting that much further away from those low and advantageous lease rates.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And then just on the drivers of your leasing revenue and you talked about the square footage and the rents is there a third driver in terms of lease term? And if so what do you see in terms of average lease term for leases today? Is it sort of in line with what you would expect or historical norms or are the lease terms getting longer or shorter? Two further factors.
There's lease terms and then there's substantive fee rate.
You can take the latter as being sort of flat year-on-year.
Some places we're seeing a bit more competition than others.
For example Britain has a lot of competition because there's such pressure in the market there and middle sized providers are fee cutting in order to preserve or try to preserve some market position.
And in general the rate is flat.
As to terms they have tended to come in and be sure sort of the bottom of the cycle and people are less confident and therefore want to take short renewals or just extensions.
But as the cycle progresses which is what we're seeing now people take and confidence picks up people take longer lease terms.
So we're in an extending period but this is not a dramatic impact.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just last for me.
I was particularly curious with regards to HSBC.
If you'd be willing to disclose a number of sort of viable competitive bids for that global business you won? Well I wouldn't comment specifically on HSBC because I wouldn't be correct.
But what typically would happen in those sorts of big global bids is that they will put an RSP out.
They will be on a global scale not really more than 5 credible competitors and not all of them will be equally credible.
And typically they will go down through a process of elimination to 4 and 2 and then make a choice.
So it's either the final rounds tend to be 2 or 3 players.
They rarely go beyond that because it gets to be a lot of work to a professional on the part of the client to do a professional job in evaluating more than that in the sort of detail we get into in those final rounds.
But this like many others most others was a very professionally run process and those take a lot of work on both sides both the client and the providers.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mueller from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I guess sticking with HSBC for a second.
If we're looking at I guess the geography of the portfolio can you talk about how it's going to be divided up or split up between say the Americas Asia Pacific? Is it heavily skewed toward one region? No that's why they picked us.
There's lots in America.
There's lots in Europe and there's lot in Asia and we're good in all 3.
So in fact we tend to be the best in all 3.
So that's why we were chosen and we're very pleased to have been chosen.
We now have to perform of course.
And then typically just to add some more financial color to it these contracts don't start making money for it immediately.
It will take a while to crank up there's a period of investment which can take up to a year.
And then only be on that do we start to see a gradual increase in returns which improves during the course of the final years of the contract.
And I might add on that one.
We currently in the U.S.
do HSBC's work so we've retained that business and are expanding it and will have a broader reach in the Americas moving into South America.
But yes Colin's correct it's a global portfolio.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And what's the overall square footage base for the I guess Property &amp; Facilities Management business? Globally? Research Division</strong> Yes.
2 billion.
2 billion feet.
That -- yes I think that includes property.
Are you looking for...
Research Division</strong> Facilities Management.
You said property and facilities.
Research Division</strong> Oh yes property and facilities.
Yes both.
Yes okay.
And we could provide you with the split between the facilitates which is corporate work and property which tends to be investor work.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Or maybe not straightaway.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess going to the market share and leasing particularly in the Americas can you talk about what areas you were specifically doing significantly better in the market? Is it certain geographies certain asset types? Can it wrap just any areas there? Well into the asset types core business had always been the office leasing market so that would be the most important.
Though we've had a policy of investment both in the retail area and more recently in the industrial markets not only within the U.S.
but also worldwide.
So that's the comment.
It's overwhelmingly office-oriented still.
In terms of geographies you can see our geographical footprint.
The biggest cities we do obviously proportion -- we do the biggest proportion of our business and within individual cities such as Washington we're market leaders.
New York we'll be #2 or 3 and so you'll see us vying in those top -- somewhere in the top 3 positions in all of the major markets we represented.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And I guess the last question what was the trigger for the accelerated Staubach payment to happening I guess in Q4 as opposed to just in August? Lauralee? Well it clearly is advantageous for anyone receiving income in the United States if it was done in 2012 versus '13.
And for us to have an opportunity to give the benefit to our colleagues and also have a benefit for the firm seemed to us like a very good option.
And additionally we got -- and that was a -- as a recognition of their commitment to us we've got this sort of overwhelming confidence in extending the commitments from those people so it's a good 2-way balance.
And your next question comes from the line of Will Marks with JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> A couple of follow-ups.
One tax rate should we expect kind of ongoing around 25%? Yes.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly I don't believe you mentioned this medium-term margin target EBITDA margin target of 14% to 15% maybe it's in the slides.
Any thoughts on that? We've not changed the target if that's the base of the question.
And we've always said a great deal of when it would be achieved would be when we saw more normal markets.
To Colin's comment on markets being down year-on-year in leasing that clearly slowed some of that achievement but it doesn't change the fact that we're on track and are making productivity impacts across the business as we get more normal markets.
And for us Will the most pleasing -- I mean as I said fully normalized we did progress by 0.75 percentage point last year on an overall sense.
But perhaps the most pleasing one was to see a couple of percentage points progress in Europe which by [indiscernible] into its high cost of labor its fragmented market structure because of the individual country fiscal and legal structures that you need to run and the limited options for synergy of -- for cost synergies across the geography we were pleased to see that progress there and we're trying to work hard to continue that momentum.
And there are no further questions at this time.
Good.
Well thank you operator for your help and thank you everybody for your interest in Jones Lang LaSalle.
We look forward to seeing you in a couple of month at the end of our first quarter for our Q1 2013 results.
We wish everybody a good evening.
Thank you for your participation everyone.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the First Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call for Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated.
Today's call is being recorded.
Any statements made about future results and performance or about plans expectations and objectives are forward-looking statements.
Actual results and performance may differ from those included in the forward-looking statements as a result of factors discussed in the company's annual reports on form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 and in our other reports filed with the SEC.
The company disclaims any undertaking to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
A transcript of this call will be posted and available on the company's website.
A web audio replay will also be available for download.
Information and the link can be found on the company's website.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Colin Dyer Chief Executive Officer for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Hello everybody and thank you for joining us for this review of our results for the first quarter of 2013.
Lauralee Martin is with me today and will review details of our financial performance in a few minutes.
Lauralee has been CEO of our Americas business since the start of the year and will continue to be our Chief Financial Officer until we select a new CFO.
Firstly some headlines.
Our first quarter gross revenue of $856 million was up 6% from the first quarter a year ago.
Adjusted net income totaled $16 million or $0.36 per share which compares with $22 million or $0.50 per share for the first quarter of 2012 a quarter in which we recorded exceptional equity earnings and incentive fees in our investment management business.
Finally our Board of Directors announced a 10% increase in our semiannual dividend to $0.22 per share.
Revenue growth in all regions was helped by strong Capital Markets &amp; Hotels activity.
Geographically in the U.S.
Houston and other energy and technology-based markets did well.
London and Moscow led the way in Europe while Hong Kong Greater China and Southeast Asia saw good results in Asia-Pacific.
LaSalle Investment Management showed continued stability in advisory fees and improved growth prospects from new investor mandates as it continues with its process of repositioning.
To put our results in some context let's look at conditions in global economies and real estate markets.
IHS Global Insight shows the global economy growing by 2.6% this year similar to 2012 levels.
Regional forecasts predict a 2 point -- 2% growth in the U.S.
which I think is conservative by at least 50 basis points 0.1% in Europe and 4.8% in Asia-Pacific.
So generally speaking the gradual but uneven recovery continues.
To understand the conditions in real estate markets worldwide it helps to dig a little deeper.
In Asia for example no single story can summarize current [ph]  Growth conditions for the entire regions.
Very different drivers are at play in the major economies.
There is concern about local good [ph]  Government debt in Mainland China and of controls on residential and now commercial markets in Singapore and Hong Kong.
Business confidence is improving in India but there's still considerable political instability.
Australia has been hit by declining commodity prices while the ASEAN countries continue their robust growth.
Ergonomics [ph] has had a greater-than-anticipated impact in Japan but its long-term growth effects remain unclear.
So growth is intact for Asia-Pacific at lower levels than in 2012 and 2011 and with very different dynamics in different markets across the regions.
The other big issue in real estate markets is the disconnect between leasing and capital market activity in the broader markets.
In the slides that we posted in the Investor Relations section of our website jll.com Slide 3 underscores the distinction.
In capital markets global investment volumes had a strong start to the year up 20% from the first quarter of 2012 to $105 billion and that's the first time in 5 years that Q1 market volumes have exceeded the $100 billion level.
Global equity is freely available as increasingly is debt from  multiple sources.
Capital values remain stable increasing just 3.5% in the quarter.
Cap rates or yields in investment markets declined by just 5 basis points on average globally during the quarter the greatest compressions were in São Paulo down 50 basis points from Q4 2012 and Moscow down 25 basis points while the greatest expansion in cap rates was in Toronto and Beijing up 20 and 13 basis points respectively.
Turning to leasing statistics.
Gross absorption was flat globally in the quarter compared with the first quarter a year ago.
5% growth in the U.S.
marked significant drops in New York and Washington D.C.
and a big boost in some other markets such as Houston.
Markets were down 2% in Europe as a whole and 17% lower in the principal Asia-Pacific markets with big falls in major Chinese and Australian cities.
This also followed a subdued 2012 in Asia when gross leasing volumes fell 20% on 2011 levels.
Vacancy rates across 98 global markets stood at 13.3% in the first quarter while prime rents increased by 1.6% from Q1 of last year.
So all in all very different dynamics in capital markets and leasing worldwide.
And to cover how we performed against these market conditions I'll turn the call over to Lauralee.
Thank you Colin and good afternoon to everyone on the call.
As Colin noted we started 2013 with a solid first quarter.
In fact we delivered record first quarter revenue and achieved our third highest adjusted earnings per share ever for a first quarter period.
We continue to generally outperform the market and gain share and that is particularly true in Capital Markets &amp; Hotels which was up 37% on a consolidated basis well ahead of the 20% market volume growth that Colin referenced.
Geographically our EMEA business showed the most dramatic improvement in performance which I will cover shortly.
As Colin also mentioned the first quarter of 2012 benefited from large incentive fees and equity earnings in LaSalle Investment Management.
To assist in analyzing the components of our year-over-year results we have separated the adjusted EBITDA of our real estate services segment from the adjusted EBITDA of LaSalle.
On this basis the combined EBITDA of the services segment was $34 million in the first quarter of 2013 compared with $27 million a year ago while LaSalle's EBITDA was $14 million compared with $28 million a year ago down due to the high levels of incentive fees and equity earnings in 2012.
The underlying fee earnings at LaSalle were level with 2012.
Turning to our individual business segments I won't repeat the financial results provided in the earnings release and supplement but rather will provide some brief context for each segment.
In the Americas growth was driven by a 39% improvement in Capital Markets &amp; Hotels.
Our multi-family offering which has achieved client recognition of our expanded capabilities was a significant contributor as were retail investment sales and real estate investment banking services.
Leasing growth in the Americas was more subdued both in the overall market and in our business.
Leasing revenue was up modestly compared to last year with varied  performance by market.
Growth in energy-related and tech markets as Colin referenced was offset by slower activity in the financial and government-related markets.
Our pipelines are solid for the year but very dependent on conversion rates which are being impacted by confidence against uncertain fiscal policy.
Margins across the Americas were up in the quarter.
Operating income margin calculated on a fee revenue basis was 4.3% compared with 3.7% last year and EBITDA margin was 7.3% compared with 6.5%.
Turning to EMEA.
Profit performance improved dramatically and in fact moved to a positive first quarter EBITDA for the first time since the global financial crisis.
Our Capital Markets and Hotels businesses with strong positions in London Paris and Germany outperformed the broader market in EMEA with 50% revenue growth twice the market's growth.
And broadly on certain leasing markets which were down slightly in the quarter we achieved leasing growth of 4% a good result in tough markets.
Our results in EMEA benefited from both the cost actions we took throughout 2012 as we integrated King Sturge and the ongoing cost discipline and productivity initiatives we have put in place.
These benefits flowed through the EBITDA which shifted from a negative $4 million last year to a positive $3 million this year.
In Asia-Pacific we saw further fee revenue growth this quarter amid uneven market conditions across the region.
Broadly we saw double-digit fee revenue growth in Property &amp; Facility Management which is largely comprised of our Corporate Solutions business and provides a sustainable annuity revenue base to guard against the region's traditionally very cyclical markets.
I'll remind you that last quarter we closed the largest ever quarter of leasing revenue in Asia-Pacific to close out a very strong full year.
So there was some acceleration of deals into 2012 that otherwise would have closed in the first quarter.
This is partly contributing to the 15% decline in first quarter leasing revenue.
Leasing dynamics are highly varied across the region.
But broad activity is down across the Asia-Pacific region by 17%.
We've seen sluggish leasing activity in Australia China and Japan that is more than offsetting the increases in Hong Kong and across Southeast Asia.
India which is a very large market for us was flat year-over-year.
As we've mentioned on previous calls we responded to inflationary pressures last year primarily in China and India with compensation increases that took effect in the second quarter of 2012.
The first quarter of 2013 is the final quarter that our response to those pressures had a significant year-over-year impact on our Asia-Pacific operating expenses.
As a result of lower revenue in our high-margin transaction businesses and these increased compensation costs our operating income EBITDA and related margins were down compared with a year ago.
LaSalle Investment Management demonstrated its stable core business through the delivery of advisory fees consistent with the last 5 quarters and that was after the loss of advisory fee income from the asset sales that gave rise to the $8.4 million of incentive fees in the first quarter of 2012 and the $22.8 million of incentive fees for the full year of 2012.
Assets under management of $47.7 billion also reflect stability in comparison to recent quarters as well as increasing momentum in capital raising activities and continued strong investment performance for our clients.
I'll now turn the call back over to Colin.
Thank you Lauralee.
Turning to business wins Slide 4 shows some examples of recent wins across our company and across various geographies.
In our corporate outsourcing business we won 12 new assignments in the first quarter renewed 5 contracts and expanded 1 relationship.
You'll see examples of different corporate wins on the slide including Whirlpool and Unisys.
The state of Tennessee assignment shows how interest in outsourcing is spreading beyond the traditional corporate clients to public and government institutions intent on reducing costs while improving productivity and their working environment.
In our local market level Corporate Solutions business where we serve the needs of mid-cap corporate clients we won 13 new assignments during the quarter covering 18 million square feet.
Turning to investment sales activity.
Our focus on transactions which reflect our leading positions in several key markets.
In 2 Moscow transactions we advised on the largest-ever transaction in the Russian commercial market the Metropolis shopping and entertainment center and the largest office transaction ever completed in Russia the consortium sale of the White Square Office Center.
In China we completed the $426 billion sale of a majority stake in the LifeHub@Jinqiao which was Shanghai's largest retail center transaction in the last year.
We also advised on the $300 million sale of Ocean Towers the largest office sale in the past 12 months in Shanghai's [indiscernible] area.
And in the U.S.
we completed the sale of Archstone Crystal Tower in Washington D.C.
for $322 million the highest sales price for a single property in D.C.
history.
The quarter's leasing tenant rep and management transactions included for KeyCorp in Cleveland 0.5 million square-foot lease the largest corporate headquarters green lease  transaction to date in the U.S.
We completed our first retail leasing assignment in Wuhan China for a 1 million-square-foot mall and we won also India's largest property management contract for 15 million square feet of commercial sites and 3 million feet of top-end residential.
Turning to LaSalle Investment Management as Lauralee said LaSalle grew assets under management to $48 billion.
LaSalle is continuing with the realignment and repositioning of its business to get back to net post-crisis growth.
So while the capital raising environment remains challenging LaSalle is beginning to see increased investor interest in commingled funds whilst continuing its success in winning separate account management and in forming strategic partnerships with major new sources of capital.
During the quarter LaSalle completed $1.6 billion in new acquisitions well above the Q1 2012 level.
Looking forward Slide 5 shows our full year projections for global investment sales and leasing markets.
And once again there are major differences between the 2 activities.
With the year's strong start in global capital markets we're maintaining our estimates of full year investment volumes of between $450 billion and $500 billion which is 10% to 15% above last year's levels.
We see capital values increasing by 2% to 3% year-on-year showing continued firmness in markets worldwide.
We expect investors to move out along the risk curve in search of available assets and enhanced yield.
We expect leasing markets to be flat year-on-year globally with modest growth only in the U.S.
With supply muted vacancy rates are forecast to drop marginally to 13% globally with prime rental growth expected to be up 2% to 3% for the year.
In funds management we anticipate capital inflows accelerating through the year with investors still focused on core assets but as we said increasingly willing to examine and move out along the risk curve.
So in this environment we remain confident about our prospects for the year fueled by market share gains increased productivity and the skills and client focus of our people.
We will continue to hire new producing staff and pursue acquisitions across Jones Lang LaSalle.
Before moving to questions and answers I want to mention just a few of the independent third-party awards which we have received which reflect our commitment to client service and reinforce our reputation as leader in real estate services and investment management.
In an unprecedented achievement at the U.K.
Property Awards we won Office Agency of the Year Investment Agency of the Year and Industrial Agency of the Year awards.
In the Watkins survey which is a bi-annual poll of corporate real estate executives across North America we outranked 23 competitors to be named America's #1 corporate real estate services firm for the fifth consecutive year.
We were named 2012's #1 Capital Markets Advisor in Asia-Pacific by Real Capital Analytics for the second year in a row.
And for the sixth straight year we were selected as one of the world's Most Ethical Companies by the Ethisphere Institute and we were named America's most trust-- to America's most trustworthy companies by Forbes and 1 of the 100 best corporate citizens by Corporate Responsibility Magazine.
We are particularly proud of all of these awards not only because they show that we're successful at our business but also that we perform to the highest  standards of corporate ethics and responsibility and that's consistent with continuing to build a sustainable business enterprise and successfully extending our 250-year history.
So with that we are happy now to take your questions.
Operator perhaps you could explain the Q&amp;A process please.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of David Ridley-Lane with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering where you see operating leverage really coming through in 2013? I was a little surprised when I was looking at first quarter results because I would have expected a bit of a stronger gross margin performance given how strong capital markets were.
So again where do you see the operating leverage coming through this year? Firstly I think there's some evidence there of good operating leverage coming through in the Americas where there's margin expansion year-on-year and also in Europe where we're particularly pleased with the ongoing results of the merger between King Sturge and the legacy Jones Lang LaSalle operation throwing up not only cost synergies but increasing opportunities for revenue growth.
Q1 is a small quarter.
As you know we're very seasonal and so it's a quarter in which even the enhanced pick up in capital markets activities doesn't have that great an impact particularly when it's balanced against the relatively poor markets which we're operating in in the leasing area and where leasing activity picked up by comparatively small sums.
So we'd expect for the full year to continue -- that picture to continue in Europe and the Americas.
We'd expect LaSalle to continue producing the tidy performance that it has in Q1 and the area we're looking for obviously significant uptick in performances in Asia-Pacific where for largely market-driven reasons the opening quarter was rather muted.
During the rest of the year as Lauralee said in her script this is the last quarter in which we're fighting comparatives.
Where we have comparatives where the prior year quarter showed lower -- significantly lower personnel costs as she referred to we raised our payments -- salary payments to significant number of the employees in India and China in -- from Q2 last year.
And so that comparison gets easier for the balance of the year.
Research Division</strong> Yes this is very helpful.
And I wanted to follow-up on the comment pipelines and leasing are very solid.
Just on the trajectory that you see for Americas leasing the comps for you do get a bit tougher in the second quarter and third quarter.
So given your projections for the market trend given your pipelines do you think Americas leasing can stay positive despite the tougher comps that you'll be facing in the back half of the year? I would say one of the things that we've seen dramatically change in the marketplace is the ability to recruit.
We have historically -- last year it got much more difficult in the second half of the year but we were up some 20 people in the first quarter versus being down some net 2 people the prior year and we've already approved significant additional hires that will come in to both our leasing and our capital markets going forward.
So a lot of the market share comes from adding to our capabilities and our resources and we think that we're in good momentum to do that.
Now we've got some market headwinds in terms of what's out there the overall market says [ph] 0% to 5%.
So the pipelines are good.
We need some confidence in the markets.
The other thing I would say if you actually looked at the fundamental Washington D.C.
which is a very large and important market for us we're the largest there.
We were down significantly because of the fiscal policy and we also saw New York down -- though a bit ahead of our estimates.
So we feel good about New York for the year.
If we carve those 2 out all the rest of our leasing was up about 14% year-over-year.
So you really have to break it down and understand the reasons in each of the markets.
But in terms of the momentum we have I -- we just need good fiscal policy and things would be great.
As I indicated early on David the U.S.
economy feels to us to be underlying pretty strong and headed for continued momentum perhaps increased momentum.
If you look at the house price increases across the U.S.
today of 9% you look at the confidence  [ph] in  [ph] fees which are up published this week from business confidence the U.S.
economy has got good underlying momentum and it's just really about the corporates picking up that confidence and taking more space and signing more leases.
The big impact as Lauralee said is going to be what happens in D.C.
and what happens in New York as that market recovers.
Our next question comes from the line of Will Marks with JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question just because it has to be asked even if though I know what the answer is but what would you say about the new CFO search? Well I can't imagine why you ask questions that you already know the answer to.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted everyone to hear it.
I know.
Of course it's going well.
I'm pleased with the progress.
And when we have something to tell you we won't hesitate to announce it.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
Second question is on the balance sheet.
Intuitively I would have expected an improved balance sheet versus a year ago.
I realize  bonus payments are higher in a better environment but so is cash flow.
So maybe you could address that? Yes a couple of things in there.
Well first of all we're now paying our bonuses completely with cash versus with our previous shared ownership plan we would pay a part of that with stock.
And so that is probably a $25-plus million difference.
The other thing is we have normally working capital movement probably the significant one that I would point out.
It's not important to you it just tells you we watch this very closely is that we normally pay our back taxes in Europe and Asia in the second quarter.
We paid them in the first quarter and that was another about $30 million.
And then the last piece of it and -- was that if we think about the end of last year the expected tax increases I would say that our producers accelerated the collection of their commissions as much as possible into last year in order to take advantage of lower tax rates which means we didn't have the normal -- a level of seasonal receivable collections that would fall in first quarter.
They actually fell in the fourth quarter.
So there's some working capital movements that are not normal there.
We feel good about our cash management overall we feel good about how we're managing the balance sheet.
And we did also -- one more piece we did pay an additional amount for the earn out for the Staubach organization that's coming up that's accrued on the balance sheet.
So that's another key factor.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry there was -- some were not paid in the first quarter? No it's accrued it's on the balance sheet and it will be paid in the second quarter but it's added to the balance sheet.
When you look at net debt it's in the debt number.
So depending on how you're doing your calculation it's in the liability.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
Moving on and actually a little bit related to debt.
Should we expect interest expense to be roughly in line with last year a little better or a little bit worse? It will be about the same.
We basically have traded off a slightly higher interest rate by putting in the term debt to have a better-managed balance sheet.
So that's 4.4% versus generally about 2% but by paying off the Staubach debt which was accreting in at 6% actually the interest that you'll be seeing will -- that gets offset.
So net-net it should be about the same as last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one revenue item.
The property and facility management growth seems a little bit weak and I know it's just the first quarter maybe it wasn't weak versus your expectations but I think in the past you said you can do 10% or higher on an annual basis.
Is that still the case or am I misquoting you? Yes on the drop I think it was focused in Europe Will from memory.
We feel confident in that area it was just a 1 quarter blip and I think it will be -- maybe not at the levels you quoted for this year or you quoted back to us this year but we feel good about that area picking up in the course of the year.
And we've got significantly some big corporate solutions outsourcing wins which will be coming through in the second quarter onward this year as we bring on particularly the HSBC account on stream.
Our next question comes from the line of David Gold with Sidoti.
LLC</strong> A couple of quick ones for me.
First one is broadly speaking market share gains particularly as you noted in capital markets were impressive.
Can you comment a little bit on what's driving that? Is it changes that you made during the downturn? Is it more hiring of sort of select producers for some of the acquisitions that you didn't quite have before? Or what's really pushing that along in the productivity? Well it's sort of different by market David.
The Americas growth is very much down to the fact that we've since the downturn added significant numbers of people.
So the bottom of our performance in capital markets was roughly $30 million in the U.S.
and last year we were at $130 million so it's a figure of -- a feeling for how much we've grown over the last 4 years by adding people.
And it's a strategic push on our part.
And I think we're now ranked 3 nationally by Real Capital Analytics in that area.
So that's straight investment in people.
It's a considerate strategic goal which we've announced and which we're pursuing.
When you go to Europe and to Asia-Pacific the situation is different.
We have -- we're leaders in the markets in both of those regions.
And what we have seen particularly in Europe is the markets become as -- particularly as the bulk of the trading has been in stable core assets the market has polarized significantly towards the big 2 and sometimes a third but significantly the big 2 because the market is looking for reliable performance the ability to push deals to the maximum but significantly they're looking for international capital and that's of course our sweet spot.
And that's been the reason for the significant share growth we've seen across Asia-Pacific and Europe which is most clearly visible in Europe in this quarter's numbers.
Our performance in Asia was very strong as well.
The comparative year-on-year is less impressive and the reason as Lauralee referred to is that last year we had a very significant fee in Japan from the disposal of a large portfolio.
And that makes the comparative in a weak  [indiscernible] quarter -- excuse the comparative.
So in Asia and Europe it's very much market share growth by being [ph] to the fact that sellers are looking to have their assets put to market by the best quality providers and those that can produce global players into a deal.
LLC</strong> Got you.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just one other.
LaSalle Investment Management there's a  comment in the release about stability ahead of new investor mandates.
Was curious if there are mandates out there that you've won that you can talk about or at least give us a broad sense.
No.
What we're seeing there is -- I mean we've referred to the challenges of the commingled funds business.
Although to Lauralee's point we're now seeing that unfreezing a bit and we're seeing money flowing into funds and we are close to a closure on an important fund not at the levels we've been seeing 6 or 7 years ago but nevertheless good solid closures which will enable us to get on with the next round of investing.
So that's well the situation in the commingled fund area.
We've been adding new business areas such as the JLLIPT in the U.S distributed through a dealer [ph] a nontraded REIT distributed through Merrill Lynch to the public.
That's showing good momentum.
We have our KG structure in Germany enabling us to access the wholesale -- the mid-scale wholesale market.
We've got the growth of our debt business in Europe which is actually in that case a fund but the growth in separate accounts has been across the U.S.
and Europe and it's been institutional clients either transferring mandates from others to us or coming to market with fresh tranches of business that they are looking to put to work in the real estate markets.
We've not got [ph] any individual accounts which we can or want to call out but there is a continued flow of the order of $50 million to $100 million mandates that we're seeing into the U.S.
and European businesses in particular.
Our your next question comes from the line of Brandon Dobell from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to focus back on one of your comments.
I think Lauralee you talked about the environment for recruiting being a little bit more challenging.
The combination of that with kind of tougher leasing markets has that changed any of the compensation dynamics? Or has it given the client any more leverage in terms of commissions or pricing for you guys? And I guess the same thing would kind of play on the property management side as well.
Just trying to figure out if there's any kind of pressures that we haven't seen recently kind of coming back into the fore especially on...
Actually what I'd said was we're actually seeing our ability to attract and hire open up again.
It had really started to slow down in the second half of last year and now all of a sudden it seems to be open again.
And so that's very good.
I mean there's always pressure on compensation but I think we have good discipline around that and what we focus on is really making our people be most productive so they make the most money with the tools of Jones Lang LaSalle.
So it's about how much wealth they make not necessarily a sharing that is the most important.
So the compensation structures haven't changed it's just the ability to earn more.
And on the Property Management and the FM side we've commented on fee pressure there before it's been a factor since the recession but there are no changes in that situation.
I wouldn't say it's getting worse but it's not improving either.
So we are sort of accepting that as the new norm and getting on with making our FM and PM businesses a bit more efficient in order to be able to be -- to continue to be very profitable at the fee levels that are available in the market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if we think about the cost structures in EMEA and Asia Pac looking out the next couple of quarters should we expect to see some of these especially in the EMEA I guess some of the cost-containment efforts continue to give you a little more kind of year-on-year operating expense leverage? Or I guess in APAC with leasing being tougher than it probably would've been expected at 6 months ago should we expect any kind of similar efforts there to pare back the cost structure or at least keep it flat on a dollar basis? If you take Europe first of all I mean you'll see the improvement in the margin.
The EBITDA figures for quarter 1 and you'll see I mean 12% growth out of Europe with Europe going through what Europe is going through we think is very satisfactory.
Europe surprised me last year with that continued good performance despite the economic environment.
So we're very happy with that top line continuing to grow at that rate but we will continue with the process of cost-containment in Europe benefiting from the actions we took last year.
You saw us through the year put in larger sums than we would have expected into restructuring through Europe.
That was a large part King Sturge [indiscernible]  Growth of southern European actions.
At the moment we think we'll just hold back and benefit for the balance of the year from the improved operational leverage that will produce.
In Asia-Pacific we're moving.
As I said we have this phenomenon of the uplift in salaries in Q2 last year burning off so the comparatives will get easier.
We frankly hope for a little better revenue performance in the balance of the year than we saw -- we saw a very muted first quarter.
We're watching the Asia growth story carefully and the market -- there is growth in Asia still but it's clearly less growth around in 2013  than there was in '12 or '11.
And so we will be containing cost in Asia and we'll watch that carefully and I would say beyond containment we don't have any plans at this point for further cost cuts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then final question from my point of view Lauralee any sense of where CapEx for the year would come out as well as any kind of co-invest requirements that you would expect? Just trying to get a better idea on cash flows.
We probably are expecting about $90 million of CapEx for the year.
We spent about $12 million in the first quarter and probably $40 million to $50 million co-investment capital for LaSalle Investment Management.
We are in that starting-to-invest stage.
So I think that's a positive.
It means we're on that [indiscernible] and I think we spent about $7 million in the quarter.
I can check that for you.
Just $3 million they're telling me.
Research Division</strong> $3 million okay.
[Operator Instructions] We have a follow-up question from the line of David Ridley-Lane.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on the capital market's performance in the first quarter.
How are the pipelines looking for Europe? I heard you highlight volumes in the U.K.
but interested if you're seeing more or less assignments in places like Germany and France? Yes in Germany we've seen a lot of product come to market in Germany and we had a special dig into that.
Two phenomena we were able to isolate one is that there is more middle-market sort of less core product coming to market which is being -- which is tradable at this stage in the cycle.
And secondly we're seeing legacy assets from often international funds which were purchased in the 2006-2008 era.
The markets are now back to a point where people can contemplate absorbing the losses on those -- of that product and that's coming to market as well.
The challenge in most other places in Europe is that the core assets which investors want is less and less available.
A lot got traded early we've seen relative price stability for a year.
So people who wanted to trade at those prices have done so in the course of the last year.
So this is a scarcity of good core product available in the 6 or 7 cities that the international investors want to be in.
And so we are seeing as I mentioned people go out along the risk curve.
We are for example seeing the opportunistic funds private equity funds looking at Spain closely now which we haven't seen before.
The deals are not there yet but they're now putting teams in and spending time we hear from people on the ground.
So I think likely there'll be a little bit of a move out on the risk curve which means that the market will broaden and deepen over the coming year.
But as you heard from our forecasts for the year we're expecting European markets to remain at least flat with some upside in there as well.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then maybe one question for Lauralee.
Investment grade balance sheet that's now turned out.
Your dividend increase was good but relatively modest.
So I thought that you might be interested in using share repurchase as a way of returning some strong free cash flow you'll have to shareholders? We still think our best use of cash is to grow the business and the stronger our platform gets the more we are approached by boutiques et cetera that would like to be part of the firm.
So we continue to think that's the highest and best use.
There always is an evaluation as time goes on but at the moment we're about growth and investing in the business.
And there seem to be no further questions at this time.
I'll now hand the call back over to management for closing remarks.
Well with no further questions we'll end today's call and I'd like to thank everybody for participating for your interest in Jones Lang LaSalle and we look forward to talking to you all again following the second quarter results.
Thank you and good evening.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
We thank you for your participation.
You may all disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call for Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated.
Today's call is being recorded.
Any statements made about future results and performance or about plans expectations and objectives are forward-looking statements.
Actual results and performance may differ from those included in the forward-looking statements as results of factors discussed in the company's annual reports on form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 and in our other reports filed with the SEC.
The company disclaims any undertaking to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
A transcript of this call will be posted and available on the company's website.
A web audio replay will also be available for download.
Information and the link can be found on the company's website.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Colin Dyer Chief Executive Officer for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Hello everybody and thank you for joining us for this review of our results for the second quarter and first half of 2013.
I'm delighted to introduce to you today Christie Kelly who joins me on the call.
She is our new Chief Financial Officer.
Some of you may have already talked to Christie or have known her from her previous role of CFO at Duke Realty and we're very pleased to have Christie with us.
She will review our performance in detail in a few minutes but first to summarize our results we recorded healthy revenue gains in the quarter in what continues to be a cautious but increasingly optimistic market environment.
Second quarter fee revenue totaled $908 million up 7% from the second quarter of 2012.
Year-to-date fee revenue increased to $1.7 billion 7% higher than the first half of last year.
For the quarter we reported adjusted net income of $52 million or $1.15 a share compared with $51 million or $1.13 a share 1 year ago.
First half adjusted net income was $68 million or $1.50 a share compared to $73 million or $1.63 a share 1 year previously.
To put the results into a broader context let's look as we customarily do conditions in global economies and real estate markets.
According to IHS Global Insight GDP is set to increase globally by 2.4% in 2013 down marginally from their earlier projections for the year.
Regional forecasts predict 1.6% growth in North America no growth in Europe and 4.7% growth across Asia-Pacific.
Projections for next year however show an improving trend with 3.4% global growth projected with regional projections indicating rates of 2.7% in North America 1.2% in Europe and 5.4% in Asia-Pacific.
So there appears to be a significant shift developing in global sentiment as hope builds for increasing growth in the developed world in particular.
As we've noted on previous calls to understand how these trends are affecting real estate markets it helps to look more closely at conditions within the region.
Asia-Pacific continues to drive global growth [indiscernible] contending with the weak commodity market and higher GDP [indiscernible] economics is boosting GDP in China [indiscernible] currency high inflation and low growth.
The eurozone is contending with ongoing fiscal tightening private sector deleveraging and the impact of record unemployment.
Central and Eastern European economies are also being constrained as a result.
The growth is expected across Scandinavia and expectations for the U.K.
are improving.
The U.S.
is witnessing rising consumer confidence and related gains in the housing and broader industry sectors.
Cutting across all regions and also reflected in our own business we did see a hesitant quarter in each of the BRIC countries.
This will not affect their long-term growth prospects nor will it affect our commitment to those countries.
The biggest issue in real estate markets worldwide is the continuing disconnect between the leasing and capital markets activity.
In the slides that we posted on our Investor Relations section of our website jll.com Slide 3 highlights the distinction.
Capital markets are performing well as a substantial way of capital allocated to commercial property investments more than offsets worries about fiscal tightening -- sorry about tightening monetary policy.
Debt is increasingly available including across Europe and our capital markets businesses are outperforming these already generally positive markets.
Leasing markets on the other hand remained generally weak as hesitant corporate occupiers facing slow revenue growth continue to defer occupancy decisions.
In capital markets worldwide investment volumes reached $121 billion in the second quarter 10% above 2012 levels.
Year-to-date market volumes increased 12% over the first half of last year to a total of $225 billion.
In the quarter prime office yields in 25 major markets declined by an average of 5 basis points globally to 5.7% compared with the first quarter of 2012.
The greatest compressions were in Mexico City down 50 basis points; Madrid down 30 basis points; and Toronto at 20 basis points.
Leasing data tells a different story.
Gross absorption globally declined 5% compared with the second quarter of 2012 but decreasing by 25% year-on-year in some Asia-Pacific markets and 3% in both the U.S.
and Europe.
Vacancy rates across 98 world markets edged up by 10 basis points year-on-year to around 13% in the second quarter largely driven by increases in Asia-Pacific and Latin America.
The Americas vacancy rate fell 30 basis points to 15.9% while Europe was down 10 basis points to 9.7% and Asia-Pacific vacancy rate rose to 11.8% in the quarter up 180 basis points as a result of a short-term supply and demand imbalance in secondary Chinese cities.
So for a sense of how these differing conditions in leasing capital markets worldwide affected our own results I'll turn the call over to Christie.
Thank you Colin and good afternoon to everyone on the call.
As Colin mentioned consolidated results for the second quarter reflect our ability to achieve healthy revenue growth in what continues to be a cautious increasingly optimistic market environment.
Our performance also reflects the differing market conditions between capital markets and leasing.
The capital markets continuing to be supported by low interest rates and leasing impacted by caution of large corporates globally.
The 7% fee revenue growth on a local currency basis over a strong second quarter in 2012 demonstrated the strength of our platform and our continued ability to capture share across varied real estate markets globally.
Specifically we grew Capital Markets &amp; Hotels revenue by 37% across markets where overall volumes were up only 10% on average.
And we kept leasing revenue steady against markets where gross absorption actually declined 5% on average.
Additionally we continue to steadily grow our annuity real estate services businesses such as Property &amp; Facility Management where fee revenue was up 8% in the quarter as property owners and corporate occupiers continue to look to us for outsourced real estate solutions.
Our LaSalle Investment Management business also had an excellent second quarter 2013 hitting $1.8 billion in capital raised.
This reinforces the business' foundation from which to grow AUMs and annuity income.
Overall we are seeing the investments in hiring and our platform translate to increased transaction volume and are focused on containing fixed operating costs while maintaining the variable costs that are key to converting our healthy pipeline.
Our positive fee revenue growth did not translate to immediately into increased operating margin performance primarily as a result of muted high profit revenue in BRIC countries as well as start-up activities on new facility management contract which I will discuss in more detail at the segment level.
In the Americas strength in office investment sales multifamily financing and real estate investment banking services which are all well dispersed across U.S.
markets drove the 27% increase in capital markets revenue in the quarter.
U.S.
Leasing delivered its growth in both primary markets where we have very strong and established market position as well as in the secondary markets where we have focused our recent investments to gain share demonstrating balanced performance against an otherwise down market.
The results in both of these businesses outpace market volumes and we continue to be positive about our transaction pipeline.
The U.S.
transaction performance was offset by slowing in Latin America particularly Brazil.
Our businesses in Brazil and Mexico had a strong comparable quarter in Q2 2012 coupled with an overall deceleration in leasing during the first half of 2013.
The outlook for Mexico remains positive but Brazil less so.
We are watching developments in Brazil and have reduced our cost base there to be in line with lower anticipated activity.
In Property &amp; Facility Management in addition to growing revenue from existing clients we are winning large new facility management assignments but the transition period before these assignments generate revenue in the second half of the year requires upfront staffing and resources.
Looking forward transaction pipelines in the Americas are healthy.
We're managing developments in Brazil and we'll continue to actively manage our cost base to drive performance.
In EMEA growth in the U.K.
and France drove the 28% increase in Capital Markets &amp; Hotels revenue in the quarter and we also saw increases in trading activity primarily in Spain.
In leasing Russia and Germany were outsized contributors to the 20% revenue growth delivered in the second quarter 2012 as significant year-over-year decreases in second quarter 2013.
In project and development services our Tetris fitout business continues to grow and is expanding this offering to provide services for hotels and retail clients.
With respect to expenses in the region we have been actively managing our cost base in the business.
Our EMEA operating margins are up significantly for the first half of 2013 versus 2012 reflecting our upbeat performance and flat overall markets.
In Asia-Pacific revenue grew -- growth of 14% for the quarter was led by both 74% transactional growth in Capital Markets &amp; Hotels well above market volume increases of 18% and by annuity growth in Property &amp; Facility Management of 14%.
Leasing revenue was down 10% but outperformed market volumes that were down 25% across the region reflecting broad-based hesitancy among corporate clients to make space decisions.
With respect to operating income in Asia-Pacific the strong performance in capital markets was offset by the decline in leasing coupled with slow corporate client decision-making and a slightly lower profit contribution from India and China given the mix of business growth in these countries.
We will continue to drive revenue with continued active cost management as we invest in growth throughout the region.
Moving to LaSalle Investment Management LaSalle's strong capital raise during the quarter is a real milestone in our company and a sign of confidence in the firm on the part of our investors.
Our roll forward of AUM from first quarter to second quarter 2013 include a capital investments of $2.7 billion and dispositions of $2.8 billion.
Advisory fees continue to be stable and consistent with recent prior periods.
And the $9.7 million of equity earnings for the quarter reflects continued positive investment performance for our clients.
While our growth remains healthy we will continue to manage through the mixed environments in our segments by responding to the condition specific to each.
Indicative of some of our recent efforts were restructuring acquisition charges of $6.6 million in the quarter which included employee termination costs related to position eliminations in EMEA and the Americas in addition to the wind down of integration costs from the King Sturge acquisition.
We will continue to work balanced investments and growth opportunities in our business while proactively managing the cost base in alignment with market movement.
With respect to our financial position we reduced our net debt in the quarter and are committed to maintaining our investment grade balance sheet.
In total we are well positioned with our balance sheet and have good revenue momentum going into the second half of the year.
I just like to share from a personal perspective that I'm absolutely thrilled to have joined the firm and look forward to working with my new colleagues our clients as well as our investor and analyst community.
I'll now turn it back over to Colin who will share some highlights of our recent business wins.
Thanks Christie and we share your happiness [indiscernible].
Turning to our business wins for the quarter.
Slide 4 shows a few examples of recent wins across businesses and geographies.
In our corporate outsourcing business we won 27 new assignments in the first half expanded our relationship with 4 more clients and renewed 9 contracts.
One major renewal was with Shell for services in the clients 80 million-square-foot portfolio across EMEA Asia-Pacific and Latin America.
An important new assignment boosting our broadest strategic push into Canada involve the full outsourcing of facility management projects transactions lease administration and strategic consultant for Canada Post Corporation's 17.5 million square foot national portfolio.
We also saw good activity in our local market level Corporate Solutions business which focuses on mid-market corporate occupiers.
Today this year we won 28 new assignments totaling more than 58 million square feet of space.
Turning to investment sales.
We closed the $260 million sale of 350 Madison Avenue in Manhattan on behalf of Kensico Partners -- Properties.
Our U.K.
corporate finance team supported by both our U.S.
health care capital markets and U.K.
health care advisory teams completed a GBP 300 million restructuring for Myriad Health Care one of the UK's largest health care providers.
In Australia the AUD $458 million Australian sale of Rain Square in Perth was the largest single asset sale in that city's history.
Second quarter leasing tenant rep and property and asset management transactions included the property management assignment for Prudential Plaza in Chicago 2 office towers totaling 2.2 million square feet of space.
In Russia's largest ever industrial agency deal the leasing assignment for the 775 000 square foot Logo Park North in Moscow.
And in Australia the management assignment from QIC for a 7 building office portfolio in Brisbane which encompassed 1.6 million square feet.
LaSalle Investment Management completed a very promising second quarter marked by strong capital influence across geographies investment cycles styles and client segments.
As Christie noted in her remarks LaSalle raised $1.8 billion of capital in the second quarter bringing first half totals to $2.4 billion indicating a steady return of institutions to their most trusted managers.
Several closings were completed in the quarter including a second close for La Salle real estate debt strategists a European debt fund and the first close for La Salle's Asia opportunity fund for our Pan-Asian opportunity fund.
And just a few days ago LaSalle added another $400 million to its year-to-date capital raise with the final closing of the La Salle Japan Logistics Refund our logistics and development and management fund in Japan.
These are significant developments in the steady recovery of LaSalle's position post the great financial crisis with the interest in the Asia platform being particularly satisfactory.
LaSalle's assets under management totaled $46.3 billion at the end of the second quarter.
Looking forward Slide 5 shows our full year projections for global investment sales and leasing markets.
Once again distinctions between the 2 are clear.
With the first half yielding $225 billion in investor activity.
We expect full year market volumes of between $450 billion and $500 billion an increase of 5% to 10% over last year.
With captivating forces at work we do not anticipate that the upward trend in rates will have a significant effect on transaction volume but could actually enlarge the market by pushing investors further out along the risk curve in search of yield.
We anticipate that capital values will increase by 3% to 4% year-on-year an indication of further market strength.
We expect the leasing markets will be flat year-on-year.
That's an improvement on first half totals with modest growth of 0% to 5% in U.S.
flat in Europe and Asia-Pacific down 10% to 15%.
In the funds management area we believe that capital flows will continue to strengthen in the second half of the year as investors continue to allocate funds to real estate.
Turning then to the outlook for our own business.
It's clear that the cyclical recovery in real estate activity is progressing globally.
This together with stable to improving short-term market prospects means that we're approaching the seasonally stronger second half of the year with confidence.
We believe that our operating structure and competitive position remains strong and we will continue to invest prudently in growing our market share and increasing our operational productivity.
So before we take your questions I want to mention a few of the independent awards which we received during the quarter.
Not only do they reflect the quality of our people but also our commitment to client service reinforcing our reputation as leader in real estate services and investment management.
And I'll focus this time just on Asia-Pacific.
At the International Property Awards in Asia-Pacific we won 11 awards including Five Star Best Property Consultancy awards with Singapore Thailand and Indonesia.
In Australia the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors named as the #1 Retail Sales Agent and #1 Hotel and Leisure Sales Agency.
And in India's Royalty Plus Excellence Awards our own Gagan Singh was celebrated as Female Real Estate professional of the year.
Not only do such awards illustrate our business success but they also underscore the professionalism and higher ethical standards which we so value.
That helps us continue building our profitable and sustainable business enterprise for all of our stakeholders.
So with that we'll now take your questions.
Operator perhaps you would please explain the Q&amp;A process.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question is from David Gold with Sidoti.
LLC</strong> Just a couple of follow-up questions for you.
First can you give a little bit more color? Obviously a number of outsources or successful outsources they have burdened us with costs in the second quarter.
Was curious if you can give some color: A on order of magnitude how much of the incremental cost is related to that and part 2 what type of revenue might we expect as we start to ramp up in the third quarter from these outsources? Yes it was a particularly -- we're very pleased to have one but it was particularly lumpy quarter where we had to start-ups on 4 big mandates which were focused in the U.S.
and Asia-Pacific with a little bit of Europe.
And together they ran into several million dollars of start-up costs.
We won't specify more accurately on that.
And as we said in the prepared notes from Christie they were focused on the Americas and Asia-Pacific.
So good that we have them.
It's all in Q1.
We probably slightly underestimated the impact of the start-up process but we're through -- we're working our way through that and expecting a positive contribution as the year progresses.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So if we look at -- the variance between say my estimate and what you reported a fairly large -- much higher on the operating expense side.
And I guess as you explained in the release it breaks down between those corporate outsourcing client costs and the variable comp increase.
So I guess another way to ask is if we look at the big jump there how much of it relates to the corporate outsource versus the variable comp? And maybe another way to put it is how big of a surprise was the incremental cost here? And I guess lastly if I can pile them on when we think about the second half of the year so presumably I guess that's to say the revenue will at least offset the incremental cost in the second half and do we get some catch-up? Well I'll answer that by reading the release again David.
But to summarize I think where you'd find us sort of do an evaluation or a reconciliation of your numbers.
I haven't got the detailed breakdown of how you got that but important...
LLC</strong> But I'm pretty close to The Street.
Yes.
But in broad terms the pickup which we saw in capital markets was offset by the BRIC point that we made which was a general reduction in profitability from Brazil Russia India and partly China.
So those 2 kind of were a wash.
The 2 items then which took us down by -- for our year-on-year by about 100 basis points we're leasing on PDS [ph] which relatively underperformed and the Corporate Solutions impact which we just discussed.
So there's the reconciliation year-on-year to our numbers.
LLC</strong> Got you.
Okay.
And then one other more broadly.
When we think about the impact -- Jones Lang is picking up ground particularly on the capital market side impressively relative to the market.
What's the secret sauce on that is it -- I mean just pure market gains at hires or is there something more that you've done during the downturn that basically is getting in those outsized market share gains? There is between the regions David the story in the U.S.
is as we said consistently for the last few years a strategic decision to build the capital markets business which is -- let's call it the same caliber as our European Asian businesses where we in those cases are leaders in those regions.
It'll take us a while to get there but we've been investing behind that adding people.
And the process of adding people is now beginning to build momentum and that's attracting new business.
And the way capital markets works as you do deals you become noticed you get credibility and you get offered new deals and so it builds in an exponential sort of way and momentum is picking up.
So it's one phenomenon.
In Europe and Asia we've always been strong.
We obviously in Europe added the King Sturge's capital markets business to our European capabilities.
So there was acquisition-driven growth there but the phenomenon that we believe is slightly different.
But in those markets there's a lot of international capital flowing particularly into London or Paris but also into Singapore Hong Kong and the major Asian centers.
That money is flowing in through a larger international players and that obviously is our sweet spot and we are very well linked to our European players who are moving capital to Asia U.S.
and Asian money in particular that's headed for Europe.
So that's another phenomenon.
And the third factor in Europe is that although it is a sellers market particularly for good quality assets we see sellers increasingly looking for really high quality execution.
And so they're moving towards the better brand names and moving towards particularly the companies that can put them in touch with international capital for the very large deals which have got some very strong pricing attached to them.
So put that all together that's an explanation across the world of why we believe we're picking up share.
Your next question is from David Ridley-Lane with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to be rather boring I guess.
So looking at the adjusted operating margin in the press release and that excludes the gross contract cost from both revenue and expenses that was down 100 basis points year-over-year in the second quarter.
I'm just wondering given how strongly the capital markets revenue has grown I'm surprised that BRIC revenue declines were significant enough to offset all of that positive momentum.
Are there other factors that are kind of dragging profitability? Yes the BRIC revenue decline was positive.
It was -- more accurately stated as profitability decline which was a mixture of yes revenue but other factors such as margin shifts drop in leasing business in those countries and a short-term we believe uptick in bad debts in 1 or 2 of the geographies.
Yes it was sufficient to reverse the margin increment for the capital markets improvement as you pointed out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in gauging that margin impact from the upfront costs I mean 1 year ago the gross contract cost were $69 million.
This quarter they're $81 million.
So it's up 17% or so.
And then you compare that against property and facilities management fee revenue growth that's only 8%.
So I guess what you would say is not to put words in your mouth but if the gross contract cost had grown 8% instead of 17% that would have been what you would have otherwise expected excluding these 4 large deals is that the right way to think about it? Not quite because the gross contracts accrue during the year and they are driven by people costs which until we've been adding people to our employee base those people costs are both in our employee base in numbers but also in the cost base of those cost base or those cost to simply pass through by us to the flag subcontractors.
So -- because that fee -- because the revenue from the gross contract has been growing faster than the fee-based revenue growth that's the reason for the uptick in the growth -- as you said the faster growth in the gross contract number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right and then just in the timing of when these contracts 4 large deals turn profitable I mean you would expect that to be occurring right now in the third quarter? Yes.
Normally that's sort of 3 to 6 month ramp-up time with these contracts.
These will be more like 6 to 9.
From Q3 onwards we expect them to move into profitability.
What happens typically is that we staff up put in place for example a regional structure in Europe for one European FMCG manufacturer I can think of and that if the contract delays coming on stream for reasons of the client being unable to move quickly enough we have the costs but we are unable to get going with the client and generate the revenue.
So it's a confluence of a number of those circumstances which cause that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So we could see one more quarter of adjusted EBITDA margin decline year-over-year in the third quarter then? Yes.
So that's -- so as I suspect it will burn off more slowly by Q4 it should be coming through nicely.
Research Division</strong> And is the expectation still to have -- adjusted EBITDA margin expansion in 2013? Well we don't make comment on that subject.
We have said you are...
Research Division</strong> Can't blame me for trying.
Yes.
Our goal is to continue maintaining and expanding those margins but we are not making a comment for the rest of this year.
Your next question is from Michael Mueller with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I guess taking in that line of questioning is the -- just focusing in on the expense side putting the revenues aside for a minute.
Is the ramp-up in those costs was it completed in the second quarter or is there still a ramp-up in cost occurring in the third quarter as well for those 4 contracts that you were talking about? That's done.
So that's the running rate on the cost side.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then switching gears for a second.
Can you talk a little bit about the idea of building out is it just capital markets to go after more secondary market businesses looking at leasing is it just capital markets I mean how significant of a buildout could that be how far into that process are you? It's not in the U.S.
and it's a continuation of the process we have described to you.
I'll just describe to you building that capability across the U.S.
When we say primary markets we are talking initially about the top sort of 7 U.S.
cities the cities beyond that which we're referring to as we grow our capability basing for example Denver or Atlanta or Houston.
So these are still very significant cities.
We're not headed into the smaller Mid-eastern -- Midwestern cities and sort of dilute our activity.
We're very focused on the major renovations.
We have a lot of runway if you look at our market share.
It's still sub 10% so we have a lot of space to grow into.
Research Division</strong> So you're -- when you think of those target markets you're very early in this process? Yes.
Again you look at our relative share in that particular sector in the U.S.
and this is a multiyear activity.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question is from Brandon Dobell with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just want to focus not surprising on costs just for a second here.
It sounds like from the remarks that we shouldn't expect any kind of I don't know reversion or reversal on the fixed cost side of the business sounds like from kind of people and office and space perspective you feel pretty good with investments you've made i.e.
you haven't overreached the markets in any of those geographies.
No.
I'll take 2 of those points so the office space and general fixed operating costs were both top 3% growth.
The growth in costs which you've been referring to has been the variable cost which have been around 10%.
And if you have to pick it you'll take the variable because the variable and you can -- you need to dial them back quickly.
But also they're generally indicative of people traveling and spending marketing dollars for example in anticipation of businesses building and that's our read of the way that those numbers have grown.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it sounds like from a I guess a headcount point of view or headcount using dollars to grow their opportunities second half kind of pace of expense growth should mirror the first obviously taking out the expenses related to those contracts that we talked about but just from outside of that that makes sense? That does -- done some restructuring as you will have heard from the call.
We've put another $5 million $6 million into restructuring.
It's spread partly in the Americas Brazil we mentioned.
Some of it's been in the U.K.
and that's in line with our policy of not taking a one size fits all to cost control where we see businesses that need cost improvement or some restructuring activities as of local market circumstances we mentioned Brazil then we take action.
We don't hesitate.
There's no problem in doing that.
What we do not see and we don't anticipate at this stage any need to make a more broad-based cost reduction activity.
We believe our operating and cost structure is correct for the market because we believe the cyclical opportunities are intact and we believe that the short-term market prospects are good so we should see good return on those people costs that we put into the business.
Research Division</strong> And then final one for me.
Looking at Slide 5 the capital markets volumes and leasing volumes.
I guess the predictions -- or projections for 2013 maybe some sense of your confidence around the different edges of those growth rate so on the leasing side do you think there's more forces at work that push that better than flat or is the rest of that slides below that given some of the dynamics going on in macroeconomy stronger than the rest it would be better than flat? Yes.
Well if you look at the full year the full-year picture is more positive than the half year we've just had so we are expecting a better second half performance in leasing broadly across markets.
Why do we say that? In the Americas there are some real indicators.
We're seeing more visits by prospective clients to space.
And I know some of the market information aggregate are seeing that.
We're also sensing more confidence in corporate America.
And certainly the activity in the industry generally speaking is up year-on-year.
In Europe this is not a broad-based comment.
This will be focused on Paris London in our case Russia where we're expecting to see some good improvement and Germany still seems to be picking up and recovering further.
Asia is selected markets not Australia because that feels to us like it's going to continue to struggle with the commodity issue which is China linked but we believe that a better picture could show through and we're seeing that in the major centers of Hong Kong Tokyo and Singapore.
So it's very selective around markets but we just feel the general tone is more positive and we've been picking that up not just from our researches who put these numbers together independently and objectively from market data but also from our own internal reviews of the quarter's operating activity and we obviously look forward and talk to people about their view on the markets.
The capital markets picture it's really a continuation of what we've seen.
And so whether we get 5% or 10% growth for the full year on a 10% half 1 it's really more of the same driven by the same phenomena we've seen lots across border capital looking for high quality assets in the major European and U.S.
cities international moneys gaining confidence and flowing across border.
Generally low level of interest rates still in good availability on debt in the U.S.
Europe having change from Asia where it's always been available.
I think the phenomenon of what'll happen around the interest rate cycle I commented on we see it not impacting the weight of equity which is looking at real estate.
The world that we saw just a few weeks ago had no impact on equity's interest in real estate.
But if the interest rates do rise against compressing yields in the better markets as I said that's likely to push people out along the risk curve and we're seeing secondary cities open up across the U.S.
we're seeing interest in Spain in -- secondary in assets in Spain for the first time in several years people we believe will go outlong the risk curve for yield and that would perhaps enlarge the market from what's been very focused around low risk assets in major centers.
Research Division</strong> And then final one just numbers question.
As we think about capital needs of the business this year as a combination of kind of traditional CapEx plus co-investments how should we expect things to play out? Yes I think Brandon as we take a look at that capital needs for the business are primarily centered around investments that we're making in IT to really drive productivity for our platform.
[Operator Instructions] You have a follow-up question from David Ridley-Lane with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Can you just review the numbers for La Salle in terms of the capital raise and the dispositions on the quarter and then maybe give a couple of thoughts on what you're expecting in the back half? Well we'll repeat the numbers we've mentioned.
Capital raise for the quarter was $1.8 billion again broad-based came from Korean sources.
It came from European doctors retirees funds in Germany.
It came from U.S.
institutions.
We're picking up money from retail investors through Merrill Lynch product.
So there's a broad-based capital raise.
And I said it was very encouraging that is being aimed at our platform on a global basis.
So the Asia funds that we mentioned the European debt fund which is an opportunistic fund our U.S.
value-added fund as well so really broad-based sourcing and destination of capital.
You add that to the $400 million we raised in -- just post year-end and the $1 million or so in the first quarter the total capital raised at the end of July is about $3.4 billion and that's equity not debt.
So add debt to that and we're back into a $5 billion to $6 billion of spending power which is very satisfactory.
And it's a big change from the last 2 to 3 years where we've seen obviously institutions being very hesitant about putting money out into real estate beyond very very safe core product where we've seen them staying close to home and that's changing as well.
So it's all in all a good picture for LaSalle in terms of the capital raise.
And as I said for me having seen this film through from good times through the recession to now it really marks a turning point in LaSalle Investment Management's position.
In particular the money flowing into Asia is very heartening because that have been the area that we were most concerned about losing position in.
In terms of the acquisitions and debt dispositions they were about a wash at $2.75 billion and there was a $1.3 billion year-over-year foreign exchange impact which was actually a reduction.
So I hope the numbers tally for you.
If they don't we'll be happy to square them for you offline David.
Your next question is from Todd Lukasik with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on LaSalle Investment Management I guess given the backdrop in commercial real estate value and fund flows over the past few years I guess I would have expected to do a bit better over that time frame than it has.
And you just talked about the success that you guys are having recently with fund flows but are there any other major drivers on that business that you'd like to highlight.
I guess what's your expectation for organic growth in revenue and EBITDA for that particular business line? Well looking back Todd over the last 4 years.
One of the phenomena about the Investment Management business in real estate is that it gives into recession about 1.5 years after the advisory business and it comes out about 2.5 to 3 years later.
And this was a particularly bad recession.
The reason for that is it take institutions a while to re-base their allocations to rethink their preferences by sector and obviously go for liquid sectors and make a lot of money real fast in REITs and equities early on in the cycle and they put their money into the longer-term private equity real estate sector rather slowly and after they've seen a more price maturity in the liquid sectors of their investment base.
So that's some of the forces that have been at work.
And the money that's been flowing into real estate over the last 2 to 3 years and you've heard the numbers from us growing from a low of a couple of hundred million -- billion dollars in 2009 2010 to the current $450 million $500 million that has been money which has been nimble been able to move quickly has been sovereign wealth from Asia some of it has been institutions investing directly and some of it has been legacy money in private equity funds being put to work in recovering market conditions.
So now finally we're seeing institutions move more decisively back into funds you can track in the period [ph] numbers as well where they're showing similar signs of life.
And we are seeing flowing back into the funds across all investment styles now so they've got the confidence to go out along the risk curve and give us money to do opportunity fund in Asia value-added fund in Japan logistics and that's a heartening change because they were very risk-averse up until a quarter or 2 ago and we're seeing also individual mandates being awarded more in the core area particularly in the U.S.
and Europe where we have excellent businesses and excellent track records broadly then for the balance of the year we expect to see continued good inflows of funds.
I'd be surprised but pleased they're at the same levels as we saw in this quarter but that phenomenon of that trend seems now to be set and we are planning on it.
We would expect to see continued balance between acquisitions and disposals so -- and we'll build the acquisition pipeline of the funds to invest growth during this year and next.
In terms of incentive fees we've had some of those in the first quarter and half of the year.
We have a couple of funds maturing in the second half year.
So we'll be in the way potentially of the opportunities you earn in incentive fees but there is always such a last-minute thing depending on the values of the final acquisitions -- sorry the final asset disposals in these funds that is really very hard to predict.
Research Division</strong> And in terms of fund flows I mean it sounds like high single-digit or maybe even low double-digit rates of growth and assets under management might be possible on an annual basis.
I mean is that something that has potentially a multi-year run to it or is that something that you think is more of a short-term catch-up at this point? No.
You'll see if you look back through the valuations it's been fairly steady around the mid-40s but that was against the background of relatively modest funds inflow from new investments.
As that funds inflow picks up as we see continuing reevaluations of the existing portfolio I'd expect to see that number grow initially slowly.
So it's not going to go gangbusters but it will grow single figures then move into double figures in the course of next year of growth in assets under management.
That's without acquisitions.
And as we said before we have been open to acquiring portfolios and platforms in the asset management area.
[Operator Instructions] It sounds as though the question flow has dried up.
That is correct sir.
Do you have any closing comments today? Nothing with great substance.
I just like to thank everybody for their participation.
We are available for questions if you have any and we look forward to speaking with you again following our third quarter results.
Thank you very much and have a good evening everyone.
Thank you everyone for joining today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call for Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated.
Today's call is being recorded.
Any statements made about future results and performance or about plans expectations and objectives are forward-looking statements.
Actual results and performance may differ from those included in the forward-looking statements as a result of factors discussed in the company's annual reports on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 and in our other reports filed with the SEC.
The company disclaims any undertaking to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
A transcript of this call will be posted and available on the company's website.
A web audio replay will also be available for download.
Information and the link can be found on the company's website.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Colin Dyer Chief Executive Officer for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good evening everybody and welcome to this review of our results for the third quarter and the first 9 months of 2013.
Christie Kelly our Chief Financial Officer joins me on today's call.
Christie will review our performance in detail in a few minutes.
First however I'd like to summarize the quarter where we delivered strong fee revenue gains increased adjusted net income and improved adjusted operating income margins year-on-year.
Fee revenue totaled $889 million for the third quarter and that's 15% above the third quarter for 2012.
Year-to-date fee revenue reached $2.7 billion which is 9% higher than the same period a year ago.
Adjusted net income was $67 million in the third quarter a 22% increase from quarter 3 2012.
Year-to-date adjusted net income totaled $135 million a 5.5% higher number than the first 9 months of last year.
Our Board of Directors also declared a dividend of $0.22 per share and that's semi-annual dividend.
And we renewed and increased the capacity of our long-term credit facility at more favorable pricing which combined with our strong balance sheet gives us the financial power and flexibility to continue to invest robustly in the growth of our firm.
Let's turn to market conditions.
We produced these results in an environment which is broadly similar to that which we've seen in recent quarters generally improving market conditions in most parts of the world.
You'll find additional information on the slides posted on our Investor Relations section at jll.com.
We still see world economic growth accelerating from 2.4% this year to 3.3% next year.
This sentiment is making its way through the markets around the world as seen in growing confidence amongst investors and to a growing extent corporate occupiers.
As Slide 3 demonstrates global capital markets continue to expand strongly during the quarter with market volumes reaching $140 billion which is 41% ahead of quarter 3 totals a year ago.
Year-to-date market volumes totaled $366 billion which is 21% ahead of last year.
While still lagging in the capital markets global leasing activity is now slowly improving due primarily to higher leasing turnover in the United States and selected Asian markets.
Leasing volumes for the quarter were up 5% compared to the third quarter of 2012 while year-to-date volumes were flat compared with the first 9 months of 2012 so a continuation of the generally positive trends in real estate markets worldwide that we've seen in recent quarters.
So to give you a sense of how we performed under these conditions I'll turn the call over to Christie.
Thank you Colin.
And good afternoon and evening to everyone on our call.
As Colin mentioned our consolidated results for the third quarter again reflect our ability to produce profitable revenue growth.
While the economic backdrop this quarter was clouded by the recent U.S.
budget issues that had a modest impact on the global outlook this has had no noticeable impact on our business to date.
Our performance continues to reflect the contrasting market conditions between capital markets and leasing where strong capital markets are supported by low interest rates while leasing is impacted by large corporates globally being financially cautious as well as focused on space optimization versus expansion.
Although we are beginning to see leasing activity slowly improve primarily due to higher activity in the U.S.
it is still lagging capital markets activity.
Our 15% fee revenue growth on a local currency basis over the third quarter of 2012 demonstrates the strength of our platform as well as the ability of our business to grow share profitably across varied markets globally.
For perspective we have grown our revenue at a 14% compounded rate for the past 10 years driven by improved share in our local and regional markets as well as in our national and global service lines.
We have achieved this long-term success with a combination of M&amp;A activity and organic growth leveraging the expertise of our people and the strength of our JLL brand to win new clients and expand existing relationships.
For the third quarter specifically we grew Capital Markets &amp; Hotels revenue by 46% and leasing by 8% demonstrating our ability to continue to capture share.
Additionally we continued to grow our annuity real estate services businesses such as Property &amp; Facility Management where fee revenue was up 17% in the quarter.
Our LaSalle Investment Management business continued its momentum achieving $900 million in additional capital raise.
Overall the ongoing investments we have made in our platform has bolstered our ability to increase revenue in key markets while achieving profitable market share growth consistently year in and year out for our investors.
We are focused on balancing top line growth platform investments and productivity to achieve incremental margin and earnings per share growth.
Overall adjusted operating margin was 9.4% for the quarter an increase of 140 basis points from last quarter with contributions from all geographies and an increase of 110 basis points from 8.3% last year driven by performance in EMEA and Asia-Pacific which I will discuss in more detail in a moment.
Bottom line we increased adjusted earnings per share by 21% from third quarter last year to $1.49 per share.
In the Americas 19% growth in Capital Markets &amp; Hotels revenue for the quarter was driven by strength in investment sales primarily for office and retail as well as increase productivity by producer.
Leasing revenue was up 9% for the quarter with secondary markets driving the majority of growth followed by solid performance in most primary markets.
Property &amp; Facility Management fee revenue growth of 18% was driven by the successful on boarding of new Corporate Solutions clients.
We also closed 2 acquisitions in the third quarter Means Knaus Partners and Capital Realty which add to our Property Management business and reflect our commitment to invest in this service line.
Overall we delivered 11% fee revenue growth across the Americas compared with last year.
Operating income for the Americas calculated on a fee-revenue basis was 9.9% compared with 8.7% last quarter and 10.4% last year.
Solid growth and positive operating leverage across U.S.
business lines during the quarter were offset by continually challenging market conditions in Brazil and by delayed deal timing in Mexico.
Excluding Latin America the America's operating income margin increased by 20 basis points compared with last year.
In EMEA each business line produced substantial revenue growth contributing to an overall increase in fee revenue of 24% in the quarter led by Capital Markets &amp; Hotels with a 61% increase in revenue on a local currency basis from last year with the most significant increases in the U.K.
France the Netherlands and Poland.
Property &amp; Facility Management fee revenue growth of 15% was driven primarily by the U.K.
business.
Leasing revenue increased 10% despite declining market activity.
Adjusted operating income grew to $18 million in the quarter from $5 million a year ago.
Adjusted operating income margin on a fee-revenue basis excluding King Sturge amortization nearly tripled to 7% from 2.4%.
Our result is -- our performance is the result of focusing on both strong top line growth and margin expansion.
We managed the significant increase in transaction activity with continued disciplined management of the cost base.
In Asia-Pacific fee revenue growth of 19% came from performance that was generally strong across business lines.
Capital Markets &amp; Hotels led with revenue growth of 56% which was broad-based across a number of different countries.
Property &amp; Facility Management continued its steady delivery of annuity revenue with a 16% increase.
Leasing revenue was up 4% on a local currency basis from last year with the higher volume of small deals reflecting greater transaction activity coming from local clients rather from multinationals.
Operating income grew to $19 million in the quarter up from $12 million a year ago again a result of both solid revenue growth and margin expansion.
We continue to make selective strategic investments to strengthen our long-term position in the region while maintaining prudent cost discipline.
LaSalle Investment Management continue its capital raise momentum from the first half of the year bringing its year-to-date capital raise to $3.3 billion.
A critical driver of LaSalle's success is strong investment performance which has resulted in not only above benchmark track records in key markets over the years but also the ability to retain long-term clients and attract new investors.
During the quarter we added approximately $2.1 billion to assets under management through acquisitions and net valuation increases offset by $1.7 billion of dispositions and net foreign currency movements.
Advisory fees of $55 million were consistent with the second quarter.
Incentive fees added $9.3 million of revenue during the quarter with the most significant contributions coming from North America.
Disposition activity and positive fair value adjustment drove healthy equity earnings of $6.6 million for the quarter.
With respect to our investment grade balance sheet and the strength of our financial position we renewed our long-term credit facility at the beginning of October expanding capacity from $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion extending the maturity to October 2018 and improving our pricing.
This was all done with the cooperation and partnership of a great bank group that knows our firm well and continues to support our strategic focus on profitable growth.
We are committed to maintaining our investment grade rating continuing to demonstrate financial strength and providing premium operational performance to our investors and our clients.
Our third quarter financial results were strong.
Our colleagues around the world continue to demonstrate our ability to drive profitable growth increase margin performance and build on our financial strength.
We earned these results by attracting top new clients to the firm while continuing to provide great service to existing relationships.
Our growing market position solid annuity revenue growth and focus on converting our pipelines puts us on track for a strong fourth quarter finish to 2013.
I'll now turn the call back over to Colin.
Thank you Christie.
So looking at some representative business wins for the quarter.
Slide 4 lists a few recent wins across our different service lines and geographies.
In our corporate outsourcing business we've won 34 new assignments so far this year expanded existing relationships with 17 other clients and renewed 13 contracts.
While respecting client confidentiality I can report we've recently been retained by 2 global financial services firms 1 for transaction management and lease administration on its 15 million square foot portfolio and a second for facility management of its 27 million square foot portfolio in the Americas and Asia-Pacific and a global IT firm has chosen us for facility management of its 2.2 million square foot portfolio worldwide.
We also continued to record positive results in our local market level Corporate Solutions business which focuses on mid-market corporate occupiers.
In the first 9 months of this year we've won 39 assignments totaling 92 million square feet of space.
Turning to investment sales transactions.
In the U.S.
we completed the $300 million sale of an ownership interest in a portfolio on behalf of ECHO Realty.
In Poland we advised Allianz on the EUR 412 million acquisition of Silesia City Center the largest transaction in Central and Eastern Europe so far this year.
And in Japan we sold a portfolio of 7 logistics properties on behalf of Global Logistic Properties for $277 million.
Third quarter leasing tenant representation and property and asset management transactions included in Midtown Manhattan in New York helping Nordstrom secure the location for its first department store in the city 285 000 square feet in a new development scheduled to open in 2018.
And in Moscow we leased 90 000 square feet to open a new department store for international retailer Debenhams both transactions represent the strategic investments we've made to grow our retail business globally.
In Shanghai we were selected to provide property management services for the 1.1 million square foot Aurora Plaza office tower in Pudong.
Finally LaSalle Investment Management.
LaSalle's strong performance for its clients contributed to substantial capital allocations from investors.
As Christie noted LaSalle has raised $3.3 billion of capital year-to-date including $900 million in the third quarter as institutional investors continue to allocate funds to investors that they trust.
Looking ahead Slide 5 shows our full year projections for global investment sales and leasing markets.
We're planning on a fourth quarter capital markets volume being on a par with the strong quarter 4 2012 totals.
This will lead full year global investment sales volumes up 10% to 15% on 2012 and probably exceeding $500 billion.
Looking ahead to 2014 our preliminary forecasts indicate continued positive momentum in capital markets with global volumes growing by 10% for the full year.
Global leasing markets will be flat year-on-year in 2013 with increased activity in the U.S.
offset by a flat or negative gross absorption in Europe and Asia-Pacific.
In 2014 however we expect growth to revive more corporate occupiers shift their sights from consolidation to growth and expansion.
We see full year gross absorption rising by 5% to 10% above 2013 levels.
In real estate investment management we anticipate that capital inflows to managers will strengthen through the end of the year and investors continue to allocate funds to real estate and prove willing to take on additional risk in search of higher returns.
We expect that trend also to continue into next year.
In terms of our own outlook for the full year we're 1-month into our final and traditionally most profitable quarter.
We are seeing continued positive momentum in all parts of the business.
We also expect this trend to continue into next year with markets continuing to improve and momentum continuing to build.
There is a strong sense of optimism and confidence in our staff worldwide and we'll continue to take market share and grow profitable new business opportunities.
As we work to finish 2013 successfully and position the firm for continued growth next year we are also focused on longer-term growth.
As I said in my introductory remarks our new credit facility and strong balance sheet give us the ability to invest strategically for the future.
Whether that takes the form of M&amp;A activity or capital investments or current investments with clients of LaSalle we can move quickly on growth opportunities when we identify them.
Over the past 18 months we have also developed a globally integrated strategic plans -- plan which positions us for growth through to the end of this decade.
This has had broad involvement of dozens of senior leadership and included an intense assessment of future client needs changing market conditions and competitive dynamics.
Using those insights we've developed and are now implementing longer-term strategic plans for all of our core service lines.
We have also considered the resources which were made to succeed with those strategies talent and human capital for example productivity measures to protect and expand margins and investment in data and technology tools to equip our professionals to serve clients and compete successfully.
To leverage all the activities we are also continuing to connect our people and business operations even more effectively across service lines and geographies.
And finally we've projected and secured as I've said the financial resources we need to drive revenue and capital expenditure over this long-time frame.
The result is plans which are broadly shared across the organization and we strive strong short-term performance while at the same time planning and investing in future growth.
One final operational note.
As you know I recently stepped personally in to lead our Americas business.
This is a temporary move intended to ensure continuity in a management group that has seen several changes of people and roles over the last year.
We are also waiting the transfer of John Forrest into the Americas from Asia on the 1st of January and he'll be leading the Americas Corporate Solutions business.
We have a very strong and successful competitive position in the Americas clear long-term plans for continued investments in growth and exceptionally strong leadership from which we will complete the Americas leadership changes early next year.
So before taking your questions I'd like to mention some of the independent honors we've received during the third quarter honors which illustrate the quality and dedication of our people and our commitment to superior client service and they reinforce our reputation as a leader in real estate services and investment management.
So selecting a few examples: Procter &amp; Gamble has announced just today that we've won the P&amp;G Supplier of the Year Award and that's the third time we've been awarded that honor.
In the U.S.
we were recognized as one of the nation's most innovative users of information technology by being selected for the InformationWeek 500 list.
Among the many awards we received at the Euromoney Awards we were named Best Global Agency and Letting Advisor.
And the head of our business in Thailand Suphin Mechuchep was named CEO of the Year at the 2013 CEO Thailand Awards.
This honor -- this award honors the best CEO in the entire Thai business community not just the real estate sector.
So many congratulations to Suphin.
And finally in closing I want to recognize another willing colleague or ex-colleague Lauralee Martin.
I'd like to thank Lauralee one more time for all of her contributions and commitment to Jones Lang LaSalle over the last decade.
We wish her great success in her new role as CEO at HCP and we really look forward to maintaining our relationship with them there.
So with that let's now take your questions.
Operator perhaps you'd explain the process for us.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brandon Dobell with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if we could focus on -- I guess first the different cost lines this quarter.
Great leverage in the comp and benefits line but then the opposite thing happened on the OpEx line.
Maybe is there anything particular -- I guess that drove either the kind of outperformance or underperformance relative to what you thought? What happened with this kind of new growth? And then I guess as a follow on how should we think about those 2 lines acting as you move into '14 given your outlook for the transaction businesses? I think Brandon just to jump in there first.
If you take a look at the OpEx lines and compare year-over-year as a percentage of fee revenue we actually went down 100 basis points and probably one of the things just to think a little bit about is first of all when you take a look at fixed costs fixed costs are up on a facilities basis just minutely at 2% and the real growth driver there is in IT which is up 8% year-over-year as a result of the investments that we are making in our platforms specifically in IT to further drive our productivity and better our customer experience.
If you take a look at variable variable is up slightly really to fund our pipeline furiously [ph] as we drive into the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay so it doesn't sound like there's anything in particular -- I guess comps and benefit was on a -- based on a fee-revenue basis that was necessarily strange.
I just want a better course.
I think we've seen in I don't know several years the percentage of sales basis so is that a -- can you guys continue to do that? Or is there something in this quarter that was particularly strong for you guys? No I think it really is the result of a number of investments and productivity initiatives and all of the work from the folks around the globe really executing on the plan.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if you can give us some kind of market outlook for investment sales and capital markets as well as leasing -- any thought on kind of what a big picture would look like for Property &amp; Facilities Management or the project management kind of industry or your expected growth next year? Well project management broadly follows kind of corporate investment confidence and so as we've commented corporates do feel as though they're moving ahead with more resolution than they have in recent years actually the last 2 years.
We've seen that in the uptick in leasing activities.
So I'd expect the project and development business to show stronger trends next year than we've seen this year.
And you see it picking up quarter-by-quarter during the year.
Property Management business will continue to grow organically rapidly in Asia and we bundled our facility management in there as well.
There's rapid organic growth in Asia; in Europe and the U.S.
it's a combination of market share growth and we mentioned the Means Knaus and Capital Partners acquisitions in the U.S.
That's us driving share gains through selected acquisitions.
And additionally in Europe we'll see facilities management pick up on an organic basis because as we've mentioned on several calls the European corporates are becoming more prone to outsourcing their real estate management.
So the number of drivers there which we would expect to see continued healthy growth in the facility and property management area.
Your next question comes from the line of David Gold with Sidoti.
LLC</strong> Let's see.
Couple of quick ones.
First I guess if we go back to the second quarter there was -- one of the issues that we ran into was some delayed revenue from -- if I remember right some outsourced or some larger outsourced contracts.
It looks like presumably that revenue started to flow.
Can you give a sense for -- if those contracts turned -- if the revenue was sufficient to turn the contracts profitable just yet A and B the timeline for the revenue to flow in in its entirety.
Okay.
You're right we hit -- we had -- the P&amp;L was hit Q2 this year with a couple in particular 2 big start-ups where we saw the cost coming in before the revenues and therefore it did affect profitability in a negative way.
As you've correctly observed that's beginning to reverse itself they're not profitable yet but they're getting that way.
And they certainly will be in the -- from Q1 of next year.
So that's the timeline really for turning those 2 major accounts profitable.
We have accounts coming in all the time.
So there's constant flow of us front loading costs to put in structures in advance of revenues.
It's just that there were 2 particularly bulky ones in Q2 this year.
LLC</strong> Sure.
Sure.
Okay perfect.
And then part 2.
On the leasing side of the world one can get a sense there -- you're notably more optimistic there than you've been and obviously -- and the results are improving as well but curious if you can give us a sense for where the optimism is coming from? Is it just economic data is it client inquiries or third quarter performance or a mix of all of that? It's -- certainly the economic forecasts as I've mentioned in the preamble of generally being revised on the upside.
That's for the U.S.
for Europe.
I think Brazil and Argentina are the only places that feel like they're going the other way -- India as well.
But that excepted China the Southeast Asian countries are all showing increases in forecasts for economic growth for next year.
So those are positive background that's positive background material.
What we're seeing in more concrete terms is a steady increase in the -- in market activity in leasing across Europe and America in particular.
And you've seen in our own numbers they're picking up as well from negatives to neutral and now positive growth in leasing activity across major centers and we just see that -- put it all together and listening to our calls from clients; calls are [ph] more about expansion getting through that process of delay and short-term renewals and into sort of back into business as usual as their confidence grows back again put it all together and that's the reason for our optimism.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of David Lane with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> As we're modeling thinking about 2014 it would be helpful to review if you could maybe the one-time costs that you had in 2013 related to the costs from the outsourcing contracts.
And maybe if you think it's sizable enough to call out from Brazil as well? We've talked -- I think Brazil was an indication -- if Brazil had been removed from our results in 2012 and 2013 our margins in the Americas would actually have gone up.
So that may be an indicator to you -- to the scale of the -- it had gone up about to a positive margin expansion -- expansion of about 0.2 or 20 percentage -- 20 basis points year-on-year.
As for the cost of start-up of contracts we haven't split those out and I don't think we would want to start to do that now.
But be aware they are significant enough for us to have mentioned.
I think though David the only thing I'd say there though is just in comparison to just the magnitude of our business overall.
It's not material in the whole scheme of things.
So as you're looking to second quarter and if you're keying off year-over-year just be aware that there was an impact there off a little over 50 60 basis points.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then in the LaSalle business.
Is 2014 a bigger year or a smaller year for fund closures or asset sales than 2013.
I'm just wondering if the headwinds for assets under management growth ease next year? No.
I think it's broad -- I'd say at the moment it's broadly neutral.
I mean you don't win mandates until you win them and you don't close funds until you close them and in the current market for fundraising closing these funds is pretty hard work.
What we have -- would expect to see is in broad terms the funds raised would balance the funds outflow at least balance funds outflow.
The other aspect of the equation which is worth taking into account in terms of what's the assets under management because that's the balance of funds in/funds out.
And then the investments that we have -- the pace of our actual investments.
And there we're finding some interesting dynamics because the move of the investment community has had into quality assets means that finding stable cash-producing core assets is getting harder and harder.
So we in common with many other investors are moving out to a little bit along the risk curve to development of work to work to assets where more value needs to be added in order to produce interesting investment returns and the investment returns we're targeting.
So the investment pace is going to be a challenge in the course of 2014.
You heard the numbers in terms of the total markets for investment sales.
So far this year will cap -- will top $500 billion for the year as a whole.
That demand is only going to get stronger so it will be a lot of money chasing assets in 2014.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then I do get this question occasionally from investors side.
I thought I'd give you an opportunity to respond.
Do you think any of the recent slowing growth in leasing has anything to do with secular drag from corporate occupiers operating with less square footage per employee? Yes for sure.
There is a trend -- you called it secular I think we'll see whether how long it remains a trend.
But in the U.S.
Europe in particular this trend of densification which comes in various forms.
I mean less square foot per person smaller cubes if you want to put it that way is one version of it.
But so also is working in what's called alternative work styles where spaces are much less assigned to one individual and telling is more prevalent breakout spaces huddle spaces become part of the total mix and it turns out that that combination is actually more efficient in use of space than the traditional style office or cubing.
All these trends are tending to work together.
And to an extent they've been one of the reasons why the demand for leased office space has been comparatively slow to pick up in this post recovery -- post-recession recovery period one of the aspects not the only driver.
But we actually like that trend.
We think it's a change which we can help to educate our corporate clients with.
We certainly earn a lot of money advising them on just those trends.
But it has another interesting effect which is that as it were demand from just gross brute office space accrued office space it tends to be attenuated by these densification strategies.
So the demand for high-quality office space actually goes up and what gets dropped is the lower grade and peripheral space and high-quality office space is just our sweet spot around the world.
Sorry for the long answer.
But it's a very interesting area.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First of all I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the process of rolling out into more of the secondary markets that I think you touched on a little bit here but you talked about it more last call.
Just how far through that process are you? And is it predominantly in the Americas where it's occurring? We are not rolling out in a huge way beyond our traditional core of major city centers.
If anything we're tending to increase our presence and grow market share in the major centers.
Having said that there are some areas of our business where we are expanding our footprint.
And we are looking at ways of servicing our corporate clients across Africa because we just cannot avoid the fact that there is a demand there for real estate services in Africa and the big corporations are now moving into Africa with some resolution and there are clients.
So we are working out ways of servicing them there in an efficient safe and cost-effective way.
We're also expanding our industrial footprint that's to say the work we do for distribution companies worldwide.
And there we do need to be in places like Rotterdam Long Beach and nearer -- closer to the port areas than the traditional city center CBD office space.
So those are some of the trends which have led us to what you might call secondary centers.
Research Division</strong> Okay but it's not -- if you're looking in the U.S.
opening new offices in say more in the middle of the country as opposed to the New Yorks; the San Frans.
No [indiscernible].
I mean at some point in our future development that we did talk about the long-term that is an opportunity for us.
We see it as an opportunity.
But we've chosen not to focus on that area at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay and one last question.
If we're thinking about the capital markets business.
Are you seeing at this point a greater mix of revenues coming in from non-core transactions generating the revenues? No.
No we're not Michael.
We're seeing core transactions driving our performance.
And to that point we're seeing in terms of the number of transactions year-over-year the size of those transactions increase and we're also penetrating major markets around the world.
Your next question comes from the line of Whitney Stevenson with JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> It's Mitch here with Whitney.
Just back to the office efficiency discussion Colin.
Are we seeing -- you mentioned U.S.
and Europe are we seeing similar trends in secondary markets as well? Office densification or alternative work ...
Research Division</strong> Yes exactly.
More collaborative work environment and less square footage per employee are we seeing something similar in the secondary markets? There's a pressure on space.
If you think a suburban office campuses I mean there's a lot of space in those typically in those places.
So there's been traditionally less pressure in those areas.
But there's also -- generally so that that's sort of economic point whereas in city centers New York London Paris.
Yes of course people are very focused on the -- just the sheer accrued [ph] cost per -- of per square foot.
But there's a generational thing at work here too where you're seeing the latest generation in employees coming into the workforce so that those between 25 and 35 are much more oriented towards this looser arrangement of working space looser working -- so they can form teams and reform teams according to what they're actually working on.
They like to be able to work in Starbucks.
They like to be able to work in the coffee shop.
They like to be able to work in the corridors.
So they've got a different approach to the sort of space they require.
And when you're talking about our corporate clients trying to attract those sorts of employees they're paying attention to those trends and they're trying to organize their office space in such a way that it's attractive to draw in and then retain those sorts of employees.
That trend also is an overlay to this sort of the pressure on the cost per square feet.
Research Division</strong> So it seems like it's pretty broad.
When you look at potentially renewals...
It's coming more broadly I mean.
This is a trend not a mass -- a massive impact at the moment.
It's just a trend.
And Mitch I would also say that would be for Class A secondary market suburban office space.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
When you look at renewals possibly as a percentage of the leasing that you did in the quarter curious about what that percentage is and maybe if you can compare that to historical levels.
It seems like it's up.
I know we're seeing a lot of cautiousness from occupiers.
Maybe what that level is versus historical and maybe the last peak and trough if you can give that comparison? Yes we don't track it systematically.
What we can say is what we have noticed is that the average size of lease transaction across the U.S.
has been increasing and the term [indiscernible] indicates to us that the larger corporates now are getting on with taking space or renewing space whereas they have been significantly holding back in the early part of this year.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I think Whitney has one.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask I think you mentioned in the prepared remarks that you saw more productivity from your domestic brokers.
And I was wondering first if that's across both leasing and sales.
And then also if you can give a little color around how you measure the increase in productivity if that's just bigger deal sizes and thus more revenue per transaction or if you're actually seeing more transactions? Sure Whitney.
I'll start and I then know Colin will have some remarks in this regard.
But first of all we're seeing it across-the-board in terms of leasing as well as in our capital markets group.
And we measure productivity based on production per head and then we also base line in terms of comp per revenue dollars and margin per head as well.
Those trends have all been moving in the right direction.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Todd Lukasik with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Just a question.
You mentioned the acquisitions in the quarter.
I don't know if I missed this or not.
But did you disclose the impact on growth either overall or in any of the specific business lines where they were? We did not Todd and not that it was a big secret or anything this is really just been going along with the strategic focus that Colin's been executing in terms of the smaller more focused bolt-on transactions by market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And was the biggest impact of that in America's Property &amp; Facility Management business? Yes it was Todd.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay.
And then I think you mentioned an expectation for a 2014 positive absorption on the leasing side of 5% to 10%.
I'm just curious if you expect it to kind of fall out the way it did this year with Americas the strongest; and Asia-Pacific the weakest; and EMEA somewhere between or whether or not you expect those impacts to shift in 2014? No.
That's exactly what we're expecting.
It's looking very much like that this quarter and we're expecting that trend to continue.
Reason Europe's still picking up growth.
I mean you can't call it spectacular yet but it's enough to drive some growth in leasing activity.
Asia not so yet.
The Asian -- the larger Asian economies are still trying to find a way out of the funk they've been in the last 12 months or so.
China beginning to find some trends but India is still going backwards.
And Asia significantly to Australia has been a weak market.
Rental rates are declining across all of the major cities and sort of absorption has been negative.
Net absorptions have been negative across those major cities.
Combination of the financial services pressures which we've seen across the world hitting Sydney and Melbourne and then the whole minerals and primary resources sector impact of slowing growth across Asia.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you expect Asia to be positive in the leasing side next year? Or could it be negative again? Yes I know we expect it to be positive but only just...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last question for me you mentioned the investments for future growth.
I'm wondering about 2014 I don't know if you want to talk about this in detail or not yet but just with regards to those investments in the context of potentially expanding margins or should we be thinking about them being large enough to be flat to down next year instead? They'll have no margin -- differential margin impact compared to '13 because we'll spend roughly the same percentage of revenue next year as we did this year as we did the year before as we've done every year except in the midst of the recession.
We continue to invest at the same rate in the redevelopment and growth of the business.
And there are no further questions at this time.
Okay.
Well thank you everybody.
Since there are no further questions we'll finish today's call.
Thanks again for participating and we look forward to speaking to you all at the end of the fourth quarter.
Have a good evening.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call for Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated.
Today's call is being recorded.
Any statements made about future results and performance or about plans expectations and objectives are forward-looking statements.
Actual results and performance may differ from those included in the forward-looking statements as a result of factors discussed in the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 and in our other reports filed with the SEC.
The company disclaims any undertaking to update or revise any forward-looking statement.
A transcript of this call will be posted and available on the company's website.
A web audio replay will also be available for download.
Information and the link can be found on the company's website.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Colin Dyer Chief Executive Officer for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator and good evening everybody and welcome to this review of our results for 2013's fourth quarter and for the full year.
I'm in a freezing Washington D.C.
and Christie Kelly our Chief Financial Officer joins me from a frigid Chicago.
She's going to be reviewing our performance in detail in a few minutes.
Thanks to an excellent finish to the year we delivered strong fee revenue growth increased adjusted net income and improved adjusted operating income margins for both the quarter and the full year.
Fee revenue reached $1.3 billion for the fourth quarter and that's 17% above the fourth quarter of 2012.
Full-year fee revenue was $4 billion 12% higher than 2012 levels.
And adjusted net income for the fourth quarter increased 28% to $150 billion from the fourth quarter of 2012.
For the full year adjusted net income was $285 million up 16% from last year; and full-year adjusted earnings per share reached $6.32 per share up 15% from last year.
And during the year we continued to improve the financial strength of our balance sheet by reducing our net debt levels.
Our results came in a market environment of improving conditions in most parts of the world.
You will find additional information on the slides posted on the investor revenue section at jll.com.
At yearend world economic growth for 2013 stood at 2.5%.
For 2014 we anticipate steadily increasing growth with GDP growth reaching 3.3% globally.
We're seeing this positive movement reflected in real estate markets around the world.
Investors remain confident and active and corporate markets show signs of a more sustainable recovery following two challenging years.
As you'll see on Slide 3 capital markets continue to expand strongly through the fourth quarter with investment volumes rising 22% globally compared with Q4 2012 to $200 billion.
Full-year market volumes were $560 billion 21% above 2012 levels.
While global leasing activities still trail the more buoyant capital markets levels did improve in the fourth quarter as gross absorption increased 4% compared with Q4 2012.
Full-year leasing volumes were up 1% on 2012 levels.
To sum up we think the world's commercial real estate markets finished 2013 substantially stronger than as the year before.
Capital markets continue to show remarkable strength while the more cautious occupier market demonstrated early signs of progression.
So for a sense of how we performed in this environment I'll turn the call over to Christie.
Thank you Colin.
Good afternoon and good evening to everyone on our call.
As Colin mentioned we had an excellent fourth quarter to finish out the year.
We delivered strong fee revenue growth increased adjusted net income and improved adjusted margins for both the quarter and the year.
Our consolidated results demonstrate our ability to produce profitable revenue growth while consistently investing in our business for long-term benefits.
Our results were delivered with a global economy that appears to be on the upswing particularly in developed economies albeit muted and with continuing challenges.
Our performance continued to reflect the contrasting market conditions between capital markets and leasing where strong capital markets were supported by low interest rates while leasing markets were impacted by the hesitancy of corporate occupiers to make decisions.
Although leasing lagged capital market's activity we delivered for our shareholders an overall record level of revenues as well as a record bottom line.
As Colin said adjusted earnings per share were $6.32 for 2013 an increase of 15% over 2012 calculated on record adjusted net income of $285 million.
Consolidated fee revenue was $4 billion for 2013.
Our 12% consolidated fee revenue growth on a local currency basis over 2012 was broad-based in 2013.
All three of our geographic segments delivered double-digit year-over-year increases in revenue performance as we continued to deliver profitable growth across varied markets globally.
We are consistently delivering our growth with a combination of M&amp;A activity and organic growth leveraging the expertise of our people and the strength of our JLL brand to win new clients and expand existing relationships.
For the fourth quarter 2013 consolidated fee revenue was $1.3 billion.
Our 17% consolidated fee revenue growth on a local currency basis also was broad-based across geographic and services segments.
Our revenue increases of 38% in capital markets and hotels and 8% in leasing demonstrate our ability to continue to capture share while at the same time illustrating the improving but lagging momentum in leasing.
Additionally we continued to grow our annuity real estate services businesses such as property and facility management where fee revenue was up 23% in the quarter versus fourth quarter 2012.
Our LaSalle investment management business continued its momentum achieving a total of $7 billion in capital raised for 2013 and ending the year with $47.6 billion in assets under management.
We continue to make investments in our platform to drive growth and enhance our client experience.
We also were focusing on productivity enhancements to increase revenue in key markets while achieving improved long-term profitability.
Adjusted operating income margin calculated on a fee revenue basis was 9.7% for the year compared with 9.3% last year.
This increase represents 12.8% incremental margin to fee revenue for the year and a 19.3% incremental margin to fee revenue for the fourth quarter.
We remain focused on balancing top-line growth platform investments and productivity to achieve incremental margin and earnings per share growth.
And now turning to the segment results.
First in the Americas.
Full-year fee revenue increased 10% in local currency over 2012.
Capital markets and hotels had year-over-year fee revenue growth of 29% outpacing broader market volumes which were up 18% for both the quarter and the year.
Recurring property and facility management fee revenue grew 14% for the full year 2013 driven by new outsourcing wins on-boarded during the year.
The Americas leasing revenue increased 6% from last year essentially in line with the slow market that started showing signs of improvement in the fourth quarter.
Operating income margin calculated on a fee revenue basis was 10.2% for the full year 2013 consistent with last year and 14.7% in the fourth quarter up 60 basis points over the fourth quarter of 2012.
Solid growth and positive operating leverage in U.S.
corporate solutions capital markets and leasing for the year as well as strong capital markets activity in Mexico during the fourth quarter combined with cost actions taken earlier in the year were somewhat offset by continued challenging market conditions in Brazil.
Excluding Latin America the Americas' operating income margin increased by 20 basis points compared with last year.
Moving to our EMEA business we had an exceptionally strong finish to 2013 where our people delivered full-year fee revenue growth of 17% on a local currency basis over 2012.
Capital markets and hotels led the year-over-year increase with 41% growth and property and facility management fee revenue grew 12% over full year 2012.
EMEA leasing revenue grew 7% for the year where France's performance has been consistently positive U.K.
performance began building momentum during the second half of the year and Germany finished with a very strong fourth quarter.
EMEA leasing performance was bolstered by a 21% revenue increase in the fourth quarter led by the performance of our Paris leasing team which grew revenue despite leasing in their market declining 16% against the prior year.
EMEA's adjusted operating income excluding King Sturge amortization grew to $92 million for the year up from $59 million a year ago an impressive 56% growth rate.
Adjusted operating income margins on a fee revenue basis grew to 8.2% in 2013 up from 6.2% in 2012.
EMEA's growth came from throughout the region with a few exceptions where decisions were made to prune underperforming businesses and position for better long-term performance.
In Asia Pacific fee revenue across the region was up 14% in local currency over 2012 again with a very strong fourth quarter to finish 2013.
We are seeing sustained growth across our annuity business with property and facility management continuing to gain market share and winning nearly 70% of our corporate outsourcing opportunities.
Capital markets and hotels also had a strong year with an increase in fee revenue of 53% on a local currency basis from last year.
Although we outperformed in a leasing market that was down 12% our leasing revenue was down 6% from last year as corporate clients in many Asia Pacific markets remained hesitant to make commitments.
Operating income grew to $77 million for the year up from $65 million a year ago and operating income margin improved by 70 basis points to 9.1% on a fee revenue basis.
The tone across Asia Pacific remains mixed.
Regardless of the complexity faced in performing throughout APAC region we have invested for our future in the region gained market share in key markets and businesses and continue to work hard on productivity all of which is reflected in these strong results for Asia Pacific.
LaSalle Investment Management had a robust quarter and year in terms of capital raised.
Assets under management grew by $900 million in the quarter to nearly $48 billion.
Advisory fees for the year decreased slightly from last year to $223 million with contributions from new business offset by portfolio dispositions particularly in Asia Pacific.
Incentive fees added almost $14 million of revenue during the year a decrease from the $23 million earned in 2012.
We expect similar lower levels of incentive fees to continue at least through the first half of 2014.
Equity earnings for the year were $31 million driven by gains from continued disposition activity and from increases in asset values.
With respect to our investment grade balance sheet and the strength of our financial position we reduced our total net debt to $437 million making this the second consecutive year that the firm has reduced net debt by more than $100 million while continuing to invest in the business.
We benefited from the lower pricing on our credit facility which was amended and extended at the beginning of the fourth quarter with $34.7 million in interest expense for the full year and $8.1 million in the fourth quarter down 20% on the quarter versus last year.
To sum up we had an excellent fourth quarter and year.
The Americas had double-digit fee revenue growth driven by strong capital markets activity and new wins for property and facility management.
EMEA's adjusted operating income margin on a fee revenue basis grew two full percentage points in 2013.
Asia's corporate solutions business continued to win new clients at an impressive rate and LaSalle continues to deliver performance for its investors and the firm.
Further we continue to strengthen our financial position and investment grade balance sheet.
Looking to 2014 our pipelines are healthy and our business is confident.
I'll now turn the call back over to Colin.
Thank you Christie.
So turning to representative business wins for the fourth quarter and the full year Slide 4 lists some recent wins from across the firm's core service lines and geographies.
In our corporate outsourcing business we won 43 new assignments in 2013 expanded existing relationships with 18 more clients and reviewed another 17 contracts.
Early in the fourth quarter JPMorgan Chase appointed us to deliver facilities management services for its 27 million square-foot portfolio in the Eastern U.S.
and Asia Pacific.
We are also providing the global IT platform for all of their real estate data and in an innovative service extension we're doing this on an application service provider or ASP basis.
We were appointed global real estate partner by Gemalto the Amsterdam-based global digital security business for its 43-country portfolio.
Exelis a global aerospace company selected us for facilities management for its 7.5 million square-foot portfolio.
We continued to expand our local market level -- our local market level corporate solutions business which serves midmarket corporate clients.
During the year we won 59 assignments covering 245 million square feet of space in this growth segment.
Looking back over 2013 as a whole we successfully implemented three major outsourcing assignments -- HSBC and Nippon Steel Glass globally and Canada Post in Canada hence successfully launching key global customers with speed and efficiency.
During the quarter our property and asset management teams were awarded assignments by MetLife for 617 000 square feet of space at One North Franklin in Chicago and by Larsen &amp; Toubro for the 1.9 million square-foot cyber-tower high-tech complex in Hyderabad India.
Turning to representative investment sales transactions in Moscow we advised on the sale of White Gardens an office center.
While the price remains confidential the transaction was one of Russia's largest investment transactions in 2013.
And in Singapore we completed the 917 million Singapore dollar sale of TripleOne Somerset a retail and office development.
Fourth quarter leasing and tenant representation transactions included completing a 460 000 square-foot blend-and-extend lease renewal for Wells Fargo Bank in Minneapolis and representing Marks &amp; Spencer in the U.K.
to lease 450 000 square feet of industrial logistical space in Sheffield.
At LaSalle Investment Management in 2013 LaSalle's strong performance and strong relationships with top institutional investors generated $7 billion of private equity capital commitments.
This level of activity indicates that institutional investors are continuing to allocate capital to commercial real estate through investment advisors that they trust.
We continue to invest in future growth across our business in 2013 attracting top professionals to our ranks and completing five tactical merges during the year.
Our global executive board sets the tone and strategy for acquisitions and demands a cultural and strategic and financial fit for any candidate but we prefer M&amp;A opportunities come up from regions and countries and from LaSalle Investment Management as we are the best positioned to source and filter good opportunities.
Looking forward to 2014 Slide 5 summarizes our projections for global investment sales and leasing markets for this year.
Continued positive momentum in the global capital markets will see investment volumes increasing by about 15% above 2013 levels to around $650 billion.
Leasing volumes will also improve this year with gross absorption up 5% to 10% compared to last year's flat results.
This in turn is the result of corporate occupiers shifting their sights from consolidation and hesitancy to growth and expansion during the year.
In real estate investment management we anticipate that institutional investors will continue to allocate incremental capital to commercial real estate.
With prime assets in top markets increasingly hard to come by many investors will move up the risk curve in search of higher returns.
They're seeking non-core deals in core markets and core deals in non-core markets.
As for our own prospects for 2014 we continue to see positive momentum across our business as our markets continue to improve.
Confidence and optimism continues to build amongst our clients around the world and we have the financial strength to keep investing in future growth whether that involves further M&amp;A activity capital investments or co-investments alongside LaSalle's clients.
So we are looking forward enthusiastically to the coming year.
So in closing as on previous calls and before Christie and I take your questions I want to mention some of the independent honors that we've received in the fourth quarter reinforcing we believe our reputation as a leader in global real estate services and investment management.
So a few examples: at the Southeast Asia Property Awards our Indonesia Singapore Thai and Philippine businesses were all voted best property consultant.
That's all of the major ASEAN economies.
Julien Zhang Managing Director of our Bejing office was named Distinguished Corporate Real Estate Provider Executive by CoreNet Global and in the U.K.
we won the National Property Advisor of the Year at the Estates Gazette annual awards.
In the Americas finally we won Best Place to Work awards in Chicago and Charlotte bringing the year's total to 12 such regional awards.
Also in the Americas we recently announced Greg O'Brien's appointment as the region's new CEO.
Greg has a long record of driving growth and profits across a range of businesses.
He has shown a real commitment to advancing our global agenda and strategy and he constantly reinforces our shared values of client service teamwork and integrity.
And so we're glad to welcome Greg to our global executive board.
Finally Christie and I would like to thank all of our colleagues around the world for an excellent year in 2013.
Their ongoing commitment to our clients and to teamwork and to the highest ethical standards will continue to serve us our clients and our shareholders well in this coming year.
So with those remarks we'll now turn over to questions.
Operator could you please explain the Q&amp;A process? Hi good afternoon.
Sorry I hope you can hear me I'm on the road a little bit.
But nice work as usual for the fourth quarter.
Quick question actually.
Was curious on the leasing side of the house.
Some commentary on leasing momentum.
Can you talk about what you see in there by way of pipelines and really what it takes to get us to the next step on the leasing side? Yeah.
If you look at our quarterly numbers David you'll see that the leasing picture picked up steadily throughout the year.
So Q1 from memory was down over 20% globally on the prior year and then it improved through the year so that we were roundabout even year on year by Q4 perhaps a little ahead in some regions.
So what you have there is a picture of momentum building.
I think as economic growth picked up and as the concerns which -- sorry corporates had around the euro around the fiscal cliff around Chinese government change all gradually one by one fell away and kind of the things to worry were diminished or disappeared and what we see at the moment is as Christie said good pipelines and a prospect of steadily building momentum and as you saw from our charts or you will see from our charts when you get back off the road our people are projecting 5% to 10% overall growth in leasing activity for the full year.
Perfect perfect.
That's helpful.
And then one other.
The outsourcing contracts that gave us a little bit of difficulty a little bit earlier in the year presumably by my calculation have to be profitable to you by now.
Could you give a sense for if that's true and also how far along we are on the ramp-up there or how much more incremental profitability might we see or are we sort of at the full run rate? Well the three big ones that we listed there are HSBC NSG and one other that's escaped me.
Those will be reaching profitability at varying speeds.
They're not all there yet.
But from memory one is and one's breakeven and the other is still in the loss-making phase.
So they're coming through and then will build profitability throughout 2014.
Against that as you heard right at the end of the year we won JPMorgan we'll be implementing that and so the startup negatives on that will kick in in the early part of 2014.
So those are the big contracts that are around at the moment and in the implementation phase.
Just to add David the one contact that Colin was referring to is -- David could you go on mute please? Absolutely.
Christie.
The one contract that Colin was referring to David is the Canadian Post.
Perfect.
Thank you both.
Thanks David.
Please go back on mute.
Okay.
A quick one on sort of cap rates.
In the U.S.
they largely shrugged off rising interest rates in 2013 and we got about 100 basis points rise of the 10-year but cap rates were pretty flat to down across the property tax.
I guess embedded in your expectations for capital markets volumes do you think the next 50 to 100 basis points increase in interest rate is going to have a pretty negligible impact on cap rates and investment sales volumes as well? Not to be cavalier about it but yeah 50 to 100 basis points shouldn't impact the momentum.
If it gets into 2015 and we're looking at from here a 100 to 200 basis-point rise or 150 to 200 basis points then we might have a different story to tell.
But our perspective at the moment is that this year that rise in interest rates has actually been compensated more or less by a cut in the margins that the banks take on credits.
So you've seen one almost compensating for the other.
So banks margins have gone through the U.S.
for example 250 to110 basis points which is not good for the banks but it's fine for the property investment community.
Looking forward there won't be much compensation for that.
But what we do see is rental rates rising.
And so when people are underwriting their acquisition they could now with much more uncertainty behind increases in rental rates to underpin cash flows.
If you add to that the sheer weight of equity that's slipping to invest in the market and the increasing availability of debt and easing of the banks' covenant requirements and easing of banks' underwriting standards you've got we think a pretty robust market prospects again for 2014.
Okay.
Great.
And then what are some of the puts and takes that could drive the incremental margin up or down from the top line [ph] that you did in 2013? Hi David.
This is Christie.
I think just in terms of some of the puts I think is first of all as Colin mentioned the increasing momentum in leasing volumes I think as well the productivity initiative that have been going on strong in the business.
And in that regard we're focused on price process and people and sharing you know we've got the right -- the right mix across those three elements and balancing revenue growth.
I think in terms of some of the takes specifically it'll relate to if we see any volatility out there in the global economic environment that you know causes momentum from a capital market you know position to pause and leasing and volumes to retract further.
And overall although it's less than 5% of our total business you know challenges in Brit countries as I mentioned remain and so that is also something that over and above the core business could cause us to have a bit of a stumble.
Nothing significant though that we see on the horizon.
Okay.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
Thanks David.
Great quarter.
Thanks Mitch.
Just I think Christie mentioned turning some underperforming businesses in Europe and I would appreciate if you could elaborate some of the things that you did there.
Sure.
We had a couple of different activities there.
We first of all closed some of our offices in the U.K.
and as well we pruned one of our Swedish businesses in the PAM space that you know for a number of years had -- we'd been focused on driving but just realized after some time that it was best that we sell it.
PAM is property management by the way.
Thank you.
Thanks Colin.
Thanks.
Thanks.
And will we see a slowdown in dispositions within LaSalle in 2014? No.
I think that -- I mean what they're going to be doing for their clients is with each of our markets is there'll be obviously active conversations for clients that are focused on value-add strategies.
They'll be talking probably quite actively about yielding capital gains into strong and rising markets with fulsome demand.
For clients that are on the longer term hold particularly some of the individual mandated clients that we have they might choose to stay with what they've acquired and just yield the cash through the cycle.
The issue for people who are in a sort of open-ended mindset i.e.
long-term investors is that if you sell an asset in this market that's great and you can yield a capital gain but there are real challenges in reinvesting and particularly if your existing asset is a core asset that's to say a secure asset with strong cash flows.
As we said on -- in our remarks in order to reinvest that investors are having to move away from the security of core into non-core or into non-core cities and regions.
So there's a real headwind if you like or counter to sales on the one hand attractive market pricing on the other hand a reinvestment challenge.
If on the other hand you're a short-term investor looking to yield and churn sorry to sell and churn the investment into another sector or it could concern a fund with a closed life [ph] to it then this is obviously a good market to be selling.
But against that we've as we said a very strong inflow of funds so any sales which we -- which take place in 2014 are going to be more than compensated by the investment process on the money that's flowed in in 2013.
Great.
And I think Colin you mentioned with regards to acquisition sourcing deals directly from the people in those regions LaSalle.
You also mentioned culture as being a pretty important piece of the puzzle.
Should I imply that that's going to be -- your strategy is going to be more sort of tuck-in deals looking to strengthen capabilities that sort of thing and nothing major in the horizon? Well if it's about acquiring buildings we're not too bothered about the culture side of things.
But certainly if we're buying people or companies it's just critical.
As to what we do going forward I mean the tactical acquisitions we referred to it's a kind of continuous production line process of deals that are sourced from the -- from local markets.
At the moment we haven't seen any large deals which we like around our sector although we're obviously constantly reviewing and we have an open mind.
Thanks so much.
Great quarter.
Thank you.
Thanks.
A couple of quick ones maybe a better sense of how the property management business -- or I guess it saw pretty good acceleration in revenue growth I think across all the geographies comparing Q3 revenue growth rates to Q4 revenue growth rates.
I guess the drivers behind that acceleration or some color there? And also how to think about the sustainability of high-20s or even a low-20s growth rate versus maybe a low double-digit growth rate.
I guess I'm just trying to get a better idea on how to model that line over the long run kind of from a pure recurring point of view versus stuff that may come in and out quarter to quarter.
Yeah.
Well firstly Brandon we're focused on it.
We've put a push behind real estate serve the property management activities and indeed our facilities management work on the corporate side.
Why? Not everywhere but in most places it's good margin business.
Christie referred to one particular geography where we got out of it because it wasn't good margin business.
But where it is acceptable margin we've been putting -- we've put a push behind it.
And we're doing that because it's a very good countercyclical or let's call it annuity-based income which doesn't subject us to the cyclicality of capital markets in particular and of course leasing as well.
The other aspect to it is that it's often driven acquisition of new business is often driven by capital markets activities.
So where we sell a building either because we're representing the buyer or the seller where we're involved in a transaction that gives us the opportunity to have the dialogue without picking up the property management.
And so with the sort of level of investment sales that you've heard us talk about that's given us the opportunity to get into more discussions with more owners.
So a couple of factors there our own push market dynamics and our own then willingness to get in and have dialogues with people we're representing on the buy or sell side.
So as we think about sustainability of revenue growth do you think in the near term the growth rates in that segment are a little more correlated with just global capital markets activity than they have in the past or is that overstating how fast that business can grow looking out through 2014 and 2015? I think it's correlated in the sense that one is up strongly the capital markets business and so the property management is up.
So it's not a one-on-one correlation 20% of one drives 20% of the other.
It's maybe 20% growth in capital markets drives 10% or sub-10% growth in property.
But if we keep up the same approach and pressure we should see healthy growth in that area too.
Okay.
And then turning to I guess margins to finish out the year but also expectations.
Good incremental margins in the fourth quarter.
Given how strong the transaction business were I guess it wasn't too surprising.
But maybe Christie should we expect the same kind of incremental margins that we saw in the back half of the year to persist through 2014 or is there maybe a change in the pace of investment that would dilute that or maybe it's the opposite way or incremental margins could be better than we saw in the past inthe back half of 2013? I just want to get a -- trying to get a better sense of how the pacing of expenses will drive margins in the next 12 months.
Sure Brandon.
Thanks so much and happy new year by the way.
Likewise.
I wanted to first from a margin perspective just emphasize to everybody on the phone that we are very focused on striking the right balance in our business between revenue growth and investments in the business and driving incremental margin improvement.
And as you look at Jones Lang LaSalle today and going forward you can expect from us as we always are to be very focused on driving incremental margin improvement.
So when you look forward I think you can expect more of the same from us.
It's what Colin expects and it's what we're focused on delivering for our shareholders.
If you look at the different regions is there maybe one of the regions where you feel you've got more momentum in keeping the cost structure low or maybe it's one region where you feel you know what we're generating a lot of revenue growth beyond expectations and it gives us a little more room to go you know go after some qualified people some talented guys that we've been looking at for a while or to push harder into different property types or is it just not like that at all you're kind of acting the same these days? I'd struggle to pull out one region as having dominant opportunities over another in either revenue growth or margin growth.
But since you've sort of given us the opportunity to talk about what we're seeing with that question it's interesting that the Asia region has grown slower in this year significantly slower than in prior years whereas Europe has grown significantly more quickly.
It's clear that as Europe -- as the economy in Europe begins to pick up I mean from negative to anemic growth that's producing a tremendous amount of activity in the corporate and the investor sector.
And I think in terms of top line growth that's likely to continue and it could well continue to be the strongest region next year.
Asia has got still some challenges which it's working through and that means China with betting in the government almost happened but they've got some shifts away from manufacturing towards internal service and domestic consumption demand which is you know a process rather than an event.
That's going to take them a number of years to work through.
And they've got this unknown but liquidity challenge -- sorry debt challenge which the government is clearly trying to get grips on -- to grips with as well.
So there's some issues there.
India will remain a difficult trading environment.
We struggled all last year just to sort of stand still.
The elections are coming up in May.
And that country will be hesitant through May and perhaps beyond that if there's no clear-cut government.
And you've got issues in Australia where I mean the leasing market in Australia was the worst since we've been keeping records in terms of year-on-year activity down more than 20% on prior years.
And it's got all the challenges of demand from China and primary material prices.
So there's some significant challenges in Asia which should give us still growth because that whole region is growing quite healthily by world standards but it's still struggling to get back to the level of activity we saw in 2011.
And then you've got the U.S.
where momentum is clearly building.
GEP I think will be one above 3% this year against 3% last year.
So -- and we can see it in our client base where they're much more confident and there's much more activity and much more pipeline than we saw a year ago.
So if you want to differentiate between the regions from those remarks I'd say Europe has better prospects America next and Asia will sort of continue along growth but it may sort of struggle to get above 10% in the double-digit figures.
Okay.
And then one final one from me.
As you think about the investment management business the capital you raised during 2013 the fee structure there the pricing on that capital compared to prior years flat down down a lot? I'm just trying to get a feel for how we should think about the incremental capital there and the impact it has on the average fee structure.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Well yes it's down I mean we've said that on prior calls.
What we're doing is replacing effectively capital raise in 2006 2007 with very healthy margins with call it [ph] capital raised at lower margin level -- sorry lower fee level and that will vary by type of client and it will vary by type of investment style.
But it is lower in overall fee rate and so as we've explained in prior quarters just holding the revenue and therefore the profitability flat in the sale during this period of transition has been a complete achievement.
It's been a challenge that's been met and it's been a great achievement.
We are somewhere near the bottom of that cycle of revenue and earnings decline.
We believe that 2014 should see a flat to up year in both numbers but it won't be spectacular as we work through this this trough if you'd like.
Remember the investment management business is also cyclical but it lags the investment sales in leasing markets by a matter of years not months as institutional investors react to market cycles.
Great.
Thanks for the color.
Appreciate it.
Yes thanks.
Just a follow-on question with the acceleration in revenue growth in the properties and facilities management business particularly in the Americas and EMEA regions.
Is that solely a reflection of recent client wins or is there anything that's kind of oneptime in nature in there or is there any seasonality to that that might have boosted the numbers this quarter? I'll jump in there really quickly because I think it's a factor of wins expansions and renewals.
And one of the things I just want to comment upon is that when you take a look at our produced results year over year the business grew 14%.
And with that I just want to make sure I turn it over here to Colin.
Yeah.
There's not a one-time in there Todd it's a steady evolution from the points that I made earlier of our focus on it and market activity.
I mean it helps in both of these geographies that you mentioned.
It helps in Europe that we're the market leader in investment sales and therefore if we focus on cash generation [ph] then that helps a lot.
It helps also that we are very significant in the leasing markets from the landlord side which also gives us access to new business if we win leasing mandates.
In the Americas we're not by any means leaders in the investment sales market.
We're number three or four depending on how you measure it.
But we are growing very rapidly.
And you heard from Christie's numbers the spectacular growth rates we've seen in capital markets.
And with that comes the opportunity as we described to tap the property management opportunities.
And we plan to continue growing by the way rapidly in capital markets in the Americas.
It's been a policy for the last five years.
And we think we're delivering it very effectively and we're continuing to invest in that area.
Okay.
And then I think on prior calls you've talked about the impact of some of these large deals.
You highlighted three this quarter where it can be negative profitability when you start before they ramp up over time.
I was wondering Christie if you had an estimate that you could provide about the impact on margins in terms of basis points maybe that that may have had in the year.
I think if you take a look at the margin log that I have in front of me Todd it's not featured anymore.
So the team's done an exceptional job of first of all making up for actually a great new story which was we had a lot of business that we needed to onboard.
And the team's been making great progress at that.
I think going forward we'll be very focused on making sure that we don't have necessarily the same impact.
I think that too one of the ways to think about it is when we had the three big wins for example that Colin talked about together with HSBC it's like onboarding IT systems.
So as you're working through the planning and then bringing everything online sometimes you end up in a situation where you're driving those productivity results and driving everything for the customer.
But that is before we're recognizing revenue.
So again it's not featured in my margin log happy to report.
Okay.
Thanks a lot for the commentary.
Thanks Todd.
Only to thank everybody for your interest in the company.
We'll end the call there.
And we hope to see here all of you again at the end of the first quarter.
So thank you very much and have a good evening everyone.
Good night everyone.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day and welcome to the First Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call for Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated.
Today's call is being recorded.
Any statements made about future results and performance or about plans expectations and objectives are forward-looking statements.
Actual results and performance may differ from those included in the forward-looking statements as a result of factors discussed in the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 and in our other reports filed with the SEC.
The company disclaims any undertaking to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
A transcript of this call will be posted and available on the company's website.
A web audio replay will also be available for download.
Information and the link can be found on the company's website.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Colin Dyer Chief Executive Officer for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Well hello everybody and thank you for joining this review of our results for the first quarter of 2014.
I'm in Switzerland today attending a meeting with various clients including Procter &amp; Gamble a valued and long time client of our firm.
Christie Kelly our CFO is joining me from Chicago and Christie will discuss details of our financial performance in a couple of minutes.
But let me begin as I usually do with a few headlines.
Our fee revenue in the quarter reached $878 million 13% higher than the first quarter of last year.
Adjusted net income totaled $17 million and that's $0.39 a share which compares with $16 million or $0.36 a share a year ago.
And our Board of Directors had announced a 5% increase in our semiannual dividend and that's up to $0.23 per share which indicates our confidence in the firm's continuing growth in cash generation.
Revenue growth in all 3 regions was driven primarily by strong performances in Leasing and by growth in our Property &amp; Facility Management and Project and Development Services businesses.
Our first quarter Capital Markets growth slowed year-on-year following a very active close to 2013.
But strongly investment sales pipelines indicate that this is a timing issue and not a trend.
LaSalle Investment Management continue to attract capital from institutional investors and after raising $7 billion in 2013 saw nearly $1 billion of equity commitments during this first quarter.
LaSalle also has a very good pipeline for the second quarter.
Conditions in the global economy and in real estate markets continue to have broadly positive trend.
In addition to my comments here you will find more detailed information on the slides posted in the Investor Relations section at jll.com.
The steady economic recovery remains on track and it's now into its fifth year.
Global GDP is expected to grow by 3.4% this year and by 3.8% in 2015.
Regionally we forecast 5% growth in Asia Pacific 2.9% growth in the Americas and 1.5% in Europe this year.
Turning to global real estate markets.
As you will see on Slide 3 investment sales volumes continue to build and were up 28% over the last 12-month period.
And in the first quarter market volumes totaled $136 billion.
The wave of capital targeting real estate continues to push up prices with capital values on prime assets in 25 major markets increasing by more than 8% year-on-year.
Prime office yields continue to compress in major cities like London Paris and Tokyo.
While Leasing market activity measured by gross absorption remains flat we think that many markets have turned a corner.
Growing market optimism and evidence of increased occupier activity of a strong evidence of the shift.
In the U.S.
during the quarter demand was more evenly distributed across markets and shortages of grade A space are boosting occupancy in grade B space.
European leasing volumes were marginally below the first quarter of last year but solidly in line with the region's 5-year average.
Most West European leasing markets saw increased activity from a year ago but volumes in Central and Eastern Europe declined by 22% heavily impacted by reduced corporate activity in Moscow.
First quarter leasing volumes in Asia Pacific were up a healthy 21% year-on-year.
Rental rates increased in all 3 regions for the first time since the first quarter of 2012.
Asking rents grew by 4.2% in the U.S.
1.1% in Asia Pacific while European rental growth moved positive for the first time in 2 years increasing by just under 1%.
In general then the first quarter produced a solid start to the year for commercial real estate.
Capital markets remain strong while leasing gained momentum on the back of renewed business confidence and investment.
So for our performance I'll turn the call over to Christie.
Thank you Colin.
Good morning and good afternoon to everyone on our call.
As Colin mentioned we had a solid first quarter to start out the year.
We delivered record first quarter fee revenue results and strong fee revenue growth.
Notably we increased adjusted net income and achieved our third highest adjusted earnings per share ever for our first quarter period.
Our performance was broad-based reflecting the market dynamics that the last 2 quarters where we have seen an improvement in occupier sentiment further supporting investor decision-making.
Our consolidated results demonstrate our ability to produce profitable revenue growth while consistently investing in our business for long-term benefits.
We delivered these results within a global economy that continues to improve steadily particularly in developed economies overshadowed by emerging risks elsewhere and continuing challenges.
As Colin noted in his introduction adjusted earnings per share was $0.39 for first quarter 2014 an increase of 8% over 2013 calculated on adjusted net income of $17 million.
Consolidated fee revenue was $878 million for first quarter 2014 up 13% over last year on a local currency basis.
All 3 of our geographic segments demonstrated our ability to deliver healthy year-over-year increases in revenue performance across varied markets globally.
Our revenue increase of 18% in Leasing demonstrates our ability to continue to capture market share and reflects the improving momentum in leasing markets led by the U.S.
The Capital Markets &amp; Hotels decreased at 6% versus first quarter 2013 primarily reflects EMEA's year-over-year impact of Russia versus a strong comparable quarter in 2013 as well as a general slowing of investment volumes in APAC region for the first quarter after a very active fourth quarter.
We continued to grow our annuity real estate services businesses such as Property &amp; Facility Management where fee revenue was up 20% in the quarter versus first quarter 2013.
Our LaSalle Investment Management business continued the momentum of robust capital raise in 2013 and also benefited from equity earnings in the first quarter of 2014.
We continue to make investments in our platform to drive growth and enhance our client experience.
We also are focusing on productivity enhancements to increase revenue in key markets while achieving improved long-term profitability.
Adjusted operating income margin calculated on a fee revenue basis was 2.4% for the quarter compared with 3.1% first quarter last year.
This decrease is primarily driven by Russia and investments in our platform which impacted our quarterly performance by approximately 130 basis points.
We remain focused on balancing top line growth platform investments and productivity to achieve incremental margin and earnings per share growth.
We will start to look at the segment results of the Americas where first quarter fee revenue increased 20% on a local currency basis over 2013.
Growth was driven by a 24% increase in local currency and leasing and 21% increase in local currency and Property &amp; Facility Management.
We had positive growth in U.S.
Leasing despite a decline in overall market volume activity.
And our Corporate Solutions business continued to win new assignments and increase the scope of relationships with long-standing clients.
Revenue in Capital Markets &amp; Hotels in the Americas was up 4% against a very strong first quarter 2013 which was 39% higher than first quarter 2012.
Excluding our debt business in the Americas our capital markets revenue increased 19%.
The Americas' operating income margins were down slightly while adjusted EBITDA margins were up 20 basis points during the quarter.
The operating margin declined primarily resulted from the shift in revenue mix to more Property &amp; Facility Management revenue and less capital markets revenue as well as our ongoing platform investment.
We continue to both invest in future growth for the Americas while also focusing on productivity and cost discipline to drive incremental full year margin and long-term profitable growth.
In our EMEA business fee revenue grew $23 million or 6% local currency.
Russia's contribution to operating income for the quarter was down $5.4 million year-on-year against a strong first quarter of 2013.
Property &amp; Facility Management and Project and Development services both had double-digit fee revenue growth in local currency for the quarter.
EMEA's leasing revenue was up 6% and Capital Markets &amp; Hotels saw a decrease in revenue compared to a strong first quarter 2013 which was 50% higher than the first quarter 2012.
The decrease in Capital Markets &amp; Hotels revenue is primarily due to Russia which for context represented 4% of our total EMEA revenue and 1% of our total firm revenue for the 2013 year.
Excluding the impact of Russia our EMEA operating income margins improved 120 basis points from the first quarter of last year.
This underlying operating improvement reflected the positive impact of turning to profit or pruning loss-making businesses as well as the strength of our performance in a majority of the markets in which we compete.
Our EMEA business outlook for the year remains positive as we capitalize on improving economic and real estate fundamentals continue to effectively drive efficiency through productivity combined with technology investments and seek M&amp;A opportunities to supplement long-term profitable growth.
Moving onto our Asia Pacific business.
Fee revenue across the region was up 11% in local currency over 2013.
Property &amp; Facility Management fee revenue grew 17% in local currency continuing the sustained growth in this annuity revenue base.
Leasing revenue grew 5% in local currency.
Slower than overall market volume growth due to a number of deals that moved into the second quarter an indication that good business momentum continues.
Our Capital Markets &amp; Hotels revenue was down 7% in the quarter favorably comparing to a 15% decline in overall investment market volume against record 2013 levels.
The Asia Pacific operating income margins decreased slightly from both the shift in revenue mix to more Property &amp; Facility Management revenue and lower Capital Markets &amp; Hotels revenue combined with our ongoing investments for the future in the region.
The outlook for the year in our Asia Pacific business remains positive given improving market sentiment and our continued focus on productivity and cost control.
LaSalle Investment Management deployed capital and did prudent acquisitions and maintained ongoing disposition activity to generate incentive fees and equity earnings.
Advisory fees for the quarter decreased slightly from a year ago with the wind down of legacy funds in 2013 being offset by new mandates and acquisitions.
Incentive fees were over $3 million for the quarter a slight increase from a year ago.
Equity earnings for the quarter were just under $9 million driven by gains from disposition activity and value increases.
Our long-term view for LaSalle is upbeat as we continue to focus on outstanding investment performance for clients successfully leveraging our current scale and further improving productivity across our platform.
If I could now turn briefly to our consolidated income statement results under GAAP.
First quarter includes 2 offsetting non-cash purchase accounting items from prior year's acquisition activity with no effect to net income.
These items are more fully explained in footnote 4 of our press release.
Importantly our effective tax rate of approximately 25% excluding these items is more representative of our continuing effective tax rate going forward.
Regarding the strengthening of our investment-grade balance sheet we reduced total net debt by $139 million compared with a year ago reflecting our strong cash generating business model.
Favorable pricing on our debt and lower debt levels resulted in a decrease in net interest expense from $7.9 million in the first quarter last year to $6.6 million this quarter.
In addition we announced a semi-annual dividend of $0.23 per share which is a 5% increase from the December 2013 dividend and reflects our confidence in the business.
To sum it up we had a strong first quarter and start to the year.
I will now turn the call back over to Colin.
Thank you Christie.
So turning to some business wins for the first quarter.
On slide you'll see recent activity from across our different service lines and geographies.
In our corporate outsourcing business we won 11 new assignments in the quarter expanded 5 relationships and renewed another 8 contracts.
You will see on the slides that they ranged from Scania and Crédit Suisse to Volkswagen and Godrej &amp; Boyce.
We also continued to build a local market Corporate Solutions business which serves corporate clients who purchase real estate services locally.
During the quarter we won 14 assignments covering 31 million square feet space in this rapidly growing segment.
Finally in the first -- fourth quarter of 2013 when J.P.
Morgan Chase selected JLL for outsourcing services the bank also named us its global provider for technology and application services.
Our JLL tech technology platform has now been fully implemented in every country in which JPMC operates meeting their very stringent security and compliance standards and it's being used by every service provider for the bank's global portfolio.
Turning to investment sales transactions completed in the quarter.
In New York we advised on the $105 million sale of 12 East 88th Street which is a prewar apartment building that will be converted to high-end condominiums.
In Spain we represented UBS in the EUR 61 million acquisition of the Urbil Shopping Centre in San Sebastian and signed a renewed investor -- both of which were signed renewed investor activity in Southern Europe.
And in Australia we completed the sale of a 50% interest in 1 William Street in Brisbane and that for AUD 395 million.
And when this development is completed in 2016 the building will be the city's largest office property.
In Leasing tenant representation and management transactions completed during the quarter those included a 3.25 million square foot build-to-suite headquarters lease in the Chicago suburbs for Zurich American a 108 000 square foot lease for Nestle in Warsaw and a 210 000 square foot lease on behalf of Deloitte in Hong Kong.
And finally JLL is the proud partner of Toyota in their consolidation and relocation of their North American headquarters to Texas a transaction which was announced on Monday.
As I said earlier LaSalle Investment Management continued to attract capital in the first quarter building on a strong relationship with the leading institution investors globally.
This confirms that those investors are continuing to target commercial real estate by partnering with trusted and top-performing advisors.
LaSalle's assets under management stood at $48 billion at the end of March and clearly with these commitments in hand we have significant investment partners to deploy.
Looking forward Slide 3 summarizes our full year projections for global investment sales and leasing volumes.
In the Capital Markets we are maintaining our forecast for market volumes of $650 billion for the year and that's a 15% increase.
In addition the momentum we see currently among investors combined with increasing numbers large single and portfolio assets on the market confirmed this expected growth.
And the distinct improvement in occupier segment -- sentiment which we've recently seen is also feeding investment momentum.
We are forecasting single-digit growth in capital values in most major office markets this year.
This will largely be due to rental growth with yields remaining generally flat.
The largest increases in values will be in Tokyo New York San Francisco and the city of London.
And Madrid will bounce back stronly this year after several very slow years.
With economic fundamentals and corporate sentiment improving gross leasing volumes will increase by 5% to 10% this year.
We will see the greatest growth in Asia Pacific rising between 10% and 15% and overall latency is expected to decline only marginally as occupiers continue to release space back into the markets and development pipeline is delivering increasing levels of new stock.
Rents on prime assets currently growing by about 2% annually are expected to increase to 4% a year by the end of 2014.
LaSalle Investment Management sees institutional investors continuing to allocate capital to commercial real estate throughout the year.
With attractive deals becoming more and more difficult to find however investors are going to be accepting greater risk low returns or some combination of the 2 as they pursue their investment goals.
Turning to our own prospects for the year.
Our outlook remains positive for 2014.
As markets improve we continue to see very healthy momentum across our business.
Our clients are generally more confident and optimistic about the future than they have been for several years.
We have the financial strength to maintain our long-term policy of investing revenue both in our business infrastructure and for growth and to invest capital through M&amp;A capital investment and co-investments along the side of LaSalle's clients.
And the final news item during the quarter we shortened our name to JLL which is more memorable visible and easy to understand particularly for international markets.
It's well-suited to the digital and mobile technologies which we are increasingly relying upon.
And since many people already know this is JLL it simply reflects the reality and allows us to go-to-market with a single unified identity.
Our legal name is still Jones Lang LaSelle and LaSalle Investment Management also retains its identity.
It is important to know that while our name has evolved it will not be accompanied by changing policies cultures or values which remain constant values of superior client service team work in collaboration and adhering to the highest ethical standards.
And so before we take your questions I want to mention a few of the awards which we received recently from industry groups and independent third parties.
Honors which reflect the values that I just mentioned and confirm our position as leader in real estate services and investment management.
So during the quarter we were selected as one of the World's Most Ethical Companies' for the 7th consecutive year by the Ethisphere Institute.
We were named in the Global Outsourcing 100 list for the 6th straight year.
The U.S.
EPA awarded us 2014's Energy Star Partner of the Year and Sustained Excellence Awards.
And Information Week magazine named as to its Elite 100 list of Innovative Companies in Technology.
And so with that we'll be happy to take your questions.
So operator would you please explain the process? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of David Gold of Sidoti.
LLC</strong> Couple of quick points of follow-up.
First Colin you spoke a little bit the leasing side and evidence there of a pick up and we would certainly see some of it in the numbers with necessary -- some delay in the second quarter but curious if you can give some additional color on the evidence that you're seeing I mean is it as simple as pipeline build up or increase or is there more to it? We can take both of those and bank them.
We have a solid pipeline across both our leasing portfolio and our tenant rep activity.
I think Christie referred to those.
We are seeing actual quarter activity levels in leasing which are either at the same level as last year or indicated Asia Pacific up over 20%.
And that's kind of market or it's a backward looking stat which is a market dynamic which we haven't seen for a couple of years.
And in particular not last year during the periods of U.S.
fiscal cliff and euro crisis which stood [ph] over from 2012.
We are seeing more inquiries more showings.
We have had for example here a group of our corporate clients a meeting in Switzerland and they reflect that same sentiment that they internally are increasingly looking to growth as well as cost saving and productivity measures.
So those are some of the kind of things that we're seeing and hearing as to which cities are likely to be concerned.
We think that across Asia or across the U.S.
first of all as I refer to in my remarks the levels of demand are broadening out from the tech driven San Francisco Silicon Valley Austin initial burst of activity we saw.
And we're seeing now activity in Salt Lake City Atlanta Los Angeles growing across Asia.
Korea had a strong Q1.
Manila is also showing growth.
And these have been pretty quiet markets for the last couple of years.
And in Europe we saw significant uptick of activity in Paris which has been very muted for a while.
London continues to be strong and robust market.
I've said here on the negative on the whole situation and we refer to that a couple of times was Moscow and that's producing a little bit of hesitancy across parts of Eastern Europe as well as people just sort of watch and evaluate the situation.
So it's a jurisdiction generally broad trend across the world and all the indicators we use sort of back it up.
LLC</strong> Perfect.
That's helpful.
And then second with the values picking up can you give us a sense might not be easy but would we expect to see higher equity earnings this year given that the pickup in values presumably pushes civilization there? Equity earnings as you know they are very difficult to predict.
We have a couple of things in the pipelines that we are working but we will see that translate to equity earnings performance through the year or if it's something that materializes into 2015.
LLC</strong> Okay.
But directionally would it be safe to assume that the pickup in values essentially push on -- essentially if value is stepping up that there will be more sales out of your portfolio? Yes.
That's safe to assume David.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just one last Christie.
Well I have here -- on the investment side just thinking about the rest of the year by way of I guess you call that in the release a piece of recruitment IT and data.
Just curious how we should think about further investments for this year would it be at a stepped up level or when you are entering into that? No.
I think you can expect from our business David for the long term consistent investment in the platform.
We've stepped up a bit as it relates to IT and big data in terms of looking towards the benefit of our clients.
But specifically as we pegged that 70 to 80 basis points is pretty much the norm for our business give or take.
Your next question comes from the line of David Ridley-Lane of Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering is there anything unusual in the gross margin it was a lot better year-over-year any color on that? David this is Christie.
There is nothing unusual in the growth margin.
No.
And I think just from a run rate perspective the one piece that we are seeing we have really positive incremental margin drivers associated with the volume performance and the productivity initiatives in our business.
And that's even on top of the investments in the past [ph] in our platform for our strategic initiatives IT people et cetera.
Yes the only negative really is Russia.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then...
And that's also David [indiscernible] given the fact that first quarter was well in 2013.
We had a very strong comp coming out of Russia.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then how much spare capacity do you have in your U.S.
Leasing staff given the strong results this quarter? Are you going to be needing to hire brokers to meet that demand? Or can you mostly leverage the existing headcount? No we think there's a good business capacity.
I mean we are continuing to hire.
We had a net from memory 30 highs in the first quarter of this year.
But you have to remember last year we saw very flat markets and so we think there's quite a lot of activity in the pipeline.
The deal size is beginning to pick up again.
We expect the fees which haven't slipped too far and on the tenant rep side will continue to harden.
And there'll be more incentive attached to them as well.
So the outlook for the tenant rep market is very positive.
In particular as -- we are predicting across all of our geographies an increase in the total volumes transacted in the markets.
For the U.S.
we are predicting a sort of 5% to 10% growth.
And overall globally -- 5% to 10% globally as well.
So the activity levels -- the underlying activity levels in the market are up and generally will pickup many points in market share over and above them.
I'll just jump in there too David because a couple of things from our recruiting perspective we're out everyday recruiting the best in the market and specifically to we're really focused on driving productivity and revenue producer.
So with those marks in terms of where we've been year-over-year we're not only attracting top talent but we're increasing our productivity with that top talent too.
Research Division</strong> Sounds good.
If I could maybe read between the lines here you're predicting strong Capital Markets gains in Madrid.
I know Russia is a weak spot but couldn't -- as you look out in 2014 could Spain be an offsetting positive with potentially more distress selling in that market? It could be.
You can add Italy.
We saw Ireland recovering from it.
Problems quite strong last year.
So I'd expect the same pattern to be repeated.
So yes it could be an offsetting situation.
Q1 as we said was strong for Russia last year.
So good deal of the annual profits we're actually producing in quarter 1.
So indeed there could be healthy offsets.
I mean we don't understand yet what will happen in Russia and how much impact that will have on general business confidence not only that but across Eastern Europe.
We are not worried about it but we are watching it.
It doesn't help -- by the way that we are market leaders in Russia -- it doesn't help that we are market leaders in Russia which is these were unduly impacted.
Your next question comes from the line of Mitch Germain of JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> Colin you mentioned renewed sales activity in some parts of Europe.
Curious is that local investors or is it across regional investment that's driving that demand? No in the recovering Southern European countries it's been international capital over more risk-seeking times.
It's been private equity.
We have been showing private equity around Spanish opportunities for the last 12 18 months.
And the 2 deals that I referred to in my script were both foreign capital as well.
So it's overwhelming at this point.
It's foreign captain.
Research Division</strong> Great.
I know you guys were a little quieter in the acquisition front.
I'm curious just to maybe some commentary on the overall environment and are there any specific deals or any specific business lines you are looking to strengthen here in the coming quarters? Yes the world has gone mad this quarter at least this week certainly in the farmer sector.
And we got [indiscernible] doing well in France but we've been continuing to look at acquisitions.
We must have processed dozens this first quarter already.
I think there's a general sense of people are up for sale.
There is a supply and there is a demand and there is a reasonable level of balance of deals to be done with the exception of the investment management sector which still remains incredibly deal free the entity level at least.
So we're looking we're evaluating but we have as you know very high standards starting with strategic and financial fit.
But then this important matching of values which means that anything we look at has to pass quite a few tests.
So we continuously look.
We're not -- we haven't gotten our budget we got to burn through when we see opportunities that fit the template and then we'll not hesitate to move forward.
There have been a number of smaller deals through the quarter.
And groups of 10 or 20 people coming in as an entity we did a small deal in Paris with a supply chain management company for example supply chain management advisory company last month.
So these sort of deals that have continued through the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Last one for me.
Just -- I'm sorry.
So the only thing I was going to add to that is that this is part of our regular business process.
We are always looking at opportunities.
And from that perspective we have got a keen eye and we are consistently working that through with our leadership team.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Last one for me.
And I don't want -- just want to circle back.
You did -- we did see a decline in your forecast for '14 market volumes capital markets and then gross absorption leasing for Europe.
Is that attributed to some of the noise in Russia right now? Is that really what's driving that decline? Principally and -- plus we had a pretty strong run through the last 2 years.
So as a level of caution there an awful lot is transacted.
But Russia has certainly had a dampening effect on as you said Eastern Europe and Russia itself.
I think fundamental -- nothing fundamental no big strike on the part of the equity community.
No lack of availability of debt.
It's sort of simply our evaluation of the margin.
Your next question comes from the line of Brad Burke of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just sticking with the Russia theme.
So obviously Q1 2013 looks like it was a really good quarter for Russia.
And presumably you are expecting to see continued weakness in that market for at least the foreseeable future.
So just wondering how the comps are going to trend for the remainder of the 2014 versus 2013 specifically as it relates to Russia? It's hard to call.
We -- you shouldn't forget after you have a couple of good years you tend to forget the Russia as with the other BRIC's as a developing country.
And they have just switch back rides.
And so while the overall long-term trend is the growth our overall long-term position is to continue to grow in that market.
You do get short-term issues which impact that growth and throw the business off trend line significantly.
And so we're watching Russia.
We are not at this stage overly concerned.
We certainly haven't been cutting back on staff.
And we haven't been hiring either.
But we will see -- we just have to wait and see how long this thing lasts.
As we said -- as Christie said it represents a very small proportion of less than 5% of Europe's revenue which is vanishingly small proportion of our total revenue.
And so it's not going to have a major overall impact at the year end when 3 big quarters or second third and fourth quarter which grow significantly through the year.
When they come in they will [indiscernible] any impact from Russia.
But just in Q1 because of the big comps last year we had a disproportionate impact.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the comps were disproportionately high in Q1.
Okay.
Yes.
That's right Brad.
Research Division</strong> And then I was reading it looks like you didn't bid for renewal for what seemed like a pretty big Facilities Management contract with Citi.
So I was just wondering whether you would add more color on whether you are seeing more competition for less favorable contracts or whether this was a one-off kind of event? Or should I read it that the market is so strong that you are comfortable walking away from business when you don't like the margin? Well we qualify our opportunities to bid and we bid on roughly 2/3 of the opportunities put to us.
And we win roughly 2/3 of those.
That's our matching[ph] rate.
But in that pre-qualification process we look at a lot of things including the prospects for profitability on the individual opportunity being presented to us.
We look at client approach we look at whether clients can deliver the business opportunities that they're asking us to hire [indiscernible] because there often a lot of internal political issues.
We also look at our own resources and the competition for those resources in particular in this case within the banking sector.
And we pull the lot together and just form a judgment on whether we choose to bid or not.
And so the Citibank situation went through all of those processes and we came out with the no bid decision.
I should mention by the way we did bid on parts of the regional activity and we did -- we have picked up that business in South America.
So it was not a blanket though.
It was just a selected one.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just last one looking at the operating and admin costs.
Looks like as a percentage of fee revenue that was up slightly year-over-year realized you are also making some investments during the first quarter.
So I wanted to know how you think about these costs trending concerning that you do have strong growth in fee revenue? And would you eventually expect to see some leverage on these costs in 2014? Or is there going to be more investment going forward to offset any fixed cost leverage that we want to expect? So Brad yes we absolutely do view that we will gain leverage on these costs.
In terms of fixed costs we are gaining leverage on those costs given the volume profile.
And in terms of variable costs they are up but are up to measure [ph] it with the pipeline and really look towards the growth profile in the business.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller of JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> Just you touched on Russia a few times if we're looking at that what is the I guess the Russia impact in EMEA.
How much of that is just high to Capital Markets versus other parts of the business as well? In Q1 it's principally Capital Markets because the big comp last year was the Capital Markets comp.
Just generally what we're hearing from our business there is that it is impacting Leasing activity as well.
Corporate is less active in seeking out new spaces.
And so it is a kind of just a wait and see attitude.
Again prior comments on how long it will last? We don't know.
We're not taking any drastic measures at this phase.
We're watching it very carefully.
Research Division</strong> Okay but the revenue split it's predominantly Capital Markets in a normalized year? No no no.
It's very much a balanced business.
It just happened that this Q1 issue was a big capital -- focused in Capital Markets.
Through the balance of the year we would expect in a normal year to be doing U.S.
Capital Markets business but a significant amount of leasing.
Consulting work is also a big part of our business there as people find their way into the market and understand how the real estate market works.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I think you said in the Americas you said for Capital Markets excluding the debt business you were up 19% was that correct? That's correct Michael.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how much of the business that business overall is generally tied to the debt market and what specifically kind of drove it this quarter -- drove that change? Specifically.
I'm going to...
Yes.
I was just going to say -- I was just going to say Michael that at Capital Markets perspective the banking and structured capital business really had a strong comp last quarter last year.
And so that was part of the differential.
And in the market stats the debt numbers aren't included.
So when you take a look at our stats versus the market it's appropriate to back that out.
And really looked to the 19%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last question from me.
Thinking about the outsourcing business how do you look at the penetration of that business today and how does that vary by region? This is not -- sort of not a quarterly question more of an annual or longer-term question.
The outsourcing activity -- outsourcing markets are most mature in the U.S.
because it's been underway in the real estate sector for 15 to 20 years.
The last 10 years or so we are seeing significant growth on maturing of the outsourcing business in Asia Pacific.
And I'm referring to companies domiciled in these areas.
So Asia Pacific domiciled business is all the Asian subsidiaries of major corporations given its good growth in outsourcing for the last decade.
Europe is really a very recent phenomenally sort of post great financial crisis when corporations started to learn from that subsidiaries abroad in many cases and adopted the outsourcing approach to real estate thereof to be done at -- in other business areas as well.
So that is the least mature and that's what offers us the most growth opportunity.
When you say which regions offer the most growth opportunity in absolute dollars? It's probably Europe and the U.S.
in similar measure because although it's more mature in the U.S.
number of corporations are still hard to get down this track really the extra business that any one corporation can offer us as it gets -- as it outsources more and more services.
That is a large number because of the [indiscernible] scale of the market.
And Europe's growth is it's a big mature continent with lots of big corporations but they really just started down this track.
So good deal of opportunity to our mind everywhere.
Your next question comes from the line of Keane McCarthy of William Blair.
Just go back to the market growth rates as it relates to the U.S.
Leasing market and maybe this is semantics if you could help me parse it out but I think previously was the Americas or U.S.
was expected from the absorption trend were expected to increase somewhere between 5 and 10 I think this quarter you kind of rattled that down to 5.
So hoping you could walk us through that a little bit? Yes.
I just dig up people have perhaps got a little bit more cautious about the pace of the uptick.
I think we've been expecting from the sort of depths of Q2 Q3 last year going into Q4.
We expected the uptick to be faster and stronger everywhere.
As we go into it we can now see positive momentum.
We described it in the numbers of market activity show it with the U.S.
in the quarter sort of around break even or slight negatives on year-on-year activity.
But as we get closer our views is to how fast it will turn up to moderating a little bit so that tenants come down indeed to 5 for the U.S.
Okay.
And then maybe with obviously some rent growth adding a couple of points.
Probably kind of make the overall market kind of in that high single digit range is that fair to say? The market for fee if you like yes which is that if we get a 5% growth in volume and the fee kicker as well because rental rates go up than your high single digits is what the market will offer us.
We would expect to pick up share on those sorts of numbers.
Okay.
And then not to beat the dead horse but transitioning back to Europe I mean outside of kind of the Central Eastern European issues with Russia noise I'm just curious how London is performing versus some of the other Western European markets? Yes London remains the strongest -- I mean certainly in real estate terms remains the strongest market for us and for everybody else.
I think the other European market following we had a particularly strong quarter in Germany and Germany itself had a particularly strong quarter.
But I think France is coming along as well.
What the European corporates would say is that you can point to Eastern Europe and you can point to the lack of reforming on European countries and you can point to some continued certainly levels of continued economic weakness.
But basically European corporations are growing in confidence.
They're getting back to doing business.
And they're focusing on the positives rather than the negatives.
And so when you could put it all together despite the thing you can worry about from the point of view of European corporate leaders this is as good as a set of circumstances that they have been looking at around that business for let's say since 2006 2007 with positive growth everywhere.
And none of the European countries with the exception of Russia possibly are in recession.
You've got good levels of world growth according to numbers which were up.
On the last time we recorded those numbers.
So there's good global demand for services and businesses originating in Europe.
And the levels of consumer and business confidence arising.
So put it all together and despite the fact that it's a slow growth confident -- continent confidence is up.
And frankly nowhere is confidence higher.
Nowhere our growth rate is higher than in London and the U.K.
So London is performing strongly.
Our French business is continuing to pick up market share and doing very solid business in good markets or in a good market around Paris.
And the German businesses continue to do well also in an economy which is also doing relatively strong growth rates by European standards.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just a final one for me.
Could you remind us again your multi-family exposure in the U.S.? Not large.
We have a multi-family activity.
It's probably on an annualized basis represents about 20% of our -- including debt of our overall $200 million or so of U.S.
Capital Markets activity.
Yes that's exactly right Keane.
Yes it's smaller.
There are no further questions in queue at this time.
I'll turn the call back to Mr.
Dyer for any closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
And thank you everybody for joining us on the call today and for your interest in the company.
We look forward to speaking with you again at the end of the quarter 2.
Good day and thanks for joining us.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call for Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated.
Today's call is being recorded.
Any statements made about future results and performance or about plans expectations and objectives are forward-looking statements.
Actual results and performance may differ from those included in the forward-looking statements as a result of factors discussed in the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 and in our other reports filed with the SEC.
The company disclaims any undertaking to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
A transcript of this call will be posted and available on the company's website.
A web audio replay will also be available for download.
Information and the link can be found on the company's website.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Colin Dyer Chief Executive Officer for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good evening everybody and thank you for joining us to review our results for the second quarter and first half of 2014.
With me on today's call is Christie Kelly our Chief Financial Officer and Christie will review details of our performance in a few minutes.
But first to summarize our results we produced record second quarter fee revenue of $1.1 billion which is 18% higher than the second quarter of last year.
Year-to-date fee revenue increased to just under $2 billion a 16% increase.
Adjusted net income reached $76 million in the quarter or $1.68 per share which is up 46% from the $52 million $1.15 a share in the second quarter of last year.
First half adjusted net income totaled $94 million or $2.07 per share compared with $68 million or $1.50 per share in the first half of 2013.
We saw margin expansion in all 3 of our geographical segments even as we continue to invest in targeted growth across the firm's global platform.
And LaSalle Investment Management assets under management reached $50 billion during the quarter the highest level since 2008.
So all in all a very good quarter and first half as markets and business segment -- sentiment continue to improve and business investment increased in much of the world.
So let's start with those market trends.
Conditions in the global economy and in real estate markets worldwide continue to develop in a positive direction.
Economic growth remained steady with world GDP currently forecast to increase by 3% in 2014.
That's down marginally from earlier projections but still matching last year's growth rate.
Asia Pacific remains the fastest-growing region with GDP expansion close to 5% expected this year.
The Americas and Europe are each anticipated to grow by 1.6%.
Strong second quarter earnings growth at many U.S.-based companies is an indication of broad-based increasing business confidence and business and consumer confidence indices internationally continued to give positive readings.
Turning to real estate markets.
Please see the slides which we posted in the Investor Relations sector -- section of jll.com.
Slide 3 summarizes trends in Capital Markets and Leasing volumes.
Global investment sales volumes continued their rise totaling $158 billion for the quarter which is a 28% increase from the second quarter of 2013.
Investment sales volumes maintained the momentum in the Americas and EMEA while Asia Pacific did not keep pace with last year's high-level activities.
The region's second quarter volumes of $32 billion were 2% below the same period a year ago.
In Europe investors sustained their activity across geographies and investment sectors with second quarter market volumes of $59 billion almost 50% above last year's second quarter.
In the Americas second quarter volumes of $67 billion were 30% up on a year ago with the U.S.
remaining the main driver of increased investment activity.
Prime yields compressed further across the world's major markets strong office demand pushed down yields in several U.S.
cities.
For example by 20 basis points in Chicago and Boston and by 10 basis points in New York and Los Angeles.
Yields remain stable in the major European markets but with further compression in the smaller markets by 5 basis points in Brussels for example and 25 basis points in a rapidly recovering Madrid.
Most Asia Pacific markets showed stable prime yields though strong investor demand saw yields reduce by 10 basis points in Tokyo and 25 basis points in Sydney.
Capital values on prime office assets across 25 major world markets grew by 8.8% year-on-year which is the strongest movement in 2 years.
I mentioned earlier that business confidence is slowing -- is showing solid improvement across the world.
This is reflected in office leasing which further strengthened globally.
So leasing markets now show the positive momentum which we've been seeing in investment sales for some time.
Activity is still uneven but gross absorption increased by 5% globally in the quarter compared to the second quarter of last year reaching its highest level in more than 2 years.
Asia Pacific recorded the highest growth with activity 20% above a year ago.
Europe was up 11% year-on-year with the strongest activity in London and Paris.
And in the U.S.
gross absorption was flat year-on-year but momentum there is building with second quarter activity up by more than 6% on Q1.
As further evidence of market direction office space and fee rates across 98 global markets declined by 20 basis points on last year to 13.1%.
Vacancies were down by 40 basis points in Americas to 15.5%.
Vacancies stood at 11.5% in Asia Pacific their lowest level in more than a year and in Europe the vacancies rate stood unchanged at 9.7%.
Finally as you can see on Slide 15 of our deck rental rates are now growing in almost all markets internationally which is further encouragement for corporate rental activity.
We currently see no business reasons why these positive market trends which I've covered should not continue for the balance of this year at least.
So with that generally encouraging background I'll turn the call over to Christie to discuss our performance against this market environment.
Thank you Colin and welcome to everyone on the call.
As Colin mentioned we had strong performance for the second quarter and first half of 2014.
Moving to the quarter performance.
We delivered record second quarter fee revenue results.
Notably we increased adjusted net income earnings per share 46% over last year.
Our performance again was broad-based demonstrating the strength of our globally diverse profitable growth-oriented firm.
Our strength starts with our brand and our people who remain focused on our clients and investors.
Our results were delivered within an improving market where we have seen leasing build momentum for 3 quarters and begin to exhibit the trends we have seen in capital markets for some time.
Our previous acquisitions such as Staubach King Sturge and Tetris among many others are now generating impressive organic growth.
We see the real benefits of these transactions in our results particularly in the Americas Leasing business and across all of EMEA service lines.
These transactions large and small were successful because we chose our acquisition partners carefully.
We structure our transactions for financial success based upon performance and execute integrations well to ensure that we realize growth over the long term.
Our consolidated results demonstrate our ability to perform for our clients and to consistently produce profitable revenue growth while investing in our business.
As Colin noted in his introduction adjusted earnings per share were $1.68 for the quarter an increase of 46% over 2013 calculated on adjusted net income of $76 million.
We had record consolidated second quarter fee revenue of $1.1 billion an increase of $178 million or 18% in local currency compared to second quarter last year.
Again all 3 of our geographic segments had healthy year-over-year increases in revenue growth and profitability across varied markets globally.
Our revenue increase of 23% in Leasing demonstrates our ability to continue to capture share and reflects the improving momentum in global leasing markets of an estimated 5%.
We also delivered another quarter of approximately 20%-plus growth in our Annuity businesses including Property &amp; Facility Management and Project and Development Services.
Capital Markets &amp; Hotels revenue increased 12% on a local currency business led by a very strong quarter in EMEA.
We delivered these results while continuing to selectively invest in and profitably grow our Capital Markets business in alignment with our strategic plan.
Our LaSalle Investment Management business generated healthy advisory fee growth and continued its successful capital raising track record in the second quarter raising $1.4 billion of equity commitments.
Adjusted operating income margin calculated on a fee revenue basis increased 100 basis points to 9% for the quarter compared with 8% for the second quarter last year.
Adjusted EBITDA margin also increased 100 basis points to 12.2%.
We expanded margins in all 3 regions while continuing to invest in our business.
For example we have selectively added more than 10% to Capital Markets staffing over the past 12 months executed through both hiring and acquisitions.
In addition we are continuously focused on driving productivity initiatives to capture margin-enhancing opportunities.
We have approximately 70 initiatives in process ranging from small quick-run [ph] projects to larger longer-term efforts designed to further enhance margin performance as well as our client experience.
We will begin our look at the segment results with the Americas.
Our second quarter fee revenue increased 22% in local currency over second quarter 2013.
Growth in our business was partially driven by gains in Leasing which had a 26% fee revenue increase despite flat market volumes.
We also had a 21% fee revenue increase in Property &amp; Facility Management and a 23% increase in Project and Development Services.
The growth in Project and Development Services was driven by strong performance in Latin America especially in Brazil and Mexico and also in a number of our U.S.
markets where we are benefiting from cross-selling throughout our platform.
Our Corporate Solutions business continued to win new assignments and increase the scope of relationships with longstanding clients.
Revenues for Capital Markets &amp; Hotels in the Americas was up 13% in local currency.
Excluding our debt business in the Americas which was lower primarily due to transaction timing our Capital Markets revenue increased 31%.
Our pipeline of activity remains strong for the remainder of the year.
From an investment perspective over the last 12 months the Americas has added 35 teams across the business as we continue to grow share and strengthen our platform.
Overall significant operating leverage was driven by the Americas' healthy balanced top line growth across the region and business segments that experience fee-based operating income margin increases of 80 basis points from second quarter last year to 9.5% and adjusted EBITDA margin increases of 70 basis points from last year to 12.2%.
We continue to plan for future growth in the Americas by capitalizing on our strong brand and our financial strength to invest strategically increase productivity and enhance our talented and diverse workforce that provide the best insight and service for our clients and solid returns for our shareholders.
In our EMEA business second quarter fee revenue increased 24% in local currency over second quarter 2013 and was broad-based across service lines and countries.
EMEA's Leasing revenue for the quarter was up 7% in local currency and Capital Markets &amp; Hotels was up 38%.
Capital Markets &amp; Hotels performance was bolstered by the continuing momentum across European investment markets.
In the U.K.
and France volumes picked up in the second quarter after a slower first quarter.
Germany also achieved strong year-over-year performance.
Property &amp; Facility Management fee revenue for the second quarter increased 35% in local currency and Project and Development Services fee revenue increased 16%.
EMEA's adjusted operating income margin which excludes King Sturge amortization improved 240 basis points year-over-year to 8% while the adjusted EBITDA margin improved 210 basis points year-over-year to 9.8%.
This underlying operating improvement reflected the positive impact of businesses turning to profit are being pruned as well as the strength of our performance in the majority of our markets.
We were pleased to complete our acquisition with Tenzing in Sweden during the quarter giving us a leading Capital Markets business in the fourth-largest investment market in Europe.
The sentiment across EMEA business remains positive despite inherent risk pertaining to geopolitical issues in the region.
Moving on to Asia Pacific business.
Second quarter fee revenue increased 8% in local currency over 2013.
Asia Pacific Leasing revenue for the quarter was up 27% in local currency and outpaced the overall market which was up 20%.
Overall domestic demand in Asia for Leasing services remained strong especially in China and Singapore.
Capital Markets &amp; Hotels revenue for the quarter was down 29% in local currency after being up 74% in second quarter 2013 versus 2012.
Market activity levels in the region are expected to recover in the second half of the year and our Capital Markets pipelines remain solid.
Property &amp; Facility Management fee revenue for the second quarter increased 17% in local currency and Project and Development Services fee revenue increased 12%.
Asia Pacific second quarter operating income margin increased 90 basis points to 7.4% this year and the adjusted EBITDA margin also increased 90 basis points to 8.9%.
In a quarter where Capital Markets volumes were down this impressive margin expansion in Asia Pacific demonstrates the benefits of both our diverse platform including a strong Corporate Solutions business and the success of the ongoing productivity initiatives that our people are implementing.
LaSalle Investment Management had a strong quarter with increases in both advisory fees and incentive fees as well as equity earnings compared to a year ago.
Capital values are rising in most areas which is leading to accelerated and higher sales prices that generate incentive fees and equity earnings.
The business reached $60 million of advisory fees during the quarter as a result of strong investment performance in Asia Pacific and we also generated $6 million of incentive fees.
We see potential for additional incentive fees being realized as mature funds continue to liquidate over the next several quarters.
This quarter LaSalle also executed acquisitions of $1.7 billion in comparison to disposition activity of $1.1 billion to drive assets under management to $50 billion.
Regarding our investment-grade balance sheet Standard &amp; Poor's recently improved its outlook on our investment grade rating to positive.
We continue to benefit from both a lower cost of debt after we renewed our bank credit facility in October 2013 and lower average borrowing which resulted in the reduction of net interest expense from $9 million in the second quarter of last year to $7.7 million this year.
We plan to continue operating with low leverage and a strong balance sheet.
To sum up we had a strong second quarter.
Thank you to our people for delivering these results and for creating this momentum.
As Colin will now explain we remain positive about the outlook for our business as we go into the second half of the year.
I will now turn the call back over to Colin.
Thank you Christie.
If we turn now to selected business wins for the second quarter.
Slide 4 shows a few examples from across our geographies and service lines.
Our corporate -- in corporate outsourcing we won 10 new assignments during the quarter and renewed or expanded 10 more.
Corporate wins included a major facilities management assignment from RBS in the Americas while in Australia 5 JLL service lines work together on a project for AstraZeneca.
We represented the biopharma company in the sale of its headquarters in Sydney and negotiated the pre-commitments for a new head office to replace it.
We once again grew our local market Corporate Solutions business which serves corporate clients who purchase real estate services locally.
To date this year we've won 32 assignments in this growth segment totaling 65 million square feet of platinum space.
Turning to investment sales in the second quarter.
In the U.S.
we completed the $350 million sale of 225 Bush Street in San Francisco the market's largest office sale since 2012.
In Ireland we sold a portfolio of 3 Dublin assets for EUR 375 million.
And in Taiwan we completed the sale of 85 000 square feet of retail space in International Square for $132 million which was Taiwan's largest retail transaction in the first half of the year.
Leasing tenant representation and management transactions completed during the quarter included assisting Volkswagen to identify the best location for a new billion dollar manufacturing plant in Eastern Europe.
JLL teams from the U.S.
and Europe worked together to identify Poland as the preferred candidate.
We also negotiated local and state incentives on behalf of our client.
In China we were appointed joint office leasing agent for Shanghai Tower a 6.2 million square-foot mixed-used development and the world's top 10 tallest building.
And in the Middle East we were selected to manage the 380 000 square-foot Hilal Tower in Abu Dhabi's financial district.
And wins like this remind us of the value of persevering in markets which fall into difficult times by maintaining and supporting our teams while continuing to serve our clients.
LaSalle Investment Management had a very strong second quarter as Christie said raising $1.4 million (sic) [$1.4 billion] of equity investment.
This brought year-to-date commitments to $2.3 billion.
Investors are continuing to increase the allocations to real estate and to move further out along the risk curve in pursuit of attractive returns.
As I mentioned earlier LaSalle Investment Management's assets under management reached $50 billion by the end of the quarter.
Turning to M&amp;A activity.
Over the last several months in addition to Tenzing in Sweden which Christie mentioned we also acquired CLEO Construction Management a U.S.
leader in health care project management and YY Properties Solutions a leading Kuala Lumpur transaction and advisory business which reestablished our presence in Malaysia after an absence of more than a decade.
Looking forward Slide 3 shows our full year projections for global investment sales and leasing market activity.
Thanks to increasing equity allocations further improvements in debt markets and a very healthy transaction pipeline we now expect investment volumes to reach $700 billion for the full year 20% above 2013 levels.
Our latest forecast shows volumes rising 25% in the U.S.
15% in Europe and 10% in selected Asia Pacific markets.
We project capital values on prime assets to be up 7% for the year with the largest increases in U.S.
gateway markets.
Leasing volumes are recovering steadily and occupier sentiment continues to improve but we've yet to see a real breakthrough in demand levels so we project the full year leasing volumes to increase by about 5% over 230 -- 2013 levels.
The greatest increase will come in Asia Pacific at 15% to 20% with gross absorption rising about 5% in Europe and flat to 5% growth in the U.S.
Improving business sentiment will also continue to have a positive impact on our Project and Development Services business.
In Funds Management we expect the current trends to continue with capital flows growing as investors increase their real estate allocations.
We expect that a relatively small group of major investment managers LaSalle included will attract most of this investment capital.
Looking at our own prospects for the year our outlook remains positive.
In addition to the market prospects which I've described our own pipelines are strong and our business strategy is paying off in the form of robust and broad-based growth.
Looking to the longer term our improved S&amp;P outlook indicates we have the financial strength and flexibility to continue to invest in growth.
This will come through hiring and retaining top talent through capital investments including IT to co-investments with LaSalle clients and continuing M&amp;A activity.
Our confidence around our long-term prospects also stems from a stable and experienced management team a consistent strategy strong governance a powerful set of company values and the best people in our industry.
And I would like to thank all of my colleagues worldwide for their performance this year.
So for the short and long term we're optimistic about our prospects.
Before opening the call to your questions I want just to mention a couple of representative awards which our colleagues received from industry groups and independent third parties.
These reflect and confirm our position as industry leader in real estate services and investment management.
During the quarter we were voted Best Real Estate Employer in Germany for the third consecutive year by Immobilien Zeitung.
In the Asia Pacific Property Awards we were named Best Property Consultant in China Hong Kong India Indonesia Japan the Philippines and Singapore.
And in the U.S.
we were awarded Best Place to Work honors in Dallas and the San Francisco Bay Area.
So with that summary of the first half -- sorry the second quarter and first half let's now turn to your questions.
Operator will you please explain the Q&amp;A process? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of David Gold from Sidoti.
LLC</strong> So a couple of questions for you.
First as we look at business broadly we think about Capital Markets which has been strong for some time and we think about the Leasing business which started picking up presumably late last year.
I wanted to see if you could give some additional color.
I know you said pipelines were strong and holding but if there's any additional color you can give as to confidence in both sustainability of the pickup for Capital Markets and then what you see on the Leasing side what it takes to get that to the next level? Well let's start with the Capital Markets area.
I mean we've made comments -- some of these comments which I'll make in answer to your questions we made some of them in the body of the text which we've just read.
For the capital markets demand levels seem to be high and sustained and we see no sign of any reduction in demand.
We're seeing a multiple bids some on any transactions which we put out.
We're seeing extreme disappointment on the part of under bidders which sort of makes them more determined to go out again.
We've talked about the level of allocation on the part of institutions to real estate as part of their alternative strategy is rising.
We see no sign of that changing.
And if you put that strong equity demand together with the increasing levels of international capital flow we're seeing those rising up to the same levels as you saw in the last cycle a 50% or so of overall investment in real estate being cross-border money.
You put that together in turn with the ever-improving levels of debt availability as banks improve their balance sheets globally as they get more confident and indeed as competition amongst them to put money out increases and that brings spreads in and it loosens again the covenants which we see on loans into deals.
If you put it all together there's really no sign of any end to the strong demand which we're seeing in the capital markets globally.
As far as the leasing markets go David we have been waiting for confidence to recover for some time.
You'll recall 1 year ago 1.5 years ago the markets were spooked by the last throes of the euro crisis by the fiscal cliff issues in the U.S.
Those have evaporated as issues and have not been replaced so for at least by concerns around political and warfare issues around the world.
But quite to the contrary we see corporate confidence recovering.
We made comments about the levels of earnings in amongst U.S.
corporates being strong this quarter once again.
You're well aware of the amount of capital and the amount of cash which is being held on corporate balance sheets around the world.
It's at record highs.
But what we are seeing amongst our clients is a willingness to gradually move away from the phase of total concentration on cost to a phase where they're actually thinking about building and expanding and driving revenues again.
In addition the comment I made about the increase in rental rates in every major market around the world that's also encouraging corporates to say "Hey if we don't move pretty soon we're going to be faced with higher rental rates and decreasing amounts of available space." And so for us that means that the beginning of this momentum which we're now seeing in the leasing markets is likely to continue with good levels of demand on the corporate side and rental rates rising against the background of a relatively constrained supply of new product into the market.
So long answer to a couple of short questions but I hope it's helpful.
LLC</strong> It sure is.
And then hitting at a different spec could you give some sense of what you're seeing out there on the acquisition front presumably a couple of small ones you've done.
But has pricing ticked up dramatically and would you do something bigger if you found something presumably where the pricing metrics met your discipline? Well you're right.
We've done a few acquisitions where the opportunities fit with our -- fit culturally and fit with our strategic aims.
What we didn't mention were all the acquisitions we look at and rejected.
Some because we didn't like the economics to your point.
But we are looking at lots of opportunities it's a very active M&amp;A market.
You can see that in the broader sweep of business with the level of activities growing across many sectors.
And so there's a lot of opportunity out there.
We are being picky around particularly the cultural fit and around pricing.
And if we have anything that we'd like to -- which we particularly like we wouldn't hesitate to do it against our requirements around economics.
Your next question comes from the line of Brad Burke from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk on asset management.
Clearly an impressive quarter for AUM growth.
So just wanted to gauge how you're thinking about the fundraising pipeline? And then looking at the advisory fees as a percentage of AUM it looks like there was a nice uptick.
So also wondering whether you're seeing a better mix in the fees of the funds that you're raising.
Pipeline for -- and we mentioned a couple of times in the prepared remarks the pipelines are strong in that the institutional sector is continuing to allocate more money into alternatives as a group and within that to real estate.
That's across the sweep of the international and institutional investment community.
And indeed you saw in wealth funds you saw perhaps Norges announcing a couple of weeks ago their commitment to invest a whole lot more into the real estate markets globally.
So no change in that trend in our pipelines.
In terms of discussions that we have underway are continuing strongly.
You'll recall that as well as the $2 billion to $3 billion we've raised this year so far we've raised $7 billion at LaSalle last year.
So close to $10 billion in 18 months.
As to the fees in general what we've been raising in the funds area where we've been raising funds we've been able to more or less maintain the historical fee levels that we've seen in the past where fees have become tighter has been in the individual mandates which we've taken from clients and they have been a larger proportion of the mix.
So over the last 2 to 3 years you've seen our fees as a percentage of assets under management come down.
So we do expect that trend to stabilize at this point.
You made the comment that you're seeing that stabilizing.
Now we expect that to stabilize and bottom out around now and then hopefully continue to move off of that bottom in the coming quarters.
And Brad this is Christie.
The only thing I would add to that is just in terms of capital raise and where we're sourcing capital.
Just looking at where we've been for the quarter round numbers 60% of that raise has come from Asia and about 35% from EMEA and the remainder from the U.S.
And then as it relates to the fee performance that's been pretty stable thanks to the hard work of our team.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then the investments that you're making in the business and I know they weighed on margins in the first quarter I assume that you continued at a pretty steady pace in the second quarter from where you were in the first quarter.
So I'm curious if one if that's the case? And then two what the margin growth would have been had you not been making these investments in the second quarter of '14? Well Brad we've been making those investments revenue investments for 10 years.
There's nothing new about it.
So it's the same if you like the same level of pressure on our margins quarter in quarter out year in year out.
If you said what if we stopped it what would that do? That it will certainly raise our margins by at least 50 basis points.
Our own estimates are between [indiscernible] 70 and 100 basis points.
And I would agree with that too.
I mean we've been tracking it 2013 and then through the 2014 pretty closely and we have upticked a bit to the 70 to 100 basis points as Colin mentioned.
Your next question comes from the line of David Ridley-Lane from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Question on the Leasing business you're massively outperforming year-to-date and gaining market share in the U.S.
I'm just wondering about what you think of about the factors that are driving that outperformance and how sustainable is that over the course of the next say 6 to 12 months? Well we're pleased with it.
It's a mixture of factors.
Interestingly we saw roughly the same level of increase in the major cities as we saw in secondary markets.
I think it's up 20% in the major cities and 25% in what we call secondary markets.
So it's very similar performance across the scale of markets that we're in the U.S.
What's driving it? Well a number of factors.
Firstly as we mentioned we've been hiring steadily and consistently bringing in teams to strengthen our business and improve our service to clients across all markets and opening the odd new market as we go.
The teams as we come onstream take 12 18 months to get up to normal running speed.
So as we've been bringing them on those that have joined in the last 2 years are still raising their level of productivity.
And then of course as markets improve the existing teams have been in situ for a time are able to really capitalize from the strong position which we have and pick up market share as markets improve.
If you add to that the improved rental rates that you're seeing that's obviously helping to drive our own revenue as is the increasing length of leases that you see in market as markets have gained confidence and recover.
So if we put all those factors together and that's the reason why we're seeing this above-market rate of growth.
We wouldn't see any reason at this point to expect that -- not to expect that where the market share gain to continue.
And I think the only thing I would add to that David is the fact that we've been preparing for this for quite some time.
We're always in the market looking for the best teams and planning where we've got the opportunity for example to infill or to put more talent out to drive profitable performance for our shareholders.
We track it.
We really work on ensuring when we bring new people in that we are averaging up and improving their performance in terms of revenue per head.
And we watch it we monitor it we coach it.
And it's something that we are very focused on now and for the future.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then a competitor spoke about tougher market conditions for advisory and valuation work this year.
I'm just wondering if you're seeing similar trends and is this something you're concerned about for your advisory and consulting service line? I don't know what that comment particularly was exactly referring to...? Research Division</strong> I think they were referring to loan workouts coming to an end here in the U.S.
in particular? Okay well they may have been referring to valuation work which we do very little of that in the U.S.
So that would not be affected for us.
Yes we really don't do valuation work in the U.S.
Correct.
And as for advisory work in general our advisory work for our corporate clients has been strong.
We've continued to do loan workouts but you're correct they have been declining as the distress gets worked through the python.
But in general our consulting and advisory business for both our investors and our corporate clients has been growing strongly.
So we have no concerns about that area.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And maybe a question how much of an impact on your business would rising U.S.
interest rates have? I know your U.S.
mix in capital markets is only about 1/3 of the total or so so it's pretty good geographic diversification.
But just sort of wondering your thoughts on if we do start to see rates pick up what that might do to the capital markets environment? Yes our perspective on that is first of all you hit it.
We've got geographic diversification we've got business sector diversification and we've got a nice majority of our revenue source tied to annuity-based income versus capital markets.
Our -- we've done sensitivities.
We've analyzed it and our best guesstimate is that as long as rate increases are steady and moderate and the market is not surprised that there won't be any significant pullback on capital markets.
However we do view that if rates move in chunks of 100 basis points 150 basis points like we saw in October of 2011 that would cause the market pause for concern.
Adding to that the fact that as we mentioned we're seeing now real rental growth across all markets.
And 4% was the number we mentioned for the global average for major cities.
That means that investors can underwrite an improvement in their cash flows which -- and they can do that with some certainty now and that will counterbalance any negative impact of interest rates on the loan parts of their capital stack.
Research Division</strong> That all makes sense.
And then last one for me just EBITDA margins are up about 50 basis points year-to-date.
Is 2014 shaping up to be sort of an average year for you in terms of what you're targeting for margin expansion annually going forward? I'll jump in there and then see if Colin's got any further comments since I've been asked this for about a year now.
But my perspective on that is that as we look forward that the year will chalk up to be an average year.
But when I say average I mean based on us focused on driving profitable growth and really managing our business for incremental margin improvement.
To add my 10 years experience then in the firm Christie the other element here is the cyclical nature of the markets that you're in and we're still obviously seeing cyclical improvements across Leasing and Capital Markets in particular.
That looks as though it will continue.
And what we see when markets rise cyclically in this way is that our margins continue to improve.
So as this cycle continues to build so our margins build with it that's just market-driven.
And as Christie said we are now working hard on the productivity side to improve so that we add further fuel to that fire of improved margin.
The next question comes from the line of Mitch Germain from JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> So just sticking with that productivity the margin.
You've talked about those productivity initiatives.
I think you mentioned Christie 70.
Curious -- I mean how -- where was the 70 maybe at the start of your tenure and how much has been added? And then is this something that you're going to continue to update us on as this progresses over the next couple of years? So first just to set the stage a little bit.
Our business has really focused on productivity for quite some time.
It's part of our DNA and I would say over the past year we have really worked to elevate and heighten and if you will bring the game up based on our people's capabilities.
And we have operating rigor around the productivity initiatives now.
We have certain initiatives that are focused based on where we view the key levers to be and price improving process productivity through simplification as well as further improving revenue per head.
As I mentioned before revenue per revenue generator.
And so we're focused on key projects that align around those levers.
And I think yes the productivity initiatives will continue because I mentioned -- as I mentioned it's part of what we do every day.
We'll just keep getting better at it.
Your next question comes from the line of Brandon Dobell from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I want to focus on the Property &amp; Facility Management business for a little bit.
As you guys are out pitching for new business or talking to the customers about renewals maybe a sense of how broad those discussions are about different service lines different competencies now as opposed to I don't know 6 or 12 months ago.
Are you seeing customers embracing a broader potential array of services with you guys even at first conversations? And are you having same or more or less success on renewals and trying to get a broader list in front of your potential customers? Brandon the easiest ones are renewals because we're sort of 95% on those.
Once you are the incumbent you can generally retain the business and that's very broadly been the case down through the years and nothing much has changed there.
As to the tenor of the conversations and I'm talking Facility Management for corporates first the trend over the last decade as you see more and more procurement people show up in discussions that has not changed a lot.
What we are seeing is that they have less preponderance in the final decision.
And that in turn means that price is slightly less relevant.
And the other parts of what you might call the balanced scorecard come into play.
So in particular the satisfaction of the individual employees that are in clients' companies is taken into account.
And in some cases companies have made choices on price and that's proven to be something they've regretted.
And so we're seeing a slight [indiscernible] a slight swing back towards a more balanced quality as well as price evaluation in the services that are being bid out.
As far as the numbers of services go it's all over the place still.
No real change in that front.
Those doing global RFPs for single service on a global basis to those breaking up 5 services by 4 regions and bidding out each one individually and each individual company makes its decision on what it wants to do depending largely on their level of centralization decentralization and their level of alignment that they have within their own individual businesses.
Some occasions -- we've learned to recognize these now we're actually used as the unifying catalyst where businesses are highly decentralized.
That's to say they have their own local rules and central management would like to change that and they kind of use us to impose global standards.
Those are a two-edged sword.
I mean on one hand they're fantastic.
The interesting challenge is on the other hand it could be incredibly difficult to execute because you're working against entrenched behaviors in clients.
So I hope that gives you a feel for what's happening on the corporate side.
On the property side that's the investor management part of the business we've seen great success in the U.S.
in particular this year.
We've been much more focused around selling those services harder around linking up with our investment salespeople and of course that growing part of our U.S.
business in order to enhance our access to new -- new buildings and we've worked generally harder at retaining buildings that get sold and where our management is under risk.
The only thing too I would add to that is if you take a look at some very important survey statistics out there specifically the Watkins survey and the Kingsley Associate survey.
We scored overall customer satisfaction to be the best in relation to the Watkins survey or one of the top '05 to '13.
And then in the Kingsley Associate survey we also score above the Kingsley index which drives that renewal rate that Colin was mentioning very highly correlated.
And then further that there are a couple of recent quotes from our corporate clients around why JLL? Top talent comprehensive service delivery platforms service lines with our business seamless service delivery aligned and connected across services and regions and a trusted advisor and partner.
Just to give you a little flavor.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Maybe Christie back to your I guess your comment about your kind of DNA around productivity.
If you were to compare I guess your visibility or the buy-in from the local market managers on driving margin expansion or just -- or better profitable growth now versus a year ago or maybe the first couple of quarters that you were at JLL.
What kind of order of magnitude kind of change have you seen in your ability to dig into the numbers control the numbers get buy-in from the people who are on the ground running the different offices? I think Brandon I've been really trying to get out and visit our major markets.
And I pretty much this first year managed to get to a little over 50% of them.
And with that when I first started talking about productivity I said we've been at this for a long time that's something that's part of our DNA.
If you go to the Atlanta office our team has a productivity room as well as innovation.
And whether you're in Atlanta or whether you're in Beijing or whether you're in São Paulo or Warsaw our people talk about productivity and they talk about innovation and they talk about how to drive superior customer service.
So that operational excellence piece is no new news.
But I think what we've done as what I've said before is just become even better at it and really captured the ability to quantify and then have if you will process discipline around what we're doing even just a little bit more.
And so it gives us visibility and transparency into where we think there are major levers to move on behalf of our clients and our shareholders as well as our people.
So more to come.
It's exciting and folks are energized about it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then final one for me going back to the adding people thesis here.
So you continue to add people at a pretty consistent clip has the amount of churn take the GE approach and trim off the bottom performers on a consistent basis.
As the amount of churn out of people that the organization feels just aren't up to par up to snuff has that picked up or has that been pretty consistent? It's been pretty consistent Brandon.
I mean as Colin mentioned we're very selective about who we bring in.
And then further to that we are very disciplined about managing our performers from if you will the bottom quartile in getting them over the median.
And so our productivity in terms of revenue per head really points to that.
And as well part of the key value outside of integrity in our firm is collaboration and our folks work to make sure that they as a team bring that overall productivity up.
And at the end of the day increase the size of the pie.
A couple of numbers for you.
A couple of numbers for you Brandon.
Voluntary turnover in the U.S.
is 8% and that's very low for a services firm.
We've added about 10% to our brokerage community in Capital Markets globally as I think Christie mentioned this year -- sorry over the past year and about 5% to our Leasing professionals globally.
So some numbers for you.
If you want a qualitative comment.
As the markets have gotten more competitive and as actually as markets become richer in terms of where we get to in a cycle we have seen an increase in competitors calling our people despite that we've kept turnover voluntary turnover low as I described.
And similarly we're finding it more expensive to hire people away in the markets where we -- where we're trying to do that.
So it's a market in which retention around employment and the price of employment is certainly increasing.
And Brandon there's one thing too I just want to leave you with in terms of this discussion as well as productivity is that when I said it's all about growing the pie I want to emphasize that it's not about cost takeout at JLL it's about revenue enhancement as well as margin -- incremental margin improvement.
It's a very different way to think about it.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> You just answered my question about headcount.
I do have one more.
I was wondering can you elaborate a little bit more on the debt placement impact in the quarter.
And then do you see that playing out again in Q3 and Q4? Debt placement you mean...? Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] for the Capital Markets growth in the Americas? It's just simply that the availability of debt is just getting easier.
It's again a cyclical thing.
The banks came out of the crisis in 2008 with all doors locked and there was no debt to be had even in the U.S.
The U.S.
market debt -- sorry the U.S.
banks compared to their European colleagues would cover their capital bases comparatively quickly.
But since then we've seen a gradual steady improvement in the availability of debt so liquidity.
We've seen our other providers of debt such as private equity funds and insurance companies come into the market and to some extent withdraw again as the -- as the margins got squeezed.
But we've seen this process of banks as their confidence and their availability of capital rose and the competition between them increase we've seen banks make more debt available at lower spreads.
So spreads coming in from over the last 12 months for example from 250 to 125 basis points or lower and we've seen them loosen the covenant the terms around the loans they are giving.
So putting it all together and there is adequate debt -- more than adequate debt available within the U.S.
market.
The same comments would apply to Europe but more -- the process has been slower but since debt is now pretty freely available for well-underwritten transactions.
In Asia Pacific really didn't have a great debt problem the banks were very robust throughout the crisis and came out strong.
So that's the sort of world deal for the situation.
And I'll just Michael loop that back to our business.
So in relation to my comments for the Americas I would just -- with all of the backdrop that Colin's given and just say that we don't expect that to repeat and it was more around timing and we've got strong pipeline.
There are no further questions at this time.
Okay.
Well thank you operator.
With that we'll end today's call by thanking everybody for joining us.
Thank you for your interest in JLL.
We look forward to speaking with you again at the end of the third quarter.
Have a good evening everyone.
This concludes today's conference.
Bye.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call for Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated.
Today's call is being recorded.
Any statements made about future results and performance or about plans expectations and objectives are forward-looking statements.
Actual results and performance may differ from those included in the forward-looking statements as a result of factors discussed in the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31 2013 and in our other reports filed with the SEC.
The company disclaims any undertaking to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
A transcript of this call will be posted and available on the company's website.
A web audio replay will also be available for download.
Information and the link can be found on the company's website.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Colin Dyer Chief Executive Officer for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Hello everybody and welcome to this review of our results for the third quarter and the first 9 months of 2014.
Our Chief Financial Officer Christie Kelly joins me on today's call and will discuss the details of our performance in a few minutes.
I'll begin by summarizing our results.
We completed record third quarter with fee revenue of $1.2 billion a 19% increase on the third quarter of 2013.
Year-to-date fee revenue increased 17% to $3.1 billion.
Adjusted net income was $105 million in the quarter or $2.31 a share up 55% from the year ago quarter.
Adjusted net income totaled $198 million for the first 9 months of the year or $4.38 a share compared with $135 million or $2.99 a share in the same period a year ago.
And finally our Board of Directors declared a semiannual dividend of $0.25 a share a 9% increase.
So all in all we had a very strong quarter in active global real estate markets.
We saw broad-based revenue growth across all service lines and geographies and LaSalle Investment Management gained further momentum and delivered outstanding results with a superior capital raise and acquisition activity plus significant equity earnings and incentive fees.
The market backdrop to this is an -- a global economy projected to grow by 3.1% this year up marginally from 2013.
And despite concerns about some economies overall growth is expected to increase next year to 3.6%.
To look at world real estate markets please see the slides that we posted in the Investor Relations section of jll.com.
Slide 3 summarizes trends in capital markets and leasing volumes.
Investor sentiment remains strong and world investment sales volumes continue to rise in the quarter up 15% from the third quarter of 2013 and 24% on a year-to-date basis bringing year-to-date activity to $468 billion.
The regional divergence we've seen throughout 2014 continued with the Americas and EMEA outperforming Asia Pacific.
As you'll see on the slide overall transactional volumes in Asia Pacific were marginally higher than in the third quarter of 2013 but below 2013 levels on a year-to-date basis.
There was a significant divergence within this with Australia up 23% and China down 33% year-to-date.
Expanding investor interest in the European market produced a double-digit increase in market volumes for both the quarter and year-to-date.
Growth was widespread from the core markets of UK France and Germany to markets in Central and Eastern Europe Benelux the Nordics and Southern Europe.
And in the Americas investment volumes grew 25% in the quarter and 36% year-to-date with the U.S.
continuing to surge and Brazil and Mexico were considerably higher than the same period a year ago.
Prime yields continue to compress in the third quarter due to continued high demand by 10 to 20 basis points in U.S.
gateway cities for example 25 basis points in Madrid and 10 basis points in Tokyo.
Annual capital value growth on prime office assets across 25 major world markets remained stable at between 8% and 9% during the quarter.
World leasing markets showed greater divergence in activity and sentiment.
While gross absorption declined in the Americas and EMEA in the quarter the sense in the marketplace is one of continued momentum.
Many U.S.
tenants renewed and extended leases earlier in the cycle to lock-in lower rents for example and in the third quarter nearly 45% of U.S.
leases reflected growth in tenants footprint.
In Europe London saw near record takeup volumes while activity was more subdued in Continental Europe amid renewed economic concern.
In Asia Pacific year-to-date gross volumes increased 10%.
Office vacancy rates across 98 global markets fell below 13% for the first time in the current cycle down to 12.9%.
U.S.
vacancies closed the quarter at a 6-year low dipping below 16% while Asia Pacific fell to 11% -- 11.2% its lowest rate in 18 months.
European office vacancy remained steady at 9.7%.
And finally rental rates continue to increase at a steady pace during the third quarter showing a 3% annual growth rate across 25 major world markets.
So for a sense of how we performed in this environment I'll turn the call over to Christie.
Thank you Colin and welcome to everyone on our call.
I'm pleased to report another quarter of strong performance for JLL.
As Colin mentioned we had a record third quarter with consolidated fee revenue of $1.2 billion up 19% over last year and adjusted EPS of $2.31 up 55% over last year.
Real estate services fee revenue increased 12% overall.
LaSalle Investment Management grew advisory fees and generated significant incentive fees and equity earnings from performance for clients.
Our results were delivered in a steadily improving market environment in which the economic recovery remains on track for the medium term and for real estate as reflected in our strong pipeline.
As Colin mentioned for the quarter overall global market leasing activity was uneven less active than forecasted and continued to trail the more buoyant capital markets.
Our strong broad-based performance continued to demonstrate the strength of our globally diverse and growth-oriented firm.
Our revenue increase of 10% in Leasing was driven throughout our businesses and outperformed the overall market where growth absorption decreased 5% for the quarter versus third quarter last year.
We also delivered a 13% increase in our annuity businesses including Property &amp; Facility Management and Project and Development Services led by our Asia Pacific and Americas businesses.
Capital Markets &amp; Hotels revenue increased 15% led by a strong quarter in the Americas and EMEA.
Our LaSalle Investment Management business again delivered an outstanding quarter.
We delivered these results while continuing to selectively invest and profitably grow our Real Estate Services business as well as LaSalle in alignment with our strategic plan.
Adjusted operating income margin calculated on a fee revenue basis increased 140 basis points to 10.8% for the quarter compared with 9.4% for the third quarter last year.
Adjusted EBITDA margin on a fee revenue basis increased 230 basis points to 14.3%.
Our performance was primarily driven by LaSalle both in strong incentive fees and higher advisory fees offset slightly by timing of client-facing investments such as IT and data as well as variable cost increases of 21% to convert our solid pipeline.
On a trailing 12-month basis operating margin expanded 70 basis points in the third quarter to 9.9% with margin improvement in all 3 regions and at LaSalle even as we continued to invest in our business.
For example over the last 12 months we selectively expanded staff in more than 11% in the case of Capital Markets and 7% for Leasing executed through both hiring and acquisition while increasing revenue per producer in the process.
Implementing productivity initiatives and identifying new opportunities to increase revenue remain a priority.
Our consolidated results which demonstrate our dedication to excellence and the strength of our brand the talent of our local team and our focus on clients and investors set us up for a strong fourth quarter finish to 2014 and a solid base for 2015.
We will begin our look at the segment results with the Americas where third quarter fee revenue increased 16% over third quarter 2013.
Leasing revenues for the quarter was up 10% and Capital Markets &amp; Hotels revenue was up 55% both significantly outpacing the changes to overall market volume.
Our Hotels business delivered excellent growth in the third quarter in the Americas.
Office investment sales revenue was also strong as our people executed on the healthy pipelines we discussed in previous quarters.
Growth was also robust in our annuity businesses in the Americas with Property &amp; Facility Management revenue up 9% and Project and Development Services up 19% on a fee revenue basis.
Operating margins were down in the third quarter and flat on a year-to-date basis versus last year including the impact of timing of specific transactions and investments.
From a longer-term perspective our Americas operating margins are up 10 basis points on a trailing 12-month basis to 9.9%.
We continued to recruit develop and retain top talent to drive continued performance in both Leasing and Capital Markets as well as our annuity-based businesses.
Our pipeline remains strong for the remainder of the year and our Americas team is driving both revenue and profitability for the seasonably strong fourth quarter.
In our EMEA business third quarter fee revenue increased 9% over last year.
This solid growth was over a third quarter 2013 that was 24% higher than 2012.
Revenue growth was particularly strong in Leasing up 11%; Property &amp; Facility Management up 16%; and Project and Development Services which was up 18% driven by our Tetris business.
Capital Markets &amp; Hotels revenue was up 5% on a tough prior year comparable led by strong performances in the U.K.
and Germany.
Overall the U.K.
Spain and MENA had strong quarters with respect to year-over-year profitability.
Operating margins in EMEA were lower in the quarter due to timing of transactions that moved to the fourth quarter and our ongoing investments but remain up on a year-to-date and trailing 12-month basis.
Operating margins on a trailing 12-month basis are 7.9% up 30 basis points from last year.
Our EMEA leadership is upbeat about our prospects for the fourth quarter and beyond with opportunities to advise our clients on large transactions outweighing concerns about slower economic recovery and ongoing Russia/Ukraine situation.
In our Asia Pacific business third quarter fee revenue increased 7% over 2013.
Asia Pacific leasing revenue for the quarter was up 9% with leasing markets in Asia Pacific recovering albeit slowly.
Capital Markets &amp; Hotels revenue for the quarter was down 16% after being up 56% in third quarter 2013 versus 2012.
Our expectation for Capital Markets growth is to return partly due to older vintage private equity funds entering their disposition stages and our work-in-hand expected to convert for the fourth quarter.
Our annuity businesses continue to perform well as Property &amp; Facility Management fee revenue for the third quarter increased 10% and Project and Development Services fee revenue increased 14%.
Our advisory business in Asia Pacific has been bolstered by the growth in Australia's valuations business as a result of investments and key hires.
Operating margins were lower in the quarter and year-to-date where performance was primarily driven by a change in mix to higher annuity revenue lower capital markets revenue against a tough comparable and investment timing.
Operating margins on a trailing 12-month basis are up 30 basis points to 8.5% while we continue to invest in top talent and long-term initiatives.
LaSalle Investment Management as I mentioned before had an outstanding quarter.
The measurement of LaSalle's current health is evidenced by a number of key indicators including acquisition and takeover activity within their client funds growth in assets under management and related advisory fees and incentive fees driven by performance for our investors.
LaSalle is delivering on all of these fronts with acquisitions reaching nearly $3 billion in the quarter assets under management growing to $53 billion with advisory fees up 8% and as we indicated last quarter significant incentive fees earned as mature funds continued to liquidate.
While incentive fees are influenced by both our investment performance and the real estate cycle we are reverting to a period similar to prefinancial crisis when we averaged $40 million to $50 million of incentive fees per year.
Since we are currently liquidating funds we have the potential to exceed that average over the near term if markets remain stable.
Investor capital flows remain strong in all regions and across most strategies.
LaSalle's track record for performance research-driven client relationship focus and global platform have all contributed to a record capital raise in the third quarter.
Regarding the state of our investment-grade balance sheet total net debt was $517 million at the end of the quarter a reduction of $248 million from the third quarter last year.
We continue to benefit from a lower cost of debt which resulted in the reduction of net interest expense from $9.6 million in the third quarter of last year to $7.4 million this year.
We continue to review M&amp;A opportunities closing 3 transactions since last quarter.
We also increased our semiannual dividend by 9% to $0.25 per share reflecting our confidence in cash generation and profitable long-term growth on behalf of our shareholders.
To sum up we had a great third quarter and we are well-positioned heading into the seasonally strong fourth quarter.
I'll now turn the call back over to Colin.
Thank you Christie.
So looking at business wins for the third quarter Slide 4 lists a few examples from different service lines and geographies.
In our corporate outsourcing business we won 41 new assignments to date this year expanded our existing relationships with another 26 clients and renewed 11 contracts.
New corporate business in the quarter included winning the global contract for real estate services from Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank which has operations in more than 30 countries around the world.
In the Americas we won a new assignment from the American Red Cross for nearly 14 million square feet of space and Microsoft appointed us to provide facilities management services for a 900 000 square foot portfolio in Southeast Asia.
We now manage nearly 5 million square feet for Microsoft across Asia Pacific.
We also continue to expand our local market Corporate Solutions business which serves corporate clients who purchase real estate services locally.
To date this year we've won 38 assignments totaling 73 million square feet in this growing segment.
Turning to investment sales transactions.
In the U.S.
we completed the $283 million sale of a multistate healthcare portfolio comprised of 12 assets.
In the Czech Republic we advised on the sale of a 6.7 million square foot logistics portfolio for EUR 523 million and that was the largest ever direct sale in the Republic.
And in Guangzhou China we sold an 80% interest in a 1.1 million square-foot Yingyao Plaza to a domestic investor for $755 million.
Third quarter Leasing and Property and asset management transactions included a 270 000 square foot lease restructure and extension at 1111 Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington D.C.
for law firm Morgan Lewis.
It included also a 366 000 square foot management assignment at One Tower Bridge a mixed use development in London.
And in Beijing for Samsung we completed a 197 000 square foot office lease at Fortune Financial Center and were also retained for project management services.
This was the largest relocation in Beijing Central District -- Business District to date this year.
As I said in my opening remarks and as Christie covered in detail LaSalle Investment Management produced a truly impressive result in the third quarter.
This out-performance translates to a significant boost in LaSalle's business.
It is not however the result of a single quarter but the product of solid execution of LaSalle's long-term strategy and its commitment to performance for its clients.
For example most of the funds that generated the quarter's incentive fees were raised before the financial crisis.
And with its focus on long-term relationship and top investment performance LaSalle has guided its clients and their investments through that crisis successfully eventually meeting and succeeding -- exceeding expectations.
Christie observed that LaSalle's current health is reflected in its impressive levels of acquisitions advisory fees incentives and assets under management growth.
LaSalle's healthy future prospects are also indicated by its equity capital raise amounting to $11 billion over the past 12 months and $5.1 billion in the third quarter alone a LaSalle record for a single quarter.
New investments and takeovers included GBP 750 million mandate for the U.K.'s Greater Manchester Pension Fund and a major European institutional investors award of $1 billion of equity capital to invest in U.S.
real estate.
We aren't alone in recognizing LaSalle in the highly regarded 2014 Euromoney Real Estate poll.
Industry advisors and consultants joined by other investment managers named LaSalle the #1 Global Investment Manager and the #1 Investment Manager in 3 key markets: Asia Germany and Japan.
Beyond the normal course of business we also continue to invest in future growth by attracting top individuals and teams to JLL.
We have also completed 6 targeted acquisitions this year including 3 announced recently W.A.Ellis specialist agency in high-end residential property in London as we continue to expand our leading presence in that active and growing segment; CLEO Construction Management a California-based construction and project management services firm that specializes in medical facilities; and in Spain the regulated valuations business of BNP Paribas Real Estate.
Looking forward Slide 3 shows our research group's full year projections for global investment sales and leasing activity.
We continue to expect total investment sales market volumes to reach $700 billion this year 15% to 20% above 2013.
We see volumes increasing significantly in the Americas and EMEA but declining in Asia Pacific by about 5%.
Asia Pac is coming off a record 2013 however and we expect volumes to -- in the region to hit a new record in 2015.
Looking ahead to next year we expect a continued high level of global demand for direct real estate investment.
We project further transactional volume growth of 10% to 15% globally with a further 5% growth in capital values in the year with Tokyo Beijing Sydney and U.S.
gateway markets showing the strongest capital appreciation.
Global leasing volumes are likely to finish this year at levels similar to strong 2013 levels with gross absorption flat year-on-year in the Americas and EMEA and up in Asia Pacific.
In 2015 we project gross leasing volumes to improve steadily by 5% as sustained world economic growth drives increased business headcount and capital spend.
In funds management we expect the continuation of current trends with capital flows growing as investors increase their allocations to real estate and seek enhanced returns further along the risk curve.
As a major investment manager LaSalle will continue to attract significant volumes of this investment capital flow.
For the fourth quarter of 2014 our outlook remains positive.
Our pipelines are strong as Christie mentioned in what is traditionally our busiest quarter.
And our business strategy is delivering superior results across the range of our operations.
So before we open the call for your questions I'd like just to close my remarks by mentioning a few more representative awards which our colleagues have received from industry groups and independent third parties during the quarter and which demonstrates our position as an industry leader in real estate services and investment management.
In addition to the LaSalle awards I mentioned earlier JLL also won Euromoney Real Estate Awards across multiple markets in Europe Middle East Asia and Latin America.
Our global research team was named real estate Best in Class in London's Interactive Media Awards for our online ongoing Cities Research Center and we were awarded Cross-border Investment Deal of the Year in the AsiaProperty Awards in Hong Kong for the sale of Grand Park Orchard Hotel in Singapore.
And in the U.S during the quarter we added Dallas Orlando and Philadelphia to our list of Best Places to Work awards.
So with that let's now turn to your questions.
Operator could you please explain the Q&amp;A process? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from David Gold with Sidoti.
Inc.</strong> Couple of quick questions.
First on the incentive fees and equity earnings.
Earlier in the year I think the -- just what the commentary was we could see some significant wins and presumably in the third quarter we did.
Beyond that as we think about fourth quarter and presumably your visibility is a lot better today than it was say 3 or 4 months ago.
How should we think about that? Are there still some significant ones that are possible in the fourth quarter? David I'll jump in there.
As we look to the fourth quarter just based on where we are with the funds we'll see we believe some healthy performance in keeping with historical norms prefinancial crisis.
So to answer your question yes and for the foreseeable future to the medium term.
Christie's remarks on the numbers she quoted on incentive fees will guide to next year rather than the back end of this year.
The Q4 numbers will be -- there will be some incentive but nothing like the level we saw in this quarter.
Inc.</strong> Got you.
Perfect.
And then second piece.
Just as a reminder back some years I know we've chatted about the incremental margin potential that you have on those fees.
Presumably you have to bonus or pay incentive comp.
But sort of other than that what's -- how should we think about the incremental margin potential there? Or is it still order of magnitude 50-ish percent? I think that when you take a look at the incremental margin percent David historically for the past I don't know 10- 15-years as far back as I could look outside of '06 '07 we delivered around 12% and we're expecting to deliver above that.
And when you take a look at the margin growth that we have experienced we're not running our business just for the quarter.
So are you referring to the incentive fees this margin on incentive fees alone? Inc.</strong> Yes yes.
Okay.
So there we are slightly above the 12% but they vary by fund but the range is sort of 20% to 40%.
Yes and I would agree with that David.
When we take a look at incentive fees we're in that ballpark.
Inc.</strong> Perfect.
And then a broader question.
When you look at the numbers that you have in your market overview essentially in the Capital Markets side presumably you're expecting slower growth next year broadly and Leasing to be up a touch.
When we think about next year with that sort of backdrop looking for growth where -- what are the potential drivers of say real upside next year given some potential slowdown on both of those fronts? I think the areas where we might see some -- if you're talking just Capital Markets I mean we're projecting quite a robust picture in Europe and U.S.
I think the potential for upside could come in Asia.
What we've seen in Asia in the Capital Markets this year is something of a hesitant period as buyers have been kind of waiting and a little bit sensitive to geopolitical issues and currency swings.
And our sense is that if momentum comes back into those markets we should -- could see some upside there.
Your next question comes from Brad Burke with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Christie I know you already touched on this.
I wanted to go back to EBITDA margins.
And since you saw most of the growth in Capital Markets which is one of your higher-margin businesses I would have expected some margin expansion.
Actually saw some margin compression within Real Estate Services instead.
So I'm trying to understand what would be driving that? Specifically Americas in particular were surprising given the strong result that you had in Q3 for Capital Markets.
Yes.
I think Brad specifically if you take a look overall there are a couple of things going on in Real Estate Services.
We have accelerated the funding on IT and data and as well given the very strong pipelines our T&amp;E and marketing expenses are up over revenues which bodes very well for the fourth quarter.
And specifically if you look at the Americas and we level set for IT and data and some of the innovation activities that we have going on in the region together with the strong pipeline the performance on a quarterly basis would be up as well as on a year-to-date basis which was down slightly for the quarter and flat on a year-to-date basis.
So we're very optimistic in terms of our outlook for the fourth quarter and beyond.
The team is doing very well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if I...
Yes so then I was just going to say too if you look at EMEA also investments in the quarter but we had a couple of transactions that slipped from the third quarter to fourth quarter.
The team is doing exceedingly well and as I mentioned very upbeat for the fourth quarter and beyond.
And then APAC we saw some slowing in the market in terms of our momentum and we had a tough comp last year together with the fact that we had a mix differential.
So Cap Markets in that region are down.
But overall I'm very pleased with the performance and how we're positioned going into the fourth quarter and 2015.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to confirm if I heard you right in the Americas if we were to normalize for those IT and data expenditures you would have seen a sequential improvement quarter-over-quarter on EBITDA margins as well as a year-over-year improvement versus 2013? Yes that's right.
Brad one point to make about the Americas Capital Market it's the region where Capital Markets represents the lowest proportion of overall revenue so it has less of an impact.
And on those numbers the increases are impressive in percentage terms it's off a smaller base than we have in Europe and in Asia Pacific.
It's also lower margin than those other 2 regions.
Research Division</strong> Okay I appreciate that.
I wanted to ask as we head into the fourth quarter which is your strongest cash flow quarter what you're thinking about in terms of uses for all of your free cash flow.
And I'm interested in the decision to increase the dividend in the current quarter which is what we normally would expect in the first quarter whether there's any specific reason to take it up earlier than what we've typically seen you do.
Brad when we take a look at uses of cash we are very focused on M&amp;A together with the investment in our platform IT co-investment.
And from a dividend perspective as I mentioned we feel very strongly about our ability to generate cash with the growth in our annuity businesses and the drive for profitability together with the fact that we're at a very good point in the cycle here from a real estate perspective.
So we thought on behalf of our shareholders obviously it was the appropriate thing to do.
And we look forward to more performance going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then the last one just looking at your assets under management.
It's been a pretty tremendous increase over the past couple of quarters.
How much of that do you think is attributable to LaSalle taking an outsized share of an increasing allocation to commercial real estate? And how much of that is just LaSalle benefiting from increased interest in the overall allocation in commercial real estate? That's real difficult to answer but we'll go away and do some homework on it because it's a good question.
We can split it back.
As we said we've given you the amounts that we've taken in over the past 12 and -- 12 -- 3 and 12 months which are truly impressive numbers $11 million in this year-to-date.
We don't see any reason as we said why there wouldn't be a continuation of flow -- funds flowing into the sector and to LaSalle as a predominant players in the sector.
What level LaSalle will pick up over the coming quarters is very hard to estimate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I just should assume the strong capital raise that you had in the quarter that should layer in over the next few quarters and continue to support AUM growth? Exactly.
Your next question comes from David Ridley-Lane with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> So there are several large U.S.
retailers that are facing particularly difficult conditions and they may start widespread store closing programs.
They are in the restructuring procedures -- proceedings.
If we do see something along those lines a lot of malls that could be losing anchor tenants there could be some pretty sizable follow-on impacts.
So first how much exposure does JLL have to U.S.
retail and leasing market? And then second how has your experience been with large-scale bankruptcies in the past as Circuit City or Borders something along those lines? Yes our retail activity including management leasing and capital markets work in the U.S is less than 5% of our U.S.
revenues David.
What generally happens when you have bankruptcies is that the properties get recycled obviously sometimes back into retail use or if they're particularly off pitch sites then they'll be converted into -- redeveloped or converted into other uses.
We haven't had a huge amount of historical experience with them but it's not a huge part of our business either.
Yes I would agree with that David.
If you go to Europe we do have a significant mall sale and leasing business across the continent.
And so the general pressure on retailers in Europe would work to our benefit if we have those sorts of scenarios that you've described much more strongly than in the U.S.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then when you look at the request for proposals and deals you're working on in the Property &amp; Facilities Management service line do you think you're more likely to accelerate from the third quarter pace that we've seen here? Or is kind of a double-digit rate a good run rate for you over the next couple of quarters? No I think I mean we get a strong sense of our performance being above market.
We -- of the bids that we actually respond to the RFPs we respond to we're winning at a 60%-plus rate so that's very healthy.
Now we're very selective about what we bid for because we are trying to ensure that we keep a strong margin in both our Facilities and Property Management business so we do deselect some bids on price and move forward with those where we think we can sustain a good margin.
But we believe we can continue to pick up market share in a market that feels active and is coming our way.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then in terms -- thank you for sharing the headcount growth in both Capital Markets and Leasing.
Is it sort of too early to ask if you've put together some plans around what you're expecting for 2015 headcount growth? Well we've put our budgets together for the kind of incentive we typically pay to hire people and those will be sort of similar levels to 2014.
How many people we then succeed in hiring is something else.
The markets internationally have got pretty competitive.
People are generally in a part of the cycle where they're earning well where they're comfortable with the place they're at generally and so pulling them into our organization hiring them into our organization becomes harder.
Conversely people now are more reluctant to leave us as well because of the same considerations that I just mentioned.
So it's getting more difficult to spend that money and we do see spend it wisely.
We don't go into excesses in the sorts of hiring bonuses we pay people.
So hard to predict what it will be.
We'll aim for the sorts of numbers we've had this year but it's a more competitive market.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Brandon Dobell with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Maybe Colin first for you.
As you think about the market expectations in -- or for volumes in Capital Markets how much does your own I guess internal pipeline or the look you have into future deals inform how you guys think about market growth for next year? And I guess maybe a broader question is so the assumptions behind those market volume expectations for '15.
Just trying to get a better idea of what key things you're looking at to get comfortable with those kind of volume assumptions.
So what drives them? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Well if you start with the static where we are now what we see in Europe and the U.S.
and it's sort of variable across Asian Pacific but you -- in anything we're marketing we've generally got a rule of thumb which is that for the final dollar that ends up making the purchase there's sort of $10 have come in and they bid at credible level.
So the weight of money that we're currently seeing making offers for particularly high-quality assets is still very strong.
The indications we get from LaSalle which is sort of one step removed is that the institutional investors are still very interested in real assets as a sector and within that real estate as a whole.
And so the -- out of the conversations that they're having and the amount of money that's being allocated and reallocated to real estate the indications there are strong as well.
So there's some sort of "where's the money"-type indicators.
When you look at the markets themselves we can see pipelines as we mentioned which are full.
Those generally give us an indication 3- to 6-months ahead and there's no slacking up in that picture either.
And then after that the general sense we have or our forecasters have of continued steady economic recovery with as I mentioned in my comments forecast GDP growth next year globally which is up further on this year.
So all those factors together give us confidence in the numbers that we forecast.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And looking at the Project and Development Services business what's a better metric to look to from a correlation point of view? Is it gross absorption in the Leasing markets? Or is it -- I guess maybe this is more about the U.S is it kind of U.S.
commercial construction activity? What's the better thing to track to try and figure out how that business grows looking out the next handful of quarters? Yes it's the Leasing gross absorption in Leasing which is the clearest guide short term.
And then after that and it's linked to the gross absorption number general corporate confidence.
And again you can see that steady or rising across most economies.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Christie going back to the margin question -- margin discussion I think from Brad's question seems like the expectations for fourth quarter margins year-on-year in all the segments should be for an improvement? Or is there enough noise in the Asia Pac mix to keep the year-on-year margin flat to down versus last year's fourth quarter? The -- we don't give forward-looking guidance Brandon specifically but I will tell you that the pipelines remain strong.
The team's upbeat and from the perspective of the mix differential it may weigh somewhat in terms of momentum of Capital Markets versus our annuity-based income.
But overall will be a very strong performance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then final one for me.
Looking at LaSalle when you guys make dispositions I would imagine of especially of separate accounts how often or maybe the frequency of that money coming back into LaSalle? So separate account gets closed out but then that customer comes right back and says "Great you did a good job for us and now here's the money back and go do it again." Or is that kind of all new money and no kind of recycled money that came in this quarter? It's a mixture of everything that was -- increased allocations from existing investors and I can think of a $400 million number from one account in Europe.
We mentioned 2 new sets of money which came in one from a European institutional investor for example that was new to us.
And we get re-ups as well where money has been cycled through value-added opportunities.
So it's a mixture of all of the above really.
And I would absolutely agree with that Brandon.
The only thing I would also mention is just based on our historical performance on behalf of our investors we do have very high retention.
So the team not only has retention as Colin mentioned but we're also attracting new sources of capital.
Your next question comes from Michael Mueller with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick question.
Christie on your comments about incentive fees going back to predownturn levels safe to assume that that comment it's little bit broader than just incentive fees.
It touches on the equity gains as well and do you think some of the transactional income? Or is it really just you're talking about incentive fees? I was primarily focused on incentive fees Michael.
I went back to the 2001 time period and then we analyzed where we were in the fund specifically.
So my comment was really along the lines of incentive fees.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean if you expand that comment a little bit and think about the gains is it unreasonable to assume that they would be a little more elevated as well? Could you just give a bit more flavor to that question? Research Division</strong> Yes.
I mean the incentive fees that are coming off liquidating funds are they getting -- earning performance fees on that? It seems to imply that the gains as well that are tied to that would ramp up as well over that time period so there's a correlation between the two.
Is that the right way to think about that? The issue in incentive fees yes and it's really tough for you to model.
That's why we gave you a guidance number.
But the issue -- they come in all sorts of different flavors depending on the way funds are put together their vintage and the way the limited partners have influenced the discussions on the fund.
So they can be -- so typically they can be at a performance level where we will be gained -- taking a percentage of the gain above a particular threshold.
And the percentage which we take will vary once above that threshold.
So they're hard for us to predict and they're hard for you to model.
[Operator Instructions] There are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back to the presenters.
Well thank you very much operator.
So with no further questions we'll end today's call.
Thank you all for participating and for your continued interest in JLL and we'll look forward to speaking you again -- to you again following the fourth quarter.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day welcome to the fourth quarter 2014 earnings release conference call for Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated.
Today's call is being recorded.
Any statements made about future results and performance or about plans expectations and objectives are forward-looking statements.
Actual results and performance may differ from those included in the forward-looking statements as a result of factors discussed in the Company's Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31st 2013 and in our other reports filed with the SEC.
The Company disclaims any undertakings to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
A transcript of this call will be posted and available on the Company's website.
A web audio replay will also be available for download.
Information and the link can be found on the Company's website.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Colin Dyer Chief Executive Officer for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Hello everybody and welcome to this review of our results for the 2014 fourth quarter and the full year.
With me on today's call is Christie Kelly our Chief Financial Officer and Christie will review our financial performance in detail in a few moments.
Summarizing our results thanks to an excellent fourth quarter we completed another record year.
We produced record fee revenue and adjusted earnings per share and we continue to expand margins build market share and increase productivity across our business.
We also continued our 10-year path of over 15% compound annual growth rate in EBITDA.
These record results came in an environment of steadily improving conditions in most of the world's real estate markets.
Global GDP growth stood at 3.2% at the end of the year and we project slow but steady economic upturn continuing into 2015 with GDP increasing by 3.4% this year.
To see how this is translated into real estate markets please see the slides which we posted in the Investor Relations section of JLL.com.
Slide 3 shows global capital markets recording their fifth consecutive year of growth.
Transactions totaled $230 million in the fourth quarter which was a 9% increase over the same quarter a year ago and the largest single quarter on record.
Full year volumes reached $710 billion which was a 20% increase on 2013 and comparable to levels last seen in 2006.
Investment volumes in the Americas reached a record $94 billion in the quarter which was up 7% from the fourth quarter of 2013 while full year volumes reached $302 billion which is 25% higher than the prior year.
Investment levels in Europe Middle East and Africa EMEA were $93 billion for the quarter an 8% increase on the fourth quarter of 2013.
This pushed full year volumes to $277 billion which was a 25% increase on 2013.
Asia-Pacific investment volumes set a new quarterly record of $43 billion for the fourth quarter up 17% on the final quarter of 2013 while full year activity totaled $131 billion a 3% increase on the prior year.
The pace of transaction activity globally has essentially returned to the peak levels of the last cycle although the current cycle may still be closer to its mid-point.
Yields for prime office assets continue to compress in the fourth quarter with the largest declines in US gateway cities Paris Tokyo Sydney and Seoul while annual capital values grew 8% across 25 major world markets driven by that yield compression but also rental increases.
Global leasing markets showed corporate occupy activity strengthening around the world at the end of 2014 which closed with surprising strength.
In the US gross absorption totaled 236 million square feet in the year 5% below 2013 levels when we saw tenants renew space rather than wait for what 2014 might bring in the way of less favorable lease terms.
In EMEA 2014 gross absorption improved by 17% year-on-year with the fourth quarter representing the strongest quarter in European occupied markets in 7 years.
In Asia-Pacific fourth quarter gross take-up was 14% above the same quarter a year ago and up 16% for the full year.
As a further indicator of market health the global office vacancy rate across 98 markets edged down to 12.7% at year-end while US vacancies closed the quarter at 15.6% which was down 290 basis points from the recessionary peak in 2010.
European vacancy rate fell marginally to 9.6% Asia-Pacific to 11% which was its lowest level since the fourth quarter of 2012.
Finally in this market overview rental rent rates continue to grow at a steady pace with the annual growth on prime office assets across 25 markets standing at 3.1% in the year compared to 1.7% in 2013.
So against this positive market picture let's now see how JLL performed and I'll turn the call over to Christie.
Thank you Colin.
And welcome to everyone on our call.
I'm pleased to report JLL's record top line and bottom line financial performance for 2014.
We delivered double-digit fee revenue growth for the fourth quarter and the full year across our business segments with contributions coming from all service lines in each geographic region.
We delivered record earnings per share for 2014 fourth quarter and full year.
We drove margin expansion in all segments of the business while continuing to invest for long-term profitable growth.
We see reflected in our results the benefits of investments we have made in our platform to continuously improve the quality and scope of our services for our clients while building the long-term value of our Company.
These excellent results coupled with our long-term perspective translated into further strengthening of our investment grade balance sheet and an upgrade by S&amp;P to BBB in December 2014.
We finished our year with consolidated fee revenue of $4.7 billion up 18% over last year and adjusted earnings per share of $8.69 up 38% over last year.
For the fourth quarter we delivered consolidated fee revenue of $1.6 billion up 19% over last year and adjusted earnings per share of $4.30 up 29% over last year.
Adjusted operating income margin calculated on a fee revenue basis increased 120 basis points to 10.9% for the year.
Adjusted EBITDA margin on a fee revenue basis increased 140 basis points to 13.8% for the year.
Our consolidated results reflect 18% incremental operating income margin to fee revenue for the year and 30% incremental margin to fee revenue for the fourth quarter.
The significant increases in margin reflect many factors including the strength of our diverse global platform with high recurring profitable revenue and the productivity focus of our people.
These results also reflect our investment discipline including the contributions of our transaction professionals in whom we have invested through M&amp;A activity and strategic hiring over the last several years.
Additionally our investment management business consistently delivers above benchmark performance for clients and in turn generates incentive fees and equity earnings from transaction activities within fund life cycles.
We remain focused on balancing top line growth platform investments and productivity to achieve incremental margin and earnings per share growth.
Our 18% consolidated fee revenue growth on a local currency basis was broad-based across geographic and services segments.
Our revenue increases of 15% in capital markets and hotels and 17% in leasing demonstrate our ability to serve both investors and occupiers in mixed but broadly improving markets with continued transaction momentum now supported by improving corporate occupier demand.
We also continue to grow our annuity real estate services businesses such as property and facility management where fee revenue was up 15% compared to last year as a result of transitioning large global clients that were won in 2013 and securing new mandates and expansions in 2014.
LaSalle continued to strengthen its base of incentive fees as certain of its funds approached the end of their life cycles achieving a total of $8.9 billion in capital raised for 2014 and ending the year with $53.6 billion in assets under management.
Over the last 12 months we selectively expanded revenue generating hires by more than 12% in the case of capital markets and 8% for leasing executed through both hiring and acquisition while also increasing revenue per producer.
In alignment with our strategic plan and our investment discipline we also completed 10 acquisitions of transaction and annuity businesses in the US UK Sweden France Spain Portugal and Malaysia during the year.
Transaction pipelines across our business remain strong headed into 2015.
We will begin our look at the segment-specific results with the Americas where fee revenue across the region was up 18% in local currency over 2013 and up 15% for the fourth quarter.
Leasing was up 19% for the year 18% for the quarter which were particularly strong results given that both were achieved despite declining gross absorption conditions in the overall market for both these periods.
The rest of the Americas platform also made meaningful contributions to growth in 2014 with capital markets and hotels up 22% for the year led by real estate investment banking and multi-family investment sales together with a record year in hotels.
Property and facility management was up 13% primarily from new client contract wins and project and development services was up 20% both from new client wins and expanded projects with long time clients.
Geographically operations in each of Canada and Latin America made significant contributions to both transaction and annuity revenue growth.
Operating income in the Americas grew 19% to $219 million for the year up from $184 million a year ago and operating income margin improved by 20 basis points to 10.4% on a fee revenue basis.
In EMEA fee revenue across the region was up 17% in local currency over 2013 and up 24% for the quarter capital markets and hotels revenue was up 23% for the year 42% for the quarter reinforcing our leading market share and our reputation in EMEA real estate capital market space with strong growth demonstrated in the UK Germany France and Sweden.
Our rest of capital markets business experienced predictable weakness given the serious and worsening geopolitical situation but we are pleased that our Russia team nevertheless delivered the year without losses.
Property and facility management fee revenue was up 21% for the year and project and development services fee revenue was up 18% as we continue to win international mandates from European multi-nationals and expand our Tetris fit-out business.
Overall performance was strong throughout the region both in larger markets like the UK Germany and France but also in Ireland and across the continent from Spain Portugal and Italy to Belgium and the Netherlands up to Sweden and over to central and Eastern Europe and MINA.
Adjusted operating income in the region increased 34% year-over-year 2014 to $123 million up from $92 million a year ago.
Adjusted operating income margin improved by 110 basis points to 9.3% on a fee revenue basis reflective primarily of capital market performance and our focus on productivity.
Specifically our Warsaw Shared Services Operation is a Best Practices leader and example of our focus on productivity and talent investment.
Our Warsaw SSO was established a number of years ago and now continues to expand.
As a result of which our EMEA CFO and her team are now located in Warsaw instead of their historical base in London.
In Asia-Pacific fee revenue across the region was up 11% in local currency over 2013 and up 16% for the quarter.
Asia-Pacific leasing revenue was up 23% for the year 34% for the quarter outperforming market volumes for both periods in the midst of a recovery that has been patchy but is beginning to accelerate.
Capital markets and hotel revenues for the year was down 10% but up 5% in the quarter against a backdrop of significant year-over-year comparables.
Property and facility management revenue was up 14% for the year and 10% for the quarter with demand for these services growing steadily as we see increases in both the quality of property inventory and the propensity of Asian companies to outsource.
Geographically greater China performed well despite a slowing economic environment while India took advantage of an improved business environment particularly in the second half of the year.
Operating income grew 9% to $84 million for the year up from $77 million a year ago and operating income margin improved by 20 basis points to 9.3% on a fee revenue basis.
Our Asia-Pacific business delivered very strong 2014 performance in a mixed economic environment while continuing to profitably invest for the long-term.
LaSalle had a tremendous year delivering operating revenue increases of 45% for the year and 44% for the fourth quarter driven by incentive fee performance in the second half of the year but also including increases in advisory fees up 5% for the year and 9% for the quarter.
LaSalle continued to focus on productivity as it generated a year-over-year increase of 11% in assets under management per employee.
Further LaSalle raised $1.5 billion of new capital in the fourth quarter bringing total capital raised for the year to $8.9 billion a new record for the business.
Assets under management grew by $6 billion during the year to $53.6 billion.
LaSalle's incentive fees of $26 million in the fourth quarter brought the full year total to $105 million the second highest annual total in LaSalle's history.
As the mature funds generating these strong incentive fees near the end of their fund lives we expect equity earnings and incentive fees to be healthy but taper in 2015.
With respect to our balance sheet and the strength of our financial position total net debt was $163 million at the end of the year a reduction of $274 million or 63% from last year while we continue to invest in the business.
We benefited from the lower pricing on our credit facility with $28.3 million in interest expense for the full year constituting an 18% reduction for the year.
We are pleased that we achieved an upgrade by Standard &amp; Poors which raised our credit rating to BBB in alignment with Moody's investment rating of BBA2 reflecting the increasing strength of our annuity businesses and our overall global platform.
To sum up we had an excellent quarter and year.
We remain well-positioned for future growth in 2015 and will continue our consistent discipline of investing in our platform for the long-term benefit of our clients and investors.
Our pipelines remain strong as we look to build on a successful 2014.
Before turning over to Colin I would like to express my sincere appreciation to our people around the world for their values collaboration and focus on delivering performance today and for the long-term on behalf of our clients and investors.
A big thank you for all my JLL colleagues.
I will now turn the call back over to Colin.
Thank you Christie.
So turning to recent business wins slide 4shows a cross-sample from different service lines and geographies.
In our corporate outsourcing business we won 58 new assignments in 2014 expanded existing relationships with another 53 clients and renewed 22 contracts.
In the fourth quarter new corporate business included delivering a range of service across 30 countries for the global portfolio of agrico corporate and investment banking.
It included providing facilities management and other services for Capital One's 14 million square foot portfolio in the US and Europe.
And for 10 Cent China's largest internet service portal a contract to provide property and facility management for a new 2.3 million square foot R&amp;D center in Chengdu.
One comment about our ability to create strong long term client relationships and provide superior service globally to top companies.
In our first quarter earnings remarks we talked about winning the facility management assignment for nearly 5 million square feet of Volkswagen's property in the US.
In the second quarter we reported that a multi-national multi-discipline JLL team helped VW identify and secure new billion dollar manufacturing facilities in Poland and in the fourth quarter we were awarded facilities management services for VW's Porsche business in the US and additionally relocated the Volkswagen office in Beijing.
Our global service capability gives us a distinct advantage over most competitors with this sort of a multi-national client.
Our local market corporate solutions business which serves corporate occupiers who purchase real estate services locally also continued to expand in 2014.
We won 61 assignments totaling 94 million square feet in this growth segment last year.
Turning to our important investment sales transactions which were completed in the fourth quarter a highlight has to be representing the JPMorgan and NPS of Korea in the $1.8 billion sale of the HSBC Tower in London's Canary Wharf.
This is reported to have been the year's biggest single asset deal in Europe and possibly the world.
The 800 million Euro sale of Palais Quarter in Frankfurt was Germany's largest property deal of 2014 while in the Americas we advised on the $300 million sale of an industrial portfolio in Mexico and at Sundown Plaza Shanghai we completed the largest grade A office on block transaction in the city last year.
In Other Services fourth quarter highlights included winning the leasing assignment for Duke Reality's 2.2 million square foot office portfolio in Cincinnati providing property and asset management services for The Park a 500 000 square foot retail office park retail and office park in Ireland and in India's largest ever office transaction we secured the lease for a 3 million square foot office space in Bangalore for the eCommerce company Flipkart.
As I mentioned in my opening remarks and as Christie discussed in her comments LaSalle Investment Management also had an excellent quarter and year.
Christie gave you the numbers.
Increases in assets under management operating revenue incentive fees and advisory fees plus a record capital raise for the year.
I would add the perspective that LaSalle's success has not been the product of one quarter or a single year's efforts but rather the result of many years of consistently executing a long-term strategy and delivering superior investment performance consistently to our clients.
Throughout the year we continued to invest in the firm's profitable future growth by attracting diverse and talented individuals and teams to JLL.
As Christie mentioned we completed ten acquisitions in 2014 closing 5 transactions in the fourth quarter alone.
Those were the Cover Point food service consulting company which further expanded our retail and leisure consulting capabilities in the UK Novo Interior in Portugal adding this Lisbon-based project management firm to our European Tetris business WA Ellis a specialist firm a prime west London residential agency in valuation.
The Henry Butcher company a leading real estate advisory firm based in Malaysia.
And in the US Presser Portland a specialist in tenant representation and corporate services based of course in Oregon.
We also continued the targeted and strategic expansion of our global platform in 2014 focusing on opening new offices in Lagos Nigeria Nanjing China and Kuala Lumpur in Malaysia.
Looking to the future slide 3 shows our research team's projection for investment sales and leasing activity for 2015.
High demand for direct investment in real estate is continuing into the year with growth moderating to 5% to 10% at $750 million projected volume should match the record levels of 2007.
Corporate occupier activity is also continuing to strengthen this year driven by healthy global economic growth portfolio restructuring and a preference for modern and accessible space.
We project the gross absorption will increase about 5% over 2014 with the greatest increases in Asia-Pacific at 15% while the US and Europe are both forecast to grow at 5% with leasing in some markets even constrained by low levels of high-quality space.
In fund managements we expect the prime trends will continue with capital flows increasing to drive those record transaction levels.
Strong performers like LaSalle will continue to attract significant investment capital while investors are also increasing their appetite for risk embracing value-added and opportunistic investment strategies in a search for higher returns.
The main challenge is going to be deploying capital.
Our own outlook remains upbeat for the year.
We start 2015 in an enviable competitive position with strong pipelines and good momentum.
Our financial strength has been confirmed by Standard &amp; Poors further upgrade to our investment grade credit rating as Christie mentioned.
And this enables us to continue our long-term policy of consistent investment to strengthen our operating platform grow our revenue and continuously improve the range and quality of services which we provide to our clients.
So before opening the call for your questions I would like to cover as I customarily do just a few of the major awards we earned in 2014 from industry groups and independent third parties.
These honors demonstrating our position as industry leader in real estate services and investment management.
So we were named one of the world's Most Ethical Company's for the 7th consecutive year.
The US EPA awarded us 2014 Energy Star Partner of the Year and Sustained Excellence awards.
We were voted Best Real Estate employer in Germany for the third consecutive year by Immobilien Zeitung the Asian Pacific Property Awards named us Best Property Consultancy across 7 markets in the region.
In the 2014 Euro Money real estate poll LaSalle was named number 1 in global investment manager.
The Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute placed JLL at number 1 in their Financial Adviser League table.
And in the US JLL was awarded a perfect score of 100 on the Human Rights Campaign Corporate Quality Index.
This award shows our commitment to being a diverse and inclusive organization that reflects the world in which we work and live.
So with that we'll now take your questions.
And Operator perhaps you could explain the process.
[Operator Instructions].
Your first question comes from David Gold at Sidoti.
Your line is open.
Hi there.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning David.
Seems like a nice finish to the year.
Couple of questions for you.
First as we think about 2015 one of the big factors in the last few months have been the changes in currency values.
I'm just curious on a couple of things.
One how if any that affects your investment dynamics in the business? And two what you are hearing and seeing from clients as far as if it pushes them or makes them more inclined to put money to work in certain markets or less inclined? Well I was in Switzerland last week and they were pretty shocked by what happened to their currency.
In general our clients are fairly neutral on the currency swings.
I mean I think the slide in the Euro is probably the biggest single factor contrary to the rise of the dollar of course.
But our clients are not talking about it a huge amount.
It's not seemingly impacting their appetite for investment in any particular region or favoring any region above another beyond the fact that the main gateway cities globally still seem to be attracting the most capital in the investment in the real estate investment sphere.
For our own purposes we won't change our policy.
Christie outlined it.
I repeated it.
We're going to continue to invest in the platform globally.
And again we're pretty agnostic as to the currencies in which we invest.
We think we've got growth opportunities as we I think amply demonstrated on the call across all service lines and all geographies.
Perfect.
Thank you.
And then Colin you spoke when you opened the call you mentioned surpassing peak levels with the site goals I think the word you used maybe closer to a mid-point.
And internally the number 1 question that we hear from investors and clients so you obviously have our thesis but I was curious if you can add some data points or share some factors that would maybe boost your confidence that were maybe closer to the middle? I should go back I mean you're asking me a question really around sentiment plus numbers.
If you go back to the last cycle we're still in that phase when as we mentioned money is flowing into the investment management business strongly.
Money is still coming in both equity and debt into the investment sales markets globally.
It's moving as I mentioned out along the risk curve.
It's not yet taking excessive risks.
So it feels more like 2005 than later in that prior cycle.
If you count from the start of the cycle we're 5 years in into what might be an 8 perhaps a bit longer cycle this time given how hesitant the recovery was.
If you look at pricing in the markets we sense that there is no form of excessive pricing at this point.
Yes pricing is full particularly for high quality assets in Malaysian markets and I mentioned a few gateway cities in my prepared remarks.
But when you compare the level of cap rate or yields which are again in the 4's and 5's in those best markets and you compare that with the bond rates and the sorts of returns that people institutional investors are seeing from fixed income or you compare it with negative deposit rates in Switzerland and zero in Germany the returns on real estate still seem to be rational and not excessive.
So put it all together add the money we've mentioned is still flowing into the markets and it feels like this cycle still has some way to run yet.
Perfect.
Sorry Christie? Yes the only thing that I would add to that David and what Colin said too is that for the first time since the great financial crisis we're seeing momentum in both the capital markets as well as improving corporate occupier demand.
So we're seeing some nice nice movement in the leasing markets which at this time also include some very positive momentum in APAC which we haven't seen for many many many years.
So this together with prospects on global growth population growth together with capital flows that are projected to still move into real estate we think this bodes well for the major real estate markets around the world.
Perfect.
Perfect.
Very helpful.
And just one last if I can sneak it in Christie you mentioned on the incentive fees and equity earnings looking for a healthy year with some tapering versus presumably 2014.
Can you give a little bit more color along the guide posts the historic guide posts that you have given? Sure David.
I think that tapering will see instead of fees and equity earnings moderate as I mentioned to from an incentive fee perspective more around that $40 million to $50 million range as we had spoken in the third quarter.
Perfect.
Perfect.
Thank you both.
Thanks David.
Your next question comes from Mitch Germain from JMP Securities.
Your line is now open.
Congratulations on the quarter guys.
Thanks Mitch.
Just curious obviously your JLL research team is incorporating a bit of a slowdown in Europe.
Maybe Colin your conversations with your team in those markets and maybe are you seeing anything on the ground that concerns you at all? No I mean these are high levels of activity.
And you saw the results that they drove for our business last year.
I think it was a sense of just Europe is there are selective markets which are strong in terms of growth.
So the UK and Germany obviously are fairly healthy in terms of overall economic growth.
But their caution is just reflecting the sort of overall European growth rates which are very weak still taken across the continent as a whole.
Nothing more than that.
What we're seeing is just corporations in Europe as well as in the US and around the world just actually getting on with business recognizing that growth is low but they can actually move forward and build their organizations and operations in these environments.
So we're seeing them take space.
We're seeing the trend away from just reorganizing to optimize space and cut costs.
That is still there but it's evolving into space being taken for expansion with an eye on the future growth of their businesses over the coming 3 or 4years.
And as I mentioned too there are some markets notably London where space big floor plate space is beginning to be at a premium.
So despite some fair activity in the development cycle this time we're coming into some markets into a phase where space is at a premium.
Good space new space is at a premium.
Great appreciate that.
Yes the only thing that I would add to what Colin is saying is that the slow recovery economic growth pretty flat.
From an investment perspective when we look at 2015 investment volumes that's off of a base where this year volumes were up 22% and investment activity remains robust.
So when we look at next year and the research team is calling for essentially the markets to be flat in Euro terms at around 200 billion euros that's off of some pretty strong momentum in the market.
And further to that we've got some positive leasing volumes projected and that's off of highest quarterly volumes in the past 7 years.
Great.
While I have you Christie obviously you guys have done a great job improving leveraged liquidity.
I'm just curious maybe if you can just share what your longer term goals for the balance sheet are? Sure Mitch.
From the perspective of our balance sheet we remain very focused on maintaining our investment grade rating.
When we take a look at the future and how we plan for our strategic plan we're consistently managing even through stress testing the balance sheet for the long-term to ensure that we are leveraged at less than 2 in accordance with our BBB rating and BAA2 rating.
So with that maintaining that discipline so that we keep our powder dry for any downturn and ensure that we're very well-positioned to take advantage of that as you would expect.
And then as it relates to allocation we are focused on maintaining our investment allocation $0.55 on the dollar towards M&amp;A $0.30 on the dollar towards IT and investments in our platform $0.10 on the dollar towards co-investment and the remainder associated with dividends.
Great.
Last question.
I know that a couple of quarters ago you shared a number of strategic initiatives.
Pricing productivity cost containment.
I know it was a host of items.
Maybe without getting into specific detail if you can just provide an update where that progress stands please? Sure.
Where we are right now Mitch as it relates to strategic initiatives we are very focused on driving some key levers across our business around price process and people.
And from a pricing perspective we have a number of productivity initiatives focused on driving improvements in pricing.
From a process perspective driving Best Practices and ensuring that we're working smartest and building the best technologies to bring to our clients.
Then from a people perspective making sure that we've got the set-up for the most productive place to work and enable our revenue generators to really drive revenue per head.
So all going very well.
We've got well over 100 initiatives going around the globe.
Great.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from David Ridley-Lane from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is now open.
Sure.
I'm just wondering could you give the full year FX impact given the current rates? We're estimating something close to a 500 or 600 basis points drag on revenue? Sure David.
The full year impact on FX has been about 5%.
And that was significantly felt in the fourth quarter.
From an EPS perspective it's about $0.22 in the fourth quarter.
And because of the level loading of our business we felt most of that again in the fourth quarter of this year given primarily the decline in the Euro versus the dollar.
As we look forward to 2015 we're expecting that to be on par given the loading of our business by quarter.
But to the extent that we look at the quarterly performance we'll probably feel a bit more of that as you can imagine during the first 3 quarters of the year if rates stay where they are versus in the fourth quarter.
Got it.
And do you feel that some capital markets volume slipped out of the fourth quarter in the Americas or maybe have you seen any slowdown in the number of assignments? No the pipelines are full.
You can never quite judge what's going on in the fourth quarter.
You see the way our numbers spiked.
But the fourth quarter we felt was solid everywhere.
But we certainly have some stories we have stories from around the globe of ample pipeline activity going into Q1 of this year.
Yes David and the only thing I would add to that too is we had very strong performance in multi-family industrial together with our creme de la creme office business.
So we're very pleased with the results and the team has solid pipelines going into 2015.
Okay.
And then Asia PAC wants to be the strongest region next year both for leasing and capital markets.
Just wondering what's driving this and do you see any downside risk from slowing economic growth in China and Australia your largest markets in the region? Hard to call.
China is still growing and it's growing in a sort of 6% to 7% range.
It has slowed for sure.
But nevertheless we last year drove very healthy revenue and profit increases across our Chinese businesses as you have heard from the comments.
I don't know it's a region with a lot of different dynamics going on.
China.
India seems to be picking up momentum and last year was a tale of 2 halves with the first half slow and then following the election we saw a tremendous uplift in activity and confidence.
So India is likely to pick up momentum.
China carrying on we think at more or less the same activity levels.
Japan the investment sales markets are strong.
There is a lot of interest in offices in Tokyo for example.
I guess Australia has been slowing and we saw some of the weakest leasing activity and rental rate activity in Perth Adelaide and Melbourne last year so that's undoubtedly still suffering from the comparatively comparative reduction in China's growth activity.
Southeast Asia still seems to be solid and growing well.
So it's a very mixed bag.
But overall put the picture together and we would expect to see continued progression in our results in Asia-Pacific for the coming year.
Just as a backdrop to add to what Colin said overall our research team is calling for regional economic growth to really stabilize at 5% with most Asia-Pacific economies expanding in 2015 albeit China is slowing.
And together with that point we're looking at strong activity in Australia Japan and a bit of a rebound in China from an investment sales perspective.
So we also can't forget about leasing and that leasing activity bodes well for the real estate space.
And last one from me thanks for sharing the head count growth numbers in both capital markets in leasing.
As you look at your plans for 2015 is that kind of new double-digit growth and head count seem reasonable for what you're expecting in 2015? So from the perspective of head count growth we are continuing to invest in our platform and we do view that we will continue on that pace for 2015.
The team has done an exceptional job of driving revenue performance while adding and together with that capturing transactions profitably.
So it's a great investment for our team our firm and investors.
Thanks very much and congratulations on the quarter.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Brad Burke from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Congratulations on the quarter.
Christie I know you touched on this but looking at your EBITDA margins up 200 basis points over last year which is pretty dramatic was there anything unusual that caused such strong growth in margins this quarter beyond better growth in the higher margin businesses? And as we're looking forward is this a level we ought to be thinking about JLL hitting going forward? Yes thanks Brad.
First of all nothing unusual.
I think it really speaks to the strength of our portfolio.
And when we first met we talked about we would need points in the cycle to drive our margins to this point with leasing working on all cylinders capital markets and LaSalle Investment Management playing together with all good things happening in the real estate space which we've discussed and you can see on our guide posts that are posted on our website.
But in terms of breaking it down I mean let's talk about adjusted operating income margins.
We delivered 10.9% and consolidated operating margins.
That's up from 9.7% on a consolidated basis last year.
One of the things that the team should note on the phone is that we look at our performance normalized for incentive fees.
And so when you take a look at that 120 basis points improvement in operating margin 60 basis points of that was driven by the outsizing of incentive fees.
And let's drop it down to adjusted EBITDA margin.
We delivered 13.8% adjusted EBITDA margin for the year.
That's off of 12.4% for last year.
So 150 basis points improvement on an adjusted EBITDA basis.
And again if you normalize for incentive fees and equity earnings we will look at our EBITDA margins at 13%.
So up 60 basis points on a normalized basis from last year.
Again strong performance.
Nothing out of the ordinary.
The team is working hard to drive profitable revenue growth and make sure we're doing that productively.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then Colin a bigger picture question but as we're looking at what appears to be an increased emphasis on consolidation within the industry can you comment on how you expect that to impact the business and specifically whether you would expect to see more robust competition for some of those global outsourcing contracts going forward? I think there are 2 questions buried in there Brad.
One is consolidation.
I guess by that you mean the sort of tendency for smaller companies to join bigger platforms or medium-sized companies to join bigger platforms.
That's ongoing.
You've seen our rate of acquisition move up to 10 in the course of the last year.
They're small medium-sized acquisitions but they all add capability and/or geographic footprint to our business.
That's ongoing.
As far as we can see it will go on through the good and less good parts of the cycle and Christie mentioned that we're keeping the balance sheet healthy in a position such that we can continue to perform that work.
To the second implicit part of your question around the corporate outsourcing business I think for the larger accounts and the larger pieces of business the field of competitors particularly the global area where you've got multi-regional contracts and even international contracts they're a comparatively small number of players in the market.
And that group has not changed up or down markedly over the last year or 2.
As far as competition goes for big corporate outsourcing contracts or corporate work in general I mean we have around about a 2/3s success rate in our bidding process.
We would aim to maintain that.
The business is still growing at 15% again this year.
2014 rather we would expect similar growth rates.
The pipeline is good.
And they're competing well and earning good business and earning good margins off of that business.
So the picture there has not changed a great deal.
I wouldn't say it's got more or less competitive.
Okay.
So as you're looking forward over the next 2 to 3 years we shouldn't think about the number of competitors that can offer large global outsource contracts being significantly larger than it is right now? No I don't think so.
It takes a lot of work to build a platform to be able to perform for the large corporations.
I mean they're by definition demanding clients.
They expect top quality service.
And certainly when they're looking across regions they're looking for a uniformity of performance from their providers.
So putting together a platform that can provide multiple services to demanding clients across geographies is not done in a day.
And it took us and a few competitors we have in that sector of the market a decade or 2 to put these capabilities together.
So it's pretty tough to replicate.
And it's tough to replicate organically.
It's tough to replicate by assembling bits of business.
Because again you don't get the uniformity of performance by just assembling individual separate geographical entities.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
And then just a last one for LaSalle of the $9 billion of capital that you have raised over the past year how much of that should we think about as having been already deployed and how much of that should we think of being committed but not yet invested just as I try to think about the trajectory of AUM? There's an awful lot of it not invested yet.
I think if you go back over the last 2 years we've raised somewhere around $15 billion for LaSalle and I think that if our revenues is close then their current buying power when you add in debt to that is well over $10 billion.
So there's a lot of runway to go there for investment performance for investment by LaSalle.
You'll also see that they're overselling at the same time which is why those incentive fees are coming through.
So from that perspective it's a very active and healthy point of the cycle.
They can sell and yield assets for clients at good incremental returns over the historic purchase price.
But they're also able to transact on the buy side given the capital that they have available and the reflection of that the fact that their investors are keen that their capital be put to work.
So it's a very active phase for them.
And we say we have strong and positive expectations for their performance for the coming years.
All right.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Brandon Dobell from William Blair.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
Christie in reference to your head count comments earlier I would imagine those are net numbers as opposed to gross numbers but I want to confirm how you positioned that and also what you think about the productivity of people in leasing and capital markets.
Have we moved kind of past the low-hanging fruit if you want to call it that to productivity gains are going to be a little bit tough? Or do you still that you have got the cadence of productivity gains is still pretty solid in 2015 and 2016? I think first of all Brandon in terms of the head count that's a net number.
And in terms of the way we think about that I think that again it's a very solid investment in our business in our people.
And these are folks that work side-by-side they've known each other for many many years and we really focus on the collaborative nature and the ability to work together to really drive that performance.
And we've done that very effectively year in and year out over many many years.
And our team is continuing to do that now augmented with better technology such that folks can plug in and work more productively.
As it relates to productivity our team's really innovative.
Everybody's very focused on coming up with new ideas and also just doing some real fundamental things in terms of driving best work practices.
So I think that while we have had great results we still have a lot of room on the 100 projects that I mentioned the benefits that we have been getting we're probably only at a point where we can quantify those benefits on 60% of the projects.
40% of the projects are very promising and yet to get into a point where we've got a good baseline.
So we've got a long trajectory of productivity.
And it's something that's in our DNA so we're going to be working it day in and day out in the years to come.
Okay I want to hit on the FX just for a second to make sure I get what you're talking about here.
The $0.20-ish of impact in 2015 I want to make sure your comments about loading meaning that the FX impacts seems like it would be most concentrated in capital markets which is a fourth quarter-heavy business and therefore we wouldn't see much more than $0.20 $0.25 in the first 3 quarters of the year because of the seasonality of capital markets.
Is that what your loading comment meant? Yes.
The last part of your comment is correct Brandon in terms of the loading.
But I just want to note that my $0.22 was in reference to the fourth quarter performance.
Got it.
Okay.
That makes sense.
And then Colin if you think about the property and facilities growth management growth opportunity how much same customer growth did you guys see in 2014 or how should we think about that on a kind of a couple year basis? I guess what I'm getting at how much incremental growth comes from going out and getting new customers as opposed to adding in service lines and capabilities or perhaps it's just more square footage to customers you had last year? I can't disaggregate that for you unfortunately.
We don't have that number.
But I mean anecdotally when we get clients and we do good work for them the trajectory of activity generally is we just increase the percentage of their facilities or portfolio that we are managing and/or leasing.
So once we have a client the general tendency is that we grow them.
We have a very high renewal so that's in the corporate and investor area.
Specifically in the corporate area we have a very high renewal rate for our facility management work.
It's well over 90%.
So another kind of indicator of the way in which once we have a client we keep them.
And again we'll grow normally.
Once we start with a client we'll grow activity across the portfolio.
And then I mentioned in the prepared remarks we have 22 new contracts with corporate clients this year and we have a large corporate expansion in the medium-sized corporate space as well.
Again that is a phenomenal picture which we're seeing across all 3 large geographical regions.
I think the only thing that I would add to that Brandon in terms of same client wins et cetera if you take a look at how our business really has unfolded over the past couple of years in terms of assignments it's 60% growth on what we would call same clients in terms of expansions and renewals.
and 40% on new wins that the team just does a stellar job at.
Okay.
And then final one from me.
In a situation where you have led with a property or facilities just pure property facilities management arrangement with an occupier outsourcer and then perhaps in year 2 of the contract the leasing mandate or perhaps the transaction mandate comes along with that relationship did you guys treat the commission flow-throughs to your producers any differently i.e they are getting opportunities for activities that haven't come with a whole lot of marketing effort on their part or perhaps they have.
Just trying to figure out that commission structure or any changes relative to kind of a standalone leasing mandate that might show up as a win for you? Okay if you go from a facility management which has one fee structure to a leasing or an investment sales structure that's your question? Right.
Right.
So the fee structure on the property management will accrue to the section of our business which handles property management.
If out of that there is a transaction basically the fee for that transaction will go to the people who execute the transaction.
But they will recognize the contribution of the property management colleagues by sharing their fee in some way.
That's generally what happens.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Appreciate it.
Your next question comes from Michael Mueller from JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Hi.
When you look at the capital being raised in investment management is it fairly broad-based in terms of the products and the regions that it's been earmarked for at this point? What we've seen as the cycle progressed obviously during 2010 and 2011 and into 2012 there was very little capital coming to the bulk of the players or the competitors in the investment management space.
And we would include ourselves within that.
But as 2013 and 2014 have progressed we've seen increasingly large sums coming into the market.
The early part of the cycle the sums that were flowing in were largely from individual clients who wanted tailored mandates at pretty low fee rates.
So we saw ourselves running off some relatively rich funds which had been put together in the last decade and the last cycle.
As we liquidated those they were being replaced by lower margin business from individual clients be they insurance companies pension companies or sovereign wealth funds.
As we've gone through 2013 and 2014 that trend has continued.
So we're still getting individual mandates as we had earlier in the cycle but we've seen an increasing tendency or willingness for our clients to invest in funds.
So we have been actively closing over the last 12 to 15 months funds in Canada opportunistic funds in the US and importantly too across Asia-Pacific where we have raised several hundred million dollars in equity.
And that has now got our Asia-Pacific platform up and running again in a very healthy way.
We've continued to see funds flowing into our Japanese distribution construction development business all through that period.
So I guess the short summary of that is that the money has tended to move away from single mandates towards a mix of single mandates and funds.
And that will have a healthy impact on our margins as we move through the cycle.
And then underlying that we have continued to take in several billion dollars a year into our securities business which is investing in global REITs around the world.
That obviously can be faster and out money but it's generally been in an inward direction over the last 2 years.
So it's a healthy mix across the investment products which we have and it's been a healthy mix across the geographies.
Got it.
Okay.
That was it.
Thank you.
Great.
Thank you.
We have time for one final question from Todd Lukasik from Morningstar your line is now open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
I was wondering if you had a dollar range for CapEx for 2015 first? And my second question is with regard to the tax rate.
For 2014 I guess it was lower than I would have expected on a kind of a normalized basis.
So I was wondering if anything has changed from your perspective with regard to tax rates longer term or what you think a good number for us to use in the models would be? So I think first of all Todd in terms of the CapEx range you could figure that around $130 million as we look forward.
And then from a tax rate perspective nothing unusual on tax rate.
We pride ourselves on conservative tax rate planning without pushing the edges on everything or anything.
And from the historical perspective our effective tax rate is in line with history and all of the hard work that the team has done.
Okay be great.
Nice job on the quarter.
Thank you Todd.
If there are no further questions I'll turn the call back over to the presenters.
Thank you Operator.
Well with no further questions I would like to thank everyone for joining us and for your continued interest in our Company.
And we very much look forward to talking to you again at the end of the first quarter.
Have a good day everyone.
Bye everyone.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the First Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call for Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated.
Today's call is being recorded.
Any statements made about future results and performance or about plans expectations or objectives are forward-looking statements.
Actual results and performance may differ from those included in the forward-looking statements as a result of factors discussed in the Company's Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31 2014 and in other reports filed with the SEC.
The Company disclaims any undertaking to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
A transcript of this call will be posted and available on the Company's website.
A web audio replay will also be available for download.
Information and the link can be found on the Company's website.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Colin Dyer Chief Executive Officer for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator and welcome to everyone joining this review of our results for the first quarter of 2015.
I'm in London today and Christie Kelly our CFO is in Chicago.
Christie will review our financial highlights in detail in a few minutes.
But to summarize our results we had a great first quarter continuing to build on the momentum we gained throughout last year.
We saw strong revenue growth across all service lines and geographies.
In the U.S.
for example 13 of 16 markets recorded double-digit revenue increases contributing to 25% overall revenue growth for the region.
EMEA turned in 25% revenue growth in local currency 8% in U.S.
dollars.
Asia Pacific also had a very good quarter particularly in India where I was last week and in Australia and Japan.
LaSalle Investment Management continued to deliver outstanding performances to its investor clients and raised $2 million of equity commitments during the quarter.
Our Corporate Solution segment continued its solid win performance reflecting disciplined decisions about the opportunities we chose to pursue.
These results continued the momentum of an equally fourth quarter 2014.
Adjusted earnings per share for the two quarters combined increased 44% above the prior period.
It is worth noting that our five-year compound annual growth rate is 14% in fee revenue and 21% in EBITDA.
This is the result of our consistent decade-long policy of capital and revenue investment to drive long-term growth and profitability.
Our balance sheet remained strong and we increased our dividend to $0.27 per share.
So there is good momentum across our business with our people driving broad market share gains and producing a very good start to the year.
Our results came in an environment of generally steady economic growth with global GDP expected to increase by 3.4% this year.
There is a sense of calm confidence in most real estate markets worldwide with further upside anticipated in many of them during the year.
The slides that we've posted in the Investor Relations section of jll.com summarize current market conditions.
Slide two shows global capital markets continuing their five-year growth trend increasing by 9% globally during the quarter to $155 billion.
The strongest growth came in the Americas where U.S.
capital market volumes increased 25%.
Transaction volumes rose 7% in Asia-Pacific and 21% in local currencies in EMEA but were flat in U.S.
dollar terms.
Our investment sales revenue outperformed the market in all three regions.
Deals continued to compress during the quarter with prime office at record lows although the spreads remained healthy.
Leasing markets were uneven in the first quarter with gross absorption down marginally by 4% in -- down marginally in total by 4%.
Asia-Pacific turned positive with leasing volumes up 5% on a year ago.
The U.S.
had an unexpectedly flat quarter probably an anomaly.
Volumes in Europe fell by 3% year-on-year due to weakness in Paris and Moscow which typically account for one-third of the region's activities.
As with capital markets our leasing revenue outperformed market volumes in all regions.
The global office vacancy rates across 98 markets remained stable and rents on prime office across 24 markets grew 3%.
So for details of our performance in this market environment I'll turn the call over to Christie.
Thank you Colin and welcome to everyone on our call.
I'm pleased to report record financial performance for the first quarter.
We delivered double-digit fee revenue growth in local currency across our business segments.
We also drove margin expansion in all segments of the business while continuing to invest for long-term profitable growth.
And we see reflected in our results the benefits of investments in our platforms including by way of our acquisitions coupled with productivity initiatives that have continued to improve the quality and scope of our services for our clients while building the long-term value of our company.
We finished the first quarter with consolidated fee revenue of $1 billion up 25% over last year; and record adjusted earnings per share of $0.94 up more than double over last year despite a $0.07 negative impact due to currency translation.
Adjusted operating income margin calculated on a fee revenue basis increased 280 basis points to 5.2% for the quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA margin on a fee revenue basis also increased 280 basis points to 8.7% for the quarter.
These increases in margin reflect many factors including the strength of our diverse global platform significant recurring profitable revenue and the productivity focus of our people.
These results also reflect our investment discipline including the contributions of our transaction professionals in whom we have invested through M&amp;A activity and strategic hiring over the last several years.
Additionally LaSalle has continued to deliver for its investors in turn generating incentive fees and equity earnings from transaction activities within fund life cycles.
Consistent with the approach we have outlined previously we remain focused on balancing top line growth platform investments and productivity to achieve incremental margin and earnings per share growth.
With the support of our longstanding relationship banking group we also bolstered our strong investment grade financial position and flexibility with a commitment increase to $2 billion and extension of our credit facility to 20/20 in alignment with our strategic plan.
Our 25% consolidated fee revenue growth on a local currency basis was broad based across geographic and services segments.
Our revenue increase of 64% in capital markets and hotels and 17% in leasing demonstrate our ability to serve both investors and occupiers in steadily improving markets as transaction momentum continues to be supported by increasing cross border capital allocations to real estate low interest rates and corporate occupier demand.
We also continue to grow our annuity real estate services businesses such as property and facility management where fee revenue was up 12% compared to last year primarily as a result of securing new mandates and expansions over the last 12 months.
The south further strengthened its base of incentive fees as certain of its funds approached the end of their life cycles ending the quarter with $55.3 billion in assets under management.
During the first quarter we continued to selectively increase revenue-generating hires in capital markets and leasing executed through both hiring and acquisitions.
We also increased revenue per producer compared to the first quarter of 2014.
In alignment with our strategic plan and our investment discipline we completed business acquisitions in Japan and Sweden during the quarter while we continued to assess and build our pipeline of M&amp;A opportunity.
Transaction pipelines across our business also remain strong as we look to the remainder of 2015.
We will begin our look at segment specific results starting with the Americas where fee revenue across the region grew $95 million or 25% in local currency over the first quarter of 2014.
Leasing was up 23% for the quarter which was particularly strong given the increase was achieved despite declining growth absorption and the overall market during the period.
The rest of the Americas platform also made meaningful contributions to growth in the first quarter with capital markets and hotels up 83%.
Our U.S.
Capital and Hotels business in particular is benefiting from the strategic decisions made at the end of the global financial crisis to recruit develop and retain top talent for this business to growth market share.
Property and Facility Management was up 10% and Project and Development Services was up 21% from new client wins as well as expanded projects with long-time clients.
Operating income in the Americas grew to $35 million for the quarter up from $17 million a year ago and operating income margin improved by 290 basis points to 7.1% on a fee-revenue basis.
We achieved these results with double-digit growth in the majority of our markets.
We continue to invest in future growth for the Americas while also focusing on topline productivity and cost discipline to drive long-term performance.
In EMEA fee revenue across the region grew $19 million or 25% in local currency over the first quarter of 2014.
EMEA's fee revenue performance during the quarter was significantly higher in local currency than in U.S.
dollars when compared with 2014 as the U.S.
dollar strengthened over the last 12 months primarily versus the euro.
We expect currency fluctuations to continue to impact our U.S.
dollar performance through the remainder of 2015 though the impact of currency fluctuations on operating income EBITDA and margins are moderated because revenue and expenses are generally incurred in the same currencies.
Capital Markets and Hotels revenue was up 59% in local currency for the quarter reinforcing our leading market share and our reputation in EMEA real estate capital markets with strong growth demonstrated in the U.K.
France Spain and Sweden.
Property and Facility management revenue was up 14% for the quarter and Project and Development Services fee revenue was up 27% the result of international mandates from European multinationals and expansion of our Tetris fit-out business.
Overall performance was strong throughout the region driven by the U.K.
Germany and France but also from Spain Central and Eastern Europe and MENA.
Operating income in the margin increased 40% over the first quarter of 2014.
Operating income margin improved by 100 basis points from the first quarter of last year primarily from capital markets performance and our focus on driving operating efficiency and productivity as we continued to leverage our shared services operation and technology enhancements.
Our outlook for EMEA business remains positive as we capitalize on our market position invest in our people and platforms and seek M&amp;A opportunities to supplement profitable long-term growth.
In Asia-Pacific fee revenue across the region grew $15 million or 16% in local currency over the first quarter of 2014 though muted by currency fluctuations when presented in U.S.
dollars.
Asia-Pacific's capital markets and hotels revenue was up 38% in local currency for the quarter outperforming market volumes in the period.
Property and Facility Management revenue was up 13% for the quarter with demand for these services continuing to grow steadily with increases in both the quality of property inventory and the propensity of Asian companies to outsource.
Geographically Japan performed well with low interest rates driving capital markets activity while Australia and India took advantage of improving business environments.
Operating income grew to $4 million for the quarter up from $1 million a year ago and operating income margin improved by 170 basis points to 2.4% on a fee revenue basis.
The outlook for the year in our Asia-Pacific business remains positive given improving market sentiment and our focus on investment for future growth and productivity.
LaSalle had a strong start to the year delivering an operating revenue increase of 45% for the quarter primarily from incentive fee performance but also including increases in advisory fees up 17% in the quarter.
LaSalle continued to focus on productivity as it generated a year-over-year increase of 14% in assets under management per employee.
Further as Colin mentioned LaSalle raised $2 billion of new capital in the first quarter.
Assets under management grew by $1.7 billion during the quarter to $55.3 billion.
LaSalle's incentive fees of $19 million in the first quarter were driven by funds in Asia-Pacific and the U.S.
that took advantage of the strong capital markets environment.
As the mature funds generating strong incentive fees near the end of their fund lives we expect equity earnings and incentive fees to return to normalized levels with remaining significant incentive fees from these funds likely to materialize in the second half of 2015.
With respect to our balance sheet and the strength of our financial position total net debt was $546 million at the end of the quarter a reduction of $185 million or 25% from the first quarter of 2014 while we also continued to invest in the business.
We benefitted from the lower pricing on our credit facilities with $6 million in interest expense in the quarter constituting a 9% reduction from the first quarter of 2014.
In addition we announce a semi-annual dividend of $0.27 per share which is an 8% increase from the December 2014 dividend and reflects our confidence in cash generation and profitable long term growth on behalf of our shareholders.
To sum it up we had an excellent first quarter to start 2015.
While the momentum created from 2014 has continued into 2015 it's worth noting that our second quarter of 2014 adjusted earnings per share performance was nearly 50% better than our second quarter performance over the last few years.
Additionally we could see roughly a 5% negative currency translation impact compared with 2014 if the strength of the U.S.
dollar continues.
As we look forward out pipelines are strong and outlook remains positive.
Before turning the call back over to Colin I would like to express my sincere appreciation to our people around the world for their values collaboration and focus on delivering our performance today and for the long term on behalf of our clients and investors.
A big thank you again to all my JLL colleagues.
I will now turn the call back over the Colin.
Thanks Christie.
Turning then to recent business wins Slide 3 in our deck shows a sample across service lines and geographies.
In our Corporate Solutions business we signed 18 new assignments during the quarter expanded our relationship with six current clients and renewed a further six contracts.
These 30 wins totaled nearly 50 million square feet across all three geographical regions.
In addition to a 4.4 million square foot multi-regional win from Westinghouse Electric new clients who wish to remain confidential include major healthcare consulting high tech entertainment finance and consumer products companies.
Our integrated project services business which serves corporates who purchase real estate services locally grew further with 13 assignments and 36 million square feet.
Turning to investment sales transactions we represented Blackstone in the $1 billion sale of a U.S.
hotel portfolio.
In the largest single-asset real estate deal in Finland's history we advised developer SRV on a joint venture to develop the $480 million REDI mall.
And in Tokyo we advised on a sale of the five assets of the Hotel B Portfolio to the Japan hotel REIT.
First quarter highlights in other service lines included securing a 320 000 square foot headquarters lease for The Capital Group Companies in downtown Los Angeles a 320 000 square foot lease for Daimler-Benz near Stuttgart.
In Bangalore we recently completed a 2 million square foot lease for Flipkart India's equivalent to Amazon and that was for build-to-suit headquarters office.
And in China our valuation contract of 17 properties and 17 million square feet was completed for Alibaba.
As I mentioned in my opening remarks LaSalle Investment Management continued to perform strongly throughout the first quarter in a healthy operating and capital raising [ph] environment.
In addition to its $2 billion capital raise which included a significant commitment from a major Chinese investor LaSalle accrued substantial incentive fees and equity earnings during the quarter as Christie explained.
As Christie also mentioned we continue to invest in growth through two targeted acquisitions.
We acquired Stockholm-based Nextport a tenant representation and relocation management specialist.
This extends our clear leadership position in Sweden following last year's acquisitions of investor services firm Tenzing.
And in Japan we acquired a 70% position in Tansei Mall Management a leading retail property management company.
Tansei's local experience will strengthen our position in Japan's retail sector.
As with all potential acquisitions we evaluated both firms' finances operating risk integration risk strategic and cultural and client fit before completing the transactions and we remain disciplined on pricing.
Looking to the rest of 2015 Slide 2 shows our research teams projections for investment sales and leasing.
They show solid demand for direct investment continuing through 2015 with full-year volumes up 5% $750 billion globally.
We expect gross leasing volumes to moderately higher than 2014 levels showing up to 5% growth with Asia Pacific up 15% the U.S.
showing moderate growth and Europe flat.
We see notable shift in the composition of demand as corporates focus now on expanding activities rather than right-sizing their portfolios.
The result will be a 20% increase in global [inaudible] absorption.
In funds management we see sustained strong capital flows and deal velocity as low interest rates and low inflation attract global investors.
Appetite for risk is increasing as investors seek yield in value-add and opportunistic plays.
Strong performers like LaSalle are going to continue to attract investment capital in this healthy environment.
Our own outlook remains positive for the year.
Our first quarter performance puts us in a strong competitive position with healthy pipelines and good momentum.
The strength in our balance sheet supports our focus on long term growth through continuous investments in our global platform and in improvements to the range and quality of services we provide to clients.
So before Christie and I open the call for your questions I'd like to finish by mentioning a few of the awards we've earned from the industry groups and independent third parties this year.
They illustrate our positioning as industry leader in real estate services and investment management and reflect our values -- core values of client service teamwork and integrity.
Real Capital Analytics named JLL the Number 1 Real Estate Investment Advisory Team in both EMEA and in Asia Pacific for the fourth consecutive year.
We've been selected as One of the World's Most Ethical Companies by the Ethisphere Institute for the eighth straight year.
Fortune Magazine named us One of the World's Most Admired Companies.
And for the seventh consecutive year we were chosen for Global Outsourcing 100 list by the International Association of Outsourcing Professionals.
And finally we were selected as One of 2015's Top 100 Corporate Citizens by CR Magazine earning the 20th position on a list of prominent multinational corporates.
So with that review of the quarter we'll now take your questions.
Operator could you please explain the procedure? Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from David Gold of Sidoti.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
A little bit of follow-up particularly as we look at the capital markets and hotels business performance particularly domestically was outstanding.
Can you give us a little bit of insight? I mean for the quarter we saw 82% year-to-year growth.
Your annual forecast though is 20-ish percent as we look at the Americas.
And I know there was some comment there on market share and hiring.
But can you bridge for that us a little bit? Are we expecting deceleration? And then as to the 82% say versus the annual forecast give a sense if you can for how much of -- if there's anything outstanding in that 82% as far as large fees or is it more a function of the hires working out? Well David we thought -- I thought maybe it was still over from Q4 last year and that was not the case because we had strong Q4s in both the Americas and Europe.
There was probably some spillover in the Asia Pacific numbers.
But as relates to the Americas there is something of a disconnect between our actual performance in Q1 which was outstanding in a relatively soft quarter.
You've got to remember that a few big deals can move the numbers in the first quarter which is our slowest quarter in a seasonal business.
But our forecast is taking a slightly more sanguine view of the year as a whole.
As to the overall market sentiment in the Americas it's solid it's not over-exuberant but we're seeing a lot of capital both domestic and particularly international trying to get into assets.
And as we mentioned the result is that investors are moving out along the risk curve somewhat into big cities tier 2 cities tier 2 properties to find deals as well as a little extra return.
Got you.
So as it pertains though to market share versus you know essentially that outperformance as we think about that market share -- We've been pushing as we've said continuously on the call and as Christie mentioned specifically we've been adding professionals in our capital markets business consistently over the last five years.
And this is the result of that historical growth.
We think -- we've estimated -- our own internal estimate is that two-thirds of the growth came from people who are -- who've been in the business more than a year one-third from more recent hires.
But it's market share growth it's what we've been investing for.
It's pleasing to see it come through.
Perfect.
Perfect.
And then Christie can you speak a little bit about you know we talked about incentive fees and equity earnings again healthy performance first quarter presumably there were some decent sales in there.
But I think if we go back a little bit go to the fourth quarter call and the thinking was that we were going to taper pretty dramatically from last year.
Any update on the thinking there? It sounds like you're expecting some fees in the second half of the year as well sizable? Yeah I think David that we are expecting if things continue towards the end of this year to see some sizeable performance in terms of incentive fees and equity earnings as we said during the fourth quarter last year.
We're thinking that it'll be in that $40 million to $50 million range as we said.
Maybe a bit more if funds accelerate some of their disposition activity.
So overall solid performance.
LaSalle is delivering what they should be doing for investors and even to the point of again accumulating and performing in that top quartile performance level.
So great results.
Is that 40 to 50 for the second half of the year or that's 40 to 50 for the year including the first quarter performance? In aggregate.
In aggregate.
Got you.
Got you.
Obviously it's particularly hard to estimate is that the actual sales transactions are coming through consistently about 10% above the expected deal size the expected target pricing.
And so the incentive fees are coming through more strongly even though LaSalle estimating you know even a quarter before they come through.
Got you.
Got you.
Okay.
And one last Colin also if we go back a quarter or so ago you commented a little bit on you know seeing long legs for the market and presumably it could be another three or so years left of the cycle.
Curious if any you know looking at the first quarter numbers and what you're saying for the year any update on that thinking? No.
I think it's consistent this quarter and pretty much the same comments.
The environment the global growth environment is sustained at this 3.4% level.
There are no at this point apparent clouds on the horizon to cause us to think that number will drop anytime soon.
There's significant corporate confidence coming through now led by the Americas but you can see it in Europe too and indeed in Asia as Asia comes to terms with slow level of Chinese growth but growth nevertheless.
The capital markets are strong with adequate even plentiful equity available across all asset types across all geographies.
The debt markets are fully functioning.
Debt's freely available.
Spreads are very fine.
So the costing of debt is very attractive.
Our underwriting remains in all countries pretty well -- pretty conservative.
So add it all up and it's a very positive environment with no signs of anything that will disrupt it at this time.
And so I'd say that at least two and maybe three-year horizon we'll see the impact [ph].
Perfect.
That's helpful.
Thank you both.
Thanks David.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Brad Burke from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Congratulations on the quarter.
I wanted to ask a little bit -- Thanks Brad.
Hey Christie.
I want to ask a little bit longer-term question and get your views on the sustainability of the growth that you're seeing Corporate Solutions.
Obviously it's been very strong over the last few years.
How are you thinking about it over the next few years? And maybe again remind us of the height of the barriers to entry for these business because we're obviously hearing a lot more about consolidation and real estate outsourcing.
It is indeed -- it has indeed continued to be a very attractive growth market.
We're bidding on something like 60% of the RFPs we receive globally.
We are -- our success rate on the bids we do engage in is something like 65% so we have a good performance in the RFP bidding process.
We are seeing as far as developments are concerned we're seeing the solid growth in the U.S.
markets continuing.
But we're seeing a lot more momentum in Europe than we had seen let's say over the period up to 2002.
And I think it's the result of focus [ph] in Europe picking up the productivity through outsourcing trend which did for the first time [ph] through the ravages of the great financial crisis.
But Europe now is also engaged more and more fully in this outsourcing trend.
In particular the three major economies of Germany France and the U.K.
And Asia continues for us a solid performer.
So long-term growth is there the margins [inaudible] to productivity agendas the margins remain good.
But you do have to pay attention to productivity because there is over the long term inevitably a level of pressure coming from competition.
And I think that too the only thing that I -- the only thing that I would add to that is that as we look over the long term I think in our performance we'd be pretty disappointed if we didn't see double-digit growth there.
Okay.
So none of the developments that we've seen over the last 6 12 months in terms of pretty aggressive consolidation in outsourcing would change your view on the growth outlook or JLL's competitive position within that growth potential within the industry? Nothing at all.
In fact in terms of major competitors in the integrated space we just went down from three to two.
That gives us a slightly better percentage shot in most deals.
Okay.
I appreciate it.
And then a second question on capital structure.
Just wanted to get your general thoughts about leverage and the use of cash.
On our estimates if this year shapes up like last year you could be negative net debt by the end of the year.
And your largest competitor has come out and said they're comfortable hitting about 1.7 times EBITDA debt to EBITDA by the end of 2015.
And it just seems like a pretty big disconnect.
So I wanted to get an update on how you're thinking about leverage what you think is appropriate at this point of the cycle and what you think is appropriate for your business in general.
We've been managing the business to have low leverage Brad and we're very comfortable with where we are right now.
Just as a reminder our business is pretty cyclical point number one.
Point number two we have a strong M&amp;A pipeline together with investments that we're making in the business.
And from a capital allocation percentage perspective we've been putting $0.55 of every dollar into M&amp;A.
We've done it consistently.
And it's been really fueling our growth over the long term.
And then another $0.30 $0.35 into investments in technology which again is boding well to really drive productivity enhancements and smart tools business intelligence and the like in our business.
So we don't expect to change that.
And further we're saving dry powder for opportunities as we see them while sticking to our tried and true investment discipline from an M&amp;A perspective.
So we're good with where we are.
And I shouldn't view the expansion of the credit facility as an indication that you might be inclined to increase your leverage in the near term? It's smart corporate finance.
We took advantage of the market and we took advantage of the fact that we had been upgraded by S&amp;P got exceptional pricing added three new banks to our relationship banking group.
And then further to that expanded our line and alignment with out 2020 plans.
We're about growth.
We're about profitable growth.
And so we took advantage of the opportunity to expand and work with our relationship banks in a very productive manner.
So to answer your question we run our ship well from an investment grade perspective.
We protect our balance sheet.
And to the extent that we are operating we will operate with you know under two times leverage as an overall strategic goal.
Okay.
And then just the last one from me just on the quarter the real estate services margins were up a couple hundred basis points year-over-year and I realized the comp in Q1 last year was pretty relatively easy and you also had a good quarter this time for capital markets which can be choppy.
So I was just trying to think with all of those puts and takes how should we think about your margins running this year versus last year? And to the extent that you're seeing a fundamental increase how sustainable do you think that improvement is over the balance of this year? We're focused on driving profitability for the long term Brad together with investments that we're making in our platform.
We've been doing that for well over a decade in alignment with Colin's leadership.
And as we look forward you know this quarter we drove 21% incremental margin and we're very happy with that performance and we're focused on driving that going forward.
Okay.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Our next question is from David Ridley-Lane of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
The line is open.
Sure.
So another solid quarter of above-market growth in leasing JLL up 14% on U.S.
dollars the market down 4%.
Can you break out sort of the components of that outperformance broker headcount maybe getting some [inaudible] from growth that you're seeing in outsourcing clients productivity gains anything else? All of the above.
Look it's -- as we talked about the level of confidence amongst the corporates globally I think if you go back to the period just after the crisis when everyone was in cost cutting mode and that period lasted about two to three years.
Then we had a couple of years of consolidation where corporates were trying to drive productivity not just cut costs and so there was a different mindset coming through on that.
What we're now seeing is company's much more inclined to invest for growth and building their top lines.
And so we have this ongoing portfolio rearrangement process still in place but in addition to that you've got companies of all sizes now across all geographies increasingly prepared to go out and take more space with growth in mind.
If you add to that the fact that in some critical markets around the world so London's one Tokyo is another the Chinese cities are a third set of examples you've got a situation where the development pipeline has been relatively constrained.
And so you there beginning to see as we look forward a situation where there could be supply constraints.
And so there's a level of enhanced activity amongst the corporates to get space now while pricing is relatively attractive space is available and they're not in a cycle where the landlords have control of the markets.
So put all that together I think that's reason we're seeing this healthy uptick in leasing.
It's not an anomaly it's not one quarter.
We think it's part of a sustained process of building through the cycle.
Okay great.
And then you went silent a bit on -- in the script on the explanation for the weaker U.S.
leasing market and trend in the first quarter.
Could you just give us a little color on that? The leasing revenue on our part was pretty healthy in the Americas.
This was the leasing for the market U.S.
only down 6% in the quarter.
Yeah.
I wouldn't read too much into that.
I mean our forecast for the full year in leasing for the Americas are up 5% so that minus 6% in Q1 we're expecting a gross absorption.
It's what drives our [ph] activity levels.
We're expecting that to be up to a 5% growth over the full year so it's an anomalous first quarter as I said.
Anomaly was the word we used.
Got it.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thank you very much.
Thanks David.
Thank you.
Our final question is from Michael Muller of JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Hi.
Colin you mentioned acquisitions before.
I was wondering if you can talk a little bit about investment CapEx spending and how you see that trending over the next few years.
Well in terms of the regular internal investments they're likely to trend upwards.
We've been putting as we've said consistently more money into technology in particular.
That's across the spectrum of infrastructures systems hardware data and analytics.
And that's a deliberate and aggressive internal strategy.
So expect that number to go up.
We're relatively controlled and cautious on investment in new offices.
Our footprint is pretty comprehensive globally.
So we will be driving the footprint to absorb a lot of investment capital.
And the third major area will be capital expense.
We'll accelerate capital use in the M&amp;A sphere.
We mentioned a couple already in the first quarter relatively small ones.
Christie also mentioned we have a healthy pipeline of opportunities of all sizes which we are pursuing.
So expect that number to trend upwards as well.
Okay.
And what was that number as a point of reference in 2014 the M&amp;A spending? It was $85 million Michael.
Okay.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
We have a follow-up from Brad Burke of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Okay.
Thank you.
Christie I had a question on your comment on the FX headwinds going forward.
I think you'd said you're expecting about a 5% year-over-year headwind for the second quarter.
And I'm interested to know -- Sorry Brad.
I just want to jump in there.
I don't mean to interrupt you but it's 5% for the year.
Okay.
So 5% for the year.
Yes.
Looking -- and you can sort of gauge that based on last year's performance.
Okay.
So this quarter it was 7% you know next quarter I think that the comps just on an FX basis probably get a little bit easier but simultaneously the component and contribution from EMEA and Asia Pac also increases.
So is there a way to think about sequentially how that would play out? I think you can think about it that the comps get easier in the fourth quarter Brad because of the phasing of our business and the movement of currencies that were primarily driven during the fourth quarter.
So when we take a look at the mix you can see that building through to the fourth quarter.
Okay.
And I think the last quarter you had spoken about the total 2015 headwinds being about 5% and this quarter that sounds like it's the same and I think that over that three-month period the currencies haven't moved in your favor.
Is there anything that would maybe be driving the flag guidance on FX headwinds? No.
Just for a point of reference so folks know what's going on in terms of the mix of business on the euro versus the U.S.
dollar.
So simple as that.
Okay.
I appreciate it guys.
Thank you very much.
Okay Brad.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the conference over to Colin Dyer for any closing remarks.
Mr.
Dyer? Thank you operator.
We're having an issue with our London office so I'm just going to take over here on this section for Colin.
So with no further questions we'll end today's call.
Thank you for participating and for your continued interest in JLL.
Colin and I look forward to talking again following the second quarter.
Goodbye everybody and have a great rest of the day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Welcome to the Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call for Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
A transcript will be posted in the Investor Relations section at jll.com.
Any statements made about future results and performance or about plans expectations and objectives are forward-looking statements.
Actual results and performance may differ from those included in the forward-looking statements as a result of factors discussed in the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31 2014 and in our other reports filed with the SEC.
The company disclaims any undertaking to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Now we'll turn to Colin Dyer Chief Executive Officer for opening remarks.
Thank you Tim and welcome to everybody joining this review of our results for the second quarter and first half of 2015.
With me today is Christie Kelly our Chief Financial Officer and Christie will as is customary provide details about performance in a few minutes.
We had an excellent second quarter and first half of the year.
We are seeing the benefits of our decade long program of disciplined strategic investments in both client facing and support platform functions aimed at profitable growth across the broad sweep of our business.
Thanks to these long-term investments in people and platform second quarter fee revenue reached a record $1.2 billion up 17% in local currency 9% in U.S.
dollars compared with the second quarter of 2014.
Year-to-date fee revenue totaled $2.2 billion a 20% year-on-year increase in local currency 13% in U.S.
dollars.
Adjusted earnings per share reached $2.01 in the quarter 20% above the second quarter 2014 levels and a new record despite $0.15 negative foreign exchange impact.
We recorded year-to-date margin expansion across all our segments.
LaSalle Investment Management continued to provide outstanding performance to clients raising $3 billion of capital in the first half and delivering healthy transaction and incentive fees plus significant equity earnings to the firm.
We saw a continued momentum in capital markets and our corporate solutions business is having an excellent year taking market share and building strong pipelines for the rest of 2015.
For example during the quarter we won $80 of every $100 of potential revenue on new business pursuits in our Americas corporate business.
To put our current performance in context.
The quarter's revenue and adjusted earnings per share are in line with the compound annual growth rates we've achieved since 2010 and that is 11% compound growth on revenue and 20% on adjusted earnings per share over that five-year period.
Our history of growth and superior performance was confirmed in June when we joined the Fortune 500 and reconfirmed yesterday when Standard and Poor's upgraded JLL to BBB+ acknowledging that we can provide market leading growth and financial discipline.
These results were produced in an environment of continued steady economic progress across the world with global GDP expected to maintain a three-year trend growth of 3.2% this year.
The slides that we've posted in the investor relations section of jll.com summarize current conditions in global real estate markets.
Slide 2 shows trends in capital markets and leasing volumes.
There are three key messages here.
First momentum and confidence are continuing to build in commercial real estate markets worldwide.
Second capital markets activity is sustained and growing globally.
And thirdly growth is now increasingly heading corporate agendas so leasing market demand fundamentals strengthened further in the quarter along with rental rates.
And globally Q2 leasing market growth it matched investment sales volume growth for the first time in this current cycle.
In the capital markets second quarter market transaction volumes reached $177 billion which is a 9% increase.
Year-to-date volumes also came in 9% higher at $333 billion with larger deals and portfolio transactions contributing to the increase.
Remember the strength of the U.S.
dollar masks the true level of transaction activity around the world.
The U.S.
stood up with first half volumes up 29% Germany and the U.K.
also had strong first halves and China bounced back during the second quarter.
Our own investment sales revenue outperformed the market in all three regions.
Investment demand for real estate continued to reduce yields cap rates to new lows compressing rather surprisingly at their fastest pace in five years.
Investor demand pushed yields down 25 basis points in London and 10 to 20 basis point compression was seen in North American gateway cities.
Leasing volumes grew by 8% compared with the second quarter a year ago reaching their highest level in more than three years with the greatest increases coming in selected Asia Pacific markets.
JLL revenues outperformed the market in EMEA performed in line with the market in the Americas and matched the most important markets in Asia Pacific.
As a further indication of demand strength vacancy rates continued to fall down to 12.5% across 98 key global markets and importantly rents on prime offices in 24 markets around the world grew 3% and much faster in key business centers like London Hong Kong and San Francisco.
So against that background for a summary of our performance in this positive market environment I'll turn the call over to Christie.
Thank you Colin and welcome to everyone on our call.
As Colin noted our firm reported excellent performance for the second quarter and first half of 2015.
We delivered double-digit second quarter fee revenue and adjusted earnings per share growth over last year.
Our performance continues to demonstrate the diversity and strength of our platform which starts with our brand and is realized every day by our people who remain focused on our clients and investors.
We continue to see in our results the benefits of increased recurring revenue investments acquisitions and our focus on productivity.
We finished the second quarter with record consolidated fee revenue of $1.2 billion up 17% over last year and adjusted earnings per share of $2.01 on adjusted net income of $92 million up 20% over last year despite a $0.15 negative impact due to currency translation.
All three of our geographic segments and LaSalle delivered year-over-year increased performance for the quarter and first half.
Capital Markets and Hotels revenue increased 33% on a local currency basis led by a strong quarter in EMEA and the Americas.
We delivered these results while continuing to selectively invest in and profitably grow our capital markets business in alignment with our strategic plan.
Our annuity based property and facility management business revenue grew steadily at 7% for the second quarter and 9% year-to-date in local currency over a tough comparable last year.
The 29% increase in project and development services is a result of continued investment in our Tetris offering in EMEA as well as a focus on cross-selling within our business.
LaSalle Investment Management grew advisory transaction and incentive fees and generated significant equity earnings from performance for clients.
LaSalle continued its successful capital-raising track record in the second quarter raising an additional $948 million of equity commitments bringing the year-to-date capital raise to $3 billion.
Adjusted operating income margin calculated on a fee revenue basis was 8.9% essentially flat for the quarter in comparison to 2014 driven by transaction timing as well as platform investments such as innovative data technology for our future.
Importantly year-to-date adjusted operating income margin calculated on a fee revenue basis increased 120 basis points to 7.2% as we continuously focus on driving profitable revenue growth and productivity initiatives to capture margin enhancing opportunities We have over 100 productivity initiatives underway focused on people process and pricing goals.
These projects range from small quick-win projects to larger longer-term efforts designed to further enhance revenue and margin performance as well as our client experience.
We will begin our review of the segment results with the Americas where second quarter fee revenue increased 11% in local currency over second quarter 2014.
Revenue growth was partially driven by gains in capital markets and hotels which had a 30% fee revenue increase as well as a 22% fee revenue increase in project and development services Our leasing business continued its strong momentum achieving 6% growth for the quarter and 13% year-to-date.
The growth in our business was driven by strong performance in a majority of our U.S.
markets where we are seeing the ramp up of investments and are benefiting from cross-selling throughout the platform.
Our corporate solutions business continued to win new assignments while increasing the scope of existing mandates with longstanding clients.
Our pipeline of activity remained strong across all of our businesses.
From an investment perspective the Americas continued to attract and develop top talent and have announced key acquisitions in retail and energy and sustainability as we continue to grow share and strengthen our platforms.
We also continue to invest in technology to support our clients such as our real estate data and hirise implementations that Colin will touch on in a moment.
Operating margins in the Americas were lower in the quarter due primarily to transaction timing in our ongoing investments and remain up on a year-to-date basis.
Operating margins on a year-to-date basis increased 70 basis points to 7.8% and adjusted EBITDA margin increased 60 basis points to 10.7%.
We continue to plan for future growth in the Americas by capitalizing on our strong brand and our financial strength to invest strategically increase productivity and enhance our talented and diverse workforce.
In our EMEA business second quarter fee revenue increased 21% in local currency over second quarter 2014 and was broad-based across service lines and countries.
EMEA's leasing revenue for the quarter was up 12% in local currency and capital markets and hotels was up 38%.
Capital Markets and Hotels performance was bolstered by the continuing momentum across European investment markets particularly in the U.K.
France Sweden and Central and Eastern Europe.
Project and development services fee revenue for the second quarter increased 36%.
EMEA's fee-based operating income margin improved 180 basis points for the quarter to 9.8% and 130 basis points for the year to 5%.
Adjusted EBITDA margin also improved 130 basis points for the year to 7%.
We continued to invest selectively for profitable growth and we have welcomed acquisitions in Sweden for our tenant representation business Poland for our Tetris business and as reported yesterday Turkey for our retail property management business.
Our EMEA business also was driving solid organic growth supported by our strong brand market leading positions and focused productivity initiatives.
Our balanced business mix across countries service lines asset classes and client types is a strong tamping down to the effects of political and economic uncertainties in some parts of the regions.
The sentiment across our EMEA business remains positive as we look forward to the second half of the year.
Moving on to our Asia Pacific business.
Second quarter fee revenue increased 18% in local currency over 2014.
Our annuity business is growing steadily.
The broad recovery in corporate confidence is demonstrated in each of our leasing and capital markets businesses.
Asia Pacific's property and facility management business for the quarter was up 13% in local currency.
Leasing revenue for the quarter was up 11% in local currency.
Overall domestic demand in Asia Pacific for leasing services remained strong especially in Australia China India and Hong Kong.
Capital Markets and hotels revenue for the quarter increased 25% in local currency.
Market activity levels in the region are expected to remain steady in the second half of the year and our capital markets pipelines remain solid.
Operating margins in Asia Pacific were lower in the quarter due to the timing of transactions that moved to the third quarter but remain up for the year-to-date.
Operating margins on a year-to-date basis increased 50 basis points to 4.9% and adjusted EBITDA margin increased 60 basis points to 6.6%.
During the quarter we made numerous key hires across the region and acquired an excellent facilities management business in Australia.
We continue to invest in technology and to recruit develop and retain top talent to drive continued profitable growth across our business.
Our Asia Pacific team has a strong pipeline of work in hand going into the second half of the year and remains confident in capturing the momentum created.
LaSalle Investment Management had an outstanding quarter with local currency growth and advisory transaction and incentive fees compared to a year ago as well as significant equity earnings.
Capital values are rising in most areas leading to accelerated and higher sales prices that generate incentive fees and equity earnings.
The business generated $12 million of incentive fees during the quarter as a result of strong investment performance across all geographies particularly in EMEA.
We see potential for additional incentive fees as mature funds continue to liquidate over the next several quarters.
If markets remain stable and the pace of asset sales continue it's possible that 2015 incentive fees could meet or exceed 2014 levels.
We continue to invest alongside our clients with a net $7 million invested in the quarter.
$12 million in the first half of the year.
Previous co-investment alongside LaSalle's investors resulted in $25 million of equity earnings in the second quarter primarily driven by sales of legacy investments.
We continue to deploy capital in a market where demand for quality assets outweighs supply.
Regarding our investment grade balance sheet.
Total net debt was $522 million at the end of the quarter a decrease of $24 million from the first quarter of 2015 while we also continued to invest in the business.
We plan to finance recently announced acquisitions as well as pipeline transactions upon completion using our bank facility capacity while maintaining our leverage profile over the long term at two times net debt to EBITDA or less.
We are extremely pleased that Standard and Poor's raised our investment grade credit rating from BBB to BBB+ which along with our Baa2 rating from Moody's recognizes our operating discipline as well as the increasing strength of our annuity businesses and our overall global platforms.
To sum up we had an excellent second quarter and first half of 2015.
While the momentum continues in 2015 it's worth noting we could see roughly a 7% negative currency translation impact compared with 2014 if the strength of the U.S.
dollar continues.
As we look forward our pipelines are strong and outlook remains positive.
Before turning over to Colin I would like to express my sincere appreciation to my JLL colleagues around the world for their values collaboration and continued contribution.
I'll now turn the call back over to Colin.
Thanks Christie.
Slide 3 in our investor deck shows a sample of recent business wins across service lines and geographies.
In our corporate solutions business we've won 36 new assignments to date in 2015 expanding existing relationships with 30 clients and we renewed 21 contracts.
These 87 wins total 196 million square feet across all of our regions.
And as I said earlier we're having a very good year in our corporate services business.
During the quarter we won new business or expanded existing relationships with major corporate clients.
In addition to the companies shown on the slide they include a major North American bank global biopharma and insurance clients a large Australian government agency several leading computer hardware and software companies major health care insurers a large clothing manufacturer and one of the world's leading consumer products companies.
Our integrated portfolio services business which serves corporate clients who purchase real estate services locally continued to grow in the first half winning 29 assignments totaling more than 88 million square feet of space.
Turning to investment sales transactions.
In Chicago in a transaction announced just last week we represented Piedmont Office Realty Trust in the pending $712 million sale of the Aon Center.
In central London we advised on a £600 million acquisition of an extensive student housing portfolio.
And we negotiated the 635 million Australian dollar sale of Waterfront Place and Eagle Street Pier in Brisbane which was Australia's largest single office sale since 2009.
Second quarter leasing highlights included completing a 1.1 million square foot industrial lease for Amazon.com in New Jersey; representing AXA Belgium on 106 000 square foot office lease in Brussels; and securing 440 000 square feet of new Class A space in Shanghai's Central Business District for WPP Group the largest -ever CBD leasing transaction in Shanghai.
As I mentioned in my introduction and Christie discussed in more detail LaSalle Investment Management delivered an excellent first half for its clients and our firm.
Assets under management increased to $56 billion at the end of the quarter.
With its $3 billion capital raise this year LaSalle has raised nearly $12 billion in the past 18 months giving it significant growth potential.
Christie and I have both referred to continued investment in growth across our business.
On Monday we completed the acquisition of AVM Partners a leading retail management and leasing company in Istanbul.
As a result we now manage nearly 11 million square feet of retail space in Turkey.
Our approach to AVM and all ten of the acquisitions we've announced in 2015 was guided by the approach that has served us well for the past 10 years.
We acquire companies selectively with comprehensive due diligence.
We evaluate finances for operating risk and strategic and cultural and client fit and maintain our pricing discipline.
We focus on high profit high margin opportunities and we aim to minimize operational overlap that can destroy value.
We plan carefully for integration and we are skilled and confident acquirers.
e make no apologies for this rigorous approach and as a measure of success we have taken no write-offs on the 70 transactions large and small that we've completed since 2005.
We also have the industry's strongest investment grade balance sheet and as Christie said this was reinforced with our rating upgrade to BBB+.
Finally we have ample unused borrowing capacity with our banks.
That means that we have the full confidence of our partner banks and can move quickly when we identify deals which meet our criteria.
Looking forward we have a healthy pipeline of M&amp;A transactions and are planning for a growing level in M&amp;A activity in the second half in both volume and value.
As Christie noted in her comments we are also continuing to make significant investment in IT data and analytics.
This covers both our internal systems and our commercial and client-facing platforms.
Consider two products Christie mentioned which we recently brought to market.
Hirise is a US-based one of a kind marketplace for which we have a patent pending.
It enables tenants to find future space and complete entire lease transactions online in as few as seven days.
RED Real Estate Data is our corporate real estate's first open and scalable data and analytics platform.
RED integrates corporate real estate data with sales workforce finance economic and other business data to improve operational efficiency business performance and productivity levels in the workplace.
RED contributed to several recent client wins and is fast becoming the industry reference for corporate real estate systems.
New technology solutions like hirise and RED are adding value to our clients and winning business for our firm.
Looking ahead to the second half of the year.
Slide 2 shows our researchers' market projections for investment sales and leasing volumes.
We are maintaining our full-year forecast for investment sales volumes at $750 billion to $760 billion 5% above 2014 levels.
Again remember the projections are translated to U.S.
dollars which could make the local currency growth we see everywhere into negative numbers.
We also forecast up to 5% growth in full-year gross leasing volumes with the greatest increases in Asia Pacific.
Expansion is clearly back on the agendas of corporates worldwide and we see this translating to a 15% to 20% increase in global net absorption in the year.
In funds management strong capital flows and high deal velocity will continue throughout the year as high levels of available equity drive demand supported by significant debt availability and low interest rates.
In this environment LaSalle is well positioned to continue to attract and invest institutional capital and deliver great returns to clients and increase equity and incentive earnings for JLL.
Moving on our performance in the first half our own outlook also remains very positive.
Our pipelines are robust across all of our geographies and service lines.
Our strong balance sheet supports continued platform investments to improve the range and quality of services we provide to clients.
And finally and most importantly there is solid confidence and momentum both across our firm and in markets globally.
Part of our confidence comes from the knowledge that we can look to an extremely knowledgeable experienced and diverse board of directors for insight advice and of course good governance.
We are very careful in the way we plan our board membership and succession.
In line with that our two newest directors who joined in May continue this trend of excellence.
Sam Di Piazza is the former global CEO of PricewaterhouseCoopers International; and Ann Marie Petach is the former CFO of BlackRock Inc.
We welcome Sam and Ann Marie to the JLL board.
Currently three of our eight independent directors and 35% of all of our employees are women.
Starting with the board and extending throughout JLL and LaSalle we continue to increase these numbers.
We are making good progress.
Early in July Diversity MBA magazine recognized us in the U.S.
as one of the top employers for diverse managers and women naming JLL to its 2015 list of best places for women and diverse managers to work.
Our aim is for JLL to be the go-to employer for women and minorities in real estate globally.
Here is a further sample of awards which we won during the quarter.
For the fourth consecutive year the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency recognized JLL with the 2015 ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year Sustained Excellence Award.
In Germany also for the fourth consecutive year we were voted top real estate employer in an Immobilien Zeitung poll.
In the U.K.
we were named international sales agency of the year at Property Week's 2015 residential awards and at the 2015 Asia Pacific Property Awards we won 13 awards including best property consultancy in China.
So with that comprehensive overview of markets and our business let's now take your questions.
Operator could you please explain the process.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question or comment comes from the line of David Gold from Sidoti.
Your line is open.
Terrific detail.
A couple of points of follow-up.
First there were a couple of spots where -- a couple of geographies where you referenced deals where timing was a factor and presumably were delayed into the third quarter.
And I was curious if you could add a little bit of color there.
Is it just traditional slower activity on the deal front which happens from time to time or particularly I think with regard to Asia Pacific do you see some effect there from the economies? Thanks for the question David.
I think in that context look back as well as forward.
You'll remember we had a very strong Quarter one.
And so looking at the two quarters together it may be some deals fell into the first quarter and not into the second.
But for sure we've got some.
With the intensity or velocity of deals we're seeing across most markets now and that includes leasing now as well as capital market transactions so we've had intensity and velocity you know you inevitably see timing shift on large deals from quarter-to-quarter.
So I wouldn't read too much into it.
We don't.
We just think it's just normal course of business noise.
And the only thing I'd add to that David is as it relates to timing particularly in Asia Pacific we've been having a fantastic year as we noted.
And specifically there are timing of transactions that fell into the third quarter.
They're executed which are really nice in fees and to address the timing that we were talking about in our hotels specifically as it relates to our hotels business.
Got you.
Okay.
So presumably we expect some catch up there then? Yes.
Okay perfect.
And then Christie if you could speak a little bit as to the technology investments going on in the Americas.
If you can update us on a impact so far and b how much is left to do there? When that sort of runs off? From a technology perspective David we have ongoing investments in the business overall that last year were averaging around 70 basis points.
Now we're graduating up a little bit to 100 basis points based on our strategic plan and we expect that to continue.
The Americas is very in line with that plan so it's ongoing.
Okay okay.
Fair enough.
Just one left that I can Colin I'd note for the first time in my memory that you actually made a note in the release about how many acquisitions you've done year-to-date and obviously have given some additional color.
But I was curious as you think about that in a go-forward basis is it a function of geographies that you'd like to add to or service lines or a little bit of both? Well I used the phrase I think in my comments the investments and the acquisitions were across the board sweep of our business and so they're not focused in any one area.
We don't have an excessive focus on any one geography or part of our business strategies to grow across the board sweep of our geographies and service lines because we think that growth is available to us.
So you've heard of acquisitions from Sweden down to Australia and across the U.S.
and across most of our business sectors.
So that's an ongoing policy.
We'll continue with that acquisition pipeline we're looking at in both value and numbers of transactions reflects a similar sort of profile.
As to geographical growth we said before that that is selective.
We are moving across China at the rate of about one opening per year.
It's limited by availability of our own resources and skilled people rather than our interest in investing capital there.
And we are expanding too in Africa.
We opened last year in Lagos and we opened just this quarter in Nairobi Kenya.
So we're building gradually across our Africa platform as well.
That's more incremental following our - particularly our corporate clients' need for us to build in the continent.
Thank you.
Our next question or comment comes from the line of Mitch Germain from JMP Securities.
Your line is open.
We're hearing a lot about especially in the Americas region strength and some of the broadening into some of the secondary markets.
And I was just curious how you guys are positioned to benefit from that broadening of trends? Across the Americas? I mean specifically the Americas is kind of what I'm referencing but I know that it's happening more on a global basis as well.
Yes it's true.
Across the U.S.
transaction activity is spreading from -- the intensity of transaction activity is increasing across the broad sweep of smaller and medium sized markets.
We are not typically in the smaller cities across the U.S.
but if you go down the list of the significant business centers Boston Chicago Los Angeles Dallas Silicon Valley Atlanta Charlotte we are in all of those significant places where still in value terms the bulk of business gets done and certainly those are the cities where the major investors are present and the major corporate clients are also present and active.
So we don't feel disadvantaged.
We think our Americas business is extremely strongly represented across the sweep of the States.
We have probably the largest tenant rep business in the U.S.
market.
So we've got full strength across the leasing and tenant rep activity areas.
And as we said with 30%-plus growth rates in our capital markets business we've been investing in teams and acquisitions to build that part of our U.S.
service portfolio.
So we believe we're in good shape and we're growing strongly.
Great that's very helpful.
Christie I know you mentioned about 100 productivity initiatives and I know you kind of introduced some of these initiatives give or take about a year ago.
And I'm curious how you measure the progress and how should we interpret that measurement in terms of these initiatives? From the perspective of measuring the progress Mitch there are a couple of different things.
First of all we're focused on driving productivity across three primary levers which include price process and people.
And specifically on the price we're looking to drive incremental price to combat steep revenue pressures.
We're looking at better underwriting processes we're looking at ways to better design our pricing processes drive best practices.
From a process perspective it's all about driving improvement in the way we work.
And then from a people perspective we're really looking at opportunities to increase the revenue per head for our team.
And we look at the number of initiatives that we have coming into the business which are coming from all over.
When we first started we were talking about 50 or 60 initiatives.
We started with 20 30 50 60 now we've got almost 120 initiatives around the globe.
We talk about them and review them with our team during our quarterly operating reviews as well as when I go out to visit our major markets and I've almost been to all 60 of our major markets at this point.
And we also look at the benefits the quantified benefits for this year next year and the following year.
So we analyze those benefits on a three-year rolling average basis.
And where we are right now we have almost 120.
We've got a lot of upside in that.
There are 40% of those projects that still have not been quantified and we're looking at overall benefits on an annual basis of about $40 million in gross margin impacts.
So the targets specifically are driving for approximately a point of incremental margin.
It's been great progress and we're having some fun with it too around the globe.
Great that's really helpful.
And then the last one for me.
It seems like hiring has been pretty much on par with last year levels or at least your appetite to add producers.
I'm just curious in terms of maybe by geography or by business line is there a specific focus? It seems like investment sales might be a huge focus but if you can just provide some perspective there I'd appreciate it.
It's across the broad sweep of our businesses.
I made the comment earlier Mitch about the acquisition approach which is again across the broad sweep because we see opportunities for growth everywhere.
I have to say at this point in the cycle it gets tougher and if anything the numbers are coming off slightly year-on-year because we're seeing people in their own existing businesses doing well transacting well with good pipelines.
And so it becomes harder to draw them across to our business.
Having said that we are seeing useful sources of new people good new people from some of the consolidations that are either underway or are being planned at this stage.
That obviously provides motivation for people to want to make moves and we have been benefiting from that.
So we continue to be open to good people who share our values and in particular want to work in an environment of collaboration with their colleagues and that open-door policy serves us well.
I'd say there are parts of the markets European investment sales U.S.
leasing activity the West Coast of the U.S.
where activity is so intense that it's really hard for us to keep up with the level of businesses available to us and hire at the pace to be able to deliver.
So challenges of that sort are good challenges to have.
They are fairly well spread across our markets globally.
Thank you.
Our next question or comment comes from the line of Brad Burke from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
I wanted to ask about M&amp;A and certainly we see the headlines it looks like the pace is increasing.
The way that it's disclosed in terms of capital expense it's sometimes difficult to compare apples-to-apples just because of the payout of earn out.
So I don't know if you'd be able to give us some sense of how you are trending this year versus last in terms of the total value of M&amp;A new incremental M&amp;A.
And if you could give us any sense of how we ought to think about that on a go forward basis I think that would be helpful.
I think if you look at last year versus this year Brad we're trending up in terms of the numbers and value of transactions that we have executed as well as announced.
And further to that given the robustness of our pipeline we are expecting as Colin had discussed in his remarks for the value and number to continue increasing through the year.
Just on numbers.
We did about $155 million of transaction value in the last 18 months and that split roughly $50 million per half year.
[indiscernible] value of transactions.
And you'll expect to increase from that level? That's what we said.
That's right yes.
Okay.
And then just on the investment management equity income.
Christie you gave us some color on how to think about incentive fees.
Are you able to give a sense of how to think about equity income over the balance of the year versus what was obviously a very strong Q2? Yes.
I think it's consistent with what we've said in the past Brad.
Okay.
And if you could remind me what that was? Consistent with last year's performance.
Got it okay.
And then on the IT investments.
One of the things I think that’s just difficult for us is to think about that cash investment and the cash return that you get on it eventually versus things that are maybe a little bit easier to model like M&amp;A or co-investments within the investment management business.
So I wanted to get your thoughts on how you think about the incremental return on that and how it compares against other things that you could be investing in? And to the extent that we're looking at the size of those investments how much of that should we be thinking about is just the cost of entry to keep up with competitors that are also making pretty significant IT investments and how much of that is really offensive market share taking potential investments in IT? Well Brad we're not keeping up with anybody.
We are leading we believe across the broad sweep of our businesses and in particular the corporate sector.
If you go back to Ford's earnings statements yesterday there's a traditional industry where their CEO talked about a sea change and the disruptive influence that technology is having on the good old traditional automotive sector.
Well that same phenomenon is happening across all businesses and it's certainly happening now in real estate arguably sort of later than many other sectors.
So a good part of what we're doing is table takes and by setting the pace we are raising the table stakes for other people.
We said it's about our own internal platforms and making our own people more efficient and to Christie's point more productive in the way they do their work.
And importantly and a big difference from say five to ten years ago the last cycle it's systems and applications which are being accessed and used and data that's being fed back to our clients across the broad sweep of our business lines.
In that context it's a significant help in winning business when we can give clients visibility on how deal flows are taking place when [indiscernible] expose their investors to up-to-date real time portfolio performance when our corporate solutions business can show these multinational corporations the performance of their real estate again real time.
That helps us with business and makes it harder for others to compete.
Thank you.
Our next question or comment comes from the line of Brandon Dobell from William Blair.
Your line is open.
I want to focus on LIM for a second.
Maybe it's a proxy for what's going on globally.
Some color on where the capital raises are coming from in your geographies and I guess maybe product types and what should that tell us about future trends within the property markets and how you guys are positioning the owner and occupier services maybe along what LIM is seeing on a forward basis? So the capital raise is across Australia Japan broader Asia Continental Europe Britain and the U.S.
So just going down the list in my mind that's all of our geographies.
And so it's a broad -- and it's part of this broad trend we're seeing of institutional investors wanting to put money and then more money and more money into real estate.
The pipeline we think it gives us roughly $12 billion of purchasing power.
So $9 billion of equity and a further $3 billion of debt with that.
So a significant forward business potential there.
Your question about what are the implications of that? Well for us it means LaSalle business continues its very healthy organic growth helped by the co-investment that Christie referred to across-the-board business area.
We're very pleased that our Asia platform which had a really rough time during and for the few years after the recession is now back firing on all cylinders generating incentive fees and attracting a lot of capital.
So that's a great success.
And the implications for the broader firm we run LaSalle operationally separately and that independence and autonomy is something which we Christie and I both underlined to the senior managers at a conference in Chicago last month.
They have to have that independence for their fiduciary responsibilities to their investors.
Where they want to use the firm they're welcome to.
And they do if they believe that the firm will provide the best services for them in any one market.
But I think the indications of the amount of money going in through LaSalle and other investment vehicles into real estate just says that our industry will continue to grow at the service end as well because that institutional money needs professional handling at the LaSalle level but it needs professional handling when it comes to services i.e.
high-quality leasing high-quality building management high-quality sales transaction management when that becomes appropriate.
And that professionalization of services and the trend towards the larger brands and the higher-quality brands means that our market should continue to grow positively in the services area for both this cycle but across the next coming few cycles and decades.
Brad the only thing I'd add there just to give you a little specificity on what Colin mentioned at the start of his answer to the question is the capital raised in terms of by region was primarily in Europe and the Americas.
And then in terms of product 50% of the capital raised is in alignment with our separate accounts business and then about 25% between co-mingled funds and the securities business.
Okay.
Do you see any fee pressure on the new money you're raising relative to money you raised last year a couple of years ago? Yes there's fee pressure Brandon.
As you can imagine especially as we're driving for bigger funds to drive productivity.
Sometimes they're not as lucrative as the smaller funds.
But from the perspective of our business over the long term our team has been driving productivity in the platform because they saw this coming years and years and years ago.
And I'm really pleased to report that I didn't put it in my remarks for this quarter as I do usually but the team drove over 10% productivity in assets under management and that's on the back of last quarter driving another 14%.
And they're really working on improving the way they work to ensure that they're the best that they can be on behalf of their investors.
And the other thing too is that performance really comes as a result of their investment prowess.
Got it.
As you guys think about trends in America leasing in particular newer deals that your guys are working on are they even are coming with the corporate services umbrella? Do they look any different now than they did a couple of years ago in terms of term structure how the brokers are being compensated by customers? I just want to get a sense if there's any change in the margin given now we're a couple of years into a decent leasing market? Yes.
Well the general trend for leasing across the U.S.
is demand is ramping up and this would actually be a very solid global comment too certainly for the mature markets.
The demand is ramping up.
The supply of new space in the office market is relatively restricted and that would be certainly true across Europe and the U.S.
So against that rents are tending to rise and that is in turn beginning to drive more development and delivery of more space in '16 '17 and '18.
So that virtuous circle is up [away] [ph] and it's tending to benefit the landlord side of the equation.
So with that the general market dynamics are for better fee structures in particular we're seeing that in the major cities across the U.S.
where demand is tightening and where therefore from the tenant rep side our services are valuable and useful to the corporates looking for space.
Okay.
And then a final one for me -- sorry for dragging on here -- Christie as you think about the sustainability of the incremental margins that you guys have put up the last several quarters which have been pretty strong.
How do we think about the sustainability of either personnel productivity or your ability to hold the line on some of the more G&amp;A focused costs? Or is there growing pressure to spend more in advance of what seems to be some decent growth opportunities for the next couple of years? Well Brandon I think our performance on a year-to-date basis we don't run the business by quarter and over the long term speaks for itself and we've driven significant incremental margin improvement in our firm.
Our business has really focused on ensuring that we have the right comp structures as well as the right tension and balance in our operating expenses.
And so to that point everybody around the globe has been very focused on making sure that we're getting the appropriate leverage in the business and driving profitable revenue growth on behalf of our shareholders.
We put out there in our guide posts that we are very focused on driving 25 to 35 basis points of incremental margin improvement over the long term.
We're on track for that and from the perspective of going forward given the strength of this team the focus on productivity in our clients and being the best that we can be it's sustainable.
Thank you.
Our next question or comment comes from the line of David Ridley-Lane from Bank of America.
On Projects and Development Services this is an area where you have a little less visibility in third party data.
So curious if your pipelines would support a continued 20% plus growth in the second half? Sort of stumped David.
We don't have that data to hand in that level of detail across the globe.
But I'd say as a generalization we commented on our pipelines being pretty full across service lines everywhere.
The corporate activity which basically drives the project business in our organization as we said is ramping up because companies are now investing for growth again taking space as I described.
And that's tending to mean that they're allocating capital to kitting out and expanding their space.
So it's a healthy background.
I can't give you the exact pipeline but the trend should be solidly positive throughout the year.
It's another area where we're hiring as quickly as we can but where hiring is a challenge as the markets get difficult -- sorry the market gets tight and active.
Okay.
And just to clarify the growth investments drag.
The 70 basis points in 2014 and 100 basis points in 2015.
Was that an America specific comment or a total company number? Total company.
And when you take a look at the Americas the Americas are really right on track for that as well.
Got it.
And global rents up 3% in the second quarter.
We've read some industry reports suggesting the market wide vacancy rate may be less meaningful given changes in occupiers' preferences towards open floor plans.
Live work play locations and energy efficient buildings.
Curious to get your view on the idea or the thesis that rental rates could accelerate over the next one to two years more than what the vacancy or net absorption would suggest? Well we're certainly seeing the trend to more open space for call it Google staff space if you like.
Not just in the traditional tech sector but because there are more and more technologists and IT people being hired into traditional corporations think banks motor companies real estate services firms.
Those people are tending to want that sort of forward-looking space inside those traditional organizations as well.
And that then spreads to the broader working population.
So we are seeing that trend.
To say it's at the margin is not to marginalize it but it's not 60% of all office space is being subject to that trend.
There is still a very large the very large majority of office space is more traditional style.
So again to that sort of comment on the transition of space of types of space the key drivers for rental demand is that circle I described earlier on.
Demand is increasing clearly new supply is coming on strongly in developing economies.
So there's a top eight cities in terms of scale of pipeline.
Seven of those eight cities are in Asia Pacific.
And the more mature cities are only adding to their office pipeline or their office stock at the rate of sort of 3% in the case of New York or 5% in the case of London annually.
So a very constricted new supply coming through.
That's pushing rents up and in turn driving for more development deliveries where it once again the majority of that delivery on a global basis is coming on in the developing countries Shanghai Mexico City Dubai Mumbai Singapore Beijing for example.
So what does all that mean when you put it together? It means the markets are shifting globally towards landlord-controlled rather than tenant-controlled.
It means tenants are having to look ahead and think further out about their requirements because the lack of available quality space coming through means they have to look ahead and think three and four years out in terms of their growth requirements and how they're going to satisfy them.
So all that means put it together in a more active market as we've described with more space being transacted across the broad sweep of major cities globally.
Is that what you were kind of driving at with your question? Yes.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question or comment comes from the line of Michael Mueller from JP Morgan.
Your line is open.
I actually tried to get out of the queue.
My question was actually the prior one asked on the strong growth on project and development services which I think you tried to answer.
So thank you.
Thank you.
I'll now turn the conference back over to management for any closing remarks.
Well thank you operator.
And thank you everybody for your interest in our company and for joining us on the call today.
We look forward to speaking to you again at the end of our third quarter at the end of September.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect.
Everyone have a wonderful day.
Welcome to the Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call for Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
A transcript will be posted in the Investor Relations section at jll.com.
Any statements made about future results and performance or about plans expectations and objectives are forward-looking statements.
Actual results and performance may differ from those included in the forward-looking statements as a result of factors discussed in the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31 2014 and in our other reports filed with the SEC.
The company disclaims any undertaking to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Now we'll turn to Colin Dyer Chief Executive Officer for opening remarks.
Good morning everyone and welcome to this review of our results for the third quarter and first nine months of 2015.
Christie Kelly our Chief Financial Officer joins me on the call today and we will discuss details of our performance in a few minutes.
To summarize our results we completed another record third quarter with fee revenue of $1.3 billion up 17% in local currency from the third quarter of 2014 which is up 9% in U.S.
dollars.
Year-to-date fee revenue totaled $3.5 billion 20% year-over-year on increase in local currency 11% in U.S.
dollars.
Adjusted earnings per share reached $2.52 in the quarter 11% above the third quarter 2014 levels and this despite a 23% negative foreign exchange impact.
For the first nine months adjusted earnings per share totaled $5.47 per share 27% above the same period a year ago.
To put our current performance in context the quarter's revenue and adjusted earnings per share match the double-digit compound annual growth rates we have maintained since 2010.
That is to say 12% on revenue and 21% on adjusted EPS.
We have also maintained our focus on disciplined strategic acquisitions.
To date this year we have announced or closed 15 transactions with a combined value of more than $420 million.
Our new business pipeline remains strong in the fourth quarter which is typically our most active and finally our board of directors increased our semi-annual dividend to $0.29 per share.
So a very strong quarter in what continues to be active and very healthy global real estate markets.
Revenue growth was broad-based across service lines and geographies and LaSalle Investment Management delivered excellent performance for its clients earning significant incentive fees and equity earnings in the process.
These results came in an environment of steady economic progress.
Global GDP is projected to grow by 3% this year rising to 3.4% in 2016.
We have posted slides in the investor relations section of jll.com which summarizes current conditions in global real estate markets.
Slide 2 shows trends in capital markets and leasing volumes.
In general leasing market growth rates continue to catch up to strong and active capital markets.
In the capital markets real estate investment continued to move higher during first three quarters of 2015.
Third quarter market volumes reached $173 billion roughly in line with the third quarter a year ago but currency fluctuations continue to understate the true level of activity by about 10%.
Year-to-date transactional volumes were 3% higher than last year at $497 billion but up 13% if you use fixed exchange rates.
In the Americas U.S.
capital market volume stood out with 18% growth in the first three quarters even as the third quarter itself was flat versus a year ago.
Other markets in north and Latin America declined however.
Germany had a very strong quarter and China recorded a 45% increase in transaction volumes compared with the first nine months of 2014.
High investor demand for real estate continued to compress yields or cap rates for core office assets in primary markets.
Brussels Paris Stockholm and Sydney all saw yields reduce by 25 basis points in the quarter.
Capital value appreciation on prime assets across 26 markets stood at an annualized rate of 7.9% in the quarter.
The strongest growth came in Madrid Paris and London while Los Angeles San Francisco and Boston also outperformed.
In global office leasing markets momentum continued to build with volumes up 12% in the quarter and 7% year-to-date compared with the same periods a year ago.
Worldwide corporate occupiers are generally optimistic about near term prospects and many are actively planning for growth.
European office leasing volumes continued to strengthen during the quarter up 29% year-on-year.
Asia Pacific volumes increased 27% compared to the third quarter of last year and were up a third year-to-date.
And while U.S.
Q3 volumes increased by only 2% pent up demand in the market has yet to be satisfied.
Vacancy rates also continued to trend lower to 12.3% across 98 key global markets.
Rents on prime office assets in 26 major markets grew by 2.5% with particularly strong growth in Hong Kong London and Sydney.
So globally with very few exceptions we see sustained investment sales trends and increasingly robust demand for lease space.
These trends are well entrenched with no signs of any break in market momentum.
So to discuss our performance in these positive markets I will turn the call over to Christie.
Thank you Colin and welcome to everyone on our call.
As Colin shared our firm reported another quarter of excellent performance.
We delivered double-digits third quarter fee revenue growth over last year.
Our performance continues to reflect the broad strength and diversity of our platform which starts with our brand and is realized each day by our people who remain focused on delivering results to our clients and investors.
We continue to see the benefits of increased recurring revenue investments acquisition our productivity focus and financial strength.
As Colin also noted in this introduction we closed the third quarter with record consolidated fee revenue of $1.3 billion up 17% over last year and adjusted earnings per share of $2.52 on adjusted net income of $114 million up 11% over last year despite a $0.23 or 10% negative impact due to currency translation.
It is worth noting that we achieved approximately a 26% increase in adjusted EPS growth for the quarter when normalizing for business performance for outside LaSalle incentive fees and equity earnings.
All of our geographic segments and service lines delivered year-over-year double-digit increases in revenue for the quarter and year-to-date.
LaSalle also performed well against a similarly outstanding quarter last year.
In capital markets and hotels we had outperformed the market across all geographic segments year-to-date.
Focusing on the third quarter fee revenue increased 26% on a local currency basis led by strong results again in EMEA and in Asia Pacific.
Our leasing business has also outperformed the market year-to-date and for the third quarter during which fee revenue increased 19% on a local currency basis led primarily by the America.
Project and development services fee revenue increased 21% on a local currency basis led by EMEA and Asia Pacific.
Our annuity based property and facility management business revenue grew steadily at 14% for the third quarter and 12% year-to-date in local currency over a strong comparable last year.
Our corporate solutions business continued to demonstrate strong progress in the quarter with an 18% increase in fee revenue on a local currency basis.
LaSalle Investment Management grew advisory fees recorded excellent incentive fees and generated substantial equity earnings from performance on behalf of our clients.
LaSalle also continued its successful capital raising track record in the third quarter raising an additional $838 million of equity commitments bringing year-to-date capital raised to $3.8 billion and ending the quarter with $57 billion of assets under management.
Overall the continued impressive and steady broad-based growth is a result of sustained investments aligned with our 2020 strategic goals as well as a focus on cross-selling.
Adjusted operating income margin calculated on a fee revenue basis was 10.8% up 50 basis points on an exchange adjusted basis compared to 2014 driven by broad-based performance across our platform.
Additionally year-to-date adjusted operating income margin calculated on a fee revenue basis increased 100 basis points to 8.5% on an exchange adjusted basis.
As we continuously focus on capturing margin enhancing opportunities by driving profitable revenue growth and productivity initiative.
Productivity ideas are sourced internally by our people who work to deliver superior results to our clients.
We continued to advance over 100 productivity initiatives that focus on people process and pricing goals to deliver enhanced revenue and margin performance as well as client experience.
We will begin our review of the segment results with the Americas where third quarter fee revenue increased 16% in local currency over 2014 as momentum from the first half of the year continued.
Revenue growth was driven by gains in leasing which had a 17% fee revenue increase property and facility management with a 16% fee revenue increase as well as a 15% fee revenue increase in projects and development services.
Our capital markets business grew revenue moderately year-over-year for the quarter against a strong comparable last year and has maintained robust activity that has again outperformed the market.
We continue to expand our leasing business organically with 74% of the growth originating with brokers who have been with the firm at least three years while investing in new hires in both our leasing and capital markets businesses.
The growth in our business was driven again by strong leasing performance in a majority of our U.S.
markets including New York Los Angeles and Atlanta.
We also doubled our capital markets revenue in the Northwest DC and Boston.
Our 15% revenue growth this quarter in our corporate solutions business was driven by notable wins and expansion across our platform which Colin will discuss in a moment.
In addition to the financial results our Americas team continues to demonstrate strong engagement.
One recent example is our Americas' Women's Summit led by our Women's Business Network.
Our annual gathering again welcomed 60 of our women leaders including our Chairman Sheila Penrose.
They addressed such topics as winning in business through inclusion and diversity business principles of success and examples of leading men and women in our workplace.
We are focused on continuing momentum created by our talented people.
From an investment perspective the Americas' continued to capitalized on industry disruption to attract and develop top talent.
We also invested in our capital markets platform as announced earlier this quarter with the acquisition of Oak Grove Capital which is anticipated to close within the next week.
Operating margins in the Americas were up in the quarter 120 basis points to 10.4%.
Operating margins year-to-date increased 80 basis points to 8.7% and adjusted EBITDA margin increased 100 basis points to 11.6%.
We continue to plan for future growth in the Americas by capitalizing on our strong brand and market momentum.
Our pipeline of activity remains robust across all of our businesses as we move towards the end of the year.
In our EMEA business third quarter fee revenue increased 25% in local currency over 2014 and was broad-based across service lines and country.
EMEA's leasing revenue for the quarter was up 23% in local currency and capital markets and hotels increased 35%.
Capital markets and hotels performance was supported by continued momentum across European investment markets particularly in the U.K.
Germany and France.
Product and development services fee revenue for the third quarter increased 27%.
We see opportunity for growth in our Tetris business enhanced by acquisitions this quarter to acquire Bluu in the U.K.
and CMM in Germany as Colin will touch on.
Russia also showed year-over-year improvement in a challenging economic environment.
EMEA's fee-based operating income margin improved 240 basis points for the quarter to 7.9% and 180 basis points for the year to 6.1% excluding over 50 basis points of currency impact.
Adjusted EBITDA margin also improved 170 basis points for the year to 8.1%.
We continue to invest selectively for profitable growth and welcome people from our acquisition across the region in the quarter.
Our EMEA business is also driving solid organic growth supported by our strong brand market-leading position engagement and focused productivity initiative.
For the quarter our engagement agenda included a luncheon with over 15 leaders focused on delivering diversity and real estate for our firm and clients in order to attract and retain top talent.
Productivity measures continued as we progressed on our shared services capability to support profitable growth.
The sentiment across our EMEA business remains positive and pipelines are strong as we look forward to the remainder of the year.
Moving on to Asia Pacific.
Third quarter fee revenue increased 20% in local currency over 2014.
Our annuity business is growing steadily and the broad recovery in corporate confidence is demonstrated across the business despite uncertainty arising from the slowdown in China.
Leasing revenue for the quarter was up 19% in local currency.
Overall domestic demand for high quality space in Asia Pacific remains strong especially in Australia China India and Hong Kong while demand for second tier space continues to lag.
Capital markets and hotels revenue for the quarter increased 48% in local currency with market activity levels in the region expected to remain steady through the remainder of the year and where we continue to capture share.
Operating margins in Asia Pacific were lower in the quarter primarily due to 60 basis points of negative currency impact.
Excluding this impact operating margins on a year-to-date basis increased 20 basis points to 5.1% and adjusted EBITDA margin increased 30 basis points to 6.8%.
We continued to invest in technology and to recruit develop and retain top talent to drive continued profitable growth across our business.
Our Asia Pacific team has a strong pipeline going into the remainder of the year and remains confident in realizing the momentum created.
LaSalle Investment Management had an outstanding quarter with local currency growth in advisory and incentive fees that performed well compared to a strong 2014 as well as significant equity earning.
Capital values are rising in most areas which drives accelerated and higher sale prices that generate incentive fees and equity earnings.
The business generated $69 million of incentive fees during the quarter as a result of strong investment performance across all geographies particularly in Asia Pacific.
If markets remain stable and the pace of asset sales continues we see potential for additional incentive fees as mature funds continued to liquidate over the next several quarters.
Assets under management expanded $1.3 billion for the quarter and $4.2 billion year-over-year despite higher than average asset sales that have driven excellent returns for LaSalle's client and our firm.
Over the past five years our team has built an increasingly stabilized platform based upon annuity advisor fee with assets under management for core and core plus strategies has increased from 37% to 62% of our total assets under management complemented by opportunistic pipeline strategies primarily within Asia Pacific.
We continue to deploy capital in a market where demand for quality assets outweighs supply and the momentum in our LaSalle business remains strong.
Regarding our investment grade balance sheet we decreased total net debt $87 million from the second quarter of 2015 to $435 million while we also continued to invest in the business.
There have been no changes to our plans to finance recently announced acquisitions using our bank facility capacity while maintaining our leverage profile over the long-term at two times debt to EBITDA or less.
We remain focused on retaining our investment grade ratings of Baa2 and BBB+ from Moody's and Standard and Poor's respectively which recognize our operating discipline as well as the increasing strength of our annuity businesses and overall global platform.
The increase in our semi-annual dividend to $0.29 per share payable on December 15 represents a 7% increase from the June 2015 dividend and reflects our confidence in cash generation and profitable long-term growth on behalf of our shareholders.
In summary we had an excellent third quarter and feel that our strong platform and pipeline position us well for the seasonally strong fourth quarter.
While the momentum continues in 2015 it's worth noting we could see roughly an 8% negative currency translation impact for the full year compared with 2014 if the strength of the U.S.
dollar continues.
As we look forward our outlook remains positive.
And before turning the call over to Colin I would like to express my sincere appreciation to my JLL colleagues around the world for their values collaboration and continued contribution.
I will now turn the call back over to Colin.
Thank you Christie.
To provide a sense of how we produced these results Slide 3 in our deck offers a sample of recent business wins across service lines and geographies.
Across our corporate solutions and services businesses we have won 93 new assignments this year expanded existing relationships with another 44 clients and renewed 21 contracts.
These 158 wins totaled nearly 520 million square feet across all regions and our overall win rate increased to 74% in the third quarter.
In Europe we won a global contract from the Thales Group the French defense and heavy manufacturing company to provide a range of services across 15 million square feet in 56 countries.
Nokia appointed us for project and portfolio management services globally while Aon retained us for facility management of its 2.6 million square foot European portfolio.
Other global wins include providing services for the Harris Corporation's 13 million square feet and for Matthews International's 5 million square feet of space.
Brookdale Senior Living selected us to provide integrated facility management services for 95 million square feet in the Americas while IBM reappointed us to provide facility management for its 17 million square foot Asia Pacific portfolio and Telstra renewed our contract with 7.5 million square feet Australian footprint complementing another major contract for the Australian government.
Across our corporate business clients are demanding increasingly sophisticated data management and analytics capabilities which are becoming key drivers for outsourcing decisions.
In this environment we are receiving very enthusiastic responses for our new integrated data and analytics platform both from existing clients and in successful new business pursuits.
Turning now to the capital markets.
In New York we secured $725 million in construction financing for 111 West 57th Street.
In Ireland's largest ever acquisition we advised Allianz Real Estate on the €1.9 billion joint venture acquisition of a major retail portfolio.
And we advised on the $940 million sale of the Intercontinental Hong Kong the largest single asset hotel transaction on record in Asia Pacific.
In leasing highlights for the third quarter included a 15-year lease for the 660 000 square foot built to suit National Science Foundation headquarters in Alexandria Virginia.
In Moscow a 215 000 square foot lease for the Adidas Group the market's largest Class A office lease in more than a year.
And in Beijing we represented Hyundai Motor Finance on 167 000 square foot relocation.
As Christie noted in her comments LaSalle Investment Management delivered another strong quarter for its clients and for our firm.
But in addition to good current performance we continue to build sustainability improve productivity and high value ongoing earnings into LaSalle's business.
As Christie mentioned most of LaSalle's recent capital raise has been in core open ended products that produce sticky and profitable annuity like long-term advisory feed.
Hence we have already completed the platform investments to drive them.
The incremental AUM these products generate is highly accretive to margins.
The quality of LaSalle's earnings is excellent today and with continued strong investment markets significant valuation increases virtually across the board and steady momentum in capital raise we see LaSalle continuing to outperform over the next several years.
During the quarter we continued to invest in businesses that complement and extend our comprehensive position globally.
We announced or completed five acquisitions.
Christie mentioned two which strengthened our European Tetris design and build out footprint.
Bluu is a leading U.K.
based design and fit out company making our U.K.
business the country's market leader.
And CMM Project and Office Solutions strengthens Tetris in Germany.
Additionally we bought AGL a highly regarded real estate financial services business in Sweden.
We added Propell National Advisors Australia's largest privately-owned and integrated national valuation firm.
And importantly Oak Grove Capital a top provider of debt financing for multifamily and seniors housing real estate in the U.S.
who will play a very important role in driving our strategic priority of building our Americas capital markets business.
Since 2014 we have announced or closed 25 transactions with a total valuation of more than $500 million.
Our approach in every case has been to acquire selectively and with rigorous due diligence.
We are examining finances operating risk and strategic and cultural fit and importantly client fit.
We maintain pricing discipline and focus on high profit high margin opportunities.
We minimize operational overlap that can destroy value and we plan for and manage integration very carefully.
This approach has served us well.
Small and medium-sized transactions add new capabilities which we use to create additional long-term growth across the company.
They have the additional benefit of low risk and as a measure of our success we have taken no write-offs for the 78 transactions valued at more than $2.2 billion that we have announced or closed over the last decade.
We have the industry's strongest investment grade balance sheet plus ample unused borrowing capacity and the full confidence of our partner banks.
So we can move quickly and confidently when we identify opportunities large or small that meet our criteria.
With a robust forward pipeline we anticipate continued M&amp;A activity throughout 2016.
So looking ahead our research projections for investment sales and leasing volumes show current trends continuing through the year-end and on into 2016.
For 2015 we are maintaining our full year forecast for overall investment market volumes at $750 billion and the market could surpass that to set new records.
2016 should be another very active year for investment activity with volumes above this year's levels with very large amounts of capital continuing to chase property and further quantitative easing projected for the euro zone and Japan.
In global leasing markets total 2015 gross volumes will be up 5% to 10% on 2014 levels with the greatest increase in select Asia Pacific markets.
This trend too will continue into 2016 with 5% growth and upside potential.
Demand is increasingly being driven by growth plans rather than cost containment consolidation and just lease renewals.
The deal pipeline is full particularly in the U.S.
And what had previously been a technology-led story 2016 will see demand across a much broader spectrum of industry sectors finance professional services and insurance just a few examples.
We expect robust space demand in the U.S.
U.K.
Continental Europe India Australia and China.
Let me make a few comments about China since it's captured a lot of headlines recently.
Despite currency and stock market volatility commercial real estate activity has remained steady in the country's tier one cities.
Third quarter capital markets volumes increased 81% year-on-year to $7.3 billion and leasing in both Shanghai and Beijing recorded double-digit increases in the quarter.
In addition the shift from a manufacturing to a consumer and services-based economy plays to our strength in the service sector and our strength in tier one cities.
The shift in growth to services is producing some challenges in tier 2 and more so tier 3 cities.
We however continue to do well in China as a whole where we remain clear market leaders with fee revenue growth in Mainland China of 17% for the quarter and 20% year-to-date.
Our view on China is that the government overshot as it worked to slow the country's economy in 2013-14 and then responded by re-stimulating it this year.
We see the effects of those moves kicking in next year and finally with 2016 GDP growth projected to be near 6% second only to India's 7.5% we see continued long-term growth both in China itself and in our position there.
As a result we will keep to your plans to open one JLL office in one new China city each year.
At JLL and LaSalle we will continue to build on our performance through the fourth quarter on into 2016.
Our outlook remains very positive.
Our pipelines are deep and strong across geographies and service lines and or balance sheet enables continued investments in our platform.
Finally we see solid confidence and momentum across our firm and in most markets around the world.
So before Christie and I take your questions I would like to mention some representative awards our colleagues have received from industry groups and independent third parties during the quarter.
They underscore our industry-leading position in real estate services and investment management globally.
The India Institute for Directors awarded JLL its 2015 global award for Excellence in Corporate Governance.
In the annual Euromoney awards we came first in 45 categories including 21 wins within EMEA.
They included being named best overall real estate advisor in Central and Eastern Europe Italy Poland Russia the U.K.
and Turkey.
Euromoney also voted us the number one overall real estate advisor in Asia.
LaSalle Investment Management was named Euromoney's Investment Manager of the Year globally.
And in the U.S.
in California alone we earned Best Place to Work awards in the Bay area Los Angeles Orange County and San Diego.
So with that let's now take your questions.
Operator could you please explain the process.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question or comment comes from the line of Mitch Germain from JMP Securities.
Your line is open.
Colin I know your research team puts out that market volume and outlook report and I'm just curious about the U.S.
capital markets.
It declined from last quarter which was 20% to 10% to 15%.
Is that in your mind is that just a function of the third quarter or is there a bit of a carry-forward about your expectations in the fourth quarter as well? I think the third quarter was slightly more muted than they had expected and so they just downed their numbers slightly because of that.
And of course now we are in November they are giving a clearer view of [like the] [ph] full-year numbers.
So nothing but...
But pipeline still seemed pretty...
Nothing dramatic and no implied trends there or flattening of market activity.
Great.
So your pipeline still remained pretty robust in the Americas in your mind.
As they do across the world.
Yes.
Great.
Great.
In the capital raising in LaSalle $800 million or so.
Was that a function -- what was that a function of? Is it maybe just lesser product offered this past quarter? I know that you guys have seen pretty robust activity there.
No.
The quarter one numbers were $2 billion quarter two $1 billion.
So in line with the quarter two picture.
Again nothing sinister.
We are still seeing large volumes of capital come into the firm both separate accounts and into the funds we have been raising.
We closed during the quarter one of our U.S.
opportunistic value-add funds.
The prior quarter we had a closing on our Asia Opportunity Fund.
So it's just a steady progress in capital raise and broadly across the business geographies as well.
Great.
Last one from me.
I would love to just get some insight in the Oak Grove transaction.
I know it's probably one of the bigger deals that you guys have announced over the last couple of years.
Was that a space that you wanted specifically focus to expand on? I'd love to just kind of get some insight from you please.
Yes.
We've had a strategic priority to build our U.S.
capital markets business and as a measure over the last six years it's grown from $30 million to over $300 million of revenue.
So it's been a successful growth both at adding organic individual teams but also by acquisition including Oak Grove.
We been talking to them for something like 18 months before the transaction concluded.
So we have got to know each other well.
We see that area of multi-family finance across the broad sweep of activity both with the semi-government related guarantee organizations but also independently through banking organizations as an important and integral part of building a balanced U.S.
capital markets business.
And indeed if you look at our major competitors in that area they will have significant service lines doing the same thing.
Thanks.
Great quarter.
Oh go ahead please.
No the only thing I was going to add in when you take a look at all of our acquisitions together with Oak Grove.
I mean it really ticks off all of the things that Colin had mentioned in terms of cultural fit accretion to our shareholders as well as overall in alignment with our growth objectives and our strategy.
Thank you.
Our next question or comment comes from the line of Brad Burke from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
I wanted to ask a follow-up question just looking at the macro picture in EMEA and Asia Pacific follow up your comments Colin.
The comments that you made on China obviously were positive.
Russia I think you said was up in the third quarter and to say that those results are exceeding the macro news flow would be a bit of an understatement.
And I think that what's even more surprising is that I generally think about your capital markets businesses as having the most macro sensitivity and those are the businesses that seem to be performing the best.
So I was hoping that you could help me close that disconnect.
Is there not as much macro sensitivity in this capital markets businesses as maybe we had anticipated? Or is the macro picture in EMEA and Asia Pacific maybe better than what the headlines would indicate? And I think you touched on this with your comments on pipeline but is there any reason that we would expect it to be a big drop off in capital markets activity within your businesses in the near-term? Well you have put a lot of questions in there Brad so I'll just talk for a while and if I don't address any one of them you come back at me.
Yes.
I'll do that.
First of all I think of Europe as paradox of Europe.
And within that you have the paradox of France.
Because both Europe as a whole and France have been performing particularly well even in an environment where economic growth is 1% tops.
And so it didn’t ought to be but it is.
And I think what's going on in Europe is that actually within the business environment and in particular within the real estate environment activity is actually much more intense than the overall GDP numbers would suggest.
We've been seeing that.
You look at our numbers we've been seeing that for the past few years.
So the demand across Europe with the exception of Russia I'd have to say is strong in both the fundamental areas for leased space where people are beginning to expand they are certainly upgrading their space.
And there is a lot of demand in Paris -- sorry London in particular Paris German cities for quality space.
And that's why we're seeing against a relatively limited new products supply pipeline but that's why we're seeing rents now beginning to increase with increasing momentum.
So the fundamental demand is good across the office industrial and to a lesser extent retail throughout Europe.
The capital markets picture which was I think the focus of your question again has been anomalous to what you might expect from the market the overall economic growth picture again since 2010.
And the reason is that the European environment as a whole and in particular the major gateway cities are seen as being safe havens for international capital and offering solid returns and generally deep liquid markets should investors wish to sell their assets at sometime in the future.
And against that background of attractive investment markets we've seen then this global upwelling of investment of equity capital trying to find its way into quality real estate.
So you've got a huge volume of equity adequate debt availability at sensible levels of underwriting against a relatively limited supply of quality space in the major European cities.
And the two together have just driven these year-after-year record levels of activity.
To close out where is it all going fundamental space demand is good.
So that will help to drive up rents.
Pricing in the major markets for quality assets is probably somewhere near its peak.
We didn't see much cap rate compression in London last quarter for example where we've seen it consistently through prior quarters.
So that probably is coming to an end.
So what drives demand and value from here on in? Well with less capital appreciation for cap rate compression the next driver will be this increasing level of rentals in the office markets in particular.
So put it all together lots of capital adequate levels of sensible debt well underwritten no drop-off in the capital availability both sovereign wealth and private equity funds all continuing to look to invest across Europe.
The trend is sort of away from some of the major cities where pricing is full and perhaps to lesser cities.
So Birmingham Lyons Stuttgart maybe instead of the capitals in each country.
And we have seen some move toward let's say peripheral B Class assets in the major cities.
Close on Russia I think the story there is that activity levels are quite low in the market as a whole.
But the news flow isn't getting any worse.
In other words the situation in the Ukraine has stabilized and Russia's sanction situation has stabilized.
But there is still not a lot of confidence.
I spoke yesterday to former head of Moscow who has just moved to Paris to run our French business.
And he was saying that the general sense is that both local and international business are beginning to lift their heads above the ground and begin to get on with activity again.
But it's muted it's hesitant.
But nobody is leaving.
The international business is there.
Like I think as we mentioned in our exposé of taking more space and taking commitments for the medium term nobody is leaving.
It's just that the level of activity is slow and GDP will continue to decline this year around 4%.
Okay.
That's helpful.
But there's no reason that we would think that the capital markets businesses may be just acting with a delayed reaction to some of the negative news flow that we have seen and that would manifest itself in weaker results over the next few quarters? No.
It's just that there is so much capital that still is keen to invest and it's not skittish.
Let's call the international geopolitical issues and security issues some of the noise around what was in the Chinese domestic markets do not seem to have impacted this tremendous people call it a wall of equity this tremendous level of demand for capital.
And if you look at the inflows into private equity this year by quarter in Q2 they rose from $80 billion last year to something like $130 billion this year.
And that money hasn't yet been put to work.
So that will be going into the markets in 2016 and beyond.
Then again nothing that suggests that this is about to -- I mean we are watching it very carefully obviously.
We're watching the velocity of transactions we're watching the speed of transactions and the number of bidders.
But nothing yet suggests that any of this is slowing up.
Okay that's helpful.
And staying with capital markets may be touching on share gains.
You are up 25% over the past three quarters in EMEA in U.S.
dollars.
Up 29% in Asia Pacific.
And your own research would say that these markets are going to be flat to down in 2015.
So it looks like you're taking an incredible amount of shares.
So I was hoping that you could elaborate on what would be driving the share gains.
Well as I mentioned in the long answer I gave to your last question the real equity the real large sums have been looking for major assets in major cities.
And that's our sweet spot.
We are strong along with some of the other global brands at just those sorts of assets.
And so that's then where the bulk of transaction activity has taken place.
Put that together with the fact that the first three quarters of this year over 45% of investment in commercial real estate globally has been cross-border money.
And that's again our sweet spot.
We have dedicated people who spend their whole time helping capital to find its way across borders in both the services business but also within LaSalle.
So it's about concentration of large assets and quality buildings.
It's about using people buying and selling those buildings using reliable brands to do that work for them.
And it's about our global network helping with this increasing levels of international capital flow.
Okay.
And then one last one for Christie on your equity income from real estate investments.
You've earned about over $70 million over the past four quarters and obviously had a very strong result this quarter.
If I look at the GAAP asset value of your investments in real estate ventures it's just over $300 million in the third quarter.
So it looks like over a 20% yield on the value of those real estate investments.
So I wanted to get your thoughts on how you're thinking about the outlook for your real estate investment income and what we might be thinking about as a reasonable long-term run rate for equity income.
I think.
Brad if you take a look at the long term you can really expect our business to revert to the steady stream of historical performance.
We've had some outside equity earnings here in the past six quarters and we're expecting that to continue here for the near-term as I mentioned in my remarks.
But after the next couple of quarters I think you can expect that to revert more to historical performance.
Thank you.
Our next question or comment comes from the line of Mike Mueller from JP Morgan.
Your line is open.
I guess following up on the last question Christie what would you say is that long-term historical level for the gains? We've historically had Mike about $20 million of equity earnings.
So we can take you through that if you need a little help carving through that offline.
Okay.
And then thinking about the incentives anything you can point us to specifically for the fourth quarter and then how should we be thinking about that trending in 2016 as well? Is there anything you could point us to in terms of I guess the number of funds where they come up where you can potentially get an incentive fee from that? How that compares in '16 to pull those funds versus what we're seeing in '15 or vintages or just anything to help us get a little more visibility on that? Will I think Mike probably the best way to answer your question is that from an incentive fee perspective we have been experiencing outside incentive fees given where we are in terms of lifecycle of various funds.
And we are expecting to continue to experience a higher incentive fees here over the next couple of quarters.
As you know timing is really difficult to pinpoint and we have tried to give everybody an indication of the fact that we do expect this to continue here for the next couple of quarters and then revert again to historical averages which have been over the past 10 years around $40 million.
The specific timing I can't really help you with.
I'm not trying to be vague it's just we can't call specifically when assets are going to be sold.
Got it.
Okay.
And then in the Americas you had a $4 million to $5 million equity gain.
What did that relate to? You know the $4 million to $5 million equity gain we'll take that offline I think Mike.
Nobody has really got that top of mind here.
Got it.
And one last question.
Thinking about Oak Grove can you talk a little bit about maybe some of the high level economics and then just the seasonality of that business? So high level economics you know Oak Grove we said is accretive.
From the perspective of the business you can expect it to perform better than some of the publicly traded companies who are in similar space.
Because of the fact that it is a more local regionalized player with very strong pricing and credit underwriting discipline.
And from the viewpoint of the growth going forward you know it's had healthy growth through the cycles including during the great financial crisis.
And you can expect that to grow similarly going forward in keeping with the agency-related businesses.
So strong growth strong margin profile.
Earnings accretive to our shareholders and from the perspective does it complement to our capital markets business you know quite strong.
Okay.
And then just the seasonality? Anything we should be cognizant of there? Nothing really.
Nothing really Mike of note.
And we also posted a lot of information on our investor Web site in regards to Oak Grove.
So I think you'll find a lot of what you need there as well.
Thank you.
Our next question or comment comes from the line of David Ridley-Lane from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Sure.
Colin you mentioned pent up leasing demand in the U.S.
Could you expand a little bit on that particularly since we did see a slowdown in U.S.
leasing in the third quarter? Yes a sense of a little bit of seasonality there that as you look at our own pipeline there is an awful lot to close in Q4 sort of above prior year levels.
So our sense is that maybe for whatever reason stuff shifted from Q3 to Q4.
So the expression is really to say that there's no drop-off in demand there and we're expecting to see as our own forecast show continued buildup in activity.
What's the dynamics are also quite important.
The U.S.
cities in general and it actually goes across Europe and U.S.
cities are projecting to deliver not much more than about 2% to 3% of their existing stock over the coming two years.
So the level of development work speculative or built for purpose is very low by historical and indeed global standards.
So against that relatively low level of supply you've got increasing levels of demand as companies clearly are ramping up their expansion plans.
And so that suggests that there will be sustained rental increases across large swaths of the U.S.
office market.
And that again is going to put some pressure on corporations to get moving with their space needs to think them through and actually act swiftly because the balance of strength here is shifting clearly towards the landlord side.
Got it.
And then within property and facilities your wins and expansions year-to-date are about double what they were this time last year.
That may not be the best metric to sort of track it.
So I'm wondering just how much...
There is reason for it which is particularly in the U.S.
We've heightened the collaboration between our various departments.
So with the property and facility management people into the broader areas of our investor services in the individual markets has helped the property management business.
And in the facility management area we've been reporting seeing sustained wins of new space and that's beginning to come through in the pipeline.
That's been throughout late last year and early this.
And as we look forward we are expecting a similar picture to repeat itself.
Okay.
I guess just in terms of the contracts you've signed.
Is your visibility today better than what you had in the signed contracts a year ago? Yes.
And the forward picture of what we have coming along to bid on we think is also robust.
And As I mentioned in my comments we're seeing great success by deploying our technology platform.
It can play a competitive advantage particularly in the banking and financial services sector.
We've worked hard and invested a lot of money over the last 2 to 3 years and it's now bearing fruit.
Got it.
And then if we do see cap rates start to stabilize for the tier 1 cities in 2016; if you had to disaggregate your year-to-date performance and capital markets between price action and units or some sort of unit -- number of buildings sold.
What's that rough split this year? I'm sorry could you make that a little bit clearer David? Sure.
So in your capital markets business what percentage of the fee revenue growth is the result of cap rate compression and pricing action versus philosophy? Yes.
I can't give you the split.
But this year and last year this year in particular we've earned very healthy incentive fees.
In other words where we have taken a mandate for sales when we hit a particular price in that sales process our fee increases if we surpass that level and there are potentially also tier increases beyond that.
So we've had a very good year for incentive fees.
The likelihood is as you've indicated that that will moderate next year both because cap rates -- the reason you kick through those fees of course is that in the course of the six months sale process the pricing just goes up because the cap rates have come in.
Going forward you're right.
That cap rate compression across places like London perhaps will not be as pronounced as it has been because there won't be that automatic uplift in the markets.
But also the sellers are getting used to this dynamic and they are beginning to put caps on the incentives that pay us for these investment sales deals.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question or comment comes from the line of Mitch Germain from JMP Securities.
Your line is open.
It's Peter on for Mitch.
Christie if you could comment on current hiring trends over the last year.
Kind of what you're seeing and how should we look at that going forward? That would be great thanks.
Sure Peter.
Over the last year we have added to our capital markets and leasing teams 10% year-over-year on average and we have been doing that consistently throughout the year.
And together with that which I think is really important to understand is because of our focus on driving productivity best practices the value of our business on really driving collaboration as well.
We've been able to also improve while adding folks our revenue per head which has shown very nice productivity both on the leasing and capital markets from a leasing and capital markets perspective.
Thank you.
Showing no additional questions in the queue.
I would like to turn the conference back over to management for any closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
And I would like to just thank everybody who has taken the time today to listen to our call.
Thank you for participating and thank you for your continued interest in our company.
We look forward to speaking with you again after the fourth quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect.
Everyone have a wonderful day.
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call for Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated.
As a reminder today’s call is being recorded.
A transcript will be posted in the Investor Relations section at jll.com.
Any statements made about future results and performance or about plans expectations and objectives are forward-looking statements.
Actual results and performance may differ from those included in the forward-looking statements as a result of factors discussed in the company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31 2014 and in our other reports filed with the SEC.
The company disclaims any undertaking to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Now we’ll turn to Colin Dyer Chief Executive Officer for opening remarks.
Thank you.
Hello everybody and welcome to this review of our 2015 results for both the fourth quarter and the full year.
Christie Kelly our Chief Financial Officer joins today’s call as usual and we also welcome Grace Chang our new Managing Director of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations.
Grace comes to JLL from 20 years of U.S.
and international experience at GE where she held increasingly senior finance and real estate positions.
She will lead our global corporate finance initiatives and serve as principle contact between JLL and the institutional investor community.
If you have any difficult questions please ask Grace.
Christie will review our financial performance in detail in a few minutes.
But let me begin by summarizing our results.
An excellent fourth quarter helped us complete another record year at JLL and LaSalle.
Fee revenue totaled $1.l7 billion for the quarter 14% above the fourth quarter at 2014 in local currency terms.
For the year fee revenue increased 17% to $5.2 billion.
Adjusted net income was $206 million for the quarter or $4.53 a share up 14% from last year and that’s after a 42% negative currency impact.
For the year adjusted net income totaled $455 million or $10.01 per share 26% higher than in 2014 a gain after a full year currency impact of $0.87.
We continue to grow through acquisition activity closing or announcing 24 transactions during the year.
And our investment grade balance sheet will allow us to continue to grow through additional acquisitions and significant technology investments.
So thinking as a whole we had a very strong quarter and year with broad-based double digit fee revenue growth across all of our service lines for the year.
LaSalle investment management produced annual revenue growth of 16% local currency and also generated significant equity earnings in 2015.
To put the results in the context of market and economic conditions in 2015 the global economy continued to grow at 3%.
Our own real estate markets all grew in local currency terms.
For the detail please see the slides that we posted in the investor relation section of jll.com.
Slide 2 shows 2015 activity in capital markets and leasing.
Full year investment market volumes were $704 billion marginally below 214 levels in U.S.
dollars.
However at constant currency rates investment volumes increased $765 billion 8% ahead of 2014.
Fourth quarter volumes were flat in local currency but down 8% in dollars from the record final quarter of 2014.
The American market also reached a record $314 billion 4% higher than 2014.
Some momentum was lost in Q4 however down 9% on the prior year.
EMEA markets transacted $267 billion which is 4% below 2014 but 14% higher if you translate that in euro currency terms.
Fourth quarter volumes were 2% below the prior year quarter in dollars but up 12% in euros.
Full year volumes in Asia Pacific fell 6% from 2014 to $124 billion but that was up 3% in local currency terms.
And despite the headlines fourth quarter transaction volumes in China reached $10.5 billion 49% higher than the same quarter in 2014.
Strong demand for core assets continue to compress yields or cap rates.
Prime yields across 21 major global office markets were 4.83% in the fourth quarter 25 basis point locals in the prior year.
Global office leasing volumes grows 14% in Q4 and 8% for the year.
Asia Pacific were bounded with full year volumes up 19% over 2014 while Europe grows 13% and the U.S.
2%.
Agency rates headed down with global office agencies across 98 markets down 20 basis points in the quarter to 12.1% reflecting the vacancy trend rental growth on prime office accelerated during the second half of 2015 a supply tightened and demand strengthened grew to 3.7% for the year across 26 major markets matched the 2014 levels.
So to sum up strong fourth quarter and full year in most real estate markets globally.
Demand for lease space was robust and broad-based.
There are significant amounts of capital allocated to real estate but not yet invested.
So at this point we see the fourth quarter activity in investment sales as agitation not the start of a trend.
And more on that later in today’s call.
So to discuss our own performance in this market environment I’ll turn the call over to Christie.
Thank you Colin and welcome to everyone on our call.
I am pleased to report JLL’s record top line and bottom line financial performance for 2015.
As Colin mentioned we delivered record earnings per share for the fourth quarter and full year despite continuing significant foreign exchange headwinds.
Growth for the year was broad-based with double digit increases in fee revenue across all service lines geographic segments in LaSalle.
For the year we expanded margin on a local currency basis in all segments for the business and delivered strong results in the fourth quarter against outstanding performance in the fourth quarter of 2014.
We continue to invest in our people technology data and acquisitions to position the firm for long-term profitable growth.
Our results reflect the benefits of investments we have made in our platform to continuously improve the quality and scope of our services for our clients while building the long-term value of our company.
These results coupled with our long-term perspective translated into further strengthening of our investment grade balance sheet as S&amp;P upgraded our credit ratings to triple B plus in July.
And during the last quarter Moody’s raised their Baa2 ratings outlook to positive.
As Colin said we finished the year with consolidated fee revenue of $5.2 billion up 17% over last year and adjusted earnings per share of $10.01 up 26% over last year.
For the quarter we delivered consolidated fee revenue of $1.7 billion up 14% over last year and adjusted earnings per share of $4.53 up 14% over last year.
Operating margins in the quarter declined approximately 30 basis points to 16.6% at constant rate primarily due to timing of technology and data investments made in alignment with our strategic plan.
Adjusted operating income margin calculated on a fee revenue basis increased 30 basis points to 11.2% for the year at constant rate.
Adjusted EBITDA margin on a fee revenue basis increased 80 basis point to 14.6% for the year at constant rate.
Our consolidated results reflect 13% incremental operating income margin to fee revenue for the year and fourth quarter at constant rate.
The increases in margin reflect many factors including the strength of our diverse global platform high recurring profitable revenues and the productivity focus of our people.
These results also reflect our investment discipline including the contributions of transaction professionals who we have added to the firm through acquisition activity and strategic hiring over the last several years.
Additionally our LaSalle business consistently delivered above benchmark performance for clients which in turn generated incentive fees and equity earnings from transaction activity within fund life cycles.
We remain focused on balancing top line growth platform investments and productivity to achieve incremental margin and earnings per share growth.
Our 17% consolidated fee revenue growth for the year on a local currency basis was broad-based across our geographic and service segments.
Our revenue increase of 26% in projects and development services is the result of increased cross-selling as well as key acquisitions to enhance and expand our successful Tetris offering.
Increased win rates in investment and our people drove a 25% increase in capital markets and hotels revenue and a 13% growth in property and facility management.
LaSalle continue to strengthen its base achieving a total of $5 billion in capital rates for 2015 and ending the year with $56.4 billion in assets under management.
Our broad-based growth demonstrates the diversity of our offerings and our ability to serve both investors and occupiers in mixed and challenging markets.
Over the last 12 months we selectively expanded our business through a combination of key strategic hires and acquisitions.
As Colin said we completed our announced 24 acquisitions in 2015 spanning from the U.S.
and Canada to the U.K.
Sweden Poland Germany Turkey South Africa Australia and Japan.
We added to both transaction and annuity-based revenues.
In the case of Corrigo software and services acquisition we have also significantly enhanced our ability to connect owners and occupiers with service providers to cutting edge information technology.
Our acquisition pipeline remains solid and contains transactions in alignment with our strategic priorities financial discipline and culture.
We will begin our look at the segment-specific results from the Americas where fee revenue is up 16% in local currency over 2014 and up 14% for the fourth quarter.
We drove growth across virtually all business lines and geographies.
Leasing was up 14% for the year 13% for the quarter outperforming the overall market for both periods.
Capital markets and hotels was up 25% for the year 13% for the quarter led by continued growth and productivity generally another record year performance in our hotels business and the acquisition of Oak Grove Capital that we completed in the fourth quarter.
Projects and developments services increased 20% over 2014 21% for the quarter as we continue to cross-sell drive new project wins and benefit from key strategic acquisitions.
The rest of the Americas platform also made meaningful contributions to growth in 2015 with property and facility management up 14% for the year driven by record levels of new business as well as account expansions.
Operating income market for the fourth quarter was 15.2% in local currency compared to 15.6% last year.
Excluding the timing of investments primarily in technology and data the operating income margin was in line with our strong fourth quarter 2014 performance.
Operating income in the Americas grew 15% to $251 million for the year up from $219 million a year ago.
And operating income margin calculated on a fee revenue basis improved by 30 basis points over the same period to 10.7% in local currency.
The added scale and new services from the 11 acquisitions closed in the past 13 months including the transformative Oak Grove Capital and Corrigo deal together with investments in our platform and the talent of our people places us in a position of strength as our Americas business moves into 2016.
In EMEA fee revenue across the region was up 20% in local currency over 2014 and up 13% for the fourth quarter an excellent result against a robust fourth quarter of 2014.
Projects and development services fee revenue was 38% for the year and 57% for the quarter as we continue to win international mandates from European multinationals and expand our Tetris fit-out business both organically and from acquisitions such as Bluu in the U.K.
Capital markets and hotels revenue is up 29% for the year 11% for the quarter with the most significant contributions from Germany France the U.K.
Sweden Switzerland and Poland as we continue to perform in a buoyant yet increasingly complex market environment.
During the quarter we did begin to see a moderation in investment sales activity particularly in the U.K.
Overall performance was strong throughout the region both in larger markets like the U.K.
Germany and France and also across the continent and MENA.
Adjusted operating income in the region increased 21% year-over-year to $146 million up from $121 million.
Adjusted income margin calculated on a fee revenue basis improved 140 basis points to 10.6% in local currency year-over-year.
Our performance reflect a capital markets incentive fees continued strengthening of business lines through profitable organic growth supplemented by acquisitions and a focus on technology as a key enabler of growth and productivity.
In summary we had an outstanding year in EMEA where all countries delivered growth over the last year in terms of revenues and profits positioning us well throughout the region for 2016.
In Asia Pacific fee revenue across the region was up 17% in local currency over 2014 and up 14% for the fourth quarter against a market where China’s economic slowdown rippled across the region.
Leasing was up 13% for the year and 11% for the quarter with strong performance in Australia China Hong Kong and India offset by subdued performance in Singapore Japan and Indonesia.
Asia Pacific’s capital markets and hotels revenue was up 15% but down 12% in the quarter which was slightly better than the overall market.
Our China and Australia capital markets business experienced weakness in the quarter given uncertain market conditions and timing of transaction.
But we are pleased that our APAC team nevertheless delivered significant outperformance in capital markets for the year driven by Japan Australia and Southeast Asia.
Our business is naturally hedged to weather uncertainty in the investment sales market since we generate more than 50% of our fee revenue in the region from our annuity businesses.
Property and facility management revenue was up 17% for the year and 23% for the quarter with demand for these services growing steadily as we see increases in both the quality of property stock and the growing propensity of regional and local agent companies to outsource.
Geographically India performed well taking advantage of an improved business environment and reinforcing our leading market share.
Asia Pacific’s operating income margin grew 4% 18% in local currency to $87 million for the year up from $84 million a year ago.
And operating income margin increased by 10 basis points to 9.4% in local currency calculated on a fee revenue basis demonstrating the strength of our platform in navigating the region to deliver another excellent year versus record performance in 2014.
In sum our Asia Pacific business delivered robust 2015 performance while confronting a mixed economic environment and continuing to profitably invest for the long term positioning us to enter 2016 as an even stronger business.
LaSalle had a strong year delivering operating revenue increases at 16% for the year and 10% for the quarter over a tough 2014 comparable.
LaSalle’s results were driven by incentive fee performance in the second half of the year and also by the growth of its advisory fees which were up 10% for the year and 9% for the quarter.
LaSalle continued to focus on productivity as it generated a year-over-year increase of 4% in assets under management per employee.
Further LaSalle raised $1.2 billion of new capital in the fourth quarter and grew assets under management by $2.8 billion during the year to $56.4 billion total that I mentioned a moment ago.
LaSalle’s incentive fees of $24 million in the fourth quarter brought the full year total to $124 million the second highest annual total in LaSalle’s history.
After two years of outsized results the mature funds generating these strong incentive fees are nearing the end of their fund life.
As a result we expect incentive fees to moderate and equity earnings to reflect fair value movements and revert to a historical average.
With respect to our balance sheet and the strength of our financial position total net debt was $461 million at the end of the year an increase of $298 million in the year reflecting the pace of our continued investments in acquisition.
We benefitted from the lower average borrowings on our credit facility with $28.1 million in interest expense for the full year.
So sum up we had an excellent quarter and year.
We remain well-positioned for future growth in 2016 as we look to build on a successful 2015.
I would like to thank our colleagues around the world for the extraordinary work they delivered daily for our clients and our investors.
I’ll now turn the call back over to Colin.
Thank you Christie.
So to give you a sense of how we achieved these results Slide 3 offers a sample recent business wins across service lines and geographies.
In 2015 our corporate services businesses won 137 new assignments expanding existing relationships with another 75 clients and renewing 35 further contracts.
These 247 wins total nearly 905 million square feet of space across all regions.
Our 2015 average win rate was 60% for new business 79% for expansions and 83% for renewals.
A highlight of the year came in December with the early renewal of our contract with HSBC one of the world’s largest banking and financial services institutions.
We are now the bank’s sole global outsourcing provider of integrated facility management services and 97% of their 55 million square foot portfolio across 42 countries.
We have also been appointed to provide management services globally for the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade with more than 1 000 properties in 76 countries.
This brings the combined Australian government portfolio under our management to nearly 26 million square feet.
Turning to the capital markets you’ll see major transactions from Chicago to Hong Kong.
Focusing on the deals we’ve highlighted in Europe we’re seeing a shift in business as investor appetite builds for large portfolio transactions.
Examples of this includes a €1 billion Aqua portfolio which was a sale of 17 office assets across six countries and the traction portfolio sale of 30 office properties across the continent.
This multi asset multi-currency country deals are complex and few firms can compete them effectively.
Clients know that they need the best and most trusted advisors to succeed playing to our strength and driving our market share growth.
Our hotels business also had an excellent year with revenue up 15% in U.S.
dollars and 23% in local currency.
Highlights included advising on the year’s largest hotel transaction in San Francisco.
And in Hong Kong on the largest single asset transaction ever in Asia Pacific.
Fourth quarter leasing highlights included an assignment from Blackstone Equity office properties for 2 million square feet of class A space in Dallas Fort Worth and leasing 215 000 square for E&amp;Y in Madrid.
We also won a 1.3 million square foot asset management and leasing appointment for a retail asset in Chengdu called Cannes Bay Impression.
As I said earlier LaSalle investment management had an excellent year with double digit revenue growth and healthy equity earnings from both valuation increases and asset dispositions.
We’re also seeing robust monthly flows into LaSalle’s retail investment fund with Jones Lang LaSalle income property trust whose gross asset value rose from $921 million to $1.5 billion over the course of the year.
As Christie highlighted throughout the year we continued to invest in businesses that expand our competitive reach and position globally.
Adding to the 24 acquisitions closed or announced last year we’ve completed three more in 2016 bringing the total investments in the 27 deals to $640 million.
Our acquisitions cover all regions and service lines in areas ranging from U.S.
transactions and from the facilities management technology to Japanese retail to fit-out services in the U.K.
and Germany and Poland.
As I noted on past calls we acquire selectively completing rigorous due diligence on finances operating risk and strategic and cultural and client fit.
We focus on high margin opportunities minimizing operational overlap that destroys value and we plan and manage integration very carefully.
And thanks to our strong balance sheet ample and used borrowing capacity and the full confidence of our partner banks we can move quickly when we identify opportunities that meet our criteria.
We are planning for continued M&amp;A activity during the course of 2016.
Looking forward despite the noise about oil the Chinese economy the range of other issues the IMF recently raised its 2016 global growth forecast to 3.4% which matches the Oxford Economics’ figures which we consistently quote.
So looking at our markets JLL research projects investment sales and leasing volumes to maintain a healthy pace throughout 2016.
The noise in the news flow has produced more cautious investment sentiment at this point but the amount of capitals that continues to be allocated to real estate indicates there’ll be no reduction in underlying investment flows.
So we anticipate global volumes of around $725 billion or more up 5% over 2015 levels in the global investment sales markets.
Leasing markets continue to gain momentum and we expect global office volumes to increase by 5% over the 2015 levels.
LaSalle is also positioned for continued growth in 2016.
Strong competitors such as LaSalle with good investment performance will continue to attract and invest significant amounts of capital.
And we’re encouraged too by the continued corporate trend to outsourcing real estate services and by our outstanding success rates which I quoted earlier.
So one month in we are positive on prospects for the year with underlying global growth outweighing recent concerns on the Chinese economy stock market volatility oil or security challenges.
Just supporting on China and given our leading market position we have a good perspective on what’s going on there.
The slow decline in manufacturing sector contrasts with continuing double-digit growth in the consumer and service sectors.
The move to services is benefitting our business as it tends to drive demand for office retail and warehouse space particularly in tier one cities.
The effect is less pronounced in our tier two city business but overall our revenues in China continue to grow in 2015 and we expect the same in 2016.
Finally the actions we’ve taken in recent years reinforce the resilience of our business.
Along with double-digit revenue growth we have steadily expanded in margins we have pursued strategic acquisitions to aggressively support our 2020 growth strategy we’ve made significant investments in technology with 5% of fee revenue being invested in that area in 2015.
And we’ve made it a firm-wide priority to improve productivity in all parts of our business.
We’ve continued to attract top professionals and teams to JLL and we’ve maintained the strongest investment grade balance sheet in our industry.
So we’re very well-positioned to continue building the long-term power of our operating platform and the long-term value of our company.
So before Christie and I take your questions I’d like to mention just a few of the awards that our colleagues at JLL and LaSalle earned last year.
They affirm our industry-leading position in real estate services and funds management.
We remain the world’s best property consultancy at the International Property Awards.
LaSalle was named Global Real Estate Company of the Year by the English Estates Gazette.
We joined the list of World’s Most Ethical Companies for the eighth consecutive year.
We repeated as a member of the Global Outsourcing’s 100 list for the seventh consecutive year.
We were named one of 100 Best Corporate Citizens in the U.S.
by the Corporate Responsibility Magazine.
We earned a perfect score on the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s 2015 Corporate Equality Index.
The U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency gave us its 2015 ENERGY STAR Sustained Excellence Award.
And finally we were named to the Fortune World’s Most Admired Companies list and joined the Fortune 500.
So with that we will take your questions.
Howard could you please explain the Q&amp;A process? Yes sir.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question or comment comes from the line of David Gold from Sidoti.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Hi there David.
Two questions for you.
First one is sort of broader.
Colin in both your commentary and maybe some other conversations there’s been talk about your view of how let’s say the length of the cycle has pushed out.
And I was curious if you might be up to give us an update on that and sort of current thinking of what’s the potential for this cycle and how long do you think it runs.
You have one question or two David? Oh that’s the first.
Give us the second one and we’ll - Okay.
The second one sort of ties in although it’s probably a little easier.
And that is as we think about your commentary on equity earnings and incentive fees we’d love to gain a little more clarity there with also the backdrop that if we think about the commentary a year ago at that point it was - you also used the word moderate yet on a combined basis were up almost 30% year to year.
So I just want to get a sense there for as you were thinking about it a year ago what was let’s say that much more different this year and then how we should think about next year.
Okay well I’ll take the first half which as you say will lead neatly into the question on my statement.
Right.
It’s probably really six questions but - Yes.
Let’s just talk around it.
We’ve been thinking in terms of a cycle which will begin to peak in ‘17 or ‘18 for some time.
So this puts us in the sort of third to fourth quarter of a four-quarter game.
Nothing has changed that point of view.
We talked about in this commentary about some slowing of the investment sales activities across most regions in quarter four of last year.
We also said that our perspective at this stage is that given the weight of money of both equity and debt that’s available to invest in real estate and given the appetite for real estate there’s a relatively safe investment harbor given the problems of the fixed income and equity sectors.
We would anticipate continued strong activity in the investment sales markets globally.
Whether this Q4 activity is an early warning of a moderation we don’t know yet.
We’ll judge that as we go through this year.
But the underlying activity levels are strong in the investment sales markets.
The same comments apply in the leasing markets.
We’ve talked about sort of double-digit increases globally in volumes transacted last year.
And for projections from both the IMS and our own forecast is around underlying global economic growth in the mid-3% across the world for this year suggests that the economic cycle has got some way to run and that our own experience of our clients seem and continue to take more space for expansion of their businesses.
But that trend is solid and we’ll continue steadily into next year.
So that’s the way we see things at the moment.
Our crystal ball is as clear as usual.
But we are anticipating a further growth in our business this year and we’re certainly investing behind that.
Christie perhaps you’d take the question on - Equity earnings and incentive fees sure.
David so as you know it’s tough to predict incentive fees and equity earnings.
And where we are right now in the cycle in terms of the fund lives that are driving incentive fees our expectation is that incentive fees as I mentioned in my prepared remarks will moderate in 2016.
And I think probably the best gauge is to look at the performance for this year and based on what we’re seeing would probably be 60% of what we brought in this year based on what we view towards.
We don’t have view towards everything.
And we do expect that it will be more front end loaded this year.
As it relates to equity earnings and again based on what we see our expectation is that equity earnings will really revert more to our historical average which is quite strong.
But again not to the tune of what we experienced in 2015.
And the team is just doing an exceptional job - acquisitions dispositions investments and the like on behalf of our investors.
And just remind us where you see the historical average.
Of equity earnings? Yes.
Yes we’re kind of in that $25 million $30 million range.
Perfect.
Thank you both.
Thank you David.
Thank you.
Our next question or comment comes from the line of Mitch Germain from JMP Securities.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Colin just trying to follow up with your comments on China and appreciate the color.
Maybe just talk about revenue mix in the region.
Is it similar to broader Asia where it’s 50-ish percent contractual and then the rest is tied to transactions? Is that a good indication of where you guys get your revenues in that region? In China? Yes.
Yes the regional numbers you quote are slightly different in China where the balance is a bit less on annuity and a bit more on transactions.
And just your commentary suggesting that nothing is really slowing on the transaction side correct? No.
As I said I mean we’re concentrated in the tier one cities and tier two cities.
And what we’ve seen is that the I mean the switch that’s going on away from the traditional industrial base and towards services and technology companies.
And the services and technology companies are intending to focus in the largest cities as I made the comments about the demand for retail logistics and office space in those major cities actually being quite robust.
Where there’s stress in China is in the peripheral tier two cities and in the tier three cities where the industrial base was focused and where you see a clear decline in activity.
But it’s working so far in our favor and of course we’re the market leaders there.
We are strongly profitable in the region and we’re continuing to grow and expand our teams.
Is there any change in availability of capital from either the equity or lending side in that region? No there’s been steady demand for investment group probably in China.
It’s tending to switch more to local buyers because insurance companies in particular are beginning to ramp up their purchases of investment grade property and there’s been a bit less interest in the international buyers in China.
But the markets have been solid and as we said the fourth quarter numbers were actually up 50% on the prior year.
Availability of debt again for local transactions as we find it Chinese buyers tend to buy with more equity and not as much debt as western investors.
Great.
Your outlook your market buying and outlook for 2016 just curious about EMEA.
Is the flat capital markets and absorption is that a function of maybe a slowing in the U.K.
or what’s really kind of driving that because we’re hearing indications are that region storming [ph] is pretty robust from an investment and leasing perspective? Yes the U.K.
was a bit slower in the fourth quarter last year but it was more than balanced by Germany in particular also France.
And leasing in Paris was very robust in the fourth quarter.
The prospects for this year I mean Europe is continuing to pick up slightly in its growth rates Britain has been solid for a while but the continental Europe numbers are beginning to pick up a bit more.
And we’re seeing just solid activity across the markets across the whole of the Western Europe.
Eastern Europe has been fairly strong.
Russia remains a problem.
We actually made a profit in each of the last two years in Russia but it’s obviously given the economic environment there that’s a challenge.
But Europe as a whole we’ve been very pleasantly surprised by the continuing robustness of our business there driven by actually the business community is continuing to invest and continuing to gradually expand despite the kind of flattish top line growth numbers in the economies as a whole.
And we’ve been continuing to take market share we believe across the region.
And to that point Mitch when we look at our New York capital markets results just as a point of reference we were up 29% year-on-year versus a market that was up 14%.
And that’s against the backdrop of outstanding performance in 2014.
Got you.
And then last one for me.
Your willingness to invest in this market either from an M&amp;A perspective or from a recruiting perspective could we see the similar numbers that we approached in 2015 or is there likely going to be a bit of a slowdown here? No our mindset today is as confident and as robust with respect to hiring with respect to M&amp;A work as it was a year ago.
So as you can’t predict how it’ll come up because you tend to be responding to opportunities that you manage to unearth we would expect a similar sort of picture for the full year.
Thank you.
Thanks Mitch.
Thank you.
Our next question or comment comes from the line of Brad Burke from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning.
Hi there Brad.
Good morning Christie.
I wanted to ask in the capital markets outlook and then I appreciate the detail on your outlook but just how much variability do you think you have around the forecast that you’re given for 2016 and whether any of the weakness that we’re seeing in the same U.S.
markets in the U.S.
whether that started to translate to weakness in appetite to complete new transactions.
Well we’ve made the comment about Q4 last year being - investors being slightly a little more hesitant than they had in prior quarters.
We’ve also underpinned our thinking for markets that will basically be at or slightly above 2015 levels in 2016.
So I won’t repeat that.
I think we’ll just watch this during the first quarter and a half of the year.
We see underlying interest in real estate from all sources.
We talk to institutional investors any specific pension funds for example who are still raising the percentage allocation to real estate.
And for the amount of money that’s available to invest in real estate is undiminished.
We’ll see how sentiment behaves in the first quarter and whether the point you make about the CMBS markets or other factors begin to weigh on investors’ confidence.
But at this point the fundamental point to continued robust market it’s similar levels to 2015.
And in terms of the willingness to invest incrementally in CRE with the energy-sensitive economy specifically Canada Norway and Middle East are you sensing any change in sentiment there in terms of how they’re thinking about incremental investments in 2016? I’m not close enough to be able to answer that question with respect to the investment funds in those countries.
What indications you’ve had you’ve read probably that Saudi Arabia is disinvesting $60 billion to $80 billion from equity markets globally.
So where they are selling it’s tending to be in areas where they can get rapid liquidity.
And that wouldn’t include real estate because the times to yield investments or to liquidate investments are obviously much longer.
What I’d say is we’ve noticed across the energy centers like Houston and Calgary for example within the North American continent clear reduction in demand for leasing space and with that a reduction in appetite for investment sales in those markets simply because the level of demand has come off so rapidly.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
And then just a follow-up on M&amp;A.
Christie I think last time you had said that you would be willing to eventually take the leverage on the balance sheet up to two times EBITDA so just wanted to get an update of whether that is still a level that you would eventually target.
And then also considering the weakness that we’ve seen in the public markets whether you’re starting to see any of that translate into lower multiples in the private markets when you’re looking at incremental M&amp;A opportunities.
In terms of leverage Brad we’re committed to maintaining our investment grade balance sheet and focused on structuring our transactions with sound financial discipline.
So to that point we will stay within the swim lanes of being investment grade.
And so from the perspective of our net debt leverage right now to where we may be suffice it to say that we’re very focused on investment grade.
As it relates to transactions and multiples we’ve been pretty consistent in terms of the transactions that we’ve executed and really sticking to the guiding principles that Colin and the team have been executing for 10 years as JLL.
And to that point our multiple range is within the 6 to 8.
And we’re pretty consistent in that regard.
We’ve got some transactions that are a little lower some that are a little higher.
And then further to that we always look to structure our transactions with on average two-thirds upfront and at least a third deferred.
And that deferral is tied to performance both from a revenue and profitability perspective.
We’re really focused on culture and doing integration well as Colin noted.
And so from the perspective of what we see in the private markets we’re not seeing that but again we’re very consistent about what we look to acquire.
Okay I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thanks Brad.
Thank you.
Our next question or comment comes from the line of David Ridley-Lane from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Sure.
I was just curious on your thoughts around your real estate services business adjusted EBITDA margin as you go into 2016 especially as some of the property and service management revenue sounds like it could exceed the growth rate of say the capital markets business and sort of a little bit of a negative mix shift there that could be weighing on margin expansion in 2016.
Sure David.
First of all when we look at adjusted EBITDA margin the performance and the robustness of the underlying revenues is exceedingly strong.
And where we look at the annuity businesses and the response from the lack of volatility while it is a lower margin business in the transaction businesses it’s actually a good mix if you will.
So we’re looking to really lead our business to over 60% annuity-based income streams.
And you can see that in the M&amp;A transactions that we did.
So I think we’ll see a leveling yes but I think it will also generate an even more robust recurring income platform for our firm and for our investors.
Got it.
Colin did I hear you right that 5% of fee revenue was invested in IT spending in 2015? I’m just wondering is that operating cost? Yes it’s a mixture of operating cost capital investment and acquisitions.
Got it.
And then sort of on the IT operating costs as you look forward into ‘16 was 2015 a unusually high year and we should expect the IT spending to come down or this is not the right pace for you to be focused on your long-term goals? Well our underlying spend in operating cost we set a target of doubling that between 2012 and 2016.
And we are on track to do that.
We’re actually proud of that because that’s a real clear indication of our commitment to invest in what’s strategically a very important new aspect to our business which is driving the way in which basic business processes are being supported by technology be it back office processes or indeed our interaction with our clients in the transactions and in the facilities business.
It’s right across the piece.
We’re adding technology into our business mix.
And so that drive to spend more is a drive to add more technology to our basic business processes.
The M&amp;A work we bought a couple of businesses last year in particular Corrigo which our pure play technology encompasses [ph].
And that’s new for us.
But what we’re seeing across our markets is the fact that it’s technology impinging in the way which we are operating our business for our clients and in the way in which our clients want to interact with the markets.
And Corrigo is a platform which brings subcontractors in a sort of semi-automated way into contact with ourselves and our clients and we can use the preapproved suppliers on that platform to service our medium and small-sized corporate clients more efficiently.
So you’ve got a lot going on in technology and data management.
We’ve invested in a team of several dozen people whose sole role is to go around our business globally and over more of our service lines and organize and clean and filter our data so that it’s on a uniform basis and therefore can form a uniform and consistent information feed for the sorts of technology tools which we’ve been developing which I described a moment ago.
So we’ve got a broad-based level of activity in both operational spend acquisition and capital expenditure in and around the technology sphere.
Got it.
And then maybe last one for me.
I think the last quarter you talked about watching closely the speed of transactions the number of bidders on capital market transactions and this quarter you did see some hesitations and pause.
Was there any particular theme around that and was that pause more around say obtaining debt financing general placing concerns or bid-ask spreads? Any color that you could place on that will be very helpful.
Thank you.
Yes you can take the debt piece out of the equation.
Debt is freely available and it’s still fairly conservatively underwritten my lending institutions.
So no issue there.
What we did see is something of a cooling in demand at the high-end in particular our investment sales markets a bit more selective purchasing buyers not chasing risk as much as they might have done earlier in the cycle.
We saw transactions indeed tending to slow and that’s one of the reasons why Q4 was a little weaker because we believe that a lot of transactions went through the year end and we’ll continue to complete in Q1 of this year.
Certainly that will be the case for us.
And your point about the bid-ask spread is an interesting one as well because sellers’ expectations of price have continued to kind of push upwards whilst buyers’ willingness to pay those continuing increased prices have become slightly more hesitant.
So when you put all that together and that’s sort of the demand mix that’s swirling around out there.
Come back to our other statement the amount of money equity in particular seeking to find its way into real estate is still robust.
If you take our own LaSalle business the 56 billion of assets under management and over $10 billion of funds available to invest in real estate.
So they won’t invest that foolishly but it’s going to get invested over the next two three years selectively in markets around the world.
And that’s typical of what you see in other institutions and investment funds.
Thank you very much.
Thanks David.
Thank you.
Our next question or comment comes from the line of Brandon Dobell from William Blair.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning Colin.
Good morning Christie.
Hi Brandon.
I wanted to focus a bit on incremental margins in the Americas and EMEA.
Maybe Christie if you could give some color on your level of satisfaction with how the year progressed and how we should think about incrementals looking out ‘16 ‘17 as well? Sure.
I think first of all Brandon in the Americas incremental margin performance for the year was outstanding.
If we look at the positive incremental margin drivers in terms of volume across leasing ISM business capital markets I mean we highlighted the outperformance and as well as the hotels business.
So absolutely outstanding.
When we take a look at the timing of the incremental investments and align it with our strategic plans that Colin for example was highlighting investments in areas such as spread [ph] which is a real enabler and value-add contributor to our clients I am exceedingly pleased with the market performance in the business.
So all in all positive incremental margin drivers reinvesting in the platform consistent with our strategic plan coupled with some slight FX impacts great job.
Okay.
As it relates to EMEA EMEA was substantially year-over-year from an incremental margin perspective we delivered as I mentioned in my comments outstanding performance including the impact of exchange.
We’ve had significant productivity gains nice volume mix we’ve executed exceedingly well on capital markets transactions driving incentive performance fees.
And all the like again consistent with our strategic plan invested in the platform in areas of technology and our people to really drive productivity for the future.
As it relates to future performance we’ve got an excellent base going into 2016.
And we’ve got excellent people behind us who are all working to drive performance on behalf of our clients and investors.
Is it a relief to see the same kind of I guess headcount additions this year excluding M&amp;A I recognize it’s a little bit difficult to predict on a forward basis for how it adds to headcount but across the transaction businesses and maybe should we continue to see you guys pick up people or is there a plan to act differently in ‘16 versus ‘15? We are always welcoming exceptional performers around the globe.
And to that point our leasing and capital markets businesses consistently have added 5% to 10% around the globe consistent with what we’ve done in years past.
And as well while bringing those folks in we’re driving incremental revenue per head of 5% to 10% as well.
So fantastic performance as we welcome new producers into our business.
Okay.
And then final one for me.
As you think about capital spending recognizing there’s a lot of components in that in ‘16 versus ‘15 or any kind of color on what we should think about for free cash flow ‘16 versus ‘15 would be helpful.
Thanks.
Sure Brandon.
Consistent with the last five years of our performance our capital allocation strategy is centered around $0.50 to $0.55 on the dollar being allocated towards M&amp;A $0.27 to $0.30 allocated towards CapEx another 10% to 11% in co-investments to support our investors in our LaSalle business 5% dividends.
For example this year we had an 18% year-over-year increase in our dividends reflecting the confidence in our cash flow.
And I think you can expect more of the same from us in the future.
Okay good.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks Brandon.
Thank you.
Our next question or comment comes from the line of Michael Mueller from JP Morgan.
Your line is open.
Just a second.
Your line is open sir.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Just a few quick questions.
First for 2015 - Hey there Michael.
Hello good morning.
What was the total acquisition volume in terms of dollars for 2015 first? And then secondly thinking about EBITDA margins do you think you’re going to be able to improve those in 2016 on a year-over-year basis just given the outlook laid out in the slide deck for cap markets and leasing and then just what the expectation is with incentive fees and gains relative to last year? The sum spent last year was $604 million for our M&amp;A.
That’s as referred to in our prepared remarks.
As to the EBITDA margins I mean the market dynamics will be what they’ll be and we’ve made comments on those earlier on.
There’s continued predictable strong growth in leasing and we’re expecting capital markets to be at or around the same levels as 2015.
But in addition to that as we grow all of our business but as we grow in particular in our annuities business we’re also driving productivity gains across the platform.
Christie referred to those.
We’ve instilled the culture of productivity improvements across the business.
And so that covers a vast array of types of projects.
Christie cared to have mentioned a few of them as a follow-up here.
But that will also help to continue this pace of this drive to build our margins down through the years.
Got it.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thank you.
Thanks Michael.
Thank you.
Right now I’d like to turn the conference back over to management for any closing remarks.
Well thank you operator.
With no further questions we will end today’s call.
Thanks to everyone for participating and for your continued interest in JLL.
And we look forward to speaking with you again at the end of the first quarter.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today’s conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect.
Everyone have a wonderful day.