Good morning and welcome to Johnson &amp; Johnson's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This call is being recorded.
If anyone has any objections you may disconnect at this time.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference call over to Johnson &amp; Johnson.
You may begin.
Good morning and welcome.
I'm Louise Mehrotra Vice President of Investor Relations for Johnson &amp; Johnson and it is my pleasure this morning to review our business results for the first quarter of 2011.
Joining me on the call today is Dominic Caruso Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
A few logistics before we get into the details.
This review is being made available to a broader audience via webcast accessible through the Investor Relations section of the Johnson &amp; Johnson website.
I'll begin by briefly reviewing highlights of the first quarter for the corporation and highlights for the 3 business segments.
Following my remarks Dominic will provide some additional commentary on the first quarter results and guidance for the full year of 2011.
We will then open the call to your questions.
We expect the call to last approximately one hour.
Included with the press release that was sent to the investment community earlier this morning is the schedule showing sales for major products and/or business franchises to facilitate updating your models.
These are also available on the Johnson &amp; Johnson website as is the press release.
Before I get into the results let me remind you that some of the statements made during this call may be considered forward-looking statements.
The 10-K for the fiscal year 2010 identifies certain factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements made this morning.
The company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.
The 10-K is available through the company or online.
Last item.
During the call non-GAAP financial measures may be used to provide information pertinent to ongoing business performance.
These measures are reconciled to the GAAP measures and are available in the press release or on the Johnson &amp; Johnson website.
Now I would like to review our results for the first quarter of 2011.
If you would refer to your copy of the press release let's begin with the schedule titled Supplementary Sales Data by geographic area.
Worldwide sales to customers were $16.2 billion for the first quarter of 2011 up 3.5% as compared to the first quarter of 2010.
On an operational basis sales were up 1.8% and currency had a positive impact of 1.7%.
In the U.S.
sales declined 0.6%.
In regions outside the U.S.
our operational growth was 4.1% while the effective currency exchange rates positively impacted our reported results by 3.2 points.
The Western Hemisphere excluding U.S.
grew by 7.3% operationally while the Asia-Pacific Africa region grew by 6.3% on an operational basis.
Europe grew 1.9% operationally.
If you'll now turn to the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
Net earnings were $3.5 billion compared to $4.5 billion in the same period in 2010.
Earnings per share were $1.25 versus $1.62 a year ago.
Please direct your attention to the boxed section of the schedule where we have provided earnings information adjusted to exclude special items.
As referenced in the footnote first quarter results this year were adjusted to exclude the after-tax impact of litigation expense and additional DePuy ASR Hip recall costs.
The first quarter results in 2010 were adjusted to exclude the after-tax impact of the net gain from litigation matters.
Net earnings on an adjusted basis were $3.7 billion and earnings per share were $1.35 up 3.6% and 4.7% respectively versus the first quarter of 2010.
I would now like to make some additional comments relative to the components leading to earnings before we move on to the segment highlights.
Cost of goods sold at 29.5% of sales was 50 basis points higher than the same period in 2010 primarily due to the ongoing remediation work in our OTC business.
Selling marketing and administrative expenses at 31.3% of sales were up 80 basis points due to investment spending in our MD&amp;D [Medical Devices and Diagnostics] business as well as the fee on our branded pharmaceutical products included as part of the U.S.
Health Care Reform legislation.
Our investment in research and development as a percent of sales was 10.8% up 80 basis points versus the first quarter of 2010 due primarily to the timing of milestone payments.
Interest expense net of interest income of $104 million was up $23 million versus the first quarter of 2010 due to a higher average debt balance.
Other income net of other expense was $13 million in the first quarter of 2011 compared to $1.6 billion in the same period last year.
Excluding special items net other income was $359 million versus $97 million a year ago.
Dominic will discuss this item during his remarks.
Excluding special items taxes were 22.8% in the first quarter of 2011 in line with our guidance.
Turning now to business segment highlights.
Please refer to the supplementary sales schedule highlighting major products or business franchises.
I'll begin with the Consumer segment.
Worldwide Consumer segment sales for the first quarter of 2011 of $3.7 billion decreased 2.2% as compared to the same period last year.
On an operational basis sales declined 4.1% while the impact of currency was positive 1.9 points.
U.S.
sales were down 13.8% while international sales grew 2.6% on an operational basis.
Excluding the impact of lower over-the-counter or OTC revenues operational sales declined approximately 1%.
For the first quarter of 2011 sales for the OTC Pharmaceuticals and Nutritionals decreased 8.2% on an operational basis compared to the same period in 2010 with U.S.
sales down 26.8%.
During the quarter McNEIL-PPC announced the signing of a Consent Decree covering the manufacturing facilities in Las Piedras Puerto Rico and Fort Washington and Lancaster Pennsylvania.
The Consent Decree allows McNeil to continue work already initiated under the Comprehensive Action Plan or CAP and identifies procedures that will help provide additional assurance of product quality to the FDA.
McNeil will continue to operate the manufacturing facilities in Las Piedras and Lancaster and will work with an independent expert who will inspect these sites issue recommendations and review production and quality processes.
Production volumes shipped from these facilities are expected to be impacted during the initial implementation of these reviews and approval processes.
Shipments of key products are expected to ramp up during the latter part of 2011.
McNeil will not reopen the Fort Washington facility until it has first completed the remediation efforts at the facility received certification of compliance from the independent expert and then receives approval from the FDA.
Regarding the products previously produced at this facility we are in the process of transferring the production to other sites.
We began shipping a small amount of product in the fourth quarter of 2010 and ultimate supply of certain key products will begin late in 2011.
The broader portfolio of products is expected to be available in 2012 later than previously anticipated.
This is due to a decision to upgrade and reformulate manufacturing and quality methods in the course of transferring the production to other sites.
Sales of OTC and Nutritional products outside the U.S.
were up 6.9% on an operational basis.
Fluctuations in retail inventory levels favorably impacted the quarterly comparisons.
Additionally strong market growth in certain regions positively impacted growth in the quarter.
Our Skin Care business declined on an operational basis by 3.7% in the first quarter of 2011 with sales in the U.S.
down 5.8% and sales outside the U.S.
down 1.7% on an operational basis.
As previously discussed sales have been impacted by lower production volumes due to the enhancements to equipment and manufacturing processes which began in the latter half of 2010.
Shipments and retail inventory levels are expected to normalize toward the end of the second quarter.
Baby Care products achieved operational growth of 3.1% when compared to the first quarter of 2010 due primarily to growth in cleansers wipes and powders outside the U.S.
Women's Health declined 4% on an operational basis.
Sales in the U.S.
were down 14.4% while sales outside the U.S.
were up on an operational basis by 0.7%.
Lower sales of K-Y products and the divestiture of the e.p.t.
brand impacted growth in the quarter.
Sales in the Oral Care franchise were flat on an operational basis.
In the U.S.
sales were down 6.3% reflecting the impact of competition including private label for certain products.
Sales outside the U.S.
increased by 0.6% operationally driven by strong growth for LISTERINE.
Wound Care/Other was down 8.4% on an operational basis compared to the same period last year due to increased competition compounded by the divestiture of PURELL announced in the fourth quarter of 2010.
That completes the review of the Consumer segment and I'll now review the highlights for the Pharmaceuticals segment.
Worldwide net sales for the first quarter of $6.1 billion were up 7.5% versus the same period last year.
On an operational basis sales were up 6.4% with a positive currency impact of 1.1 points.
Sales in the U.S.
increased 5.8% while sales outside the U.S.
increased on an operational basis by 7.3%.
The first quarter sales comparisons were negatively impacted by approximately $60 million in incremental rebates due to the U.S.
Health Care Reform legislation implemented late in the first quarter of 2010.
Additionally European austerity measures primarily implemented in the second half of 2010 impacted the first quarter comparisons by a similar amount.
Excluding these items the underlying operational growth was approximately 8.5%.
Now reviewing the major products.
Sales of our key immunology products which include REMICADE STELARA and SIMPONI were up nearly 18% versus 2010.
Sales in the U.S.
were up approximately 8% when compared to the first quarter of 2010 with REMICADE up 1%; STELARA up 88% and SIMPONI up 36%.
With the strong growth achieved by STELARA and SIMPONI we continue to be the market leader in immunology in the U.S.
Export sales of REMICADE were up 22.5% reflecting both double-digit market growth as well as the expected increase in 2011 to 42% from 40% for the division-of-contribution income split per the previous distribution agreement.
The amended distribution-agreement division-of-contribution income split of 50% will go into effect July 1 2011.
The success of the international launches resulted in the significant growth of export sales for SIMPONI and international sales for STELARA.
Sales of LEVAQUIN our anti-infective were up 16.9% on an operational basis when compared to the same period a year ago.
The U.S.
anti-infective market was estimated to be up over 8% in the quarter due to higher incidence of respiratory illness and flu.
Of note the U.S.
marketing exclusivity for LEVAQUIN will expire on June 20 this year.
RISPERDAL CONSTA a long-acting injectable antipsychotic achieved first quarter sales growth of 5.5% on an operational basis.
Sales in the U.S.
were down 2.6%.
However the total U.S.
sales of our long-acting injectables including INVEGA SUSTENNA increased strong double digits versus a year ago due to an increase in combined market share.
Sales of RISPERDAL CONSTA outside the U.S.
were up 9.1% operationally with strong growth in most major regions.
PROCRIT/EPREX declined operationally by 24.6% during the quarter as compared to the same period last year with PROCRIT down 34.5% and EPREX down 12.3% operationally.
A softening of the market and increased competition has contributed to the lower sales results.
PROCRIT results were also impacted by a reduction to retail inventory levels.
CONCERTA a product for Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder increased 8.8% operationally in the first quarter as compared to the same period last year with sales in the U.S.
up 10% due to strong market growth partially offset by lower market share.
Sales outside the U.S.
were up 6.3% operationally with solid growth seen in most major regions.
As a reminder last quarter we announced a supply and distribution agreement with Watson Laboratories Inc.
to distribute an authorized generic version of CONCERTA in the U.S.
effective May 1 2011.
VELCADE a treatment for multiple myeloma is being co-developed with Millennium Pharmaceuticals.
We have commercialization rights in Europe and the rest of the world outside the U.S.
Operational sales growth was 5.6%.
Slower sales in Europe due to price pressure and increased competition were offset by strong growth in other regions.
PREZISTA a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV grew operationally 41.9% with similar results both in and outside the U.S.
due to very strong momentum in share.
ACIPHEX as it's known in the U.S.
market and PARIET outside the U.S.
is a proton pump inhibitor or PPI that we co-market with Eisai.
On an operational basis sales were down 8.6% due to increased penetration of generics in the category.
DOXIL/CAELYX grew 71.6% in the quarter.
With the expiration at year end 2010 of the distribution agreement with Merck we are now marketing DOXIL/CAELYX globally.
INTELENCE an NNRTI for the treatment of HIV grew operationally 25.1% due to an increase in market share.
INVEGA an atypical antipsychotic grew operationally 10.1% due to very strong growth outside the U.S.
with the recent approval in Japan.
As an update on the Pharmaceutical pipeline we have completed a number of submissions and received a number of approvals.
At the end of February we submitted to the FDA the response to the Complete Response letter for NUCYNTA extended release tablets.
We have been assigned a 6-month review.
The VELCADE subcutaneous dossier was submitted to the European Medicines Agency.
XEPLION paliperidone palmitate received approval from the European Commission for the treatment of schizophrenia.
The European Commission approved once-daily dosing over PREZISTA for the treatment of HIV in treatment-experienced adult patients.
The revised dosing extends the same dosing already available for treatment-naïve patients.
The FDA approved INVEGA for the treatment of schizophrenia in adolescents 12 to 17 years of age.
And SIMPONI received approval from the European Commission for structural damage in RA [rheumatoid arthritis] and a positive opinion from the CHMP for structural damage in psoriatic arthritis.
Also during the quarter we announced the pending sale of the Janssen animal health business.
I'll now review the Medical Devices &amp; Diagnostics segment results.
Worldwide Medical Devices &amp; Diagnostics segment sales of $6.4 billion grew 1.3% operationally as compared to the same period in 2010.
Currency had a positive impact of 2 points resulting in total sales increase of 3.3%.
Sales in the U.S.
were down 0.5% while sales outside the U.S.
increased on an operational basis by 3%.
Now turning to the franchises starting with Cordis.
Cordis sales were down 7.5% operationally with the U.S.
down 3.6% and sales outside the U.S.
down 9.9% operationally.
Cordis results were impacted by lower sales of CYPHER our sirolimus-eluting stent partially offset by the strong growth in our Biosense Webster business.
CYPHER sales were down 41% on an operational basis versus the prior year and estimated worldwide share for the quarter was 12% down 2 points sequentially and down 6 points from the first quarter of 2010.
Biosense Webster our electrophysiology business achieved strong operational growth of 18% in the quarter due to increased market share.
The continued success of CARTO 3 and expansion of the installed base made strong contributions to the results.
The DePuy franchise had operational growth of 1.7% when compared to the same period in 2010 with the U.S.
down 0.4% and the business outside the U.S.
growing by 4.2% operationally.
Low single-digit pressure on pricing continued as a result of the economic trends with positive mix mitigating some of the impact.
Incremental sales from the acquisition of Micrus contributed to the growth in the quarter.
The rate of growth was negatively impacted by very strong results in the first quarter last year particularly in the U.S.
The U.S.
markets softened through the balance of 2010.
On a sequential basis sales were up both on a worldwide basis and in the U.S.
Operationally hips were down 2% on a worldwide basis with the U.S.
down 6% and sales outside the U.S.
up 3%.
Growth was impacted by lower volume of metal-on-metal bearings and continued pricing pressure.
On a sequential basis hips grew approximately 4% in the U.S.
and 8% operationally outside the U.S.
Mix  positively impacted the sequential trends as well as the success of the cementless systems.
Knees declined 4% on an operational basis with the U.S.
down 6% and sales outside the U.S.
down 1%.
On a sequential basis knees were up 1% in the U.S.
Continued softness in the market continues to temper the rate of growth.
Outside the U.S.
on an operational basis knees were up 5% sequentially due to the success of the Sigma Fixed Bearing Knee.
The Diabetes franchise was up 6% operationally in the first quarter of 2011 with the U.S.
business up 7.2% and the business outside the U.S.
up 4.9% operationally.
Increased market share was the major driver of growth.
Ethicon worldwide sales grew operationally by 2.3% with the U.S.
up 1.2% and sales outside the U.S.
up 3.3% operationally.
Sutures Women's Health and Acclarent were the major growth drivers this quarter.
Ethicon Endo-Surgery achieved operational growth of 2.4% in the first quarter of 2011 with U.S.
sales down 2.5% and sales outside the U.S.
up 6% operationally.
Growth was negatively impacted by the divestiture of the Breast Care business.
Excluding this impact worldwide sales grew approximately 5%.
Growth was driven by increased market share for advanced sterilization products as well as HARMONIC products and outside the U.S.
Endo and EnSeal products.
Ortho Clinical Diagnostics declined 2.5% on an operational basis in the first quarter.
Sales in the U.S.
declined 8% while sales outside the U.S.
were up 4.1% on an operational basis.
Sales were impacted by timing of shipments as well as lower sales and donor screening due to the moot selective testing in the U.S.
for Chagas' disease.
This was partially offset by the continued strong growth in clinical labs due to the strength of the VITROS 5600 and 3600 platforms.
Rounding out the review of the Medical Devices &amp; Diagnostics segment our Vision Care franchise achieved operational sales growth of 4.7% in the first quarter compared to the same period last year.
Sales in the U.S.
increased 2.8% while sales outside the U.S.
increased 5.9% on an operational basis.
ACUVUE TruEye and the astigmatism lenses were strong contributors to the quarter.
That completes highlights for the Medical Devices &amp; Diagnostics segment and concludes the segment highlights for Johnson &amp; Johnson's first quarter of 2011.
I'll now turn the call over to Dominic Caruso.
Dominic? Thank you Louise and good morning everyone.
I would like to provide some comments this morning about our first quarter results highlight some recent business and pipeline developments and provide guidance for you to consider in refining your models for 2011.
I'm pleased to report that we are off to a good start in 2011 with solid sales growth for the enterprise.
Although the utilization in the healthcare markets continues to be below prerecession levels we are seeing some sequential improvements in the comparisons to prior year.
We are also seeing continued progress with our new product launches and our sales in emerging markets.
Our Pharmaceuticals business demonstrated strong operational sales growth this quarter of over 6% due to the success of our recently launched products such as STELARA and SIMPONI and core medicines such REMICADE and PREZISTA.
Our Medical Device businesses saw modest sales growth in the first quarter which was in line with market expectations for this sector.
This reflects tough comparisons to the first quarter of 2010 which was prior to the slowdown in the overall markets for this sector.
And our Consumer Healthcare business saw sequential improvements in its operational sales growth versus the fourth quarter of 2010 in various markets excluding the impact of the plant shutdown and the lower production levels in our McNeil U.S.
over-the-counter business where we are making good progress in addressing the manufacturing and quality issues in that business.
As to earnings we are very pleased to have reported solid earnings per share in the first quarter of $1.35 excluding special items which is higher than the latest estimates published by First Call.
This quarter we recorded reserves related to litigation matters and the ASR Hip recall.
We reflected these charges as special items and we will continue to exclude them from our guidance.
We continued to make investments this past quarter to advance our robust pipelines launch new products and make necessary enhancements to our manufacturing and quality systems particularly in our McNeil OTC business.
These investments are expected to increase through the remainder of the year and I will comment on that further when providing guidance for you to consider in refining your models.
We continue to see many positive developments and growth opportunities across our businesses.
For example in the first quarter we filed a new drug application with the FDA for rivaroxaban for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation.
We also received approval for XEPLION or paliperidone palmitate in Europe for the treatment of schizophrenia.
This compound is currently market as INVEGA SUSTENA in the U.S.
And in the Infectious Disease space we continue to expand our pipeline.
We recently announced positive results from a study of telaprevir and also initiated Phase III clinical trials of TMC435.
We also added to our Infectious Disease portfolio in the first quarter by completing the acquisition of Crucell.
Crucell now operates as the center for vaccines within our Pharmaceuticals group focused on R&amp;D production and marketing of vaccines and antibodies against infectious disease worldwide.
We are very pleased to welcome the talented people of Crucell to the Johnson &amp; Johnson family of companies.
In connection with the acquisition and under current accounting standards we recorded a gain in the other income and expense line in the first quarter related to our earlier investment in Crucell.
However as we indicated when we announced this acquisition agreement we expect the operations of Crucell to have a dilutive impact of $0.03 to $0.05 per share which we will see in the remaining quarters of this year essentially offsetting this gain.
In recent weeks we also announced several developments that I would like to comment on.
In March our McNeil Consumer Healthcare business finalized the terms of a Consent Decree with the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration for 3 manufacturing facilities.
We had previously included in our guidance for 2011 an impact of approximately $0.06 per share from of the ongoing remediation efforts at McNeil.
Now that we have finalized the terms of the Consent Decree we estimate that that impact will be twice that amount.
This results from both the slowdown in sales reflecting the impact on production volumes as we implement the additional quality steps outlined in the Decree as well as additional investments required in the remediation process.
In April we announced a settlement with the U.S.
Department of Justice the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission and the U.K.
Securities Fraud Office (sic) [Serious Fraud Office] for matters related to Foreign Corrupt Practices Act investigations and the United Nations Oil-for-Food program.
We will pay nearly $80 million in connection with these matters an amount that was previously reserved for.
Details on these matters have been widely reported and we've accepted full responsibility for the shortcomings in our McNeil consumer manufacturing operations and for the actions related to these other investigations.
We are confident that these matters are not representative of the vast majority of the Johnson &amp; Johnson employees around the world.
While there are clear implications and commitments from these matters that carry forward under the Consent Decree and the Deferred Prosecution Agreement we have already been addressing these issues and have a clear path forward.
As always we are focused on what is most important to us: serving the millions of people around the world who rely on our products everyday to meet their healthcare needs.
And finally just last week we reached an amended agreement with Merck concerning the distribution rights for REMICADE and SIMPONI concluding the arbitration proceedings that began back in 2009.
We are very pleased to have reached this agreement and are working very closely with Merck to make certain that this is a seamless transition for the patients and healthcare providers who rely on these treatments.
Beginning July 1 2011 Merck will relinquish the distribution rights to REMICADE and SIMPONI in 150 territories including Canada Brazil Australia and Mexico.
And Merck will pay Johnson &amp; Johnson $500 million.
The distribution of contribution income will move to a 50-50 split effective July 1 2011.
This was previously scheduled to reach that level in 2014.
This compares to the current split of 42% to Johnson &amp; Johnson and 58% to Merck prior to the amendment.
This is obviously a very positive development for our business.
However the financial impact to 2011 earnings is not expected to be significant due to transitional matters and the fact that we expect to take this opportunity to invest for future growth.
Before I begin commenting on guidance I would also like to take a moment and express our deep concern for the citizens of Japan who are recovering from the recent disasters there.
Our thoughts and prayers are with them.
I'm happy to report that all of our Johnson &amp; Johnson employees in Japan remain safe and our focus is now firmly on providing support to the relief efforts in terms of financial contributions and considerable product donations of medical supplies and consumer hygiene products that we traditionally provide in such times of needs.
The efforts and resilience of our employees in Japan have been truly remarkable.
We are returning operations in Japan to business as usual wherever possible but there is still more work to do.
It will be premature to estimate any potential financial impact at this stage.
We will continue to gather more information and provide updates in the future.
Now let me provide some guidance for you to consider as you refine your models for 2011.
My comments will reflect the net impact of the items I mentioned earlier namely the acquisition of Crucell the McNeil Consumer Healthcare Consent Decree and the amended agreement with Merck.
Let me begin with a discussion of cash and interest income and expense.
At the end of the first quarter we had over $9 billion of net cash.
This consists of approximately $27 billion of cash and investments and approximately $18 billion of debt.
We used approximately $2.5 billion to fund the Crucell acquisition during the quarter and we continue to generate strong cash flows.
For purposes of your models assuming no additional major acquisitions during 2011 I suggest you consider modeling net interest expense of between $300 million and $400 million consistent with our previous guidance.
Turning to other income and expense.
As a reminder this is the account where we record royalty income as well as onetime gains and losses arising from such items as litigation investments by our development corporation and asset sales or write-offs.
This account is difficult to forecast but assuming no major onetime gains or losses and excluding the impact of the special items I referred to earlier I would recommend that you consider modeling other income and expense for 2011 as a net gain ranging from approximately $700 million to $800 million.
This is higher than our previous guidance due to the fact that we have now included the impact of the Crucell acquisition.
As I noted earlier in the first quarter we recorded a gain related to our previous investment in Crucell in this line item on the P&amp;L.
However the dilutive impacts of the operations of Crucell of approximately $0.03 to $0.05 per share will be seen in other line items on the P&amp;L during the remainder of the year thus offsetting this gain.
And now a word on taxes.
For the first 3 months of 2011 the company's effective tax rate excluding special items was 22.8%.
We suggest that your models reflect an effective tax rate for 2011 in the range of 22% to 23% consistent with our previous guidance.
As always we will continue to pursue opportunities in this area to improve upon this rate throughout the year.
Now let's turn to sales and earnings guidance.
As a reminder my comments will reflect the net impact of the items I mentioned earlier namely the acquisition of Crucell the McNeil Consumer Healthcare Consent Decree impact and the amended agreement with Merck.
Our guidance continues to be based first on a constant-currency basis reflecting our results from operations assuming that average currency rates for 2011 will be the same as they were for 2010.
This is the way we manage our business and we believe this operational view provides a good understanding of the underlying performance of our business.
We will also continue to provide an estimate of our sales and EPS results for 2011 with the impact that current exchange rates could have using the euro as an example.
Turning to sales.
We would be comfortable with your models reflecting an operational sales increase on a constant-currency basis of between 2.5% and 3.5% for the year.
This is higher than our previous guidance reflecting the net impact of the developments I previously mentioned.
This would result in estimated sales for 2011 on a constant-currency basis of approximately $63.5 billion.
While we are not predicting the impact of currency movements to give you an idea of the potential impact if currency exchange rates for the remainder of 2011 were to stay where they were as of last week as an example with the euro at approximately $1.44 then our sales growth rate will be positively impacted by approximately 3% for the year.
Thus under this scenario we would expect reported sales growth to be between approximately 5.5% and 6.5% for the year for a total expected level of reported sales of $65.5 billion higher than our previous guidance.
Now turning to earnings.
I suggest that you consider full year 2011 operational EPS estimates of between $4.74 and $4.84 per share excluding the impact of special items and assuming the same average exchange rates for 2011 as we saw in 2010.
This increase reflects the net impact of the recent developments that I discussed earlier as well as the fact that we are off to a good start in 2011.
While we are not predicting the impact of currency movements to give you an idea of the potential impact on EPS if currency exchange rates for the balance of 2011 were to remain where they were as of last week then the impact of currency movements primarily the euro would be favorable by approximately $0.16 per share an increase of $0.08 per share from our previous guidance.
Therefore our reported EPS excluding special items would be between $4.90 and $5 per share for a reported EPS growth rate of approximately 3% to 5%.
This is higher than our previous guidance.
That concludes my comments on our operating performance this quarter and our guidance with respect to your models.
Now Louise back to you for some Q&amp;A.
Thanks Dominic.
And Brooke could you please give the instructions for the questions? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from a Matthew Dodds with Citigroup.
Dominic a couple questions.
First on the Merck settlement can you give any idea why the split was Europe versus sort of all the other countries? Did that relate to kind of ease of transition? Or is there a particular reason you may have wanted some of those other markets? Well I think both companies believe these markets are attractive outside the U.S.
and we saw some positive trends in certain markets that we thought we would like to have total control of.
Of course Merck obviously is doing well in other markets around the world.
And I think it was just really a settlement or an agreement between the 2 parties as to ratably divide the business and see where we can together make both REMICADE and SIMPONI grow optimally.
And your sense is in the countries that you've taken over there won't be any disruption switching over or minimal disruption.
Well I would say that anytime you do such a transition that there may be some disruption but our plan is to make this as seamless as possible.
And we've gotten the assurances of our partners at Merck that they will obviously cooperate with us and ensure that this is seamless and minimize any disruption.
Okay then.
One more question on Consumer.
You doubled the impact this year from $0.06 to I think $0.12.
Is that all related to the Consent Decree? Or is that thing -- is an addition that they're doing that you maybe weren't planning on doing when you gave guidance in January? Well the increase of $0.06 just to be clear from $0.06 to $0.12 that additional $0.06 is in fact related to the Consent Decree in 2 main buckets: One is the shipments from the facilities will be slowed if you will or slow down as we implement the quality procedures and the reviews that the Consent Decree now requires.
And in addition we have also -- we will also embark on additional remediation efforts.
So that doubles the initial estimate that we has made for that impact.
And then one more quick one on that.
Do you still expect in the back half of the year to increase the marketing spend on those products? Is that still in the plan? Well as Louise mentioned we expect to begin launching the products towards the back half of the year but the majority of the products will be launched in 2012.
And obviously we'll spend in accordance with those launches.
Perfect.
All right.
Thank you Dominic.
Sure Matt.
Your next person comes from Rick Wise with Leerink Swann.
Dominic Louise let me start off with a big picture question.
First Dominic I don't expect you to comment on acquisition rumors but maybe just help us think through again or just remind us your latest thinking about cash use and the order of acquisitions or share buybacks or dividend.
Just update us there and any color you'd like to provide would be great.
Well as I've said many times and I think everyone on the phone has probably -- or in the call has probably heard me say this.
We're very pleased to be able to generate very strong cash flows as a business.
And we have a 48-year track record of increasing our dividend to shareholders so we do consider that as a priority in the use of our free cash flows.
Then our priority is to grow the business to enhance the ability for us to continue to generate strong cash flows and returns to shareholders over long periods of time so we would like to invest our excess cash as much as possible in building the business.
And then lastly of course if that doesn't seem to be a reasonable way to use the cash then we would always consider additional returns to shareholders as we have done in the past.
2 other quick ones.
First maybe bring us up to date in your thoughts about the potential operating leverage.
Gross margins were better than expected in the first quarter.
Is that sustainable here? Do you need some more restructuring again especially as Consumer rebounds? And last quick it seems like your comments on hip and knee pricing was a little more negative than in the first quarter.
Louise I think you'd been talking 0.5% to 1% and now you're talking low-single-digit price pressures.
Perhaps you can give us some more color there.
Thanks a lot.
Sure.
Well with operating leverage as you know when we provided guidance earlier in the year for 2011 we did describe that we thought our overall margin would decrease year-over-year -- net operating margin would decrease year-over-year.
We still expect that to be the case although we're off to a very good start of course in the first quarter.
But the gross profit line will be impacted further throughout the year for a couple of reasons: One we'll incorporate the Crucell business and we'll go ahead and incur those additional remediation costs that I talked about earlier.
And of course we want to continue to invest in our business especially the new territories that we're getting back from Merck do I'd expect to see increased investment throughout the remainder of the year.
And our pipeline remains strong so we have every reason to invest in the pipeline.
So our guidance reflects an increased level of investment throughout the year despite the strong start for the year.
We think that's a great way to manage the business for the long term.
With respect to your comments on pricing pressure I think Louise was referring to the fact that pricing net of mix in orthopedics is still negative year-over-year but sequentially from the fourth quarter to the first that negative price net of mix got a little better.
So Louise I don't know if you want to clarify it any further.
Sure.
So in the U.S.
the just pure price in the orthopedics group total DePuy is about flat fourth quarter versus the first quarter.
And then when you go in and look at hips and knees in the U.S.
we actually have seen a slight less negative combination.
Thanks so much.
You're welcome Rick.
Your next question comes from Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Thank you.
I'll actually pick up where Rick left off and just talk for just a minute about DePuy.
Louise if I heard you right -- and so first correct me if I didn't.
I think you said that U.S.
hips and knees were both down 6% year-over-year.
Is that right? In the U.S.
yes.
On an operational basis yes.
Right.
And I think we recognize the comparison is still tough in the first quarter but that's probably -- I think at least certainly on the knees side below the Street's expectations.
So any commentary you have about the environment for DePuy would be appreciated.
And if you could also maybe just compare that to the performance that you saw in your other surgical businesses for Ethicon Ethicon Endo.
Mike on a sequential basis in the U.S.
the hips are actually up 4% and the knees are up 1%.
So the knee market is still soft in the U.S.
but on a sequential basis you are seeing it in a positive trend rate.
Right.
And with respect to the other surgical business I think our Ethicon Endo business is a good barometer for example.
Right? They're widely used in many surgeries.
And as Louise pointed out when we exclude the impact of the Breast Care divestiture the operational growth in the business is 5%.
So that's returning -- it's not exactly at the levels we saw prerecession but we are seeing some sequential improvement in volumes.
When we looked at for example hospital admissions and other elective surgery trends they still are below prerecession levels.
But when you compare them year-over-year to prior quarters as we compare year-over-year the negative trend is becoming less if you know what I mean.
So the trend is getting better quarter-over-quarter but it's still negative year-over-year Mike.
So your view Dominic -- I don't want to put words in your mouth -- is that looking at the aggregate of your numbers here then we didn't see a step down this quarter that this relatively comparable in your view to what we saw in the fourth quarter.
That's right.
Comparable with some trends starting to show some year-over-year less negative trending.
And as I pointed out in my comments the quarter for example for the Medical Device business is in fact a very tough comparison because this market decline that we saw actually happened as you remember in the back half of 2010.
The first quarter of 2010 was still very strong.
So we have not seen a decline as you pointed out.
Okay certainly.
And let me just ask on Cordis.
You made the decision this quarter to consolidate your U.S.
coronary and peripheral vascular sales forces.
It looks like it might have had some impact this quarter on the business.
Can you share with us your thoughts on that? And then any update you can provide on these that would be great.
Thanks.
Yes.
Well like I said earlier with respect to any transition there's always some impact to the business whenever you make a transition that seems to be the right thing to do for the long-term health of the business.
We believe it is the right decision to make but I wouldn't be surprised if there was some potential impact.
It's very difficult to quantify that as you could imagine.
With respect to NEVO we have no further comments to share with you with NEVO.
We're disappointed about the delay in the NEVO development program.
We're still evaluating the situation but we have no further comments to share at this point.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Okay Mike.
Your next question comes from Larry Biegelsen with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Thanks for taking my questions.
Let me start with the 2011 guidance.
What does this assume for new product approvals and launches? I mean you're waiting before 4 major approvals so telaprevir Xarelto abiraterone and 278 [TMC278].
Right Larry.
We're very conservative with respect to new product launches in our forecasting.
We can't predict the timing of these things.
I think they're all moving along through the FDA process but as we normally do we don't include much of anything in our forecast related to FDA approvals that are required before launching products.
LLC</strong> Thanks.
And then back on Cordis what does your guidance assume for the new CYPHER delivery system for the U.S.
and Japan? Do you assume you'll get that approved in 2011? We've -- as you know we've submitted for approval of our own catheter system in the U.S.
and we are waiting to get that approval.
We're working through the comments that we received from the FDA in the awarding letter and once those are resolved then we'll be able to use our on catheter.
So it does assume that we'll be able to have that available for us at the back end of the year.
LLC</strong> And lastly Dominic are you expecting a panel for Xarelto for the stroke prevention indication? Thanks.
Go ahead Louise.
It's possible Larry.
We haven't heard at this point.
Your next question comes from Jami Rubin with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Dominic just a clarification on the 2011 guidance.
Based on my numbers Crucell will cost you roughly $0.04; the McNeil remediation an additional $0.06.
So that's a $0.10 operational hit.
On the other end of the spectrum is the Merck REMICADE settlement which should net you somewhere between sort of $0.05 to $0.09 or so this year depending on your spending levels.
So can you confirm that -- what proportion of the $0.10 increase in guidance is related to currency? And what proportion is related to operational improvement? And my second question relates to the Pharma business.
Can you tell me there if you saw any stocking changes related to some of the key more older products? Specifically LEVAQUIN came in well above our expectations.
Just wondering how much of that is just market dynamics with flu season or how much of that could be inventory ahead of the patent expiration.
Okay sure.
Well just to summarize the guidance with respect to currency and operational the $0.10 change in guidance $0.08 is due to currency and $0.02 is due to operational matters.
You are correct in some of the items you mentioned.
For example Crucell will be $0.03 to $0.05 dilutive for the remainder of the year although we did have this gain in the first quarter.
So the dilutive impact will be less than what we previously had expected so it'll basically wash out the gain that we had in the first quarter.
You did pick up on the $0.06 for additional remediation cost.
When you commented about the Merck agreement I think all of you have written extensively on the agreement and I think you have it pretty pretty right that on a long-term basis it's in the sort of $0.10 $0.11 range.
But remember this year it's half a year and this year we have transitional items.
And of course as I mentioned we're going to want to spend against this benefit to make sure we can grow the business.
So I think the impact to Merck will be minimal -- Merck agreement will be minimal this year.
But in summary $0.08 due to currency and $0.02 netting out all the things that we just talked about including our good start to the year.
And then with LEVAQUIN we did see some stocking.
Louise I don't know if you have any other comments on that.
Sure.
So the LEVAQUIN was up 16.9% and if you excluded the stocking it would be up about 10%.
And that was the only product that we saw a major shift in stocking.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Your next question comes from Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
So on the fourth quarter call I think you mentioned that your 2011 guidance did not assume incremental buybacks.
Is that still the case in this updated guidance? That's right Bob.
We did not assume incremental buybacks.
Okay.
And so in light of the comment out of Synthese yesterday.
Their comment not yours that you guys are in talks.
I was just wondering if you'd be willing to say anything about that.
And if you can confirm are you still in talks right now? Just wanted to ask that question in light of their release yesterday.
Bob we're not going to comment.
Okay.
Lastly I just wanted to follow up on the commentary on DePuy because you've suggested that there was a sequential uptick.
But if I recall it correctly in the fourth quarter you had 1 less selling week.
So to a degree was the uptick sequentially real in terms of the business? Or was it simply due to the fact that you had 1 less selling week in Q4 and more of an even distribution this quarter? Louise has a good -- go ahead Louise.
Okay.
So the anomaly on the selling week actually relates to 2009 where we had a 53rd week.
The 2010 did not have that phenomenon.
Okay.
And then could you just give us the spine numbers? I don't think you gave us those in the initial commentary? Sure.
So on an operational basis spine in the U.S.
is down 1%; o U.S.
is up 6% for a worldwide number of 1%.
And again if you looked at it on a sequential basis o U.S.
would be up about 3%.
And the U.S.
is flat.
Thanks very much.
Okay.
Your next question comes from David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Dominic I want to come back to the Merck settlement.
I know you've been very very clear on 2011 but as you think about your prior comments relating to Pharmaceutical R&amp;D investment if you think about sort of the '12 time frame and beyond is there any reason to believe that we shouldn't think that there is a reasonable amount of drop-through based on this settlement as you think about 2012 '13 and '14? Yes.
David as you know we're not in the practice of giving any guidance beyond the current year because we want to evaluate the plans that each of our 250 operating companies have throughout the world to grow their business the best way they can.
So I think all of you have kind of estimated the impact of just the Merck settlement and I think appropriately.
But whether or not that impacts our 2012 and beyond guidance is still something we'll have to determine once we see all of the plans.
And look we have a strong pipeline and we'd love to continue to invest in the pipeline.
I think you've seen the fruits of these investments from the past bearing fruit now.
So were very pleased what our R&amp;D folks have been able to do.
So I'm sure we'll take that into consideration when we review our plans for '12 and beyond.
Okay.
Just 2 more quick questions.
First this is on Consumer.
If you look at the gives and takes of Consumer Dominic across the balance of the year do you think it's likely that this quarter reflects the trough quarter for Consumer as you think about the balance of the year? Well I guess in terms of growth this is a tough comparison because many of the issues manifested themselves throughout the balance of 2010 after the first quarter.
So obviously on a growth basis this is a very tough quarter tougher than the other quarter that we'll see throughout 2011.
We did see some sequential improvement in from Consumer from fourth quarter to first quarter excluding the McNeil issues again and the plant shutdowns et cetera.
So we are seeing some stronger market uptake in some of the products.
And Louise mentioned that the Skin Care business was particularly down due to some manufacturing upgrades at NEUTROGENA in particular and those will be completed in the second quarter.
So obviously we won't see that drag for the remainder of the year.
So we're hopeful that Consumer business will improve throughout the balance of the year.
Okay.
Just last quick question.
Louise I think you mentioned select investments in MD&amp;D.
I just wondered if you could clarify what the biggest chunks of investment spending were in that segment this quarter.
Thank you.
Well let me take that David.
Louise is referring to select markets throughout the world.
So for example in our MD&amp;D business we've invested pretty heavily in certain emerging markets and her reference was related to select markets throughout the world.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Matt Miksic with Piper Jaffray.
So I wanted to follow up just one -- couple of quick bookkeeping kind of questions here on the product lines within DePuy.
I think Bob asked about spine.
I was wondering about trauma.
And if you could comment on what you're seeing in spine pricing similar to what you've given us on hip and knee pricing? And then I have just a couple of quick questions.
So trauma is up 6% on an operational basis worldwide as well U.S.
and o U.S.
So similar results in all the markets.
As well for spine pricing on a price basis U.S.
it's mid-single digits negative and it's slightly better because there's slightly positive mix in the first quarter.
And just to be clear I think you had said mid-single last quarter and when we pushed you for the actual number -- I don't know if you're comfortable giving a number on the call but it was slightly less than say 5%.
Yes.
So the negative price only in the U.S.
is less than 5%.
It's in the 3% range.
And then mix was positive about 1%.
Perfect.
And I wanted to ask this Consent Decree with McNeil and the FDA you had already been engaged pretty obviously heavily in your action plan to restore McNeil to production.
Incrementally how should we think about the difference between the level of resources and focus and spend before the Consent Decree and after? Maybe if you could give us some perspective and then I have one follow-up.
Right.
Well you're right.
We had developed a comprehensive action plan along with the FDA for restoring the McNeil manufacturing and quality systems remediating them including by the way the transfer of the products from the McNeil Fort Washington facility over to other manufacturing facilities throughout the Johnson &amp; Johnson network.
So the products will come back to the market before the Fort Washington facility is reopened right because they will be shipped from other manufacturing facilities.
I tried to quantify the incremental impact of this additional $0.06 and so the way to think about this the initial $0.06 drag on earnings has to do with what I mentioned earlier.
The difference between the CAP or the Comprehensive Action Plan and the Consent Decree has mostly to do with the presence of a third party in the manufacturing plants sampling the product qualities checking the processes et cetera.
And therefore that causes a bit of a delay in the level of shipments.
And then working along with the third party to implement the Comprehensive Action Plan and report back to the FDA along the way.
So that slows down sales requires some additional investment.
We had previously estimated $0.06 per share drag to implement the Comprehensive Action Plan and now we expect that it's about $0.12 per share hit to implement both the Comprehensive Action Plan and the additional requirements in the Consent Decree.
Okay.
And then one follow-up on Europe.
By our estimates anyway o U.S.
seemed to be a little stronger U.S.
maybe just slightly weaker than expected.
Color on strength overseas was this -- was it in Europe? Was it in emerging markets? Was it just that U.S.
was more comp-related and Europe wasn't? Any color you could give would be great.
Yes I'd say generally speaking the business is stronger outside the U.S.
Just by way of reference the BRIC markets they grew in the first quarter for us.
Our sales in the BRIC markets were up about 14% in the first quarter of 2011.
They were up about 12% in the first quarter of 2010.
So stronger growth in Brazil Russia India and China.
And then selected markets our selected businesses for example the Baby business is stronger outside the U.S.
et cetera.
So I say generally speaking the mix of the business is shifting more towards x U.S.
so we're now about 53% x U.S.
and 47% U.S.
And the sequential U.S.
improvement you've given a lot of information on it this quarter.
I mean is the signal -- it sounds like the point you're trying make is prior-year comps -- the difference in weeks in selling made it difficult but sequentially it feels like things were kind of maybe stabilizing and improving from a utilization standpoint.
Yes.
I don't want to exaggerate on this because they're still below prerecession levels but we do see the decline year-over-year when we look at a first quarter comparison to a first quarter comparison.
That decline is just less of a decline than we saw in the fourth quarter or the third quarter when we did the same comparison.
So things are starting to improve but it's not over yet of course.
Your next question comes from Rajeev Jashnani with UBS.
I had a couple of questions on the Consumer business.
I know you talked about some of the issues impacting the OTC Skincare and some of the other line items but I was wondering if you could offer some perspective -- and maybe from a qualitative perspective just on the margins in that business and how you would think of some of the pushes and pulls there and how you might think about the margin trajectory for that business going forward.
Yes.
Well we don't -- Rajeev we don't provide any guidance with respect to margin on any sector of the business.
But obviously the margins overall in that business are impacted by the -- less sales of some higher margin products in the OTC business.
The overall margins for the Consumer business pretax operating margins in 2010 were 16% as we disclosed at year end.
That was down from 18% in 2009.
And the main reason for that is the OTC impacts that we've been discussing.
Other than the OTC impacts I think that margins still remain healthy and at comparable levels to other years in that business.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Your next question comes from Derrick Sung with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Thanks for taking my question.
So Dominic I won't ask you to comment on the Synthese rumors but in thinking about -- if that were true it would suggest that perhaps there's a belief on your part that size or that scale and diversification within the med tech space is of value.
And I wanted to see if you could comment on that thought.
Do you believe that a significant success factor moving forward in this new med tech environment is the ability to have size or scale in diversification across various businesses? And if so I understand -- I can see that you have that on the orthopedic side but if you could also kind of transfer that thinking over to your cardiovascular side where it seems that you don't have the scale in diversification that you might hope to.
How does that -- what are the implications of that for the sustainability of that portion of your med tech business? Yes well Derrick I'm not going to comment on anything related to the Synthese discussions that they've made in the market.
I would say though -- look we're the largest med tech business in the world so obviously we believe that having a broad base of med tech businesses of scale is important.
We are usually the preferred choice amongst various hospitals or -- and even more importantly with governments around the world in terms of discussing the impact we could have on healthcare.
So having a broader base of businesses across all of our businesses whether it be Pharma Consumer or MD&amp;D is a strategy we've employed for many years.
I don't think that that's changed any.
I think that that's -- it's important to be a major player.
We think we already are a major player.
And obviously where we don't have sufficient scale we'd love to increase the scale over time in the appropriate manner.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
Thanks.
And just a follow-up on Consumer.
Louise I thought I heard you mention that sort of the -- when you talked about the ramp up of the OCT (sic) [OTC] products and sort of the majority happening in the first part of 2012 that that was a delay from previous -- your previous expectation.
And I recall that in your Q4 call you pushed back the timing on that to the back half of 2011.
So is that a further delay versus what you had expected in Q4? And is that then incorporated in the your guidance somehow? So this relates to the Fort Washington products and yes it is later than what we had said in fourth quarter.
And yes Derrick I did include that when we provided guidance for the year.
Inc.</strong> So is that part of the $0.06 that you're adding to the additional remediation costs Dominic? Or is that just some that are buried and not explicitly called out when you've been sort of breaking out the guidance? Right.
Well just to summarize the $0.06 isn't only additional remediation cost it's an impact of lower sales lower shipments due to primarily the impact of the Consent Decree.
But also it will have some delay in getting some products back to the market.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Thanks for taking the question.
On the last call Dominic I think you had talked a little bit about just the broader price environment and have embedded the negative 50 to 100 basis points additional headwind in 2011.
Given what you've seen and I recognize it's early in the year but do you still anticipate that you will see that price environment going forward? Yes we still see that overall for the business year-over-year across the world our business would see a negative impact to margins of 50 to 100 basis points due solely to price.
Okay perfect.
And then the Micrus acquisition how much did that add exactly to DePuy in the quarter? DePuy was essentially flat if you took out the Micrus.
And the comments just on the slightly less negative combination of price and mix is that just simply because price in the U.S.
for hips and knees got a little bit better? Or are you just seeing a little bit better mix? This is actually coming from a little bit better mix.
Okay.
So price remains about the same? About the same.
Is that about the same? About the same.
About the same negative yes.
Okay.
That's all I have.
Thank you.
Your last question comes from a Ben Yeoh with Atlantic Equities.
Thanks for squeezing me in.
I was just wondering how we should think about your R&amp;D spend this year and maybe beyond.
I have you on track to spend maybe just over $7 billion.
You have Crucell coming in but also a number of Phase III trials that ended.
I was just wondering maybe from a sort of bottom-up level view is this level of spending enough or in light of acquisitions maybe a little bit too much to sustain you and sustain growth going forward? Yes.
Ben again we don't provide comments on each individual line item.
But look we're very pleased with the productivity of our R&amp;D folks around the world.
And in fact this quarter look at our Pharmaceutical sales.
I mean we have very strong growth of over 6% operational and this is the result of launching these new products that the R&amp;D team has either developed internally or obviously licensed from others.
And so we are -- when we improve our operating margins we generally don't focus on reducing R&amp;D to improve our operating margins.
We like to spend in R&amp;D.
Our folks are very productive.
We have one of the most robust pipelines in the pharmaceutical industry and we're very pleased with that and we want to keep that up.
I can't give you any specifics on how much R&amp;D spend we're going to have as a percent of sales but just suffice it to say that we're pleased in the level of productivity we have in our R&amp;D organization.
Okay.
Thank you.
You're welcome Ben.
Well Dominic? Sure.
Thanks Louise.
And thanks everyone for tuning in today.
And in closing let me just say we're very pleased to see top line sales growth again for the enterprise.
And we see further opportunity for growth as the global economy stabilizes and our new products robust pipelines and our core businesses continue to addressing the critical unmet healthcare needs of patients and consumers.
I remain confident in our prospects for the year thanks to the dedication focus and integrity of the people at Johnson &amp; Johnson and I look forward to seeing you at our Pharmaceutical business review day on May 26.
And we also look forward to updating you on our progress throughout the year.
Thanks for your time this morning and have a wonderful day.
Thank you.
This concludes today's Johnson &amp; Johnson First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Johnson &amp; Johnson Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This call is being recorded.
If anyone has any objections you may disconnect at this time.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference call over to Johnson &amp; Johnson.
You may begin.
Good morning and welcome.
I'm Louise Mehrotra Vice President of Investor Relations for Johnson &amp; Johnson.
And it is my pleasure this morning to review our business results for the second quarter of 2011.
Joining me on the call today are Dominic Caruso Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer; and Alex Gorsky Vice Chairman Executive Committee Office of the Chairman.
A few logistics before we get into the details.
This review is being made available to a broader audience via webcast accessible through the Investor Relations section of the Johnson &amp; Johnson website.
I'll begin by briefly reviewing highlights of the second quarter for the corporation and highlights for our 3 business segments.
Following my remarks Dominic will provide some additional commentary on the second quarter results and guidance for the full year of 2011.
Following Dominic Alex will discuss our medical devices and diagnostics business.
We will then open the call to your questions.
We expect the call to last approximately 90 minutes.
Included with the press release that we sent to the investment community earlier this morning is the schedule showing sales for major products and/or businesses to facilitate updating your models.
These are also available on the Johnson &amp; Johnson website as is the press release.
Before I get into the results let me remind you that some of the statements made during this call may be considered forward-looking statements.
The 10-K for the fiscal year 2010 identify certain factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements made this morning.
The company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.
The 10-K is available through the company or online.
Last item during the call non-GAAP financial measures may be used to provide information pertinent to ongoing business performance.
Tables reconciling these measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are available in the press release or on the Investor Relations section of the Johnson &amp; Johnson website at jnj.investor.com.
Now I would like to review our results for the second quarter of 2011.
If you would refer to your copy of the press release let's begin with the schedule titled Supplementary Sales Data by Geographic Area.
Worldwide sales to customers were $16.6 billion for the second quarter of 2011 up 8.3% as compared to the second quarter of 2010.
On an operational basis sales were up 2.6% and currency had a positive impact of 5.7%.
In the U.S.
sales increased 0.1%.
In the regions outside U.S.
our operational growth was 4.9% while the effective currency exchange rates positively impacted our reported results by 11 points.
Europe grew 5.4% operationally.
The Western Hemisphere excluding the U.S.
grew by 5.3% operationally while the Asia-Pacific Africa region grew 4.2% on an operational basis.
If you'll now turn to the consolidated statement of earnings net earnings were $2.8 billion compared to $3.4 billion in the same period in 2010.
Earnings per share were $1 versus $1.23 a year ago.
Please direct your attention to the box section of the schedule where we have provided earnings adjusted to exclude special items.
As referenced in the footnotes second quarter net earnings this year were adjusted to exclude the after-tax impact related to the previously announced restructuring of Cordis the net after-tax impact of expenses related to the litigation matters additional DePuy ASR Hip recall costs and an after-tax mark-to-market gain associated with the currency option related to the planned acquisition of Synthes Inc.
Similarly the second quarter net earnings in 2010 were adjusted to exclude the after-tax net impact of litigation matters.
Net earnings on an adjusted basis were $3.5 billion and earnings per share were $1.28 up 4.9% and 5.8% respectively versus the second quarter of 2010.
I would now like to make some additional comments relative to the components leading to earnings before we move on to the segment highlights.
Cost of goods sold at 31.2% of sales was 100 basis points higher than the same period in 2010 primarily due to charges related to the restructuring of the cardiovascular care business the ongoing remediation work in our OTC business and the impact of integrating the Crucell business.
Selling marketing and administrative expenses up 31.4% of sales were up 40 basis points due to investment spending in our medical devices and diagnostics business as well as the fee on our branded pharmaceutical products included as part of the U.S.
Health Care Reform legislation.
Our investment in research and development as a percent of sales was 11.3% up 50 basis points versus the second quarter of 2010 due to a higher level of investment spending to advance our pharmaceutical pipeline.
Interest expense net of interest income of $111 million was up $53 million versus the second quarter of 2010 due to a higher average debt balance.
Other expense net of other income was $206 million in the second quarter of 2011 compared to $18 million in the same period last year.
Excluding special items net other income was $109 million versus $139 million a year ago.
Excluding special items taxes were 19.6% in the second quarter of 2011 lower than our previous guidance.
Dominic will discuss taxes in his remarks.
Now turning to the consolidated statement of earnings for the first half of 2011.
Consolidated sales to customers for the first 6 months of 2011 were $32.8 billion an increase of 5.8% as compared to the same period a year ago.
On a year-to-date basis sales were up 2.2 points operationally and currency had a positive impact of 3.6 points.
On the consolidated statement of year-to-date earnings I'd first like to draw your attention to the box section adjusted net earnings of $7.3 billion in 2011 compared to adjusted earnings of $7 billion in 2010.
Adjusted earnings per share at $2.63 were up 5.2% versus the 2010 results.
Turning now to business segment highlights.
Please refer to the supplementary sales schedule highlighting major products or businesses.
I'll begin with the consumer segment.
Worldwide consumer segment sales for the second quarter of 2011 up $3.8 billion increased 4% as compared to the same period last year.
On an operational basis sales declined 1.8% while the impact of currency was positive 5.8 points.
U.S.
sales were down 8.5% while international sales grew 2.8% on an operational basis.
Excluding the impact of lower U.S.
over-the-counter or OTC revenues as well as the impact of divestitures operational sales grew approximately 2.5%.
For the second quarter of 2011 sales for the over-the-counter pharmaceuticals and nutritionals decreased 11.5% on an operational basis compared to the same period in 2010 with U.S.
sales down 32.9% primarily due to supply constraints.
On March 10 this year McNeil-PPC announced the signing of a Consent Decree covering the manufacturing facilities in Las Piedras Puerto Rico and Fort Washington and Lancaster Pennsylvania.
McNeil has made progress against its commitments under the terms of the Consent Decree and has managed requirements to date with the FDA.
McNeil continues to operate the manufacturing facilities in Las Piedras and Lancaster.
McNeil is proceeding with its site specific work plan.
As we previously discussed production volumes from these facilities have been impacted due to the additional review and approval processes.
However shipments of key selective products remain on track to ramp up during the latter part of 2011.
Regarding the products previously produced at the Fort Washington facility McNeil continues to re-site the production to other facilities.
McNeil is making progress on the validation and expects a modest amount of certain products to ship in late 2011.
We anticipate the balance of the portfolio of key products will continue to be reintroduced throughout 2012.
Sales of OTC and nutritional products outside the U.S.
were up 4.8% on an operational basis primarily due to a higher instance of respiratory illness and flu in Europe.
Our skin care business grew 5.3% on an operational basis in the second quarter of 2011 with sales in the U.S.
up 6.4% and sales outside the U.S.
up 4.3% on an operational basis.
Neutrogena Le Petit Marseillais and AVEENO achieved strong sales growth due to the success of new product launches.
Baby care products achieved operational growth of 5.2% when compared to the second quarter of 2010 due primarily to double-digit growth in cleansers wipes and oils.
Women's health declined 4% on an operational basis.
Sales in the U.S.
were down 11.7% while sales outside the U.S.
were down 0.9% on an operational basis.
Lower sales of K-Y products and the divestiture of the e.p.t.
pregnancy test brand earlier this year impacted growth in the quarter.
Sales in the oral care business increased 1.5% on an operational basis.
In the U.S.
sales increased 6.8% due to LISTERINE new product launches and strong sales of toothbrushes.
Sales outside the U.S.
decreased 2.1% operationally primarily in Europe and Venezuela which was partially offset by strong growth in Asia.
Wound care/other was up 2.8% on an operational basis compared to the same period last year.
Solid growth was achieved across most of the product lines partially offset by the divestiture of PURELL in the fourth quarter of 2010.
That completes our review of the consumer segment and I'll now review highlights for the pharmaceuticals segment.
Worldwide net sales for the second quarter of $6.2 billion increased 12.2% versus the same period last year.
On an operational basis sales increased 7% with a positive currency impact of 5.2 points.
Sales in the U.S.
increased 4.1% while sales outside the U.S.
increased on an operational basis by 10.7%.
The marketing exclusivity for LEVAQUIN expired in June negatively impacting worldwide sales growth by approximately 3 points and U.S.
growth by approximately 5 points.
Additionally the second quarter sales comparisons were negatively impacted by approximately $75 million in incremental rebates related to both European austerity measures primarily implemented in the second half of 2010 and the U.S.
Health Care Reform legislation implemented late in the first quarter of 2010.
Positively impacting the sales growth in the quarter were sales related to the recent acquisition of Crucell and an increase in REMICADE export sales related to customer inventory planning which I will discuss in a moment.
Excluding all of these items the underlying operational growth was approximately 7.5%.
Now reviewing the major products.
Sales in the U.S.
of our key immunology products which include REMICADE STELARA and SIMPONI were up approximately 13% versus 2010 with growth for REMICADE at 6.8% STELARA at over 100% and SIMPONI up 30%.
With the strong growth achieved by STELARA and SIMPONI we continue to be the market leader in immunology in the U.S.
Export sales of REMICADE were up 55% in the quarter.
Sales related to customer inventory planning contributed approximately half of the growth while the impact of the agreement with Merck contributed approximately 10 points to the growth in the quarter.
Excluding these items export sales were up approximately 15% in the quarter reflecting double-digit market growth.
As a reminder we will begin recording sales of product from the territories relinquished by Merck in the third quarter and the amended distribution agreement division of contribution income split of 50% went into effect July 1 2011.
PROCRIT/EPREX declined operationally by 14% during the quarter as compared to the same quarter last year with PROCRIT down 16% and EPREX down 11.2% operationally.
A softening of the market and increased competition has contributed to the lower sales results.
RISPERDAL CONSTA a long-acting injectable antipsychotic achieved second quarter sales growth of 4.5% on an operational basis.
Sales in the U.S.
were down 4.3%.
However the total U.S.
sales of our long-acting injectables including INVEGA SUSTENNA increased strong double-digit growth versus a year ago due to an increase in combined market share.
Sales of RISPERDAL CONSTA outside the U.S.
were up 8.7% operationally with strong growth seen in most major regions.
VELCADE is a treatment for multiple myeloma for which we have commercialization rights in Europe and the rest of the world outside the U.S.
Operational sales growth was 10% due to strong double-digit growth in Asia and Latin America.
CONCERTA a product for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder increased 4.5% operationally in the second quarter as compared to the same period last year with sales in the U.S.
up 4.9%.
Sales outside the U.S.
were up 3.6% operationally.
The supply and distribution agreement with Watson Laboratories Inc.
to distribute an authorized generic version of CONCERTA in the U.S.
became effective May 1 2011.
Sales reflect the shipments to Watson including the initial stocking of the authorized generic partially offset by lower sales of the branded products.
According to IMS the authorized generic has captured approximately 3 quarters of the combined CONCERTA script share.
PREZISTA a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV grew operationally 47.3% with U.S.
increasing 29.3% and sold outside the U.S.
increasing 65.9% due to very strong momentum in share.
ACIPHEX/PARIET is a proton pump inhibitor that we co-market with Eisai.
On an operational basis sales were down 9.4% due to increased penetration of generics in the category.
DOXIL/CAELYX grew 50.3% in the quarter.
With the expiration at year-end 2010 of the distribution agreement with Merck we are now marketing DOXIL/CAELYX globally.
INVEGA an atypical antipsychotic grew 25.5% on a reported basis with the U.S.
up 11.8% due in part to market growth.
Sales outside U.S.
were up 52.9% with the recent approval in Japan.
INTELENCE an NNRTI for the treatment of HIV grew 41.1% on a reported basis with the U.S.
up 18.8% and the sales outside the U.S.
up 70.8%.
Increased market share drove the sales increase.
As an update on the pharmaceutical pipeline regarding telaprevir which we'll market as INCIVEK and ZYTIGA our review for these EU approvals are right on track and we expect to hear back from the regulatory authorities in the very near future.
Additionally we are pleased that TMC435 has received fast track designation from the FDA for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C.
As you know pending regulatory approvals we intend to commercialize both TMC435 and INCIVEK and we are developing strategies that would enable us to successfully commercialize both compounds.
I'll now review the medical devices and diagnostics segment results.
Worldwide medical devices and diagnostics segment sales of $6.6 billion grew 1.3% operationally as compared to the same period in 2010.
Currency had a positive impact of 5.9 points resulting in a total sales increase of 7.2%.
Sales in the U.S.
were up 0.1% while sales outside the U.S.
increased from an operational basis by 2.2%.
Excluding drug-eluting stent worldwide sales increased 3% on an operational basis.
Now turning to the MD&amp;D businesses starting with cardiovascular care previously referred to as Cordis.
Cardiovascular care sales were down 16.1% operationally with the U.S.
down 20.8% and sales outside the U.S.
down 12.9% operationally.
Excluding drug-eluting stent Cardiovascular care sales were flat.
Biosense Webster our Electrophysiology business achieved strong operational growth of 14% in the quarter due to increased market share.
The continued success of Carto 3 and the expansion of the installed base made strong contributions to the results.
This increase was partially offset by lower sales of endovascular products due to increased competition.
The DePuy business had operational growth of 1.3% when compared to the same period in 2010 with the U.S.
down 0.8% and the business outside the U.S.
growing by 4% operationally.
Pressure on pricing and procedure volumes persisted as a result of the economic trends.
Mitigating some of the price impact mix with favorable most notably in knees driven by the growing revision segment.
Incremental sales from the acquisition of Micrus contributed to growth in the quarter as well as sports medicine and trauma.
Operationally hips were down 3% on a worldwide basis with U.S.
down 7% and sales outside the U.S.
up 1%.
Sales were impacted by the lower volume of metal on metal bearings and continued pricing pressure.
Knees declined 4% on an operational basis with the U.S.
down 5% and sales outside the U.S.
down 4%.
The market was estimated to have declined modestly in the first quarter with the U.S.
down 2% and the worldwide market down 1%.
It is estimated that the softness in the market continued into the second quarter.
The diabetes care business achieved operational sales growth of 5.3% in the second quarter of 2011 with the U.S.
business growing 6.4% and the business outside the U.S.
growing 4.1% operationally due to the combination of increased market share and market growth.
Ethicon worldwide sales grew operationally by 5% with the U.S.
up 6.1% and sales outside the U.S.
up 4.2% operationally.
Drivers of the increase include the emerging markets growth in sutures the strong uptick of the recently launched products PHYSIOMESH and SECURESTRAP as well as the clearance sales which grew over 20% in the quarter.
Ethicon Endo-Surgery achieved operational growth of 1.8% in the second quarter of 2011 with the U.S.
sales down 3.4% and sales outside the U.S.
up 5.5% operationally.
Growth was negatively impacted by the divestiture of the breast care business.
Excluding this impact worldwide sales grew approximately 4%.
Growth was driven by increased market share for advanced sterilization products.
And outside the U.S.
new product launches drove double-digit growth for HARMONIC products and strong sales results for Endo products.
Ortho clinical diagnostics grew 6.4% on an operational basis in the second quarter in both the U.S.
and outside the U.S.
Clinical lab results drove growth in the quarter due to the strength of the VITROS 5600 and 3600 platform.
Rounding out the review of the medical devices and diagnostics segment our vision care business achieved operational sales growth of 3.3% in the second quarter compared to the same period last year.
Sales in the U.S.
increased 5.6% while sales outside the U.S.
increased 2.1% on an operational basis.
ACUVUE MOIST and the astigmatism lenses made strong contributions to the quarter.
That completes highlights for the medical devices and diagnostics segment and concludes the segment highlights for Johnson &amp; Johnson second quarter of 2011.
I'll now turn the call over to Dominic Caruso.
Dominic? Thank you Louise and good morning everyone.
I would like to provide some additional comments about our second quarter results highlights on recent business and pipeline developments and then provide guidance for you to consider in refining your models for 2011.
I will be brief to allow ample time for Alex Gorski to speak about the exciting developments in our medical devices and diagnostics segment.
This quarter's results are very encouraging as we continue to see good momentum through the first half of the year.
This quarter sales growth and solid earnings exceeded the analyst estimates published by First Call and we are very pleased that in addition to these solid financial results we are making significant progress in our product launches pipelines and investments for future growth.
Consistent with our operating model our broad base of healthcare businesses is enabling us to invest and grow even as the markets we compete in have not yet rebounded to pre-recession levels.
I am pleased with our operational growth for the quarter and I expect to see additional improvement in our sales growth as our businesses gain momentum and as the healthcare market improves.
We are expanding our market leadership in many growth segments of the business successfully launching new products and advancing our pipelines in areas of critical unmet need.
We continue to invest in emerging markets and in the fastest growing segments of healthcare to sustain our growth over the long-term.
We are making portfolio decisions to focus on our core strengths where we can have the greatest impact on unmet patient and customer needs.
We are making progress with enhancements to our quality and manufacturing systems and we are taking a disciplined approach to profitable growth.
Our pharmaceuticals business demonstrated strong operational sales growth this quarter of 7% due to the success of our recently launched products such as STELARA and ZYTIGA and core medicines such as REMICADE and PREZISTA.
Our medical devices and diagnostic business saw modest sales growth again this quarter.
But excluding the drug-eluting stent sales MD&amp;D saw operational growth of about 3%.
We're in line with the market expectations for the sector and a good performance considering market factors that Alex will discuss later in this call.
And our consumer healthcare business continued to see good results in emerging markets more stabilization in businesses like skin care and baby care and steady progress addressing the manufacturing quality issues in the OTC business.
Excluding the impact of the OTC recall related issues the business saw operational sales growth of approximately 2.5% which has improved over the first quarter of this year.
As to earnings we are very pleased to have reported solid earnings per share in the second quarter of $1.28 excluding special items.
These special items which together amounted to $0.28 per share this quarter are the type of items we consistently exclude from our guidance.
I'll just briefly summarize these items.
As previously announced we recorded restructuring charges related to the Cordis business.
We recorded expenses related to litigation matters and additional to DePuy ASR Hip recall cost.
We also recorded a mark-to-market gain associated with the currency option that we purchased and that I previously described during our conference call regarding the planned acquisition of Synthese.
Now turning to a few notable business highlights for the quarter we hosted a review of our pharmaceutical business at the end of May which outlined the strength of our pipeline and highlighted the market strategies we are pursuing in our 5 therapeutic areas.
In fact our pipeline strength has been evident in 3 FDA approvals we received during the quarter including EDURANT for the treatment of HIV and treatment-naïve adults ZYTIGA for the treatment of metastatic prostate cancer and XARELTO for the treatment of deep vein thrombosis in patients undergoing knee or hip replacement surgery.
We recently announced a licensing agreement with Gilead Sciences for the development and commercialization of a new combination therapy including PREZISTA for patients with HIV.
We advanced our immunology leadership with the expansion of REMICADE and SIMPONI in certain global markets for which rights were transferred as of July 1 as a result of our agreement with Merck and with the recent approvals of SIMPONI in Japan.
Our businesses continue to make strategic decisions about where to focus resources.
As you know we announced that we are restructuring the Cordis business to no longer participate in the drug-eluting stent market and to focus on other cardiovascular therapies where significant patient need exists.
We recently completed the sale of Janssen Animal Health business to Elanco a division of division Eli Lilly which will be reflected in our third quarter results.
And also just last week we announced the planned divestiture of our ortho dermatologics business.
In consumer we are progressing with remediation actions in our McNeil consumer business while making investments to grow the overall consumer business.
For example we completed an acquisition of the over-the-counter brands from J.B.
Chemicals &amp; Pharmaceuticals Ltd.
just last week.
This transaction includes leading Russian OTC brands and strengthens our consumer products business in emerging markets.
Alex will provide an update about the MD&amp;D business in just a few minutes.
Let me now provide some guidance for you to consider as you refine your models for 2011.
Let me begin with a discussion of cash and interest income and expense.
At the end of the second quarter we had approximately $11 billion of net cash.
This consists of approximately $30 billion of cash and investments and approximately $19 billion of debt and we continue to generate strong cash flows.
We also announced the dividend increase of 5.6% in April our 49th consecutive year of dividend increases.
For purposes of your models assuming no additional major acquisition is due in 2011 I suggest you consider modeling net interest expense of between $400 million and $500 million slightly higher than our previous guidance.
Now turning to other income and expense.
As a reminder this is the account where we record royalty income as well as one-time gains and losses arising from such items as litigation investments by our development corporation divestitures asset sales or write-offs.
This account is difficult to forecast.
But assuming no major one-time gains or losses and excluding the impact of the special items I referred to earlier I would recommend that you consider modeling other income and expense for 2011 as a net gain ranging from approximately $800 million to $900 million.
This is slightly higher than our previous guidance.
And now a word on taxes.
On a year-to-date basis through the second quarter of 2011 the company's effective tax rate excluding special items was 21.3%.
This is lower than our previous guidance as I am happy to report that we were able to implement some tax planning strategies.
Also our earnings growth has accelerated outside the U.S.
and we are seeing lower corporate tax rates in certain countries.
We suggest that you model our effective tax rate for 2011 in the range of 21% to 22% which is lower than our previous guidance.
As always we will continue to pursue opportunities in this area to improve upon this rate throughout the year.
And now just a word on our operating expense trends.
In this quarter's earnings you can see a higher trend in cost of goods sold as well as R&amp;D and SG&amp;A expenses that you saw in our first quarter earnings.
This is somewhat impacted by the inclusion of the diluted impact of Crucell in our results but also a reflection of our commitment to invest in our business for future growth.
Our lower effective tax rate allows us to continue to invest in our business while delivering solid earnings.
And as you saw this quarter we did have higher spending levels in R&amp;D and SG&amp;A reflecting our investments to continue to build our pipeline and invest behind the launches of our exciting recently approved products.
We expect that this impact of Crucell and this higher level of investment will continue for the remainder of the year and will be higher than we contemplated in our previous guidance.
And looking at many of the published models I noticed that many of you have not reflected this higher level of spending yet.
And I suggest that you now consider this guidance in updating your models.
Now let's turn to sales and earnings guidance.
Our guidance continues to be based first on a constant-currency basis reflecting our results from operations assuming that average currency rates for 2011 will be the same as they were for 2010.
This is the way we manage our business and we believe this operational view provides a good understanding of the overlying performance of our business.
We will also continue to provide an estimate of sales and EPS results for 2011 with the impact the current exchange rates could have and we'll use the euro as an example.
So turning to sales.
We would be comfortable with your models reflecting an operational sales increase on a constant-currency basis of between approximately 2.5% and 3.5% for the year.
This is consistent with our previous guidance.
This would result in estimated sales for 2011 on a constant-currency basis of approximately $63.5 billion.
While we're not predicting the impact of currency movements to give you an idea of the potential impact of currency exchange rates for the remainder of 2011 or to stay where they were as of last week as an example with the euro at approximately $1.42 then our sales growth rate would be positively impacted by approximately 3% for the year.
Thus under this scenario we would expect reported sales growth to be between approximately 5.5% and 6.5% for the year for a total expected level of reported sales of approximately $65.5 billion.
This is consistent with our previous guidance.
Now turning to earnings.
I suggest that you consider full year 2011 operational EPS estimates of between $4.74 and $4.84 per share excluding the impact of special items and assuming the same average exchange rates for 2011 as we saw in 2010.
This is consistent with our previous guidance as our lower effective tax rate will be offset by higher investment spending as I discussed earlier.
While we're not predicting the impact of currency movements to give you an idea of the potential impact on EPS if currency exchange rates for the balance of 2011 were to remain where they were as of last week then the impact of currency movements primarily the euro would be favorable by approximately $0.16 per share.
Therefore our reported EPS excluding special items would be between $4.90 and $5 per share or a reported EPS growth rate of approximately 3% to 5%.
This is also consistent with our previous guidance.
While we are pleased with the momentum in our business in the first half of this year given the continued uncertainties in the overall economic climate we believe that this level of guidance is prudent at this time.
That concludes my comments on our operating performance this quarter and our guidance with respect to your models.
As you know we regularly communicate with the investment community about our long-term strategy and prospects for growth.
This year we held a business review in May focusing on the pharmaceutical business and today we're providing you an update on our progress in the MD&amp;D business.
At the end of the MD&amp;D presentation we look forward to taking your questions.
It is my pleasure now to introduce my friend and colleague on the Executive Committee Alex Gorski Vice Chairman of Johnson &amp; Johnson's Executive Committee who will take you through an overview of the exciting opportunities and life-changing technologies that our MD&amp;D businesses are focused on.
Alex? Thank you Dominic and good morning everyone.
I last spoke with you in detail about our medical devices and diagnostic segment a little more than a year ago when we gathered in New Brunswick for an all-day session.
At that meeting we discussed the overall MD&amp;D market as well as our strategies to succeed in this market.
Since that time there have been some significant changes in the macroeconomic environment and therefore in the marketplace.
Namely we are seeing slower market growth particularly in developed countries around the world but we do remain confident in the market's long-term growth potential.
I'll talk more about that in a moment.
Also since last year we've been executing well against our strategic priorities.
First we've launched a number of innovative products across a wide range of our businesses allowing us to strengthen our largest core franchises gain share in our high-growth businesses and expand into some new market segments.
We believe that many of these products are real game changers and I'll highlight a few of them today.
We've continued to advance our robust pipeline across our businesses.
As with our recently launched products we feel that a number of our pipeline products also have real breakthrough potential and I'll highlight a few of them today as well.
And we strengthened our global presence especially in emerging markets like China and India and I'll provide you with some examples of that today too.
We've also made some significant decisions to shape our portfolio of businesses for growth and I'll describe some of these decisions to you as well.
So let's start by taking a look at the overall MD&amp;D market and what we're seeing.
We continue to believe this market has solid long-term growth potential due to a number of tailwinds that you see on the left-hand side of this slide.
I'll highlight each briefly.
First populations in the developed world are aging rapidly.
In large countries like Japan Germany and Italy more than 20% of the total population is already over 65 years of age.
That percentage is rising rapidly in other developed nations including the U.S.
with a first of approximately 77 million baby boomers began turning 65 this year at the astonishing rate of 1 person every 8 seconds.
As most of us know from personal experience we consume more healthcare as we grow older.
In fact those over the age of 65 consume an average of 7 times more healthcare per year than those under the age of 65.
A second tailwind is the growing demand for healthcare that we're seeing in emerging markets.
China for example has lifted more than 400 million people out of poverty in the last 20 years.
As standards of living rise people increasingly expect and are able to afford better healthcare.
A third tailwind is the fact that significant unmet medical needs remain in both the developed and the developing world.
The diseases that our products help treat osteoarthritis cardiovascular disease diabetes presbyopia obesity affect hundreds of millions of people today with prevalence rates that are on the rise globally.
Finally we live in a time of tremendous scientific and technological progress.
I was in Asia just a few weeks ago and had the pleasure of visiting with the number of high-tech companies outside of the healthcare industry.
When you think about the advances that are being made in terms of our understanding of disease and you couple that with some of the incredible new technologies that are being developed it's a very exciting time to be in our space.
But there are very significant headwinds facing us too and you see them here; continued high unemployment and deficit concerns in the United States; austerity measures in Western Europe; a tougher regulatory environment worldwide; a tougher pricing and reimbursement environment worldwide.
None of these will come as any surprise to you but I think it's fair to say that these headwinds are proving to be stronger and more persistent than we would have hoped and we are feeling their effects.
I'll give you just a few examples.
First we've seen declining in-hospital surgical procedures in the U.S.
for 6 straight quarters through the first quarter of this year a good proxy for the overall strength of the MD&amp;D market.
Visits to physicians' offices in the United States another key indicator declined throughout 2010 and we've seen little if any recovery thus far in 2011.
Some of you have written about what you're seeing recently noting procedure volumes still appear to be soft.
Looking at price we saw a slight price decline in our markets collectively last year on a global basis and price continues to be a challenge for us this year particularly in certain market segments.
A few years ago price was a neutral to positive factor in our overall performance.
Having said all that we believe that J&amp;J's market leadership positions our depth and breadth and our capabilities and expertise position us to move forward despite these headwinds but they are challenging.
So what does all this mean in terms of our market outlook? As we've said in the past the global MD&amp;D market is worth roughly $350 billion a year.
From the pie chart on the left you see the market is split about evenly between the U.S.
and the rest of the world.
And we estimate that the total market will grow at a 5-year compound annual growth rate of about 5%.
Shifting to the pie chart on the right J&amp;J competes in almost 2/3 of the overall market and we expect the segments in which we compete to grow at roughly the same rate as the total market.
In 2011 we expect a slower full year market growth than we saw in 2010.
We anticipate faster market growth as we move into the 2012 to 2015 timeframe as the global economy gradually improves as more people come into the U.S.
healthcare system through healthcare reform and as demand in emerging markets continue to rise.
We can see the impact of slower market growth in our second quarter results which Louise reviewed earlier as well as on our performance through the first 6 months of the year which I'll discuss briefly now.
MD&amp;D's total sales for the first 6 months of the year were $13 billion up 1.3% operationally from the prior year and 5.2% on a reported basis.
Sales in the U.S.
were roughly flat operationally while sales outside the United States increased on an operational basis by 2.5%.
Excluding drug-eluting stent total MD&amp;D sales increased about 3% operationally.
Despite a challenging market environment 6 of our 7 franchises generated positive growth led by our diabetes care franchise which grew at 6% operationally.
Our Ethicon and Vision Care franchises each grew at 4% operationally while our ortho clinical diagnostics Ethicon endo-surgery and DePuy franchises each grew at 2% operationally.
Sales of our cardiovascular care franchise declined 12% operationally but were up 3% excluding drug-eluting stents.
Spending just a moment on DePuy since it's our largest franchise Louise mentioned some of the pressures that we've been seeing in hips and knees with both segments of the market growing at rates well below historical levels.
In the U.S.
patients are reluctant to step away from their jobs at a time of persistently high unemployment and they often can't afford the higher co-pays they're being asked to cover.
Austerity measures in Europe are leading to longer queues for both hip and knee replacements.
From a share perspective we're holding our own in knees globally but we have lost some share in hips especially in the U.S.
due to the recall of our ASR product.
Moving forward we have several new product launches planned that we believe will strengthen our competitiveness in both these businesses.
In hips for example our new RECLAIM system approved in the U.S.
earlier this year and approved just a few weeks ago in Europe along with our new GRIPTON TF product should strengthen our position in the fast-growing revision segment of the market.
Additionally we recently launched a comprehensive patient education campaign in the U.S.
that encourages people living with chronic knee or hip pain to talk to an orthopedic surgeon about treatment options a campaign that we hope will contribute to stronger procedure growth.
Elsewhere in DePuy we are continuing the rollout of the COUGAR LS Lateral Cage which should strengthen our spine business in the fast-growing lateral approach segment.
While our neurovascular business has been doing well thanks in part to our new line of GALAXY coils and products added to the 2010 acquisition of Micrus Endovascular.
At a time of slower market growth we remain committed to our long-standing goal of sustaining or gaining share in the market segments where we compete.
Within our 7 franchises we track 20 major product platforms that account for about 90% of our total sales.
To give you an example of what I mean our Ethicon franchise includes 4 major platforms: sutures biosurgicals aesthetics and ears nose and throat.
Based on all available data we sustained or gained share in 3 quarters of these 20 platforms through the first 3 months of the year and we estimate this will be the case for the first 6 months of the year as well.
Obviously we'd like to go for 20 for '20 but we're pleased with our performance especially when you consider that we're already number 1 or number 2 in most of these platforms.
At a time of slower market growth we are also more focused than ever on executing against our strategic priorities.
Launching innovative products advancing a robust pipeline broadening our geographic presence and achieving these first 3 by focusing on our talented people around the world.
So let me spend a few minutes taking you now through these strategic priorities starting with innovative products.
You know when you look at our 20 platforms there's a real mix in terms of size maturity and growth rates.
We have some very large platforms where we've been a significant player for a long time platforms like contact lenses sutures and SMBG.
These platforms typically don't grow at double-digit rates for us but they form a terrific and consistent core foundation upon which we can build the rest of our business.
We have another set of platforms where we often do see high single-digit or double-digit growth and where there's still a lot of runway left.
Electrophysiology energy biosurgicals and infection prevention are some of the platforms in this category and they are the real growth engines for us today.
And then we have some new platforms businesses that we've entered fairly recently typically through an acquisition but are relatively small today but they have the potential to be the real growth engines of tomorrow.
The common denominator of success across all of these platforms is that you need to introduce a steady stream of innovative new products with great execution.
In contact lenses for example which is our single largest platform we continue to drive growth in daily disposables one of the fastest growing segments of the market worldwide.
In the U.S.
sales of 1-day ACUVUE MOIST and 1-day ACUVUE TruEye has made us number in the daily disposables segment.
TruEye is the world's first daily disposable silicone hydrogel contact lens offering patients a level of all-day comfort that is not just superior to competing lenses but actually comparable to wearing no lenses at all a remarkable achievement.
In Asia-Pacific and Europe we've been rolling out 1-day ACUVUE MOIST for astigmatism powered by BLINK STABILIZED technology that positions the lens quickly and keeps it in the right place no matter how active your lifestyle might be.
In SMBG another large core platform we recently launched the highly accurate and easy-to-use OneTouch Verio blood glucose monitoring system in Australia and Western Europe where it's been performing well.
We look forward to upcoming launches of additional new products based on the Verio platform in the U.S.
and Canada.
In electrophysiology which has been a consistent double-digit growth platform for us we've taken share over the past year to the global launch of Carto 3 the most advanced navigational mapping system on the market today for treating cardiac arrhythmia such as atrial fibrillation.
More recently we've just begun the European launch of the ThermoCool SmartTouch Contact Force Sensing Catheter a breakthrough technology that provides EPs with real-time information about the precise amount and direction of the force being applied during ablation procedures.
Just last week we enrolled the first patient in our pivotal U.S.
trial for this product.
We've been driving well above market growth in our biosurgicals platform through new products like the SURGIFLO Hemostatic Matrix Kit one of the first product launches resulting from our 2008 acquisition of Omrix Biopharmaceuticals.
We've also driven growth to the rapid globalization of the EVICEL Fibrin Sealant also acquired from Omrix.
When we acquired Omrix EVICEL is available in 1 country Omrix's home country Israel.
But by the end of 2009 the product was available in 10 countries.
And at present we're at the 21 countries.
In our ear nose and throat platform a great new platform which we entered through our 2010 acquisition of Acclarent we recently received U.S.
clearance for the CYCLOPS Multi-Angle Endoscope.
CYCLOPS is a revolutionary new endoscope that enables ENTs to visualize the anatomy of the nasal cavity like never before so they can provide the best possible therapy.
We believe that CYCLOPS will encourage and enable greater adoption of Acclarent's innovative Balloon Sinuplasty technology to treat chronic sinusitis especially as these procedures begin to move into in office settings.
Let's move to our second strategic priority which is advancing our robust pipeline.
Our financial strength enables us to invest approximately $1.8 billion a year in research and development.
This is more than any of our competitors and we're seeing our investment pay off.
Last June I showed you 2 charts highlighting significant products in the pipeline across our 7 franchises.
Since then I'm pleased to say that roughly 3 quarters of the products on these slides from last year have progressed from one column to the next.
Products in the pending approval column have been approved.
Products in the planned submission column had been submitted and so forth.
I'll highlight just a few of these again by platform.
Within our energy platform Ethicon Endo-Surgery received 510(k) and CE Mark approval in just the past few weeks for its new advanced energy generator.
This is the first of its kind combination generator that powers both ultrasonic and advanced bipolar technologies helping to simplify the operating room and enabling surgical teams to dedicate more of their time to patients.
We believe this a real game changer for our customers and for our business.
Approval of this new generator paves the way for the launch of another important energy product that recently emerged from our pipeline.
The new ENSEAL G2 Super Jaw device designed for open surgical procedures such as colorectal gynecological and general surgery.
This is the first bipolar advanced energy technology that offers surgeons strong seals while remaining gentle on tissue and it rounds out our product portfolio in this area.
In our infection prevention platform we just received U.S.
clearance for the very innovative GLOSAIR Healthcare Environmental Decontamination System acquired as part of our 2009 purchase of Gloster Europe.
The GLOSAIR System creates and uniformly disperses a fog of 5% hydrogen peroxide in hospital rooms and operating suites hoping to reduce the risk of patient contact with infection-causing pathogens.
Did you know for example that some light switches in hospital rooms are cleaned only 20% of the time? Healthcare associated infections are a growing public health concern impacting an estimated 2 million patients a year in the U.S.
alone.
We believe the GLOSAIR System has a potential to become a real must-have technology for hospitals.
In fact in a survey that will be released next week 75% of Americans say that it is more important to choose a hospital based on lower infection rates than on convenience when in a non-emergency situation.
Insulin delivery is a relatively new platform for us.
One of our most important pipeline products here is the Animas Vibe an insulin pump that's integrated with a continuous glucose monitoring system providing greater insight for pump wearers about their blood glucose levels.
Unlike other CGM-enabled pumps the Animas Vibe displays glucose trends in color and it's waterproof a fact that will be vividly demonstrated later this week when 6 Animas Vibe users swim across the English Channel to raise money for diabetes research.
Additionally the Vibe's Dexcom sensor technology is approved for up to 7 days of wear delivering more days of CGM data than competing systems.
I'm pleased to report that we and our partner Dexcom received CE Mark approval a few weeks ago for the Animas Vibe and we continue to work together towards submitting the product for approval in the U.S.
and Canada.
Beyond the Vibe I'm pleased to report that Animas received IDE approval a few weeks ago from the FDA to proceed with the clinical trial investigating the world's first artificial pancreas an automated closed loop system that dispenses insulin based on real-time changes in blood sugar levels.
We look forward to working closely with our partner the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation to begin feasibility studies on this groundbreaking project later this summer.
Another new platform for us is sedation.
As you know we asked for and were granted an appeal from the FDA relating to the agency's denial of our PMA application for the SEDASYS system the world's first computer-assisted personalized sedation system.
We're hopeful that a new independent advisory panel will be convened before the end of the year to reconsider SEDASYS a very exciting technology that has the potential to benefit millions of patients while removing cost out of the healthcare system.
In the meantime I'm pleased to report the system has been performing very well in Canada where it is approved and now has been used in approximately 250 cases.
Before wrapping up this portion of discussion I should note that I've highlighted just a select few of the many products in our pipeline.
We are advancing dozens of exciting new pipeline products including several breakthroughs that I've highlighted to you in the past such as the Fibrin Pad to address intraoperative bleeding and a contact lens embedded with an active anti-allergy ingredient.
Moving to our next strategic priority broadening our geographic presence we really have a tale of 2 cities in this case between developed and emerging markets.
Developed markets the U.S.
Japan Europe are traditionally accounted for approximately 90% of the total MD&amp;D market.
So it's essential that we succeed in these markets and we remain focused on growing our share there.
As I mentioned earlier growth in developed markets has slowed considerably over the course of the past 12 months.
So we are increasingly shifting resources into emerging markets which collectively are growing at a very strong double-digit rate and will make up a growing percentage of the total MD&amp;D market moving forward.
Now J&amp;J is no newcomer to emerging markets.
We opened our first offices in Russia nearly 20 years ago in China nearly 30 years ago in India more than 50 years ago and in Brazil more than 70 years ago.
We understand what it takes to succeed in these markets and we are succeeding.
MD&amp;D sales in China for example have grown twentyfold since 2000.
We have achieved this kind of impressive growth even though we traditionally focused almost exclusively on the premium or as one segment in emerging markets.
Those patients who live in urban centers and who can afford to pay out of pocket for top-quality health care.
Moving forward we plan to expand our coverage of the S-1 market in BRIC as well as other promising emerging markets like Indonesia Mexico Turkey to ensure that we are fully maximizing our growth potential.
At the same time we are expanding our product offerings to meet the unique needs of the S2 segment of the market comprised of hundreds of millions of people who are now gaining some degree of healthcare coverage.
I had the pleasure just a few weeks ago to attend the opening of a new MD&amp;D Asia-Pacific innovation Center in Suzhou China focused on developing product specifically for the S2 market in China and India.
These products might be targeted at specific disease states that are more prevalent in the region.
They might be simplified or smaller devices that are better suited for use outside the major cities and top-tier hospitals or they might be multi-use or disposable products that are more economical.
We already have a number of these products on the market staplers sutures the blood glucose meter and an artificial knee but there's much much more to be done as we seek to bring the promise of good health to as many people as possible.
And since so many of our products don't truly come to life until they get in the hands of skilled surgeons we continue to provide training to thousands of physicians in both the S1 and S2 segment of emerging markets.
Next week for example we will be opening a new DePuy Institute in southern India modeled after the highly successful DePuy Institute we opened in the U.S.
a few years ago.
Osteoarthritis is on the rise in India but today joint replacement surgery there is performed at a very low rate about 1/10 the number of cases per year compared with the U.S.
even though India's population is roughly 4 times larger.
Our institute in India will train approximately 1 000 physicians a year in the latest orthopedics techniques and technologies helping to ensure that patients can get the quality care they need.
So I've taken you through our strategic priorities.
Now I'd like to spend a few minutes talking about strategic portfolio management ensuring that we are investing a disproportionate share of our resources and those opportunities that we believe have the greatest potential to benefit patients and to drive our growth.
I have often said that the business is like a garden.
In order to thrive it needs to be regularly pruned and planted.
This type of work is important to do even when the market conditions are favorable.
But it's absolutely essential to do it in a tough market environment like the one we're experiencing today.
We have a number of unique competitive advantages that really help us in this regard.
The breadth of our businesses not only in MD&amp;D but across our pharma and consumer segments too gives us a view of the entire healthcare landscape that enables us to make better choices than if we were in just a handful of market segments.
We see the whole field and we make our choices accordingly.
Our breadth also enables us to leverage certain of our slower growth businesses and geographies in order to more aggressively fund higher growth opportunities.
Our financial strength gives us the ability to invest in multiple growth opportunities at the same time rather than just having to pick 1 or 2.
And our leadership position and reputation make us a highly attractive partner for companies across the spectrum of the MD&amp;D industry again enabling us to pick and choose the best opportunities.
We've made a number of important portfolio decisions in recent years.
We've divested a few slow growth non-strategic businesses such as our professional wound care and breast care businesses.
And we've acquired a number of new businesses that have strengthened us in existing platforms or taken us into new areas including Omrix in biosurgicals SurgRX in energy Mentor in aesthetics Acclarent in ENT Micrus in neurovascular Finsbury in orthopedics and Gloster in infection prevention.
Two significant portfolio moves we made this year are the decision to exit the drug-eluting stent business and the decision to acquire Synthese a world-class orthopedics company.
I'd like to spend a moment in both these decisions.
First we recently announced plans to stop manufacturing the CYPHER drug-eluting stent by the end of this year and to cease further development of the NEVO drug-eluting stent in order to better focus on those areas of the cardiovascular market with the most significant medical needs and the greatest opportunities for growth.
Moving forward our new cardiovascular care franchise will be comprised of Biosense Webster the world's leading electrophysiology business and Cordis which will focus on access and diagnostic products for cardiology procedures and endovascular products to access and treat lower extremity disease.
These businesses collectively generate $1.9 billion in 2010 sales and grew operationally at approximately 8%.
I spoke with you earlier about our fast-growing electrophysiology business and some of the exciting new products that are driving growth in that space.
On the Cordis side of the franchise we received U.S.
approval recently for the EXOSEAL Vascular Closure Device which closes the puncture site made during catheterization procedures.
This is an area where complications can occur and which can significantly affect length of hospital stay as well as patient comfort.
EXOSEAL has done well in Europe where it's been available for about the past year and we're excited about its prospects in the U.S.
We also continue to advance a promising new device to treat abdominal aortic aneurysms INCRAFT which we expect to file for CE Mark approval later this year.
An estimated 27 million people worldwide have abdominal aortic aneurysms.
Left untreated all aneurysms will eventually rupture resulting in death 80% of the time.
The ultralow profile delivery system of INCRAFT has the potential to make endovascular aneurysm repair a possible treatment alternative for a wider range of patients.
At the same time that we're bringing greater focus to our existing cardiovascular businesses we'll also look for opportunities to enter in new areas of the market where we can significantly improve patient care and drive growth.
Turning to another major portfolio decision.
We announced in April a definitive agreement to acquire Synthese a premier global developer and manufacturer of orthopedics devices.
This agreement exemplifies our continued willingness and ability to take advantage of significant opportunities when they arise that will enable us to better serve more patients and to enhance our long-term growth prospects.
The acquisition of Synthese would be the largest purchase in J&amp;J history and it is consistent with our enterprise global strategy that strengthen our leadership position across important healthcare markets in this case the $37 billion global orthopedics market.
A combination of DePuy and Synthes we'll be well positioned to succeed in a time of dramatic change in the orthopedic market offering patients surgeons and hospitals a broad range of innovative technologies to meet their orthopedic needs.
DePuy and Synthese are highly complementary.
DePuy as you know is a leader in hips and knees by far the largest segment of the orthopedics market as well as in the sports medicine.
Synthese is a leader in several important and growing market segments where DePuy has less of a presence or no presence at all including trauma cranio-maxillofacial and power tools.
Both companies offer complementary portfolios for spinal surgery.
Updating the status of the transaction our integration planning activity is well under way.
We've initiated several major regulatory filings and we continue to expect the transaction to close in the first half of 2012.
Let me also say that we continue to evaluate several alternatives to finance the transaction in the most efficient manner.
Okay.
Before we open up the lines for your questions let me leave you with a few key takeaways.
First Johnson &amp; Johnson is the largest strongest player in the large attractive MD&amp;D market.
Current headwinds are leading the slower market growth in the near term but we remain confident in the market's solid long-term growth potential.
Second we are executing well against our strategic priorities.
We are launching innovative products in our core franchises and in our high-growth businesses.
We are investing in and advancing a robust pipeline and we are strengthening our geographic presence.
By doing so we are gaining or maintaining share in most of the market segments in which we compete.
Finally we are committed to making the strategic decisions that will enable us to shape our portfolio to best serve patients and to best drive our growth.
I want to thank the thousands of MD&amp;D employees around the world for their commitment to our credo to the patients and customers we serve and to our business.
And I thank all of you for your time and attention this morning.
Now I'll turn things back over to Louise who will get us ready for our Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Alex.
David could you please give the instructions for the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Mike Weinstein.
Dominic maybe as a starting point could you just touch on the guidance for the contents for the quarter? You did have some outperformance this quarter but you left guidance unchanged.
Could you just add some more to that? Sure Mike.
Well as you saw we did have some outperformance on the top line.
We're pleased with that.
We also had the outperformance in the bottom line principally driven by the benefit from a lower tax rate.
If I compare the tax rate that we experienced so far this year to the tax rate guidance I previously gave the quarter was probably impacted by about $0.04 just from a lower tax rate from the previous guidance.
We're pleased with that because I'd rather have lower taxes and be able to invest in the business and that's what you saw us start doing.
You saw that the second quarter cost of goods sold SG&amp;A and R&amp;D are all up from the first quarter.
And as I said during my prepared remarks that we would expect that trend to continue through the balance of the year.
So in summary we're going to take advantage of a lower tax rate to continue to invest behind the pipeline make sure the product launches are off to a great start and integrate obviously the Crucell business as best we can.
So we're going to take advantage of that and I think in the slower markets we want to make sure that we can gain as much share as we can.
We want to continue to invest behind our business.
So our view at this point is our guidance for the year stays about the same in the bottom line despite a stronger quarter than perhaps Wall Street had estimated.
But as I said we're going to continue to invest and probably build some momentum in the expense line throughout the balance of the year to offset the tax benefit.
Alex while we got you the Orthopedic business particularly the hip and knee segments look very similar to what we saw in the first quarter if I look at year-over-year growth but the comparisons did ease a fair amount in the first quarter and second quarter.
So it's a bit disappointing.
Can you give us your view on the underlying health of the hip and knee end markets and maybe as well as spine and how we should think about those for the balance of the year? Sure.
As we pointed out earlier we have seen the hip and knee markets their overall growth slowed down significantly.
So for example we're seeing hip growth probably at about 1% and we're seeing knees down about 1%.
We're seeing the spine market at about 1%.
Based on a lot of the macro economic factors that we talked about earlier if you look at hospital admissions if you look at surgical procedure rates as well as just some other fundamentals that we've been tracking even looking at primary care physician visits we would expect those trends to continue into the back end of the year.
Now there might be some recovery just based upon our lapping of last year's results but we think that economic pressures are going to continue to play a role in any type of elective procedure.
And so we would expect those markets to pretty much play out in that manner for the remainder of the year.
And then last just to be clear Alex there's no update on the Synthese financing at this point? Let me take it Mike.
There isn't and we're consistent with what we said before.
However Mike that as we proceed with the integration activities with which we're doing now we'll look for ways to finance this transaction more efficiently than the way we modeled it.
I think we gave you a conservative way of modeling it when we announced the transaction and obviously we're working towards improving that but we don't have any more update on that -- in that regard just yet.
And Mike -- I would just add on that Mike that all the regulatory filings are on schedule.
Things are on track and obviously we'll keep you updated as we move through the process.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Dodds with Citigroup.
Dominic first for you.
On the gross margin it was a little bit below from expectations were.
Was there anything onetime in there? I'm not sure Louise if you said there might have been something onetime in there.
Or should we just assume that the pharma mix is going to be a little bit lower as we move through this year? The gross margin that you see on the P&amp;L and Louise talked about it 100 basis point increase from the second quarter 2 main factors: One is that the restructuring charge related to Cordis a portion of that restructuring charge goes into cost of goods sold line.
So that's about 50 basis points of the different and that's just obviously just this quarter.
The balance of the 50 basis point increase year-over-year has to do with integrating the Crucell business which is a vaccine business as you know which has lower margins than the balance of our Pharma business.
And also the continuing remediation cost and activities related to our McNeil Consumer Healthcare business.
So they are the main reasons why the GP looks lower this quarter.
All right.
Perfect.
And then Alex for you.
Can you just say broadly whether you think the U.S.
and Europe markets are growing right now and to get to this 5% growth rate that you have on your slide from 10 to 15 and you said next year will be better.
When do we get the 5%? Is it 2012? Or is this going to be in your view longer than that? I would say as we look at the markets right now and you know better than I do the granularity of some of the data points that we're dealing with and so I think it's really important that we look at it from a trend perspective and not necessarily a spot or point in time.
But we're seeing the market probably somewhere between 2% and 3% right now.
And we think that's likely to continue.
Again there may be some effect from the lapping of last year.
I think you noted in your report last year we started seeing in June but it really was in quarter 3 and quarter 4 when we started to see what we feel is the more significant impact from the macroeconomic issue certainly in the United States and also in Europe due to some of the austerity measures.
We think that's going to continue.
Now going forward I think one of the things we'd be looking for one obviously is the lapping of the current period; two when we should see an influx of patients once healthcare reform in enacted in the United States and that's probably more 2014 '13 '14 '15 phenomena as well as some recovery in the overall economic environment in both the U.S.
and Europe.
And so we would expect that over time that's how you get to the period that we referenced earlier the 2010 to 2015 of approximately 5%.
Your next question comes from the line of Jami Rubin with Goldman Sachs.
Just a couple of questions.
Dominic for you first on -- can you update is on where we are with hip litigation? I saw that you added to your reserve for that litigation.
Where are we with that? How do you see that being resolved? And then I just wanted to follow up with some pharma questions.
Well just a point of clarity there's 2 components to the cost associated with the ASR hip recall: One is litigation and the other is what we refer to as the hip recall program cost.
Those are the costs that we've agreed to incur on behalf of patients as they move forward with the process of getting revisions et cetera.
So we've updated the separate item that we're referring to here is -- but refers to both.
So there is no litigation that's actually been tried.
These are estimates of the amount of claims that have come in and our cost to handle those claims and the uptick in the recall cost primarily relate to the actual cost that we'll incur on behalf of patients to help them through the process.
I can't give you any more specifics on how it all will end up but as we learn more we'll continue to refine the estimates just as we get more information.
What is your total reserves for litigation at this point? Right.
We haven't disclosed that Jami and we're not going to do so today.
Okay.
If I could just ask a couple of pharma-related questions.
Can you provide sales for ZYTIGA? And just my other question related to Xarelto just in light of the very positive Crixivan data.
How do you see Xarelto being positioned in the AF market? On ZYTIGA Louise do you have that handy? It's just under 1% of the pharma sales.
And on Xarelto I -- you're right we did see some apparently positive results for Crixivan.
I think it's too early to comment because we haven't really seen the full data set.
So what was disclosed was top line results and I guess the full data set will be in August I believe and I think we'll wait until we see the full data setting including all types of bleeding and obviously primary and secondary endpoints.
So at this point we're going to watch and see what the full data set looks like but we do believe Xarelto is already well positioned as a product that has -- will meet unmet medical need today with good results and obviously a once-a-day pill should be something that the market will appreciate.
Your next question comes from the line of Larry Biegelsen with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Louise could just give us the spine numbers for the quarter please? Sure.
On an operational basis spine in the U.S.
is down 4% and o U.S.
is up 8%.
So on a total basis it's flat.
LLC</strong> You said 8 -- down 8% for the U.S.? No.
Down 4% for the U.S.
up 8% o U.S.
so flat on a total basis.
LLC</strong> And Alex any update on the integration with Synthese and if that's having any impact on your spine business? No.
It's really too early to get into any details of the integration at this time.
LLC</strong> Okay.
On Cordis of that $1.9 billion how much is non-drug-eluting stent interventional cardiology sales? And do you expect exiting the drug-eluting stent business to negatively impact that? And just lastly Alex maybe you can tell us a little bit about the process or the thought process of exiting the drug-eluting stent business and why you didn't think about selling the interventional cardiology business.
So Larry in the second quarter the drug-eluting stent business in a quarter was about $65 million and on a year-to-date basis it's about $180 million.
Last year it was about $630 million.
LLC</strong> I'm sorry Louise the non-drug-eluting stent interventional cardiology business.
We don't break it out that specifically but you can back out the drug-eluting stents out of that.
Biosense Webster is just under $1 billion business.
That's the degree of detail we've given on it.
LLC</strong> That's helpful.
Larry as you can imagine we put a lot of thought and careful consideration into our decision in the drug-eluting stent portion of the business.
We're really proud of the contribution that we've made in that part of the market given our history and our overall track record of performance.
But frankly when you -- when we look at it going forward we saw that a lot of the dynamics have changed considerably in recent years and they're going to continue to evolve when you look at really unmet medical need in light of existing products and the profiles they represent and some of the other products that would have proceeded our NEVO technology.
If you look at pricing let alone some of the recent quarters is we would project going forward as well as reimbursement and then when we also compare that with some of the regulatory requirements that we would need for the clinical development program to get the kind of claims necessary to be able to actively differentiate products in the future we just felt that frankly there are other areas in our portfolio where we can make investments that will not only lead to better meeting unmet medical need for patients but also have better return for overall business.
And so that's why we made the decision.
Regarding its impact on the other areas we do think that there's an impact.
We're looking hard at the strategy overall now for our cardiovascular portfolio.
As I mentioned in my talk earlier we are very fortunate that we've got a thriving Biosense Webster EP business right now.
If you look at our growth rates our market position and very importantly if you look at the new technology that we're introducing things like CARTO 3 and our new ThermoCool Sensors and other items that we have coming out we think we're going to be very well positioned there.
We think endovascular also represents a very important space for us.
We're working hard on the INCRAFT triplaise approach and the early results have been very promising.
Of course we're going to continue to look hard there.
But I want to also say that we remain very interested in the overall cardiovascular space.
We still think that if you look at the overall impact that it has on patients there's still a lot of unmet need in many areas in addition to EP and endovascular if you look at areas like severe hypertension if you look at the valve space where we have some very early investments in other areas again there's a lot of unmet need.
And we think that those markets are going to evolve in the coming months and years and we'll be looking hard around our strategy and exact tactics going forward.
Your next question comes from Sara Michelmore with Brean Murray Carret.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> When you talk about the TYLENOL remediation program Louise it did sound like you maybe we’re seeing some additional challenges or delays there.
I just was hoping you can clarify the commentary versus what you've said previously.
Yes.
So what we said was from the Fort Washington facility which was primarily the liquids we're only going to see a modest amount back on the market this year.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then in 2012 I think initially you'd said that you should be back in sort of full-scale production in the first half of the year.
It sounded like maybe you're talking 2012 broadly now.
It is more broadly in 2012.
It is ramping up in the beginning the first half of 2012 but it is a little bit slower than previous.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And in terms of the cost associated with a remediation is there any change there? Or is that still on the same type of spending level? This is Dominic Sara.
The costs are about the same as we previously gave so no impact in the guidance related to the cost.
One thing about the ramp-up of the products Louise is exactly right modest amount at the end of this year end and production ramps up in 2012.
But I would say by the middle of 2012 the majority of the products are expected to be back on the market.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And in terms of going over to Alex when we think about the cardiovascular franchise and what it will look like it does sound like you're going to maybe extend your footprint in new end markets.
I'm just curious in terms of what you have in the internal portfolio today versus what you need to access externally what your thoughts are in terms of buy versus build.
Sure.
I think as we look over at cardiovascular we do have a number of new products new development new approaches especially in the EP and the Biosense Webster space.
So I just recently went out and visited with our Biosense team in Israel and we're very optimistic and confident about our ability to pretty consistently innovate in that space building again on things like CARTO 3 our new ThermoCool Catheter as well as some of the other things we have coming in that area to ensure that we maintain and build upon our very strong leadership position.
If we look at other areas obviously we've -- I mentioned the INCRAFT AAA stent.
Again early results and we have few patients so far we're getting ready to open up the clinical program on that later this year.
The results have been encouraging.
It's got a very low profile and so far we've been pleased with what we've seen but obviously we've got a lot more work that needs to be done in that area.
And beyond that we're continuing to look at some of the other spaces that I mentioned to you.
And again those could range from things like severe hypertension.
Again there's a lot of unmet need there.
Other areas that I -- that we've talked about in the past even the LVAD space is one that we watch.
So I think we want to take a balanced approach.
We want to have good internal development programs and obviously they were going to need to rebuild some of our cardiovascular capabilities given recent decisions and discussions as well as make a very selective and appropriate external investments as well which we've done historically through JJDC as well as directly with Cordis.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And is there a time frame in which you're contemplating kind of having the portfolio kind of totally rebuilt at this point? No.
Your next question comes from Glenn Novarro with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Alex on the DePuy business can you give us what pure pricing was in U.S.
spine U.S.
hips and U.S.
knees? And then do the same for worldwide total.
And then also was there any mix benefit in U.S.
spine hips and knees in the U.S.
and worldwide? So Glenn I'll take that one.
For the U.S.
on hips pure price minus 5% so mid-single digits.
In the knees low-single digits negative in the U.S.
only.
And then in spine it's in the mid-single-digit range as well and that's pure price.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then you have it on a worldwide basis as well? Yes we do.
For hips we saw it down about 3%; knees about 1%; and spine about 3%.
We don't have the mix based upon the data challenge on a worldwide basis.
LLC</strong> And I just don't have it in front of me.
Were these numbers consistent with what you saw in the first quarter? Was there a little bit of improvement a little deceleration any type of color? I just don't remember what I had for the first quarter.
Overall fairly consistent.
And again I tend to look at this on a multi-quarter basis versus just a direct quarter-to-quarter because of the data but fairly consistent.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And just one last question sticking on DePuy particularly on spine.
The market has slowed from a unit point of view and a utilization point of view just because of payer pushback requiring additional care before going to surgery particularly on the lumbar side.
Have you seen any softening of the pushback? Has it gotten worse? Any additional color would be great.
It's actually been pretty consistent now for about the last 6 to 12 months and while we continue to see good performance on more minimally invasive approach and things that we're doing with both Cougar and our Viper systems overall if I look at the market I think the trends have been fairly consistent.
Your next question comes from Matt Miksic with Piper Jaffray.
One on Ethicon growth maybe for Alex just to get a sense of the trends.
You talked we saw some sequential improvements in the U.S.
and o U.S.
in the second quarter.
You mentioned emerging markets future growth this quarter.
But last quarter there was a sense of stabilization in the U.S.
utilization trends stabilizing with another quarter under your belt.
If you could talk a little bit about how you would characterize the trends here.
Is it stabilizing? Or is it improving? Is it just sideways? Alex any color would be helpful and then I have a follow-up.
Sure Matt.
I would paint it pretty much sideways based upon what we've seen so far.
That market usually grows at a pretty consistent 1% to 2% range.
We've seen it actually go negative.
It's been relatively flat.
So if I take that and also contrast it and compare it with some of the other data sources that we have around hospital admissions and actual surgical procedures to include ambulatory surgical procedures I think flat to sideways is probably the best description that I have at this time.
Okay.
And a follow-up for you also on your comments on emerging markets.
You've been in the S-1 segment and many of these markets for a while as you talked about -- Could you talk a little bit about your strategy to penetrate the mid-tier device markets particularly ortho and spine trauma in China? Do you expect this to be 2-tier branding strategy that's organic? Or is there some sort of local vehicle? It would be great if I can get your thoughts on that.
Sure.
We are excited about the growth opportunities in China particularly in the ortho space as we look at not only the S-1 the S-2 segment.
We've had a strong presence in the S-1 for a while but I was just in China about 3 weeks ago opening up a new R&amp;D center we have.
And we really got what I would say is a several-pronged approach to help us first of all access new patients and frankly provide them and their surgeons a lot better options and to really grow our business.
And it starts with R&amp;D.
We recently opened an R&amp;D center there and our focus there is to number 1 make sure that we've got the right insights into the local market needs; and then 2 to have scientists engineers physicians locally that work and work together as part of a team to bring those concepts to life within those markets.
Historically we tended to take our products from the U.S.
to the developed markets and taking them to China sometimes at a different price point.
But what we prefer to do is look at things such as in the orthopedic space is there a need for a different size of knee for a one that is facilitated through easier and more straightforward surgical procedures that can meet the unique needs of that particular market.
That's an example of the kind of things we're looking at but the same would apply to hips as well as the spine space.
Next we also have a manufacturing facility in China and it's really state-of-the-art.
And it's something that we want to be able to continue to build on.
And then third we've also invested significantly in our commercial model.
We've got a different organization that focuses on the S-2.
We think that that's really important.
And we've seen some positive signs about their accomplishments in the market.
But that's also something that we're spending a lot of time and effort on to make sure that we execute that in the right way.
Regarding other partnering opportunities that's certainly something that we're always looking for.
We've got some smaller partnerships already in the region but we want to continue to build on those as well going forward.
So that's really our overall approach.
I mean ultimately what we'd like to see is that for us to be able to develop design manufacture products in those markets that may be applicable to emerging markets in other parts of the world outside of China.
And we're not there today but that would be our goal in the future.
Just a clarification on your spine comments a couple of questions ago you said that most of the ortho knee spine pricing was relatively consistent with Q1.
Was spine down 5% U.S.
not a touch worse than it was in Q1 in the U.S? If you look only at the U.S.
data it was a touch worse.
But again if you look back 3 quarters or so the data does bounce around.
That's why I would just be very cautious about a single point.
And also on a worldwide basis it's actually been pretty consistent.
Your next question comes from the Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Question.
So I just wanted to make sure I understood you correctly when you were talking about the market growth.
I think you had mentioned that you expected the MD&amp;D markets in 2011 to grow slower than 2010 is that correct? Yes.
Okay.
And is that just simply the full year effect of the flow of utilizations so your assumptions assumed no back half pickup by virtue of easier comps? Remember last year in 2010 we saw very strong first half of the year across most of the MD&amp;D.
And so some of that is lapping effect and some of it is -- as I said earlier we see that the current dynamics that are taking place particularly in developed markets we see those fundamentally continuing to the rest of the year.
So there's likely to be some potential upside from just the lapping.
But the core underlying dynamics we think will be the same.
Okay.
And then just on DePuy what's the ex-Micrus growth number or decline? It's basically flat ex-Micrus.
Okay.
And then would you be willing to comment just kind of on the decision to exit out of Cordis just from a longer-term impact? Obviously you guys have talked a little bit about 2012 with what the impact of Synthese will be to earnings.
Is there any financial impact from Cordis outside of the special charges that we should expect of the decision to exit accretive to numbers a little bit dilutive? Kristen this is Dominic.
Just my way of clarity.
So we didn't exit Cordis.
So we just exited drug-eluting stents.
And as you saw the drug-eluting stents as Louise mentioned earlier the total sales in the second quarter were $64 million compared to about $164 million the prior year.
So obviously we're going to see as we've exited that yes business we're going to see less of a quarter-to-quarter year-over-year drag on the business.
And as you know drug-eluting stent business when we exclude that from our MD&amp;D overall results this quarter the 1% results that MD&amp;D delivered are about 3% excluding the yes change.
But other than that -- and the charges that we've just described earlier in the restructuring charge there's no other financial impact that you should expect to see.
And Kristen I guess what I would just add longer term is we just think it's critically important that we always challenge ourselves around our strategic investments for our overall portfolio.
And again while we obviously thought very carefully about this we've been going forward.
It's the right thing to do not only for our cardiovascular business but for all of the MD&amp;D given some of the other we feel are very exciting opportunities that we have and things such as biosurgicals energy EP and other emerging areas.
And you've been very active with divestitures.
Is there anything else we should be kind of just size-wise expecting the room for other ideas as the portfolio is pretty good as is? No I won't comment on that right now but you're right.
I mean we've done a number of small -- what I'd call smaller divestitures such as our wound care our breast care business in the past.
We've done some other small- to medium-sized acquisitions the Acclarent Mentor and others.
And we would expect to continue taking that kind of approach going forward.
Your next question comes from Rick Wise with Leerink Swann.
First question maybe for -- equally for Dominic and Alex.
If you can talk a little bit about help us think about the second half outlook.
European operational growth was 1.9% in the first quarter 4.5% the second quarter stronger than I would have thought.
Do you all each given your different roles see the second half outlook as stable worsening given the economic issues? How are you thinking about it? Yes it's a quick question Rick.
We have some momentum that we're building in the business as you saw.
And as I mentioned in the overall comments on guidance there is still this sort of economic climate uncertainty that overhangs the market growth and whether that be European austerity measures and significant economic price controls across the market.
So I guess we’re cautiously optimistic that the second half of the year will be just as good as the first year or slightly better.
But we are watching it closely because in fact there are some still uncertain economic times ahead of us.
And the actions that countries will take specifically in the Southern European markets are still unknown as to how they're going to implement their various austerity measures and what impact it could have on the markets that we compete in.
Alex anything else? Rick I completely agree with Dominic's comments Okay.
Turning last to some more questions on U.S.
consumers Dominic down 13% in the first quarter down 8.5% in the second.
When do you get back to neutral to positive growth again? When do we move past this period of decline? Are you hoping it could happen by the fourth quarter? Or no it's going to take longer than that? No I think certainly going into next year as these products in the McNeil Consumer business as I mentioned earlier start coming online on the shelves and so I said by the first half of the year the majority of them will be on the shelves.
But I think that obviously that will be a good comparison to a year just proceeding it where we had no such products on the shelves.
So that's obviously the major driver.
I think I mentioned earlier or Louise may have mentioned the business itself excluding the impact of not having the products on the market grew at about 2.5% in the second quarter.
And I think on the same comparison it was about flat in the first quarter.
So obviously we're seeing some momentum and you see it particularly in Skin Care and in Babies.
So we're hopeful that the underlying business is continuing to grow and do well in emerging markets.
We're really just seeing the impact of not having the products on the shelf which I think in 2011 as we pointed out will be behind us -- I mean sorry in 2012 that will be behind us.
Okay.
And just lastly a quick follow-up on that.
When I look at the big pieces if I'm reading it correctly this quarter each region each geographic region U.S.
OUS -- in each business showed an accelerated rate of year-over-year growth in the second quarter as compared to the first quarter except OUS consumer.
What's going on there? Let's see.
OUS consumer.
Let me just get my...
If I can get -- I think I -- U.S.
consumer the first quarter was up 2.6% ex-currency...
It's actually up in the second quarter.
It's up 2.8%.
I'm sorry.
I take it back.
I'm apologize.
I misread my own handwriting.
Your next question comes from David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Dominic just a quick question.
If we go back about a year or 2 ago.
The thought was coming into significant pharmaceutical pipeline years I think you thought that spending levels remain relatively flat and we're going to start to see some nice accretion from the significant pipeline that J&amp;J has versus peers.
Just speaking about your comments this morning maybe you can sort of compare and contrast what I think I heard before versus today.
Is it the nature of the competitive environment of pharmaceuticals? Is it just specific spending tied to specific launches? And another way of saying it is if you still believe that you can begin to see significant accretion from the pharmaceutical division as you get into the meat of this pipeline? Yes it's a great question David.
I think this is a matter of timing.
Obviously as we launch these products and they ramp up in the marketplace the effect of having taking the significant cost positions that we took earlier will have an incremental impact positive impact to the overall profitability of that business.
But of course as we're launching the products and products are coming off patent at the same time you do have a bit of a dilemma because you're looking at the second quarter leave it off patent and conserving an authorized generic started these are significant impacts on the top line.
We're not going to reduce the cost to offset those.
And at the very same time we're launching all these products and getting ready to launch new products.
So I think what you see is just the timing difference.
We're going to invest behind the launch of these products get them out there as best we can try to deal with the loss of patent exclusivity of some of the other products like LEVAQUIN and CONCERTA.
But then as these products ramp up I think we should be in great shape in terms of improved profitability.
Just a quick question because we're running long.
On DePuy there are a series of external factors facing the entire industry and there have been some internal factors facing DePuy in the last 3 or 4 quarters maybe 4 to 6 quarters.
At this point are you comfortable that the internal pressures facing DePuy are beginning to ebb and now you're just more focused on what's going to happen to the external environment? So basically have the internal pressures began to trough in that segment for you? David that's a good question.
And I guess the way I would answer that is to step back and put by perhaps a little bit more context on things even like around our Hip performance over the last 12 months.
Last year in August when we announced the recall of ASR and the first thing that we felt we needed to do is really focus our attention and resources to ensure the patients impacted by the recall got the right information and the right care that they needed in a timely and responsible manner.
And while we're obviously concerned about the issues related to ASR it was important that over the past decade we got over a million patients that have been held by DePuy hip implant.
And so we remain very committed to this space.
We're confident that we're going to be able to recover.
So the way that we're looking at it is first of all we had to make sure that we've looked out after the patient.
Also we're getting ready to launch several important new products.
We've had 3 510(k)s and 2 PMA approvals for new hip products in the last 10 months.
These include things like RECLAIM GRIPTION TF complete Ceramax with Ojax [ph] liners and the Pinnacle system.
And these products were clearer to approve and we're in the process of launching them literally as I speak.
And we think it's really important that you give surgeons a lot of options as they consider the right fit for their particular patient.
So that was first of all.
Second we're spending a lot of time around surgery education and awareness.
Over the last few years we have seen the positions are a little bit more hesitant to travel and learn about new products and techniques.
We actually deployed a mobile training institute that's out and it's about 1 100 square foot surgeon learning center.
And this enables DePuy to educate physicians locally without needing to travel.
So we think that's a unique approach.
And last but certainly not least just in June DePuy launched a consumer education and awareness campaign called Real Life Tested.
And it's designed to really better educate and empower patients around hip and knee replacement surgery and frankly some of the unique options that DePuy offers.
That's our overall approach.
We're confident that over time we will return to the position that we think we should have in that market.
But we realize in the short term we have to get our priorities right.
Your next question comes from Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
First question is on Synthese.
I was wondering if you guys can just provide an update on when you think you'd be able to announce the financing details.
Yes Dominic here.
I can't give you a timing.
The level of financing alternatives that we're considering have a lot to do with the integration plan that we talked about earlier.
So as the integration progresses we'll combine the businesses in the most efficient manner possible.
So we don't really have responses yet from the regulatory authorities so we can't give you an estimate of when we'll be able to announce that.
But rest assured that when we -- obviously when we close the deal we'll be able to tell you about it.
But as we know more in these updates we'll provide any information we have when we give you updates periodically throughout the next couple of quarters.
Okay.
And Dominic if you can just elaborate on your comments about financing options as it relates to Synthese especially when you talk about financing options for the equity portion obviously that equity portion is fixed.
So I assume what you're referring to is really just ways to potentially offset the equity dilution via buybacks post-close or other methods over time.
Any thoughts there would be helpful.
Well you're exactly right.
This form of the transaction the form of the consideration that Synthes shareholders received will be exactly as we described it.
Right they will receive shares of J&amp;J stock and cash exactly as we describe it exactly as we negotiated with Synthese.
But how we finance that depends on a number of factors.
And you're exactly right.
We may be able to use less overall stock or issue less stock in the aggregate as a result of our ability to finance the repurchase of our stock as one example.
So we're looking at a number of alternatives to make it efficient.
And obviously we have tax considerations here that we're going to make sure that we do efficiently.
And you still like -- the AAA rating is important to you as it relates to this transaction? Yes it is.
I think maintaining the flexibility that we have as a result of the AAA rating is still important to us and I think we can still maintain that flexibility and actually get the transaction to be less dilutive than the conservative estimates we gave earlier.
Great.
And then just really quickly on DePuy.
Last quarter you gave some very specific numbers on DePuy's results sequentially from Q4 to Q1 that basically you suggested that pricing was flat sequentially that units improved sequentially and mix improved sequentially.
In other words you provided some solid evidence of the market itself a little better in the first quarter.
So when we think about sequentially on hips and knees here in the second quarter compared to the first quarter I was wondering if you'd be willing to comment on do you think that the market got a little bit worse sequentially as a result of the year-over-year numbers that you showed here.
Or again were things were stabled up when you look at sequential units and pricing trends? Okay.
So Bob as you know we're the first one out.
So we're just kind of using a crystal ball on the second quarter right now.
But for the U.S.
hips we think on a sequential basis mix price just got a little bit more negative and there's some noise in the market.
But until the other manufacturers report we're not going to have a whole lot of clarity on that.
In terms of knees we think price mix sequentially in the U.S.
was positive primarily mix.
And units? We've gotten slight negative on the market and a whole lot of other factors.
But again until the other manufacturers report we can't get a real clarity on what specifically that is.
Your next question comes from Rajeev Jashnani with UBS.
My question pertains primarily to the easing comps in the back half of the year as it relates to major joints.
I guess it implies if underlying utilization gets no better than the observed growth rates improved.
And I'm just wondering if you could roughly quantitate -- or quantify what that change may be for example if rate of minus 1 goes to plus 1 or 1% or 2% improvement or 2% or 3% improvement just based on the baseline getting a little bit more favorable.
And I understand it may not be the same for hips and knees but any general color would be helpful.
Okay.
So in general on DePuy I'm going from memory the first quarter grew about 8% operationally last year.
The second quarter grew about 4% and the third quarter grew about 2%.
So you do see the declining and then I believe the fourth quarter was about 1%.
It kind of halves itself throughout the year.
So you are going to see easier comps in the DePuy area.
Alex has got some more information he can give you.
Right.
That would be information for hips.
If you look at the knee information early in 2010 you were looking at growth rates of over 10% in Q1.
And then on a constant currency basis let me back up as reported basis so Q1 is about 10% reported Q2 around 5%.
And then it went down to about 1% in Q3 and Q4.
So that should give you an idea about those markets.
Your final question comes from Derrick Sung with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Dominic just going back to your guidance comments I understand kind of the rationale that you're speaking with regard to investing the bottom lines of bits that we've seen here as a result of the tax rate.
But if we just focus on the top line here you've also -- this quarter you came in above The Street expectations.
There's a couple of new products on the Pharma side that you've launched that presumably were not in your original guidance when you contemplated that.
Can you talk about why the top line guidance wouldn't increase and would stay the same? Right.
That's a great question Derrick.
So let me just reiterate.
The top line guidance on an operational basis remained the same at between 2.5% and 3.5% growth over the prior year.
And as you know this second quarter our growth was 2.6%.
In the first quarter it was 1.8%.
We obviously are expecting in the guidance overall of 2.5% to 3.5% for the year that we will accelerate our growth in the back half of the year.
But that was already contemplated in the guidance that we gave.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So you're saying basically The Street was lower than what you were thinking? I think The Street may have been lower than what we actually delivered in the second quarter.
But it was pretty much consistent with our overall guidance.
Again we're only at 2.6% for Q2 and 1.8% for Q1.
We expect 2.5% to 3.5% for the year.
So we will see the ramp-up.
We expect to see the ramp-up as you mentioned of new products that we're launching.
But that's already contemplated in the guidance we have previously given.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then on the consumer side of your business in the U.S.
excluding your OTC franchise there was a nice sort of pickup in kind of all of the -- in almost all of the separate franchises.
I'm wondering if any of that -- how much of that is perhaps pickup in the overall market and sort of consumer spending habits et cetera? or do you feel like all of that is more J&amp;J-specific related to your specific products? We haven't seen much of the pickup in the overall consumer trends although in our Skin Care business which generally does pretty well despite economic conditions we've launched lots of new products in the NEUTROGENA line the NEUTROGENA Naturals for example that's getting good uptake in the consumer -- by consumers the AVEENO extensions of product lines with AVEENO haircare and the like.
So we think we haven't seen much of a change in overall consumer spending habits but we have seen some very good uptake in the new product launches.
Particularly NEUTROGENA has started to come around here and we're glad to see the consumers appreciate the innovation that we're showing in the NEUTROGENA product line.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And just one last one for Alex.
Specifically on spine Alex can you comment on what impact if any you're seeing on the whole BMP controversy as that might relate to overall spinal procedure volumes perhaps specific lateral access-type procedure volumes? And then also when you look at your own biologics and bone graft substitute franchise what impact are you seeing on that with respect to the BMP controversy? We don't think it's having that significant impact at this point.
Inc.</strong> On procedure volumes or your own specific biologics? On us.
We think it's certainly having an impact in other areas.
If we're talking about its impact on us we don't think it's significant.
Okay.
So some final remarks from Dominic.
Okay.
Thanks Louise.
On closing let me just say we're pleased to see the continuing momentum in the second quarter results and we expect to continue to build on our core strength with the recent launches.
And we expect ongoing investments for the second half of the year.
We see further opportunity for growth as the global economy stabilizes and our businesses continue addressing the critical unmet healthcare needs of patients and customers.
I do remain confident in our products' prospects for the year thanks for the dedication focus and integrity of the people of Johnson &amp; Johnson.
And I look forward to speaking with you again in October and updating you on our progress throughout the year.
Thanks for your time this morning and have a wonderful day.
Thank you.
This concludes today's second quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Good morning and welcome to Johnson &amp; Johnson's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference call over to Johnson &amp; Johnson.
You may begin.
Good morning and welcome.
I'm Louise Mehrotra Vice President of Investor Relations for Johnson &amp; Johnson and it is my pleasure this morning to review our business results for the third quarter of 2011.
Joining me on the call today is Dominic Caruso Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
A few logistics before we get into the details.
This review is being made available to a broader audience via a webcast accessible through the Investor Relations section of the Johnson &amp; Johnson website.
I'll begin by briefly reviewing highlights of the third quarter for the Corporation and highlights for our 3 business segments.
Following my remarks Dominic will provide some additional commentary on the third quarter results and guidance for the full year 2011.
We will then open the call to your questions.
We expect the call to last approximately one hour.
Included with the press release that was sent to the investment committee earlier this morning is the schedule showing sales for major products and/or businesses to facilitate updating new models.
These are also available on the Johnson &amp; Johnson website as is the press release.
Before I get into the results let me remind you that some of the statements made during this call may be considered forward-looking statements.
The 10-K for the fiscal year 2010 identifies certain factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements made this morning.
The company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.
The 10-K is available through the company or online.
Last item.
During the call non-GAAP financial measures may be used to provide information pertinent to ongoing business performance.
Tables reconciling these measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are available in the press release or on the Investor Relations section of the Johnson &amp; Johnson website at jnj.investor.com.
Now I would like to review our results for the third quarter of 2011.
If you would refer to your copy of the press release let's begin with the schedule titled Supplementary Sales Data by Geographic Area.
Worldwide sales to customers were $16 billion for the third quarter of 2011 up 6.8% as compared to the third quarter of 2010.
On an operational basis sales were up 2.6% and currency had a positive impact of 4.2%.
In the U.S.
sales decreased 3.7%.
In regions outside the U.S.
our operational growth was 8.3% while the effective currency exchange rates positively impacted our reported results by 8.1 points.
The Western Hemisphere excluding the U.S.
grew by 17.1% operationally while the Asia-Pacific Africa region grew 8.1% on an operational basis.
Europe grew 4.9% operationally.
If you'll now turn to the consolidated statement of earnings.
Net earnings were $3.2 billion compared to $3.4 billion in the same period in 2010.
Earnings per share were $1.15 versus $1.23 a year ago.
Please direct your attention to the box section of the schedule where we have provided earnings adjusted to exclude special items.
As referenced in the footnote third quarter net earnings this quarter were adjusted to exclude an after-tax mark-to-market adjustment to the value of the currency option and deal cost related to the planned acquisition of Synthes Inc.
Net earnings on an adjusted basis were $3.4 billion and earnings per share were $1.24 up 0.8% versus the third quarter of 2010.
I would now like to make some additional comments relative to the components leading to earnings before we move on to the segment highlights.
Cost of goods sold at 31.7% of sales was 100 basis points higher than the same period in 2010 primarily due to the ongoing remediation work in our OTC business and the impact of integrating the Crucell business.
Selling marketing and administrative expenses up 32.7% of sales were up 130 basis points.
As we discussed last quarter expenses include investment spending behind our new products as well as the fee on our branded pharmaceutical products included as part of the U.S.
Health Care Reform legislation.
Our investment in research and development as a percent of sales was 11.1% consistent with the third quarter of 2010.
Interest expense net of interest income of $117 million was up $22 million versus the third quarter of 2010 due to a higher average debt balance.
Other income net of other expense was $308 million in the third quarter of 2011 compared to $292 million in the same period last year.
Excluding special items net other income was $624 million which Dominic will address in his commentary.
Excluding special items taxes were 22.2% in the third quarter of 2011 bringing our year-to-date effective tax rate to 21.6%.
Now turning to the consolidated statement of earnings for the first 9 months of 2011.
Consolidated sales to customers for the first 9 months of 2011 were $48.8 billion an increase of 6.2% as compared to the same period a year ago.
On a year-to-date basis sales were up 2.3 points operationally and currency had a positive impact of 3.9 points.
On the consolidated statement of year-to-date earnings I'd like to draw your attention to the box section.
Adjusted net earnings of $10.7 billion in 2011 compares to adjusted net earnings of $10.4 billion in 2010.
Adjusted earnings per share at $3.87 were up 3.8% versus the 2010 results.
Turning now to business segment highlights please refer to the supplementary sales schedule highlighting major products and/or businesses.
I'll begin with the Consumer segment.
Worldwide consumer segment sales for the third quarter of 2011 up $3.7 billion increased 4.9% as compared to the same period last year.
On an operational basis sales increased 0.5% while the impact of currency was positive 4.4 points.
U.S.
sales were down 4.5% while the international sales grew 3.3% on an operational basis.
Excluding the impact of lower U.S.
over-the-counter or OTC revenues operational sales grew approximately 3%.
For the third quarter of 2011 sales for the OTC pharmaceuticals and nutritionals decreased 9.4% on an operational basis compared to the same period in 2010 with U.S.
sales down 24.2% primarily due to supply constraints.
On March 10 this year McNeil-PPC announced the signing of a Consent Decree covering the manufacturing facilities in Las Piedras Puerto Rico and Fort Washington and Lancaster Pennsylvania.
To date McNeil has achieved all major commitments under and is in compliance with the terms of the Consent Decree.
Side assessments were completed on schedule and McNeil is tracking to achieve the committed milestones.
Site specific work plans are required to be developed and submitted to the FDA before the end of October.
McNeil continues to operate the manufacturing facilities in Las Piedras and Lancaster.
As we previously discussed production volumes from these facilities continue to be impacted due to the additional review and approval processes.
However many of the key selective products are returning to the market and volumes will continue to ramp up throughout the remainder of the year and into 2012.
Regarding the products previously produced at the Fort Washington facility McNeil continues to work on the reciting of these products to other facilities.
McNeil is making progress on the validations at these sites and expect a modest amount of certain products to ship in late 2011.
We anticipate the balance of the portfolio of key selective products will continue to be reintroduced throughout 2012.
Our Skin Care business grew 13.2% on an operational basis in the third quarter of 2011 with sales in the U.S.
up 20.9% and sales outside the U.S.
up 8.4% on an operational basis.
The success of new product launches contributed to the strong sales growth achieved across most of the product lines with the most significant contributions from Neutrogena and Dabao products.
Baby Care products achieved operational growth of 4.1% when compared to the third quarter of 2010 due primarily to strong double-digit growth in lotions creams and wipes outside the United States.
Women's Health declined 4.8% on an operational basis.
Sales in the U.S.
were down 14% while sales outside the U.S.
were down 1.6% on an operational basis.
The sales decline this quarter was primarily due to the impacted divestiture of certain brands.
Sales in the Oral Care business increased 5.8% on an operational basis due to double-digit growth in LISTERINE sales outside the U.S.
Wound Care/Other was down 2.8% on an operational basis compared to the same period last year due primarily to the divestiture of PURELL in the fourth quarter of 2010.
That completes the review of the Consumer segment and I'll now review highlights for the Pharmaceuticals segment.
Worldwide net sales for the third quarter of $6 billion increased 8.9% versus the same period last year.
On an operational basis sales increased 4.9% with a positive currency impact of 4 points.
Sales in the U.S.
decreased 6.1% while sales outside the U.S.
increased on an operational basis by 18.5%.
The marketing exclusivity for LEVAQUIN expired in June negatively impacting worldwide pharmaceutical operational sales growth by approximately 5 points and U.S.
growth by approximately 9 points.
Positively impacting the sales growth in the quarter were sales related to the recent acquisition of Crucell and the impact of the amended agreement with Merck which I'll discuss in a moment.
Excluding the impact of items mentioned the underlying worldwide operational growth was approximately 5%.
Now reviewing the major products.
Sales in the U.S.
of our key immunology products which include REMICADE STELARA and SIMPONI were up approximately 8% versus 2010 with growth for REMICADE at 2.2% STELARA at over 80% and SIMPONI at 15.7%.
With the strong growth achieved by STELARA and SIMPONI we continue to be the market leader in immunology in the U.S.
Export sales of REMICADE were down 6% in the quarter offset by a significant increase in international sales due to the impact of the implementation of the amended agreement with Merck.
As a reminder we began recording sales of products from the territories relinquished by Merck in the third quarter and the amended distribution agreement division of contribution income split of 50% went into effect July 1 2011.
On a combined basis export and international sales increased over 40% due to the impact of the amended agreement.
PROCRIT/EPREX declined operationally by 9.6% during the quarter as compared to the same quarter last year with PROCRIT down 13.7% reflecting the double-digit market decline.
EPREX is down 5.4% operationally due to increased competition in Europe partially offset by strong growth in other major regions.
RISPERDAL CONSTA a long-acting injectable antipsychotic was down 2.6% on an operational basis.
Sales in the U.S.
were up 2.8% and the total U.S.
sales of our long-acting injectables including INVEGA SUSTENNA increased over 25% versus a year ago due to an increase in combined market share.
Sales outside the U.S.
were down 4.8% operationally reflecting both the launch of XEPLION as INVEGA SUSTENNA is known in Europe as well as continued pricing pressure primarily in Europe.
VELCADE is a treatment for multiple myeloma for which we have commercialization rights in Europe and the rest of the world outside the U.S.
Operational sales of growth was 11.5% due primarily to growth in Asia and Latin America.
CONCERTA a product for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder declined 7.9% operationally in the third quarter as compared to the same period last year with sales in the U.S.
down 16.4%.
The supply and distribution agreement with Watson Laboratories Inc.
to distribute an authorized generic version of CONCERTA in the U.S.
became effective May 1 2011.
According to IMS the authorized generic has captured over 3 [Technical Difficulties] In September we received a positive opinion from the CHMP for INTELENCE 200 milligrams which upon approval would reduce the bill burden by half for treatment-experienced HIV patients.
And 3 key events for our new oral blood thinner Xarelto are expected to occur in the fourth quarter this year.
First the PDUFA date for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation or AF indication is scheduled for the end of the first week of November.
Additionally on November 13 we are looking forward to presentation of the results of the ATLAS trial for acute coronary syndrome of the American Heart Association or AHA.
Lastly we also intend to submit the sNDA for this indication by the end of the year.
I will now review the Medical Devices &amp; Diagnostics segment results.
Worldwide Medical Devices &amp; Diagnostics segment sales of $6.3 billion grew 1.7% operationally as compared to the same period in 2010.
Currency had a positive impact of 4.4 points resulting in a total sales increase of 6.1%.
Sales in the U.S.
were down 0.7% while sales outside the U.S.
increased on an operational basis by 3.9%.
Excluding drug-eluting stent worldwide sales increased over 3% on an operational basis.
Now turning to the MD&amp;D businesses starting with cardiovascular care.
Cardiovascular care sales were down 15.9% operationally with the U.S.
down 19.5% and sales outside the U.S.
down 13.5% operationally.
Excluding drug-eluting stent cardiovascular care sales grew approximately 1% on an operational basis.
Biosense Webster our Electrophysiology business achieved operational growth of 12% in the quarter.
The continued expansion of the installed base of Carto 3 complemented by new product launches made strong contributions to the results.
This increase was partially offset by lower sales of endovascular products due to increased competition.
The DePuy business had operational growth of 1.7% when compared to the same period in 2010 with the U.S.
down 1.5% and the business outside the U.S.
growing by 6% operationally.
Pressure on pricing and procedure volumes persisted as a result of the economic trends while favorable mix mitigated some of the price impact.
Incremental sales from the acquisition of Micrus contributed to growth in the quarter.
Operationally hips were up 1% worldwide driven by 8% operational growth outside the U.S.
attributed to heads and cementless stems.
In the U.S.
hips declined 4% impacted by the lower volume of metal-on-metal bearings and continued pricing pressure.
Knees declined 4% on an operational basis with the U.S.
down 7% due to increased competition and a softer market.
Sales outside the U.S.
were down 1% operationally.
The market was estimated to have declined modestly in the second quarter with the U.S.
down 2% and the worldwide market down 1%.
It is estimated that this softness in the market continued into the third quarter.
The Diabetes Care business achieved operational sales growth of 4.4% in the third quarter of 2011 with the U.S.
business flat and the business outside the U.S.
growing 9.8% operationally.
Strong sales in the emerging markets offset the pressure on volumes in the developed markets.
Ethicon worldwide sales grew operationally by 6.4% with the U.S.
up 8.1% and sales outside the U.S.
up 5% operationally.
Drivers of the increase include emerging markets growth in sutures the strong uptick of recently launched products SECURESTRAP and PHYSIOMESH as well as the clearance sales which grew 30% in the quarter.
During the quarter Ethicon received a complete response letter from the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration regarding its Biologics License Application or BLA for the Fibrin Pad.
The Fibrin Pad is a novel product candidate that combines Ethicon to biomaterials and plasma-derived Biologics to aid in stopping bleeding during surgery.
This BLA marks the first of multiple submissions and approvals the company will pursue to deliver this novel product to surgeons and their patients.
We are not planning on conducting new clinical trials to support our response.
Ethicon is taking a phased approach to the development of the Fibrin Pad including building a state-of-the-art facility to scale up supply in order to meet anticipated demand.
Ethicon Endo-Surgery achieved operational growth of 3.4% in the third quarter of 2011 with the U.S.
sales down 2.5% and sales outside the U.S.
up 7.6% operationally.
Growth was driven by increased market share for advanced sterilization products and outside the U.S.
new product launches and the continued shift to minimally-invasive surgery drove double-digit growth for harmonic products and strong sales results for Endo products.
Ortho Clinical Diagnostics grew 4.5% on an operational basis in the third quarter.
Sales growth was driven by 8.7% operational growth outside the U.S.
due to the success of the VITROS 5600 and 3600 platforms.
Rounding out the review of the Medical Devices &amp; Diagnostics segment our Vision Care business achieved operational sales growth of 2.5% in the third quarter compared to the same period last year.
Sales in the U.S.
increased 4.1% while sales outside the U.S.
increased 1.7% on an operational basis.
ACUVUE MOIST and the astigmatism lenses made strong contributions to the quarter partially offset by softer sales of reusable lenses.
That completes highlights for the Medical Devices &amp; Diagnostics segment and concludes the segment highlights for Johnson &amp; Johnson's third quarter of 2011.
I'll now turn the call over to Dominic Caruso.
Dominic? Thank you Louise and good morning everyone.
I would like to provide some additional comments about our third quarter results highlights on recent business and pipeline developments and then provide guidance for you to consider in refining your models for the remainder of 2011.
Let me begin by sharing with you that this August we celebrated our 125th year in business by ringing the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange.
It was a memorable occasion and we celebrated this occasion along with many of our employees here at corporate headquarters.
I just wanted to reflect for a moment on the fact that very few companies can claim a legacy of generating solid business results such as a compound annual growth rate of over 10% in sales for 125 years while also making important advances in the health and well-being of so many people around the world.
Our employees have throughout our history and certainly today continued to deliver new products innovative pipelines and expand our global presence in ways that honor that legacy and strengthen our ability to continue to address unmet healthcare needs for the long term.
For the third quarter we produced solid sales growth which is in line with analysts' estimates as published by first call.
Excluding special items we also delivered solid earnings per share in the third quarter of $1.24 per share which exceeded analysts' estimates.
During the third quarter we saw a higher level of cost of goods sold and selling and marketing expenses consistent with our expectation that we highlighted for you in our second quarter earnings call.
And looking at the sell side models it appears that many of you had not yet reflected this in your models for the third quarter.
The higher level of cost of goods sold relates primarily to the ongoing remediation efforts in our McNeil Consumer Healthcare business as well as the inclusion of the Crucell business.
The higher level of selling and marketing expenses relate primarily to the launch of our exciting new pharmaceutical products and additional brand marketing expenses in our Consumer business.
We also saw a higher level of other income from the completion of certain divestitures in the quarter.
As we've done in the past the income from this shift in our portfolio is generally used to invest in the business and in this case to also deliver higher earnings.
As we take a long-term view of the global healthcare opportunities we see trends and demographics that make healthcare a very attractive space.
However in the current period we continue to see challenging macroeconomic conditions.
Despite these near-term headwinds I'm encouraged by the business outlook for our company.
Across our businesses we continue to gain approvals for key new medicines and launch exciting new product such as ZYTIGA and INCIVO.
Our products are performing very well early in their launches which is very encouraging.
We are gaining or holding share across many of our key markets and continue to build our capabilities in emerging markets like India and China.
We continue to make progress with satisfying the requirements of the Consent Decree with the FDA and ramping up production of over-the-counter products including certain validation batches for the products previously produced at the McNeil Consumer Health Care Fort Washington facility and the reintroduction of TYLENOL Cold &amp; Flu Severe caplets just in time for the 2011 cold and flu season.
Now turning to a few notable business highlights for the quarter.
We continue to see positive developments within our pharmaceutical pipeline.
The European commission approved INCIVO for the treatment of genotype 1 chronic hepatitis C and ZYTIGA for metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer.
Meanwhile in the United States NUCYNTA ER received FDA approval for the management of moderate to severe chronic pain.
REMICADE received FDA approval as the first biologic treatment for pediatric ulcerative colitis and Xarelto gained a positive FDA advisory committee vote for the prevention of stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation.
In our Medical Devices &amp; Diagnostics pipeline DePuy received FDA approval for TRUMATCH Personalized Solutions a surgical instrumentation and computer software system that is designed to aid in knee implant positioning and improve procedure efficiency.
Ethicon Endo-Surgery launched the ECHELON FLEX Powered ENDOPATH Stapler in the U.S.
the industry's first powered endo cutter.
MD&amp;D is also seeing progress in emerging markets.
Our LifeScan business introduced ONETOUCH SelectSimple meter in India which offers a simple affordable and effective option for self-monitoring of blood glucose levels the latest in the series of market appropriate products that MD&amp;D has been introducing to expand our reach to hundreds of millions of people in emerging markets who are now gaining access to healthcare.
As you know we take a highly disciplined approach to portfolio management.
We are constantly evaluating our portfolio to ensure we are focused on businesses and opportunities in attractive growth areas where we can have the greatest impact.
This means investing in new platforms for growth as well as divesting other businesses and assets.
The Synthes acquisition which will strengthen our orthopedics portfolio is proceeding on schedule and we've achieved 2 significant milestones.
The European Union merger regulation filing was made in September and Synthes has scheduled its shareholder vote to approve the merger for mid-December.
We anticipate closing this deal in the first half of 2012.
In other acquisition news Ethicon Endo-Surgery announced a definitive agreement to acquire SterilMed Inc.
This acquisition will move us into the rapidly growing medical device reprocessing market and broaden the portfolio of products we can offer to our increasingly cost-conscious hospital customers.
And in late September we also acquired full ownership of the Johnson &amp; Johnson Merck consumer pharmaceuticals company joint venture in the United States which will continue to market products under the PEPCID MYLANTA and MYLICON brands.
In terms of divestitures this quarter we completed the sale of the Janssen Animal Health business which we announced earlier in the year and the MONISTAT* brand.
Let me now provide some guidance for you to consider as you refine your models for the rest of 2011.
Let me begin with a discussion of cash and interest income and expense.
At the end of the third quarter we had approximately $13 billion of net cash.
This consists of approximately $31 billion of cash and investments and approximately $18 billion of debt and we continue to generate strong cash flows.
For purposes of your models assuming no additional major acquisitions during 2011 I'd suggest you consider modeling net interest expense between $400 million and $500 million consistent with our previous guidance.
Turning to other income and expense.
As a reminder this is the account where we record royalty income as well as gains and losses arising from such items as litigation investments by our development corporation divestitures asset sales or write-offs.
This account is difficult to forecast due to the nature of some of these items.
Assuming no major additional items of this nature and now considering the impact of gains from the various divestitures I highlighted earlier I would recommend that you consider modeling other income and expense for 2011 as a net gain excluding special items ranging from approximately $1 billion to $1.1 billion.
This is an increase from our previous guidance reflecting the higher-than-expected increase in other income in the third quarter.
And now a word on taxes.
On a year-to-date basis through the third quarter of 2011 the company's effective tax rate excluding special items was 21.6% or at the midpoint of our guidance.
We suggest that you model our effective tax rate for 2011 in the range of 21% to 22% consistent with our previous guidance.
As always we will continue to pursue opportunities in this area to improve upon this rate during the remainder of the year.
Now let's turn to sales and earnings guidance.
Our guidance continues to be based first on a constant currency basis reflecting our results from operations assuming that average currency rates for 2011 will be the same as they were for 2010.
This is the way we manage our business and we believe this operational view provides a good understanding of the underlying performance of our business.
We also continue to provide an estimate of our sales and EPS results for 2011 with the impact that currency exchange rates could have and will use the euro as an example.
Turning to sales.
We would be comfortable with your models reflecting an operational sales increase on a constant currency basis of between approximately 2.5% and 3.5% for the year.
This is consistent with our previous guidance as our business continues to build the momentum we expected.
This would result in estimated sales for 2011 on a constant currency basis of approximately $63.5 billion.
And while we are not predicting the impact of currency movements to give you an idea of the potential impact of currency exchange rates for the remainder of 2011 or to stay where they were as of last week as an example with the euro at approximately $1.38 then our sales growth rate will be positively impacted by approximately 2.5% for the year.
This positive impact from currency is lower than our previous guidance reflecting primarily the recent weakening of the euro.
Thus under this scenario we would expect reported sales growth to be between approximately 5% and 6% for the year for a total expected level of reported sales of approximately $65 billion slightly lower than our previous guidance due solely to the updated currency estimates.
And now turning to earnings.
I suggest that you consider full year 2011 operational EPS estimates of between $4.83 and $4.88 per share which excludes the impact of special items and assumes the same average exchange rate for 2011 as we saw in 2010.
This is an increase from our previous guidance and at this point in the year we are also comfortable with a tighter range.
While we are not predicting the impact of currency movements to give you an idea of the potential impact on our earnings per share if currency exchange rates for the balance of 2011 were to remain where they were as of last week then the impact of currency movements primarily the euro would be favorable by approximately $0.12 per share a lower benefit to earnings from our previous guidance reflecting primarily the recent weakening of the euro.
Therefore our reported earnings per share excluding special items would be between $4.95 and $5 per share for our reported EPS growth rate of approximately 4% to 5%.
This guidance reflects an increase in operational earnings per share growth offset by a lower impact from currency.
And at this point in the year we're also comfortable with a tighter range.
That concludes my comments on our operating performance this quarter and our guidance with respect to your models.
Now Louise back to you.
Thank you Dominic.
Brooke could you please give the instructions for the Q&amp;A session? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Matthew Dodds with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Dominic cost of goods sold can we just go through the partial in more detail? Remediation first is that amount accelerating from where it was now to Consent Decree to give us some idea going forward? For Crucell is that the impact the absolute gross margin of Crucell? Or are you putting more into the business? And then finally you didn't highlight this but is the mix between U.S.
OUS having an impact to your -- outside of just LEVAQUIN which obviously hurt? But is there a broader theme here that's hitting the gross margin? Right.
I don't think there's a broader theme at all.
I think if you look at the change in gross margin from this quarter -- for the quarter that were currently completed last year there's really 2 main areas which I described.
One is -- and they're about worth half -- about half each of the change.
The first is the McNeil remediation cost.
As you know we have costs related to the ongoing compliance with the Consent Decree and obviously not all the sales have returned to the market.
So although some of the costs have been accelerating as we complete the work I wouldn't necessarily project that into the following year but of course in the following year those remediation costs will then tail off.
And obviously as the products return to the market you'd see a different dynamic than what you currently see with costs with the products not yet in the market.
The other half of the change is really due to inclusion of Crucell.
We had mentioned earlier in the year that Crucell is going to be dilutive to our earnings of about $0.03 to $0.04 a share.
Just to give you an idea whenever you acquire a company like Crucell the assets obviously are written up to fair market value.
So one of the things that we're experiencing right now is the -- what's known as the step-up in value of the inventory that we acquired.
And obviously as that bleeds off in the future periods then we have less of an impact from these negative gross margins from Crucell.
And I think overall the mix of the business actually just improved our gross margin by about 1 point -- and yes about 0.1 point I should say.
So overall Matt if you excluded the items that I just mentioned Crucell and the OTC impact actually our gross margin performance would have been slightly better in the quarter compared to last year.
Research Division</strong> Perfect Dominic.
And then just one quick follow-up for the Xarelto filing PDUFA.
Can you use any of the ATLAS data to send in at this point or had sent it in recently to look at things like the dosing things like that? Or is it too late? So are you talking for the AFib indication Matt? Research Division</strong> Right for the AFib.
Can you use any of the ATLAS data to kind of argue the case? Well the PDUFA date is coming very shortly on that one; November 5 I believe it is.
So the timing is probably too narrow.
All right.
My understanding is Matt that obviously when you complete the file then the FDA presents that competed files to the FDA advisory committee for the AFib indication.
As you know that committee voted in favor of its approval.
Your next question comes from Larry Biegelsen with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dominic maybe we can start with an operating margin question.
The company's long-term goal is to grow earnings faster than sales but in 2011 I think you said you expect about 50 to 100 basis points of margin deterioration.
And I think recently you've been saying that the Street underestimated how much you're going to spend on the OTC relaunches in 2012.
So you're suggesting at least to me that the Street's modeling may be too much in margin expansion next year.
Do you still think you can grow earnings faster than sales in 2012? Or will the relaunch of the OTC products eliminate any margin improvement? And I just have one follow-up.
Right.
Great question Larry.
You're right that we signaled early in the year that we would probably have a decline in margins this year probably between 0.5% to full percent and we're seeing that obviously through 9 months.
As you know we want to invest heavily behind the products that we're launching to make sure they are of the gate in a strong way.
My comments about the launch of the McNeil products the following year once we're fully into the market is simply just to highlight that we will have additional cost in 2012 because we want to make sure these products get launched absolutely the best way we can possibly do that.
Now I wouldn't read into that that that's incremental to the current SG&amp;A line because in fact as the new products that we're launching now in the pharmaceutical pipeline begin to ramp up the relative spend on those launch products will go down versus the sale.
So what we have today is relatively early launches with modest sales although ramping up very quickly a lot of cost to get those products off the ground.
As those tail off we then would replace some of that cost with the McNeil appropriate McNeil launch expenses throughout 2012.
But I think the factors that led to margin erosion this year are not going to be present in our business in 2012.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just one on the knee market.
I mean it looks like your U.S.
Knee business if I heard correctly decelerated.
I think it was negative 5% last quarter in the U.S.
this quarter negative 7%.
Could you talk a little bit about what's going in the U.S.
knee market and the outlook there please? Louise do you have some facts on that? So in the U.S.
knee market we actually market softer we believe because of procedure volumes and we won't know that for sure until everybody else reports.
And we're also seeing more competition in the market.
So our Knee business is down 7% but we are seeing competitive dynamics go on.
Your next question comes from Ian Sanderson with Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two quick ones for Louise.
First of all can you give us some sense of ZYTIGA sales in Q3? And then secondly are you seeing any impact on STELARA sales from the JAMA article that came out in August discussing some of the cardiovascular side effects with that mechanism? Sure.
Well this is Dominic Ian.
Look we're very pleased with ZYTIGA sales and I think ZYTIGA sales although early are very healthy.
In fact I think they contributed about 1.5 points of growth to our pharmaceutical business compared to the same quarter last year.
So they're off to a great start and we're very pleased with the performance of that product.
And for STELARA Louise? Now STELARA we're not seeing an impact on that.
We actually showed some very positive data in May 2011 about the CV side effect profile.
So we are not seeing that for STELARA.
LLC Research Division</strong> And may I ask you a quick follow-up on ZYTIGA? Should we anticipate an interim look at the pre-chemo data set before year end? We're actually -- we're guiding to the fact that we would file based on overall survival.
So we're not counting on that at this point.
Your next question comes from Sara Michelmore with Brean Murray.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dominic just another question on sort of the sales and marketing spend.
If I just look at kind of what you're inferring for Q4 based on some of the guidance commentary for the operating -- sorry the non-income or the other income guidance change.
It does look like the sales and marketing expense maybe in terms of the incremental growth is tailing off in Q4.
And I'm wondering if that's just a function of noise in numbers or if that's the case? No I think it should tail off a little bit in the fourth quarter.
I think in the third quarter we had -- in addition to the launch of the products I mentioned some consumer brand marketing expenses that ramped up during this part of the year.
And we won't see that same phenomenon.
We will see the ramp-up as we saw in the third quarter in the fourth quarter.
So I think it is a good observation that should tail off a little bit in the fourth.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of the McNeil over-the-counter products I mean in terms of how you guys look at what you hope to get back to I mean what are your latest thoughts on either brand recapture or what you would target the sales to be on the reentry there? If you can give us just any thoughts about how you're looking at the market and any studies you've done in terms of brand loyalty and things like that.
Right.
Well we're not going to give you obviously specifics on particular market share or dollar volume but suffice it to say that obviously our folks are ready to launch these great products back into the market and do the very best they can to gain back the consumers.
Now one bit of data that we saw was that even though private label has taken significant amount of share in that particular segment of the market our research indicates that the trust factor with respect to our products the McNeil pediatric products in particular with moms is still 2x the level of the products that are currently available for moms in the marketplace.
So we're very encouraged by that.
These products have a great legacy as you know.
I think everyone expects that Johnson &amp; Johnson will return these products to the market in the best possible way.
And there will be also innovation as these products return to the market.
We talked earlier in the year about innovation in dosing which addresses a major safety issue with children's pediatric products.
So I think you should expect us to do the best we can along with innovation and we're hopeful that the loyalty that these brands have achieved over many years will stay with us as we begin to bring these products back to consumers in 2012.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just a clarification of some of the investment that you would put on that.
I assume you thought that it's just brand promotion and also we should expect things like couponing and things like that to be part of the mix.
Is that...
Yes I would say -- I don't want to tip our hand but I would say our marketers are very good at knowing what they need to do to attract consumers.
I mentioned innovation.
So I think it will be a mix of brand marketing expenses couponing innovation et cetera a surround sound impact to get consumers back to the loyal consumers they were prior to the recall.
Your next question comes from Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Dominic just to follow-up first Dominic.
I want to engage your expectations going into the November 5 PDUFA for Xarelto.
Is it your expectation that you'll get the approval? Well certainly we can -- I don't want to speculate on what the FDA will do.
All I can do -- all we can do is refer back to the FDA advisory committee meeting where I think the vote was in favor of 9 to 2 for an approval.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second let me just kind of take your read across your various MD&amp;D businesses.
To the U.S.
side DePuy continues to struggle.
There's still the same type of weakness we're seeing in some of the other businesses whether it's Ethicon Endo parts of Ethicon.
Do you have anything that gives you encouragement on some of the underlying markets? And could you talk as well about pricing across those various businesses? Right.
Well we continue to see -- as I said earlier in my comments we continue to see pretty tough macroeconomic conditions in terms of hospital surgical procedures for example we think are impacted by the macroeconomic conditions.
And we now have 6 quarters of year-over-year declines in these procedures.
We also see physician office visit declining dramatically.
I think we're now down -- up to 9 consecutive quarters of physician office visits declining.
So the volumes are still very soft.
We're obviously nowhere near prerecession levels in volumes.
In terms of pricing I would say that the level of negative price net of mix in hips for example in the U.S.
is around the same low single digits as we saw in the second and first and first and fourth quarter of last year.
Now we don't see an acceleration of significant price declines in the this market but still soft price still negative price but just not an acceleration of that negative price.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then last question on Synthes do you have any incremental visibility at this point on the structuring of the transaction? So if you could comment on financing and the use of cash U.S.
versus OUS.
No Mike I don't have any incremental visibility to share with you other than to say we're making very good progress in that regard.
We're making good progress overall in planning for the acquisition and I'm encouraged.
And obviously we're going to keep working to make this transaction much more efficient from a financing perspective in the way we modeled it.
But it's too early to give you any specifics and when we know the specifics we'll actually be very close to the closing of the deal just because of getting all the approvals in line.
So that's the best update I can give you at the time.
Your next question comes from Derrick Sung with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could start by commenting on 2 things.
European austerity what's the impact that you saw this quarter? And how are you seeing that change at all versus the past few quarters and looking forward? And then secondly kind of related to that in the U.S.
what are your expectations for the deficit reduction discussions and the super committee discussions coming out of D.C.
as they might impact your business? And how might you be preparing for that? Right.
Well Derrick with respect to the first question on European austerity we're still seeing across the pharmaceutical business a mid -- in the European pharmaceutical business mid single-digit impact incremental impact this year.
We expected this in the beginning of the year and we're seeing it play out through the year.
In our Medical Devices &amp; Diagnostics business we're seeing low single-digit impact to that -- to European Austerity Measures in terms of overall price although we are seeing some additional volume contraction in Medical Devices in Europe a little bit more than what we saw at the beginning of the year.
The impact for example in our pharmaceutical business we estimate in the $30 million range just for the quarter.
So it's in our numbers.
It's not all that significant and it accelerated a little bit but mostly in medical device volume not in price.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And your expectations for the super committee discusses and D.C.
discussions.
Yes well we're very hopeful as I think all American citizens are that the super committee will come to a good conclusion and a set of solutions that will help reduce our deficit without any draconian or drastic measures certainly none that we hope would impact negatively on healthcare.
We're aware of the fact that if a stalemate occurs then of course there could be 2% across-the-board cuts for example in Medicare.
But it's too early for us to estimate whether that will go that way or not.
So we're keeping a close eye on it and obviously we're doing whatever we can to help the committee understand the impact on healthcare overall.
But other than that Derrick other than we're hopeful I can't give you any other comments with respect to what they might come up with.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can I just -- can I squeeze a quick one in for Louise? Louise could you give us the spine growth rates? Sure.
So worldwide up 1% U.S.
down 3% and OUS up 10% operational.
Your next question comes from Rick Wise with Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> If I could start off with -- just a general question Dominic.
I mean there's so many things going on in the macro environment these days U.S.
OUS.
I'm just sort of curious do you feel better or worse after the third quarter in terms of the outlook for the business and the environment? Do you feel the business is more challenged in the procedure front and pricing front than you expected? Just trying to get a sense of where you are.
Yes.
That's a great question.
I think the macroeconomic conditions are still troublesome in terms of their impact on healthcare utilization.
So overall the macro conditions continue to be challenging and there -- I would call them persistent.
I don't see them necessarily getting worse I just see them persisting.
So from a macro perspective that's what I would say.
With respect to our company in particular I feel much better with respect to our business as we're moving through the year.
For example the Consumer business had positive growth for the quarter and obviously it's impacted by the recalls.
But when you exclude that impact which is obviously very obvious the business grew about 3% in the quarter.
That's slightly better than the previous quarter so it's gaining momentum.
You saw the skincare results which we think are really phenomenal.
So the innovation is still taking hold in some segments of the Consumer business and so we're very encouraged by that.
We're obviously extremely encouraged by the overall performance of our products in pharmaceuticals where we're launching products they're gaining momentum they're being well accepted by the physician community.
And we obviously are very excited to see them do that.
And like a product like ZYTIGA to take such immediate hold on the market obviously is significant unmet need.
So we feel good that those products are performing as we all expected they would be based on their clinical profile.
And in Medical Devices &amp; Diagnostics in a very tough overall macroeconomic climate with lower volumes the business continues to maintain or hold share across many of its businesses and also develops and continues to develop new innovations.
So even in our Knee business for example despite the challenges in that marketplace we're still coming forward with new innovations.
I think overall as the market recovers we should be in very good shape having held on to share across many of our businesses to then accelerate growth once the market recovers.
So in summary I'm still cautious about the macroeconomic environment but I feel very good about our particular business and the momentum we're gaining.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's helpful.
Two quick follow-ups.
You commented a little bit about SG&amp;A but I just wanted to think about the operating leverage going forward.
At 32 I think for example percentage of sales this quarter something like that it is one of the higher percentage of sales in a couple of years.
Can you help us understand when does that normalize? Or maybe we should think about that number on a -- what was the incremental investment spend for new product launches if you can quantify that.
And I'll just ask my last quick one.
I'm sure you're sick of being asked about acquisitions but cash is growing.
You always allude to it in your prepared commentary.
Should we expect that even with Synthes on your plate that we're closer to an additional flow when we look at over the next 6 12 months? Right.
So with respect to SG&amp;A just a couple of comments.
One is you're right it is higher than what we've seen it.
But just to put things in perspective the healthcare reform fee is unfortunately in that line item now.
That's where all companies record it.
And just to give a sense that's about 2/10 of the change.
The balance is the investment spending that I talked about in our pharmaceutical business and the brand marketing expenses that we saw accelerate in the third quarter for our Consumer business.
Going forward Rick I guess the best way to describe it is we're in a situation now where we're investing heavily in the early launches of these exciting new pharmaceutical products.
As these launches then ramp-up and the sales take hold in the marketplace then obviously the relative amount of spend compared to the sales should be lower going forward.
So we don't think that this is a steady state level of SG&amp;A expense at all given the fact that we have a situation where we're launching new products and they're just right out of the gate obviously modest sales whenever you do that.
So overall this is -- again you're right it's a relatively high number.
We did signal that in the second quarter to make sure that the investment community was aware of it.
We think it's a wise spend because we want to make sure that we're best positioned for 2012 and going forward but we should be able to leverage that line item in the future.
And then with respect to acquisitions look you know us to be very disciplined acquirers and you probably would not be surprised if I told you we don't spend the money we have just because we have the money we have right? We're very disciplined as to what we look at.
We're doing a very significant acquisition.
As I said earlier to Mike's and the answer to Mike's question we're trying to develop a financing strategy for the Synthes acquisition which will be much more efficient than the way we've modeled it.
Of course that would entail using more of our cash than what's currently modeled.
So we want to get through that first before we make any other decisions.
But we're constantly looking for growth opportunities and we'll constantly and continuously be very diligent and disciplined in what we pay for assets.
So that's all I can give you now as an update in that regard.
And so as we did this quarter we'll continue to look for even smaller opportunities for example the SterilMed acquisition and other acquisitions that add to our portfolio going forward.
As you know we are generally always in the marketplace looking for growth opportunities.
We just want to be disciplined about what we pay for those assets.
Your next question comes from Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick ones.
First on a question below the revenue line and then a question on the general surgery marketplace.
So just to clarify your comments on gross margin am I reading it right Dominic that excluding Crucell remediation the gross margin would have been about 110 120 basis points higher than what you reported with the cost associated with those 2 things about evenly split? Yes.
The cost is about evenly split between the 2 of those and that's about the impact.
You're exactly right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the other income line the $200 million increase that you're now modeling or guiding to for this year is that all related to gains that we saw this quarter in that line item? And if you'd be willing to could you talk a little bit about what those gains were? It is related to the gains that we saw this quarter.
So we typically don't want to forecast these divestitures because the timing of such is not necessarily certain but now that we have them we've increased our expectation for the year so that that increase is related to those particular acquisitions and those particular divestiture gains.
They're really related to 2 divestitures in particular.
One is the Animal Health business which we announced earlier in the year which was not a strategic part of our overall portfolio.
And that business was divested and sold to Eli Lilly.
And -- so it just happened to close in this quarter.
And also when we look at our consumer brands the cuts that we evaluate which of the brands we want to invest behind and which we think have -- might be better in someone else's hands.
And we this quarter sold the MONISTAT* brand in our Women's Health business.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And that's very helpful.
And then just one quick question on Ethicon and Ethicon Endo-Surgery.
You commented on DePuy and the continuing challenges in the marketplace there and you made a suggestion that in European markets you might have saw a little bit of incremental decrease or decline in volumes this quarter.
And yet if I look at Ethicon and Ethicon Endo looking at the numbers it looks like there was a decent quarter in both of those businesses.
So my question is could you comment on general surgery market trends and your results at Ethicon and Ethicon-Endo? Was that mostly share gains? Did the market feel a little better in the general surgery markets? Were there any one-timers in there? I'm wondering if you could just give some more of your thoughts on those 2 divisions within MD&amp;D.
Yes.
I'll start with some comments and then turn it over to Louise.
There are no one-timers that impacted that.
We did launch some new products in the marketplace in Europe.
The business did perform better in Europe.
My comments on overall trends throughout Europe are still hold up and in fact we're seeing some lower volumes.
But I would say overall our performance in Europe in those particular business is stronger this quarter.
And obviously with the market being soft that implies that we're gaining some share across those markets in Europe.
Louise anything else to add? Yes.
So I think in Europe for Ethicon-Endo we talked about HARMONIC has strong double-digit growth there.
So it's just doing very well in Europe and we're introducing new products.
Your next question comes from Jami Rubin with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the previous question.
Dominic I'm confused.
The divestitures that were recorded as part of other income how can those be considered part of non-GAAP ongoing earnings? And is that part of the $316 million that you recorded which clearly drove the upside in earnings? That's the first question.
And the second question is CONCERTA U.S.
sales were only down 16% but Watson now has about 81% share of the market.
So I'm just wondering if that is still wholesaler stocking or if that reflects economics from the AG.
If you could just clarify that and what we should expect in the fourth quarter.
Sure.
So on the divestitures and then you talked about the $316 million number.
So we've had -- consistently when we present our...
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] $624 million.
Pardon me? Research Division</strong> I'm sorry.
Total other net was $624 million.
So maybe if you could just clarify that for us.
Sure sure.
So the divestitures that are in that line item this quarter relate to the 2 divestitures that I spoke about earlier Animal Health and the MONISTAT* business.
You asked about how they can be included in -- whether or not excluded I guess to arrive at the non-GAAP number.
We've consistently not excluded any gains or losses with respect to asset sales or divestitures in our numbers.
If you go back through our history you'll see several years ago we divested the Advanced Wound Care business or the Breast Care business et cetera that are all part of our ongoing operations.
And the reason for that is it's essentially a shift in our portfolio mix.
We're just shifting where we're going to spend our money.
And when in fact those divestitures happen we take the opportunity to redeploy those gains in higher growth areas and higher investments in the business or as was the case in this particular quarter to deliver whatever extra there was after that to the bottom line which is essentially why I think we had better earnings this quarter than what many of your models had estimated.
The one item that we did carve out was in fact just the change in the option value for the mark-to-market impact of the option to buy foreign currency the Swiss franc in particular with respect to the Synthes transaction.
That clearly will fluctuate quarter-to-quarter.
We've carved it out last quarter for example when it was a gain.
We pulled it out of our numbers.
And this quarter was a loss as the Swiss franc then weakened.
So we're typically very consistent with what we pull in and out of the numbers and it's not unusual at all for us to have divestiture gains or asset sales or write-offs et cetera in that line item.
With respect to CONCERTA maybe Louise you can take that question.
So Jami you're correct.
The market share that's going to the AG the authorized generic is about 75% to 80% depending on whether it's scripts or dollars of the CONCERTA market share.
But as a reminder we do share in the economics of that.
And there was no big fluctuations in the pipeline from our end.
For Watson you'd have to ask them.
Your next question comes from Rajeev Jashnani with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I had another question on other income and I guess that's 2 questions on other income.
One is does the current guidance reflect the divestiture of the derm assets to Valeant? And then secondly I was wondering if you could just provide some -- I understand it's difficult to predict but if you could provide some visibility on just what the underlying other income is to help us as we look to 2012.
Sure.
Well as I said earlier Rajeev we don't typically include divestitures in our guidance unless they're completed.
So this guidance for the year now of $1 billion to $1.1 billion does not include the impact for the divestiture of the Ortho Derm business.
Whether that closes this year or not we'll have to wait and see.
Reflecting back on Jami's comment earlier now that we have a higher level of other income because of divestitures that we did close on we of course increased our overall guidance for the year to reflect that.
The overall underlying other income think about this as essentially where we record the base continuous level of income there as royalty income.
Royalty income is roughly just over $100 million a quarter for us.
And so if there was nothing else going on in that line item no asset sales no divestitures no write-offs et cetera then we would typically have about $400 million of royalty income.
But of course if you look through the history of our P&amp;L there's always something going on in that line.
And that's the primary reason why we give you guidance on that line because we know it's difficult for you to predict and it's a difficult line for us to forecast but we try to be transparent and just give you what we think our best guess is of what that line item is going to do in our guidance.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I have one follow-up if I may on SIMPONI.
There was a big step-up sequentially in SIMPONI ex-U.S.
sales and I was just wondering if that was related to the contract change with Merck or if this is really the good underlying number we should look at for SIMPONI ex-U.S.
on an ongoing basis.
So the incremental piece of the contract was some impact but not the big step-up that you saw in the quarter.
And what it was was the prior quarter in the second quarter had some changes in the inventory level.
So that prior quarter second quarter was not a good prediction.
So the SIMPONI now is probably clean in this quarter the third quarter and does include the Merck amended Merck agreement but it's a small portion of the change.
Your next question comes from Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just want to be clear again on the other income line item.
Sorry to beat a dead horse.
But the difference in guidance now that $200 million is that just fully the divestiture? Or maybe it would be helpful if you could just break out what the gain was in this particular quarter because there's a lot of moving parts.
Right right.
No it is an increase in our estimate because of the now known closure of these divestitures.
So we've increased it to the $1 billion to $1.1 billion line item.
That's the reason for the increase.
The rest of what can happen in that line item is very difficult to predict Kristen as you can imagine.
But we're trying to give you our best guess for where that line item might come out for the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So $200 million is probably against all parties on what the difference was this quarter related to that divestiture gain? Yes.
I don't know what you each had in your models but we obviously saw these things close this quarter.
And they were several hundreds of millions of dollars more than the run rate in that line item which is why we increased the guidance accordingly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the increase in guidance was just an underlying base.
So it was just simply a function of the divestiture gain not any increase in the underlying performance of the business.
Right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the cardiovascular franchise can you just give us any update that you might have on the unwinding of the stent business and then maybe a little bit more color on the endovascular sales.
You had mentioned that that was down in the quarter I believe.
Yes it was down in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> I wasn't sure if that was within the cardiology in it or if that's included within the DePuy segment.
The which statement? Research Division</strong> I thought you had said that endovascular sales were down.
I mean I said that within the context of cardiovascular sales overall.
But then I think Micrus was included within DePuy so I was a little confused on what you had mentioned in your prepared remarks Louise.
Okay.
So this is an endovascular stent.
You're right.
Micrus is part of the DePuy business but in the quarter's business is the endovascular stent business basically.
Right.
Kristen think of it as DePuy business also has a neuro business and that's where the micro business is included with the neurosurgery business.
That's the way we manage it.
But yes endovascular is included.
The peripheral vascular system is included in what we call the cardiovascular pair portion of the business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's just the neuro and the DePuy? Yes that's correct.
Yes.
Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Anyway any update on the stent unwinding and any changes in terms of potentially selling that business or finding alternatives versus just shutting it down? No changes from what we described before.
We're exiting the business as we said and we expect to stop manufacturing the site for stent at the end of this year.
Your next question comes from Matt Miksic with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> So a follow-up question on MD&amp;D in ortho and spine then I have one on the Consent Decree.
Still curious you're heading into I guess in the fourth quarter here what was really the big step-down in hips last year granted that your knees have been kind of bouncing along at a negative number for the market for a couple of quarters now.
And maybe Q3 looks like it will be the same particularly in the U.S.
But do you think -- I hate to lean on comps but you are facing some significantly easier comps as you're heading into Q4.
Are you expecting -- should we expect any improvement in the growth rate? And to what degree does your performance over the next couple quarters have anything to do with your ability to get out from under this hip recall? Well one thing about the quarter is that I think is a valid observation Matt is that in fact fourth quarter of 2010 was a pretty significant price decrease.
That's when we started to see some very significant price decrease and that's actually tailed off a little bit throughout the quarters.
And in the third quarter price for example in hips was several points lower than what it was in the fourth quarter of 2010.
And net of mix that was the case as well.
So mix was a little better in the third quarter of '11 compared for example in the fourth quarter of '10.
So if that trend continues then obviously that's a positive sign for those comparables.
And obviously the same is true with knees.
We saw better impact of mix in the third quarter of '11 than we saw for example in the fourth quarter of '10 or even the first quarter of '11.
But that's positive.
Unfortunately offsetting all that is the continued as I mentioned earlier persistent softness in the level of procedure volumes.
So we'll have to see whether that picks up or not in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> I guess just as I think about this persistent minus 1% minus 2% growth into easing comps that would kind of suggest that the market would be deteriorating further right? If that's in fact the case we continue to clip along it at minus 1% say or minus 2%.
Is that a trend that you think -- is that where we're headed? Well it's hard to predict Matt but persistent is obviously the best way I would describe it.
And we have seen as I mentioned earlier 6 consecutive quarters of hospital surgery growth declining quarter-over-quarter.
So even from a comparable point of view 4 quarters ago it's still declining from what was then a low rate of overall comparison.
So take that for what you will but the signs as I said earlier we're still cautious about the overall economic -- macroeconomic conditions and their impact on healthcare utilization.
We're very positive about how we stack up in that marketplace given new product launches et cetera.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And then on the Consent Decree I just -- one of the things that we've noticed I guess in the directives heading out of the FDA is that the agency apparently wants to see more consistency in CAPA compliance across divisions of the companies that it regulates.
Is that -- first I guess it will be helpful if you could give us some sense as to your compliance program at this point having a fairly decentralized history.
Is your compliance program now kind of a centralized program for CAPA or for the rest of your quality and regulatory? And is that I guess is what I'm describing consistent with what you're seeing and look for here in this process? Right.
Well just as a reminder Matt.
It's a great question.
Just a reminder the Consent Decree relates to specifically the 3 McNeil plants not the Johnson &amp; Johnson overall or any other plants.
We have 120 manufacturing plants and we're inspected by regulatory authorities including the FDA and other foreign authorities all the time.
The inspection level is going up as a matter of fact and we continue to bode very well with the outcome of those inspections with trending more favorable than we've had in the past.
I would say that overall we did in fact create a comprehensive enterprise supply chain within Johnson &amp; Johnson that brought together the manufacturing and distribution but as well as the quality component of our supply chain as a one Johnson &amp; Johnson approach to quality.
That's something that Bill Weldon announced more than a year ago now.
And so we are taking a more comprehensive view of quality across the enterprise of Johnson &amp; Johnson.
So with respect to everybody's time we'll take one last question and then get some remarks -- closing remarks from Dominic.
Your final question comes from David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> It's Steve Beuchaw in here for David.
A follow-up first on DePuy business.
Now that you're getting closer to the Synthes organization and a bit further down the path toward integration I wonder if you could give us an update on how you're thinking about interfacing with hospitals as a combined organization that you'll have what would appear to be as complete product line in ortho trauma and spine as there is in the business.
How does that position you to gain share? How does that give you more levers to use in your interactions with hospitals? Right right.
Well it's a great observation Steve.
We should have you come with us when we're talking to hospitals CFOs and procurement specialists I guess.
Obviously we're very pleased to have the broadest offering in the orthopedic marketplace with the inclusion of Synthes and also the fact that Synthes products as you know are extremely well regarded in the industry.
And I think we'll learn from the Synthes organization as well.
So I think you're pointing out what I think appears to be the obvious for most people that we expect that with the combination of Synthes we'll be the leader in the orthopedics market with continued innovation.
And obviously when a hospital wants to have a discussion about the orthopedic space in general they can turn to the Johnson &amp; Johnson business and have a full wholesome discussion.
And the products even within the spine portfolio are generally complimentary with the products we already have in our spine portfolio.
So I think we're in a very good position there to have a seat at the table.
And what will turn out to be a pretty competitive marketplace going forward I think will be very strong in that marketplace.
Research Division</strong> We'd always be happy to join you in any of those discussions.
One other question.
I just wanted to get your latest thoughts Dominic on where things are headed with the FDA approval processes both the 5 10-Ks in for novel technologies.
On one hand it seems like we're seeing an acceleration of legislative activity aimed at making these processes simpler but then on the other hand we see CMS and the FDA working harder to coordinate approval and reimbursement for new technologies.
So at this stage to what extent do you think these are good indicators of where things might go? Maybe 5 10-Ks get more predictable and new technologies get a little bit more scrutiny.
Where do you see this going? Yes it's a great question.
Look we would just be speculating if we gave you sort of any definitive kind of position on this.
But it is true that there is a movement to try to differentiate if you will the products that should get 5 10-K and rapid approval in the marketplace because of relatively low risk or they're obviously the predicate devices.
It's something that should be comparable to the current device and differentiate those from the products that would require more sort of PMA and extensive clinical trials as the products become or those development innovations become more complex.
I think a company like Johnson &amp; Johnson having the expertise that we have across a broad portfolio of not only medical device products but obviously our pharmaceutical business as well positions us very well to have those kinds of discussions and dialogue with the FDA of what's appropriate in evaluating the particular product in question.
So I would just say you've made a good observation.
I can't predict where it's going to come or how it's going to come out but I believe that we're in a great position to have that dialogue with the FDA and help them arrive at a sensible solution for the industry.
Great.
Thanks everyone.
And we're very pleased with our third quarter results and we expect to continue to build on these core strengths and the recent launches in our business.
And I remain confident in our prospects for the remainder of this year and beyond.
And I want to thank the dedication focus and integrity of the people of Johnson &amp; Johnson that make all that possible.
I look forward to speaking with you again in January and updating you on our fourth quarter and full-year results at that time.
Thank you for your time this morning and have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to the Johnson &amp; Johnson First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This call is being recorded.
If anyone has any objections you may disconnect at this time.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Johnson &amp; Johnson.
You may begin.
Good morning and welcome.
I'm Louise Mehrotra Vice President of Investor Relations for Johnson &amp; Johnson.
And it is my pleasure this morning to review our business results for the first quarter of 2012.
Joining me on the call today is Dominic Caruso Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
A few logistics before we get into the details.
This call is being made available through a broader audience via a webcast accessible through the Investor Relations section of the Johnson &amp; Johnson website.
I'll begin by briefly reviewing highlights of the first quarter for the corporation and highlights for our 3 business segments.
Following my remarks Dominic will provide some additional commentary on the first quarter financial results and discuss guidance for the full year of 2012.
We will then open the call to your questions.
We expect the call to last approximately one hour.
Included with the press release that was sent to the investment community earlier this morning is a schedule showing sales for major products and/or businesses to facilitate updating your models.
These are also available on the Johnson &amp; Johnson website as is the press release.
Before I get into the results let me remind you that some of the statements made during this review may be considered forward-looking statements.
The 10-K for the fiscal year 2011 identifies certain factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements made this morning.
The company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.
The 10-K is available through the company or online.
Last item.
During the review non-GAAP financial measures may be used to provide information pertinent to ongoing business performance.
Tables reconciling these measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are available in the press release and on the Investor Relations section of the Johnson &amp; Johnson website at investor.jnj.com.
Now I would like to review our results for the first quarter of 2012.
If you would refer to your copy of the press release let's begin with the schedule titled Supplementary Sales Data by Geographic Area.
Worldwide sales to customers were $16.1 billion dollars for the first quarter of 2012 down 0.2% as compared to the first quarter of 2011.
On an operational basis sales were up 1% and currency had a negative impact of 1.2%.
In the U.S.
sales decreased 5.1% impacted by generic competition for LEVAQUIN and CONCERTA.
In regions outside the U.S.
our operational growth was 6.4% while the effective currency exchange rates negatively impacted our reported results by 2.3 points.
The strong growth in the regions outside the U.S.
was primarily due to the success of new product launches and the impact of the amended agreement with Merck regarding REMICADE and SIMPONI.
I will discuss these items in more detail in the segment commentary.
The Western Hemisphere excluding the U.S.
grew by 23.3% operationally while Europe grew 4.5% operationally.
The Asia-Pacific Africa region grew 1.2% on an operational basis.
If you'll now turn to the consolidated statement of earnings net earnings were $3.9 billion compared to $3.5 billion in the same period in 2011.
Earnings per share were $1.41 versus $1.25 a year ago.
Please direct your attention to the boxed section of the schedule where we have provided earnings adjusted to exclude special items.
As referenced in the accompanying tables on the non-GAAP measures 2012 first quarter net earnings were adjusted to exclude the after-tax net impact of a currency adjustment related to the planned acquisition of Synthes partially offset by costs associated with the acquisition.
First quarter results for 2011 were adjusted to exclude the after-tax impact of litigation expense and a few ASR Hip recall costs.
Net earnings on an adjusted basis were $3.8 billion and earnings per share were $1.37 up 1.5% versus the first quarter of 2011.
I would now like to make some additional comments relative to the components leading to earnings before we move on to the segment highlights.
For the first quarter cost of goods sold at 30.4% of sales was 90 basis points higher than the same period in 2011 primarily due to the ongoing remediation work in our OTC business and unfavorable mix including the impact of the Crucell business.
First quarter selling marketing and administrative expenses at 31.1% of sales were down 20 basis points due to cost-containment initiatives across many of our businesses.
Our investment in research and development as a percent of sales was 10.2% 60 basis points lower than the first quarter of 2011 primarily due to the timing of milestone payments.
Interest expense net of interest income of $130 million was up $26 million versus the first quarter of 2011 due to a higher average debt balance.
Other income net of other expense was $611 million in the first quarter of 2012 compared to $13 million in the same period last year.
Excluding special items other income net of other expense was $494 million in 2012 compared to $359 million in 2011.
2012 results include the gain related to the divestiture of Bystolic while 2011 results included the gain related to the equity investment in Crucell.
Excluding special items the effective tax rate was 22.8% in the first quarter of 2012 in line with the 2011 rate.
Turning now to business segment highlights.
Please refer to the supplementary sales schedules highlighting major products or businesses for the first quarter of 2012.
I'll begin with the Consumer segment.
Worldwide Consumer segment sales for the first quarter of 2012 of $3.6 billion decreased 2.4% as compared to the same period last year.
On an operational basis sales decreased 0.6% while the impact of currency was negative 1.8%.
U.S.
sales were down 2.2% while international sales grew 0.4% on an operational basis.
Baby care products declined on an operational basis by 1.4% when compared to the first quarter of 2011 due to lower sales of lotions and powders partially offset by stronger sales of wipes.
Sales in the oral care business increased 0.7% on an operational basis with U.S.
down 4.9% and international sales up 4.7% on an operational basis.
Strong international sales of LISTERINE from recently launched products were partially offset by lower U.S.
sales of floss.
For the first quarter of 2012 sales for OTC pharmaceuticals and nutritionals decreased 0.3% on an operational basis compared to the same period in 2011.
Sales in the U.S.
were down 4% primarily due to supply constraints on certain products partially offset by the return to the market of other key products and the impact of the acquisition of full ownership rights to certain digestive health products.
McNeil-PPC is operating under a Consent Decree covering the manufacturing facilities in Las Piedras Puerto Rico and Fort Washington and Lancaster Pennsylvania.
McNeil continues to operate the manufacturing facilities in Las Piedras and Lancaster.
As we previously discussed production volumes from these facilities continue to be impacted by additional review and approval processes.
We expect this to continue throughout 2012 and most of 2013.
The Fort Washington manufacturing site is not in operation at this time.
We anticipate it will be ready for the FDA to begin their certification review process for this facility in late 2013.
Sales outside the U.S.
were up 1.7% on an operational basis due to the recent acquisition of the DOKTOR MOM and RINZA brands from J.
B.
Chemicals &amp; Pharmaceuticals and the successful launch of new smoking cessation products.
Our Skin Care business grew 2.1% on an operational basis in the first quarter of 2012 with sales in the U.S.
up 6.3% and sales outside the U.S.
down 1.7% on an operational basis.
Strong sales of Neutrogena in the U.S.
due to the success of new product launches were partially offset by lower international sales.
A softer market in certain regions has impacted the international sales.
Women's health declined 8.2% on an operational basis.
Sales in the U.S.
were down 25.6% while sales outside U.S.
were down 1.7% on an operational basis.
The sales decline this quarter was primarily due to the impact of divestitures of certain brands.
Wound care/other sales increased 3.3% on an operational basis compared to the same period last year due to new product launches.
That completes our review of the Consumer segment.
And I'll now review highlights for the Pharmaceuticals segment.
Worldwide net sales for the first quarter of $6.1 billion increased 1.2% versus the same period last year.
On an operational basis sales increased 2.6% with a negative currency impact of 1.4 points.
Sales in the U.S.
decreased 10.8% while sales outside the U.S.
increased on an operational basis by 19.6%.
The loss of marketing exclusivity for LEVAQUIN in June last year and the May 2011 supply and distribution agreement with Watson Laboratories Inc.
to distribute an authorized generic version of CONCERTA in the U.S.
negatively impacted worldwide Pharmaceutical operational sales growth by approximately 9 points and U.S.
growth by approximately 14 points.
Positively impacting sales growth in the quarter were sales related to the February 2011 acquisition of Crucell and the impact of the amended agreement with Merck partially offset by divestitures.
Excluding the items mentioned the underlying worldwide operational growth was approximately 9% with similar results in both the U.S.
and outside the U.S.
Now reviewing sales for our major therapeutic areas.
Immunology products achieved strong double-digit operational sales growth of 20.5%.
Growth in the U.S.
of 1.2% was impacted by lower export sales to Merck.
As a reminder in the third quarter of 2011 as a result of the agreement reached with Merck we began selling REMICADE and SIMPONI directly into certain international territories.
We therefore recorded lower export sales related to those territories and higher international sales.
Excluding the change in export sales U.S.
immunology sales increased over 13% led by STELARA up 22.9%; SIMPONI up 20.8%; and REMICADE up 11.9%.
With these strong results we expanded our U.S.
market leadership in immunology.
International sales of immunology products tripled versus the first quarter of 2011 due primarily to the sales related to the territories we regained from Merck complemented by the very strong growth of STELARA.
Sales of infectious disease products declined 17% on an operational basis.
Excluding the generic impact of LEVAQUIN which I previously mentioned infectious disease sales increased over 40%.
Major contributors were the successful launch of INCIVO for hepatitis C the continued momentum in market share growth for PREZISTA for HIV and additional sales of vaccines related to the February 2011 acquisition of Crucell.
INCIVO contributed nearly 5 points of the growth to the total international Pharmaceutical sales results.
Neuroscience product sales decreased 4.3% on an operational basis impacted by generic competition with CONCERTA as I mentioned as well as products such as RISPERDAL TOPAMAX and RAZADYNE.
The long-acting injectable antipsychotics RISPERDAL CONSTA and INVEGA SUSTENNA achieved double-digit operational growth due to an increase in combined market share.
Sales of oncology products increased 38.5% on an operational basis due to the very strong results for ZYTIGA and VELCADE partially offset by lower sales of DOXIL/CAELYX related to manufacturing issues at our third-party supplier.
ZYTIGA is currently approved to treat chemo refractory metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer.
In the quarter ZYTIGA achieved sales of $200 million split evenly between the U.S.
and outside the U.S.
On a sequential basis reported sales increased approximately 30%.
VELCADE is a treatment for multiple myeloma for which we have commercialization rights in Europe and the rest of the world outside the U.S.
Operational sales grew 29.3% due to the timing of tender business and strong growth in use in the frontline setting.
DOXIL/CAELYX declined over 80% on an operational basis in the quarter.
As we previously discussed based on the update last December from our third-party manufacturer about its estimated time frame for restoring manufacturing operations we do not anticipate DOXIL/CAELYX to be available until late 2012.
Restoring a reliable supply of DOXIL/CAELYX remains our most urgent priority.
We continue to pursue a variety of options to bring a consistent supply of DOXIL/CAELYX back to patients and physicians as quickly as possible.
In addition to longer-term solutions we are pursuing a shorter-term option to restore supply ahead of the late 2012 time frame.
Other Pharmaceutical products declined 7.9% on an operational basis due primarily to divestitures and lower sales of ACIPHEX/PARIET and EPREX due to the impact of generic competition.
I'll now review the Medical Devices &amp; Diagnostics segment results.
Worldwide Medical Devices &amp; Diagnostics segment sales of $6.4 billion grew 0.5% operationally as compared to the same period in 2011.
Currency had a negative impact of 0.8 points resulting in a total sales decrease of 0.3%.
Sales in U.S.
were up 0.2% while sales outside U.S.
increased on an operational basis by 0.7%.
Excluding drug-eluting stents worldwide sales increased approximately 2% on an operational basis.
Now turning to the MD&amp;D businesses starting with cardiovascular care.
Cardiovascular care sales were down 23.5% operationally with U.S.
down 27.3% and sales outside U.S.
down 21.2% operationally.
The decision in the second quarter of 2011 to exit the drug-eluting stent market and the decline in market share for endovascular stents negatively impacted sales this quarter.
This was partially offset by strong sales for Biosense Webster our electrophysiology business which achieved operational growth of 12% in the quarter.
The impact on disposables utilization due to the breadth of the installed base of CARTO 3 complemented by the success of the new THERMOCOOL catheter launches made strong contributions to the results.
The diabetes care business achieved operational sales growth of 6.6% in the first quarter of 2012 with the U.S.
business up 13.2% due to new product launches and favorable mix.
The business outside U.S.
grew 0.2% operationally with strong sales in the emerging markets offset by pricing pressures in some of the developed markets.
The diagnostics business declined 1.1% on an operational basis in the first quarter.
Sales in the U.S.
were down 4.5% due to lower donor screening sales due to competitive pressures and the implementation of selected testing guidelines for Chagas' disease.
Sales outside the U.S.
were up 2.5% operationally driven by the continued adoption of the VITROS platforms.
General surgery worldwide sales grew operationally by 1.4% with the U.S.
down 0.5% and sales outside U.S.
up 2.6% operationally.
The success of the new product launches SECURESTRAP and ECHELON FLEX Powered ENDOPATH Stapler were partially offset by lower sales of mechanical products due to the continued shift to minimally invasive procedures and low-cost competition and lower sales of pelvic floor repair products.
Infection prevention grew 13.4% on an operational basis with U.S.
growth at 22.1% and growth outside the U.S.
of 6.5% on an operational basis.
Growth was driven by increased market share due to the larger installed base of STERRAD systems.
Orthopedic sales were flat when compared to the same period in 2011.
Sales in the U.S.
were down 3.5% due to the impact of the divestiture in December 2011 of surgical instruments and continued pricing pressure partially offset by positive mix.
The orthopedics business outside the U.S.
grew by 4.1% operationally due primarily to strong growth in Asia.
Operationally hips were up 1% worldwide driven by 3% growth outside the U.S.
attributed to heads cementless stems and acetabular products.
In the U.S.
hips were essentially flat.
Knees worldwide increased 2% on an operational basis with U.S.
up 2% and operational sales outside U.S.
up 1%.
Worldwide spine was down 3% on an operational basis with the U.S.
down 8% due to continued pressure on price.
Sales outside the U.S.
were up 5% operationally.
Specialty surgery achieved operational growth of 9.9% in the first quarter of 2012 with the U.S.
sales up 10.5% and sales outside the U.S.
up 9.3% on an operational basis.
Incremental sales from the acquisition of SterilMed strong sales of biosurgery products and new product launches were the major drivers of growth this quarter.
Rounding out the review of the Medical Devices &amp; Diagnostics segment our Vision Care business achieved operational sales growth of 4.5% in the first quarter compared to the same period last year.
Sales in the U.S.
increased 8.2% while sales outside the U.S.
increased 2.6% on an operational basis.
Growth was driven by daily lenses and astigmatism lenses.
That completes highlights for the Medical Devices &amp; Diagnostics segment and concludes the segment highlights for Johnson &amp; Johnson's first quarter of 2012.
Before I turn the call over to Dominic I would like to discuss the Arkansas judge's decision last week regarding RISPERDAL awarding $1.2 billion in penalties against the company.
Many of you have asked about this matter so I would like to provide the following context.
During the entire period at question Arkansas Medicaid spent a total of less than $10 million of state funds on prescriptions for RISPERDAL.
The state acknowledged that RISPERDAL was a very important therapy for patients and that the state did not intend to interfere with physicians prescribing RISPERDAL to treat their patients.
We firmly believe the imposition of the penalties was excessive not justified by the evidence presented at trial and will not be upheld on appeal.
If our motion for a new trial is denied we will appeal.
The company has not established an accrual with respect to the judgment.
We continue to stand fully behind RISPERDAL which helps millions of patients around the world who suffer from the debilitating effects of schizophrenia and bipolar mania.
I will now turn the call over to Dominic Caruso.
Dominic? Thank you Louise and good morning everyone.
I would like to provide some comments this morning about our first quarter results highlight some recent business and pipeline developments and provide guidance for you to consider in refining your models for 2012.
There continues to be multiple external factors that have resulted in significant headwinds such as the macroeconomic conditions governmental budgetary actions and regulatory and industry trends.
However we continue to see significant opportunities in health care and we are well positioned as a global leader to capitalize on these opportunities based on the strength of our recently launched products our robust and advancing pipelines and our broad base in health care.
We're off to a good start in 2012.
Given the impact of LEVAQUIN and CONCERTA going generic in mid-2011 we expected and we saw modest operational sales growth in the first quarter.
Although utilization in the health care markets continues to be below prerecession levels we are seeing a continuation of stabilization and we are encouraged by recent fourth quarter utilization data which was modestly positive.
In particular we saw U.S.-based hospital surgical procedures modestly grow which is the first time we saw this in the data in the last 9 quarters.
We also are seeing continued progress with our new product launches and our sales in emerging markets.
Our Pharmaceutical business operational growth this quarter was approximately 3% reflecting the tough comparisons from the impact of LEVAQUIN and CONCERTA.
Excluding both the generic impacts and the positive impact from our agreement with Merck last year to regain certain international sales territories for REMICADE and SIMPONI Pharmaceutical sales for the first quarter would have increased approximately 9% operationally reflecting the success of the new product launches as well as continued growth in many of our core products.
Our Medical Device businesses saw modest operational growth in the first quarter driven by our decision to exit the drug-eluting stent market in the second quarter of 2011.
Our MD&amp;D businesses however continue to be market leaders with either #1 or #2 market positions in 17 of our 19 key platforms.
And our Consumer business showed modest operational decline in first quarter performance due primarily to lower production levels of our McNeil U.S.
over-the-counter products as a result of the work required under the Consent Decree.
As to earnings we are very pleased to have reported solid earnings per share in the first quarter of $1.37 excluding special items.
During the first quarter we completed the divestiture of the high blood pressure drug Bystolic to Forest Laboratories for a one-time cash payment of $357 million.
The gain from that transaction which we expected when we provided guidance in January is reflected in our first quarter results.
We also continue to make investments this past quarter to advance our robust pipelines launch new products and implement remediation plans for our manufacturing and quality systems at our McNeil Consumer Healthcare business.
Now let's take a look at some first quarter 2012 accomplishments across our businesses.
First in our Pharmaceutical business.
Based on the unanimous recommendation of the investigational drug monitoring committee we unblinded the Phase III study of ZYTIGA for the treatment of asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer who had not received chemotherapy.
Based on the study results we plan to submit for regulatory approval of ZYTIGA for these indications in the United States and Europe in the second half of 2012.
We announced that the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration granted priority review for XARELTO to reduce the risk of blood clots in patients with acute coronary syndrome which we had filed at the end of 2011.
XARELTO is already approved in the U.S.
for the prevention of blood clots following hip and knee replacement surgery and the prevention of stroke as a result of blood clots.
And we also announced the results of the EINSTEIN-PE study showing that the oral anticoagulant XARELTO was comparable to today's standard of care in treating patients with acute symptomatic pulmonary embolism and in preventing the development of a secondary venous blood clot known as venous thromboembolism or VTE.
The study found that XARELTO had a similar safety profile and significantly lower risk of major bleeding versus the current standard of care regimen.
The data was published in the New England Journal of Medicine and we plan to file the EINSTEIN studies in a supplemental new drug application with the FDA during the second quarter for an indication in the VTE treatment.
The FDA approved the use of INTELENCE to be administered in combination with antiviral medications for the treatment of HIV-1 in treatment-experienced pediatric patients.
And finally with respect to Bapineuzumab we have agreed with our partner Pfizer to present the results from the 2 North American Phase III studies which we led study 301 and study 302 later this year.
Based on standard practices for both companies we will ensure the data are presented in a timely manner at an appropriate scientific venue.
Our MD&amp;D business also continued to make important advancements.
In February we received an approvable letter from the FDA on our SEDASYS system the first computer-assisted personalized sedation system.
We are pleased to have reached this milestone in our efforts to bring this important innovation closer to market as we believe the SEDASYS system has the potential to benefit patients and health care providers.
LifeScan launched in the U.S.
the OneTouch Verio IQ system with PatternAlert Technology the first and only blood glucose meter to look for patterns of high and low blood sugar levels and alert diabetes patients with detailed messages onscreen alerting them to changes in their blood sugar levels.
The system is in the process of being launched globally.
Approximately 366 million people globally are expected to have diabetes by the year 2030 and about 26 million Americans live with diabetes today.
And in our Consumer Healthcare business several McNeil products have returned to the market and more are planned to return throughout this year and next.
However it is difficult to predict the speed of recovery while operating under the Consent Decree.
Therefore we do not anticipate our U.S.
OTC business to be a driver of growth this year.
We continue making progress on our commitments under the Consent Decree and we are experiencing higher remediation costs as a result.
All of these impacts are considered in our guidance which I will discuss in just a minute.
Meanwhile our skin care business continues to be a solid contributor of growth with our Neutrogena business bringing new innovations to market and the ongoing success of our Neutrogena Naturals moisturizer and night cream.
Now I'd like to provide an update on the status of our pending acquisition of Synthes.
We continue to make good progress on all aspects of the acquisition planning process and we continue to expect the transaction to close in the second quarter of 2012.
The merger agreement requires regulatory clearance from 5 markets prior to closing.
We have received clearance from 3 of those markets: Japan Canada and China.
We are actively working with the other 2: the EU and the U.S.
regulatory authorities.
Earlier this month we received a binding offer from Biomet Inc.
to acquire the DePuy Orthopaedics trauma business.
The offer includes the purchase of DePuy's internal and external fixation products used in the treatment of bone fractures as well as the organization supporting this business.
The sale is subject to regulatory approvals and is expected to close in the second quarter of 2012.
We believe this divestiture will satisfy all regulatory concerns relating to the pending acquisition of Synthes but we will not know with certainty until the regulatory processes in the EU and the U.S.
are completed.
Let me now provide some guidance for you to consider as you refine your models for 2012.
My comments do not include any impact from the pending acquisition of Synthes.
As we would normally do we will update our guidance once the acquisition is completed.
Let me begin with a discussion of cash and interest income and expense.
At the end of the first quarter we had over $14 billion of net cash.
This consists of approximately $33 billion of cash and investments and approximately $19 billion of debt.
For purposes of your models assuming no major acquisitions during 2012 I suggest you consider modeling net interest expense of between $500 million and $550 million.
This is consistent with our previous guidance.
Turning to other income and expense.
As a reminder this is the account where we record royalty income as well as one-time gains and losses arising from such items as litigation investments by our development corporation and divestitures asset sales or write-offs.
As we previously noted in our guidance for 2012 we had expected a gain from a divestiture in early 2012 and in fact that gain is reflected in our first quarter results.
This account is difficult to forecast.
But assuming no additional major one-time gains or losses and excluding the impact of any special items I would recommend you consider modeling other income and expense for 2012 as a net gain ranging from approximately $900 million to $1 billion consistent with our previous guidance.
And now a word on taxes.
For the first 3 months of 2012 the company's effective tax rate excluding special items was 22.8%.
We suggest that you model our effective tax rate for 2012 in the range of 21% to 22% consistent with our previous guidance.
Although not yet reflected in our first quarter results this annual tax rate assumes that the R&amp;D tax credit will be reinstated by Congress by the end of this year.
As always we will continue to pursue opportunities in this area to improve upon this rate throughout the year.
Now let's turn to sales and earnings guidance.
Our guidance continues to be based first on a constant currency basis reflecting our results from operations assuming that average currency rates for 2012 will be the same as they were for 2011.
This is the way we manage our business and we believe this operational view provides a good understanding of the underlying performance of our business.
We will also continue to provide an estimate of our sales and EPS results for 2012 with the impact that current exchange rates could have using the euro as an example.
Now turning to sales.
We would be comfortable with your models reflecting an operational sales increase on a constant currency basis of between approximately 4% and 5% for the year.
This is consistent with our previous guidance.
This would result in estimated sales for 2012 on a constant currency basis of approximately $68 billion.
While we're not predicting the impact of currency movements to give you an idea of the potential impact if currency exchange rates for the remainder of 2012 were to stay where they were as of last week as an example with the euro at approximately $1.31 then our sales growth rate would be negatively impacted by approximately 2% for the year.
Thus under this scenario we would expect reported sales growth to be between approximately 2% and 3% for the year for an expected level of reported sales of approximately $66.5 billion slightly higher than our previous guidance due to the strengthening of foreign currency exchange rates versus the U.S.
dollar.
And now turning to earnings.
I suggest that you consider full year 2012 operational EPS estimates of between $5.18 and $5.28 per share excluding the impact of special items and assuming the same average exchange rates for 2012 as we saw in 2011.
This is consistent with our previous guidance.
And while we're not predicting the impact of currency movements to give you an idea of the potential impact on EPS if currency exchange rates for the balance of 2012 were to remain where they were as of last week then the impact of currency movements primarily the euro would be a reduction of approximately $0.11 per share.
Therefore our reported EPS excluding special items would be between $5.07 and $5.17 per share for a reported EPS growth rate of approximately 1.5% to 3.5% which is slightly higher than our previously guidance reflecting the strength of foreign exchange rates versus the U.S.
dollar.
That concludes my comments on our operating performance this quarter and our guidance with respect to your models.
And now Louise back to you for the Q&amp;A.
Thanks Dominic.
Keela can you please give the instructions for the Q&amp;A session? [Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Larry Biegelsen of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> So the first quarter operational growth was 1% Dominic.
The guidance is 4% to 5% if I heard correctly.
Could you talk a little bit about what accelerates growth going forward especially in Q2 given that if we look at the operational growth rate in the first quarter of this year compared to the fourth quarter of last year there does seem to have been a deceleration? Right.
Well I guess Larry the main factor in the growth rate comparison has to do with LEVAQUIN and CONCERTA.
The first quarter as we mentioned for the Pharmaceutical business only at 3% reflects the fact that LEVAQUIN went generic in May or June of 2011 and obviously we entered into that agreement with Watson for authorized generic of CONCERTA in May of 2011.
So in the first quarter of 2011 we didn't have those impacts yet so that's the major reason for the comparison.
As we progress through the year those comparisons will be easier.
Of course the comps will be easier.
And just as a reminder we did acquire the Crucell business very late in the first quarter of 2011.
So if you look at the entire business and you just exclude the things that I mentioned sort of generic impacts the impact of drug-eluting stents that Louise mentioned and also the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures which netted to be actually a minor amount the overall growth rate for our business in the first quarter on an operational basis is just about 4%.
So we feel pretty confident that we'll accelerate the growth for the remainder of the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Dominic just one on DePuy and the orthopedic market.
It looks like there was some improvement in the U.S.
in knees.
Could you just talk a little bit about what you're seeing overall in the orthopedic market from a procedure and pricing standpoint please? Sure sure.
And I'll ask Louise to comment as well if I leave anything out.
We did see some improvement in knees.
And we continue to see knees being positively affected by product mix.
So overall in our knee business pricing is only slightly negative very very low not even quite single-digit price offset by positive mix that's low-single digits.
So that's a boost in the knee business.
And overall the knee market seems to be recovering as well.
And Louise anything else you want to add to that? Yes.
So the commentary we got from DePuy said that they are seeing early signs of some positive trends in the knee market.
However we won't know for sure until all the other manufacturers report.
Our next question is from the line of Mike Weinstein of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Dominic just first question on your guidance.
You had commented on the fourth quarter call that you expected pretax operating margins for the year to improve by 100 to 150 basis points.
I think they were up about 10 basis points this quarter.
So does that 100 to 150 basis points for the year still stand? Yes it does Mike.
We feel pretty confident about that moving through the rest of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Let me ask then a couple of operational questions.
The commentary around the Consumer business particularly McNeil suggested that it was going to take a little bit longer to get some of those issues resolved.
I think you talked in your prepared remarks about the volumes coming out of Las Piedras and Fort Washington and Lancaster but Fort Washington being offline I think you said until late 2013 and then Las Piedras and Lancaster being -- ramping all the way in through most of '13.
That sounded like it was a longer time period recovery for McNeil than we have been previously thinking about.
It is Mike.
As I said in my remarks operating under the Consent Decree it's difficult to predict the rate of recovery.
And although we're making progress and we are operating under a Consent Decree in close cooperation with our third-party consultant who's there with us it is difficult to accurately predict the speed of recovery.
And as such we are in fact behind where we felt we might be at this point.
And we expect a slower recovery throughout the year than we previously thought at the tail end of last year.
Although products are coming back to the market they'll continue to come back to the market throughout the year.
You'll see more and more of the products back on the shelves but it will extend into 2013 as well.
And as I mentioned earlier we're also incurring some additional remediation costs as a result of the delays.
But all of that has already been factored into the guidance I just provided.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just one question on ZYTIGA.
When the independent data monitoring committee stopped the Phase III trial in pre-chemo metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer patients they did so based on the primary end point which was progression-free survival.
And I believe it was based on data that went through late last year.
Do you know if at ASCO if we'll see the follow-up on patients up through the actual announcement of the halting of the trial where the question here is whether we'll see overall survival reach potential significance at the full follow-up? Okay.
So you're correct Mike it did include the information up until the end of last year.
I think it was November of last year.
I don't believe that you're going to see the continuing trend on the overall survival at ASCO.
You'll see the results as we have them right now.
The next question is from Jami Rubin of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Dominic just a clarification on the other income line.
You reported $611 million some of that was related to Synthes and foreign exchange which we excluded but some of that was related to divestitures which you included in operating income.
Can you update us on where your expectations are for additional divestitures throughout the year? I think that during the previous call you had indicated between $500 million to $600 million.
But I just wanted to make sure that I was thinking about that correctly.
And then secondly back on the OTC question clearly the Consent Decree has slowed the process down.
How do you feel about a recovery story in 2013? And once the products reach the market what are your expectations in terms of how much market share you think you can gain back? Okay.
Well on the divestitures Jami let me try to do a little bit better job of explaining what's in that other income and expense line.
Typically that line includes royalty income which is in the $500 million -- these are pretax numbers.
$500 million of royalty income and then there's roughly another $100 million of other activity that flows through that line.
We did expect as we mentioned a divestiture to occur early this year which it did.
And that divestiture as I mentioned earlier had proceeds of around $350 million.
So our current guidance which is the same as it was in January is for that line item other income and expense to be between $900 million and $1 billion.
So it factors in the normal run rate that I just mentioned of $500 million to $600 million and this divestiture that we just completed in the first quarter so hopefully that's clear.
And then with respect to the divestiture income I just wanted to point out that these are taxed at various rates because they occur at various tax jurisdictions.
Both the divestiture in 2012 as well as the divestitures that were in the gains in 2011 which included not only a divestiture but an equity gain with respect to our acquisition of Crucell on an after-tax basis they're very comparable.
They're in the $200 million range both on an after-tax basis.
And then with respect to recovery in 2013 and ultimate share recapture we still feel very confident about our ability to recapture share.
We're obviously disappointed that it's taking a little longer to get back into the market.
But all indicators of the equity scores that we track with respect to the brands children's TYLENOL even adult TYLENOL continue to show that the brands both TYLENOL and MOTRIN and especially children's products continued to score very highly compared to store brands even though they're not available on the shelf and so much so that the scores are in the neighborhood of 2 to 3x the level of trust and confidence in the brand compared to the current available brands particularly store brands.
So that gives us great confidence that the significant legacy that has been built with these brands over the years still remains with consumers and they'll accept the products back once we get them back on the shelf in a continuous way.
Research Division</strong> So just -- so I’m clear on timing Dominic I think earlier in the year or late last year you had said you expected most products to be back on the market by mid-2012 and then that became later 2012 to spilling into 2013.
And now it's today's news that that 2013 will -- the recovery will continue more into 2013 is that correct? Yes.
I would say the way to think about it is that probably half of the products will get back into the market in 2012 and the remaining half in 2013.
The next question comes from Matthew Dodds of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I just want to start off by wondering why the lost sales were soft in the U.S.
That's a little concerning.
No actually just don't count it as my question.
For Dominic on the gross margin.
Can you say generally because of the generic impacts do you expect that number to move up throughout the year? Is this the low point for 2012? Actually no.
I think that with the continuation of the remediation that we talked about with the McNeil Consumer business and the fact that we now have the Crucell business in the full year we would expect gross margin to not be at the low point now and actually be under a little pressure for the remainder of the year.
And actually looking at all your models I noticed that you had -- many of you have that pretty well-pegged as a lower gross margin this year versus last year.
So obviously the improvement in pretax operating margins that we referred to before on Mike's question is going to come mostly from SG&amp;A and a little bit lower R&amp;D spend.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So most of the remediation costs are in COGS and not in SG&amp;A? Yes that's correct.
Yes that's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one more question.
On the general surgery business it looks like it slid from prior performance.
So I was wondering in sutures endomechanical hernia did anything in that business fall off in the quarter? Louise has that data right in front of her.
Go ahead Louise.
Yes.
So sutures were up about 0.5% in the quarter.
Mechanical was down about 3% and we saw a large decline in the pelvic floor area.
Our next question comes from Rajeev Jashnani of UBS.
Research Division</strong> In our model with Synthes closing in a couple of months we've attempted to include this and a major assumption we've got is the level of share repurchase that J&amp;J could do after that deal closes.
I was just wondering if you could share a little bit about your thinking regarding share repurchase following Synthes and perhaps touch on what the appetitive ability to do so is given litigation and everything else.
Yes.
Rajeev I'm not going to comment specifically about share repurchases.
But I will remind you and everyone else that when we spoke about the Synthes transaction obviously we modeled it in the most conservative way.
And we said we would be working to try to finance the transaction in a more efficient manner.
We're still exploring all those opportunities and alternatives.
We're making good progress but we're not able to really comment on that until very close and probably at the time of closure at which point we'll give you a full picture on how the transaction is being structured differently from the way it was announced if it is in fact differently structured.
So other than that I can't give you any more comments at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'll maybe push my luck a little bit anyway and say could we think of it as being funded operationally or perhaps through the balance sheet? I think we just have to wait and get all the regulatory approvals in line and then the various alternatives we have considered will then be clear for us.
And then we'll move forward on that basis.
So it will be premature to comment any further now.
Your next question comes from Ian Sanderson of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> First on the RISPERDAL litigation just a quick follow-up.
When might we hear if whether your motion for dismissal has been accepted? Yes I guess I don't have a good estimate of that.
We're going to -- we’ve filed or will be filing that.
And then as Louise mentioned if it's not accepted we intend to appeal.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly on the Synthes closing is the review deadline the EU review deadline still effectively April 26? And has the U.S.
FTC set any formal review deadline? So the EU has posted on their website April 26 and we're not aware of any changes to that.
And the U.S.
has not established a review deadline.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally Louise could you give us some idea of the XARELTO sales in the quarter? It's a little early to do that Ian thank you.
The next question is from Sara Michelmore Brean Murray.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe just a follow-up on XARELTO Louise.
Can you just give an update in terms of formulary coverage and things like that for the product at this point? So XARELTO is on about 90% of the formularies.
It's in either a Tier 1 -- or sorry Tier 2 or Tier 3.
So for commercialized it's over 90% coverage about 40% is Tier 2 and about the remaining 50% is Tier 3.
And Part D 90% coverage and 2/3 is on the preferred tier.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe Dominic the Consumer business I know there is a lot of moving parts in addition to the OTC stuff that you've got a bunch of divestitures and acquisitions flowing through there but is there any way to give us a sense of what you think the underlying growth of that business is if we can clear out the noise? And in terms of the trend would you say it's the same better or worse compared to what it was doing in 2011? Right.
Okay.
Well with respect to the Consumer business and the divestitures and acquisitions just to give you a quick summary of that they actually net out to have very little impact this quarter because remember we had some divestitures of MONISTAT and other brands but we also acquired DOKTOR MOM and other brands.
So overall that 0.6% decline operationally nets out to be about 0.5% decline operationally net of all the ins and outs.
So that's not a major factor in the quarter.
We did see some slowdown in the Asia Pacific region and particularly China.
China had some issues with ingredients that had been well-publicized that are not new issues just another recurrence of some issues there in China that slowed down the growth in that region of the world.
And we continue to see store brands obviously take share and hold on to share.
I would say that the skin care business which is where we're demonstrating most of the innovation in our Consumer business continues to show very positive growth and continues to do very well so very pleased with that.
So overall flattish performance in the quarter is a little bit lower than it was coming out of last year.
But principally due to the fact that we haven't had the recovery yet that we expected and a little bit slower growth in the China market.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
If I could sneak one more in on SEDASYS.
What's left to do there in terms of getting that product finally cleared and ready to launch? Right.
So we've got to complete the response letter and obviously we have an approvable letter.
And we need to respond to the requirements of the approvable letter.
And they're mostly things involving training of utilization of the product and then sort of postmarket observance and those sorts of things.
So we want to get that lined up and get it ready for launch in the appropriate way after we respond to the FDA's questions.
But no new clinical studies required for approval for example just a follow-up to the data we had previously provided and some development of training materials and the like.
The next question is from Matt Miksic of Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow-ups on some of the questions that have been asked here.
First on the lines of the income statement the gross margin below our estimate you mentioned the remediation costs.
Is this the right margin level for the rest of the year? Do you get any leverage on the spending component throughout the year? Or does that continue to ramp kind of hold it in this range? Matt I think with our new outlook for remediation cost being slightly higher than we previously mentioned I think that we're going to see gross margin be under pressure for the remainder of the year.
I think I answered that question earlier when Matt Dodds asked it.
So I don't think there's going to be significant leverage in that line this year.
Remember that this year we also said we expected significant pricing issues in the business.
And we're seeing that stronger declines in pricing than we saw the previous year.
And all of that including the increased remediation costs are now reflected in the updated guidance which although it's consistent essentially with previous guidance takes into consideration these more negative factors offset by the fact that the rest of the business is off to a good start.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the R&amp;D line you also mentioned these delayed milestone payments hoping that I didn't miss somebody else asking the same question that could we expect those to catch up in the next couple of quarters or by the end of the year? Is that the thinking on R&amp;D? Yes.
So I think R&amp;D will be a little higher in future quarters and it has to do with not necessarily delayed milestone payments just the timing of milestone payments under various agreements that we have.
Wherein previous quarter we would have had milestone payments under contract in this quarter no such significant milestone payments were due.
So I don't want you to think there's any delays in the program.
It's just timing of when the programs and our milestone payments kick in.
So that will go up a little bit throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then on ortho to follow up on some of your comments there and the questions that were asked earlier in your prepared remarks.
The mix did you mention which products are driving that on the knee side? Is TRUMATCH a factor there? Any other commentary that you got from DePuy? Yes go ahead Louise.
Okay.
So some of the mix is being driven by the revision segment.
Research Division</strong> Okay revisions.
And Dominic's comments last one on the utilization trends.
I just wasn't clear you mentioned Q4 and then you also mentioned some improving trends in surgical volumes.
I just -- are you seeing that in the first quarter? Or is that Q4 data? Just the timing of that will be helpful.
Yes.
The data I was referring to was Q4 data.
We don't really feel that the Q1 data is that reliable this early.
But we have pretty good data on Q4.
And we saw across all segments of utilization whether at the hospital surgical procedures ambulatory procedures physician visits lab procedures et cetera all positive signs.
Although modest I will say positive signs so that's what I meant by we were encouraged by the Q4 data.
Research Division</strong> And just making sure that we're not reading that as maybe -- is this something that you saw on Q4 last year or different than you saw in Q4 last year? Is the seasonality a factor? Or how should we look at that? Yes.
Well the way we looked at it Matt is it's the first time for example for hospital surgical procedures it's the first quarter in 9 quarters that we saw a quarter-to-quarter uptick in surgical procedures.
The next question comes from Derrick Sung of Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So following on the utilization conversation your comments there have been focused on the U.S.
I was wondering if you could turn to Europe and give us some color on what you're seeing in utilization there first off.
I noticed that in the Medical Devices division you did see a deceleration in your international sales from 4.6% to 0.7% operationally.
Is any utilization coming to there? And then any other just further commentary on Europe receivables that you might be seeing there in pharma austerity? Yes.
Well with utilization -- the data in Europe’s obviously more difficult to nail down than it is in the U.S.
Most of the FX that we saw in MD&amp;D in Europe have to do with exiting the drug-eluting stent business so that's really the primary driver of the international dropoff that you're referring to.
The austerity measures we did expect and are seeing a little bit higher level of basically pricing negative pricing in the businesses both Pharma and MD&amp;D as we expected when we set guidance for the year.
So we're seeing a continuation of that as playing out as we thought at a bit higher level than we saw in the previous year.
And then finally with respect to receivables in Europe we're monitoring that very closely.
We think we have a pretty good handle on it.
And we are seeing some slight increase in the aging of those receivables but nothing that we don't have a good handle on right now nothing that we're particularly concerned about at the moment.
But we'll obviously continue to monitor it and put appropriate actions in place.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And did you see an extra selling day in the quarter from the leap day? And if so can you talk about the impact that that had on the various growth rates for your divisions? Actually for our business it was actually one less selling day because we work on a 4-4-5 basis.
But we're not a calendar year but it had no to minimal effect.
The next question comes from Rick Wise of Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> Let me touch on the announced management changes Dominic.
Maybe just -- this is the first opportunity we've had sort of publicly to hear your reflections on this.
I'd be curious to hear why the timing now -- I mean obviously Alex is not here to express for himself.
But can we -- should we expect anything different under his leadership? Is there any reason that choice is made? And maybe talk a little about Sheri's departure.
I know J&amp;J has an incredibly deep bench but obviously a very talented executive.
What's your perspective on that? Right.
Well obviously the decision on selecting the next CEO is the board's decision.
So I'm not at liberty to comment on the board's rationale.
We're obviously very pleased that Alex is going to be our new CEO.
He officially takes over on April 26 which is the date of our annual shareholders' meeting.
He will take over the CEO role from Bill Weldon at that point.
And as you probably all know Bill will remain as Chairman of our board.
You're absolutely right that we do have a deep bench and Sheri is and was a very valued member of our company and a very strong contributor to the success of Johnson &amp; Johnson over the years.
But of course Sheri decided to pursue another opportunity at a very high senior level in another publicly traded company.
So we obviously wish her well.
I would say in terms of major changes our business and our philosophy has been tried and true.
Our business has run under a philosophy that's been tried and true for many years.
And Alex as you know has been with our company for many years and even left and came back to our company.
So he has seen other companies in operation as well.
I would say that our core principles of managing for the long term of our decentralized management philosophy being broadly based in human health care and most importantly the value system that's embodied in our credo I certainly don't expect to see any changes there.
These are the core principles in which our business has been operated under for many many years and obviously the underpinning of our success.
So we’re looking forward to Alex taking over on April 26.
And I personally look forward to working closely with Alex to continue the success of our company.
Research Division</strong> Let me turn to pretax operating margins.
You'd said in the fourth quarter and I'm hearing some of the nuanced changes today that you expected every line R&amp;D cost of goods selling and marketing to improve.
You expect gross margins to improve.
But you said basically bottom line we expect pretax operating margins to improve by 100 to 150 bps in 2012.
I just want to be clear.
Do you still expect that? And if you do with a little more cautious guidance on gross margins how do we think about the SG&amp;A and R&amp;D lines? It sounds like both would have to be lower to hit that range.
Right.
Well of course it's a range right? So 100 to 150 basis points.
We do feel comfortable that with our new outlook for the year we'll still be able to achieve that in 2012 across each of the lines.
I think that overall the cost of products sold line will be slightly lower than it was in 2011 at the end although it will get slightly worse throughout this year.
So hopefully I didn't confuse you when I mentioned that earlier.
We do still expect to see improvement across all lines in the P&amp;L.
And throughout the year we may see a slight dip in gross margin with the remediation cost.
But overall we do expect it to end up being slightly lower than it was the prior year.
And certainly we're comfortable with that range of 100 to 150 basis points overall.
The next question is from Kristen Stewart of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just have a couple of quick ones.
Can you provide an update on Canagliflozin? Sure.
So that product we expect to file Louise relatively shortly now in the second quarter for type 2 diabetes.
So we're very pleased there.
And I don't know what else I could tell you.
We're going to file pretty soon.
And we plan to show some data at ADA.
So it's all on target U.S.
EU filing second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then within the specialty surgery business you did include the acquisition of SterilMed.
Can you maybe just help us kind of parse out what the acquisition contribution was? So if you exclude SterilMed from specialty surgery -- so specialty surgery grew 10% 9.9% operationally -- it would be about 6% excluding SterilMed.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then within orthopedics I just kind of want to understand your comments again.
Not to beat a dead horse but operational growth this quarter was flat.
It was kind of flat in the fourth quarter.
It sounds like you guys were a little bit more optimistic.
Hips grew about the same knees were a little better spine was a little -- pretty much the same as fourth quarter.
So what kind of I guess offsets some of the better performance of the knees? You said -- was your question what was the negative impact that offsets some of the better performance in knees to result in flat? Well what we saw is a little bit worse pricing actually in the spine market.
So pricing was in the mid-single digits.
And it looked like it got a little bit worse in the first quarter of 2012.
Research Division</strong> And any trends that you're seeing within kind of the spine and trauma market changed the way you're generally looking at the benefits of the Synthes acquisition? No not really.
I think we do these acquisitions with a long-term view.
And as you remember the acquisition had many positive strategic benefits most notably the ability to enter the emerging markets with hip and knee platforms as a result of having a strong presence in the trauma market which is essentially the major driver of orthopedic activity in those markets so that still remains the same.
And obviously Synthes as you know is a very innovative and well-run company.
So we're pleased to be able to welcome them shortly into the family of companies.
And one thing Kristen we did divest the surgery business the DePuy neurosurgery instruments in the fourth quarter.
If you took that out we actually would have grown about 1% so that's something that's different in the first quarter.
The next question is from Bob Hopkins of BofA.
Research Division</strong> So 2 questions.
First on your comments on Bapi.
I was wondering if you could help us understand which medical meetings are candidates for the data release.
I assume you still want to show both data sets together and that probably eliminates the July meetings.
But is there -- are there 1 or 2 or 3 meetings that are most likely candidates for this data release this fall? Bob we're not going to comment on that but it will be sometime this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Sometime 2012 okay.
And then to talk about your comments on utilization I understand those were fourth quarter comments.
And then you mentioned that your endomechanical business is down 3% in the first quarter.
Any commentary from the division level in terms of how is that trending in endomechanical? Is that a step-down? Is there a reason why do you think that's market market share? I'm just trying to reconcile your comments about feeling a little better about procedures to the endomechanical number that you showed this particular quarter.
Yes.
So it's primarily in the mechanical business and it's to do with low-cost competition as well as the move to minimally invasive surgeries.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But still feeling pretty good about the general trends here in the first quarter? Or you're not making any comments about new utilization trends in Q1 just in Q4? Yes.
I think the only thing Bob that we can look at with some confidence in the data is the Q4 data.
So obviously we'll update you throughout the year and let you know what we see.
But it's too early to comment on first quarter data.
Our next question is from Tony Butler of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> This is Alison Yang calling in on behalf of Tony.
A couple of product questions.
First of all congratulations on ZYTIGA $200 million in the quarter.
That's 2/3 of last year already in the first quarter.
Can you discuss what percent of the indication is in the post-chemo? Is there any off-label use in chemo-naive? Could you give us a sense of what's the opportunity size in the chemo-naive segment? If it’s bigger than post-chemo then how much bigger? My second question is another pharma product INCIVO.
We estimate based on your comment about 5% growth o U.S.
that the sales is about $130 million.
Could you discuss how many European markets your product is in place? And what is the maturity of the pricing reimbursement discussion in the European markets? Well Alison that was -- we'll try to parse through that.
Look we're extremely pleased with ZYTIGA so thanks for noticing that.
The product is doing well and most importantly it's actually helping patients.
I do think that the chemo-naive market is a bigger market for the product.
We don't have that indication yet.
We're not certain but there -- of course physicians are free to prescribe it to their patients.
Of course we're not promoting it in the chemo-naive population so there may be some off-label use by physicians in that part of the market.
But we do think that once we get the indication we'll see further penetration of ZYTIGA into the overall patient population.
I think your comment about INCIVO the math is pretty good there.
They contributed about 5% of the international growth so that gets you about the number that $130 million number.
So we're pleased with the first results on INCIVO as well.
And Louise you have other points to add to that? Yes.
So the question on the countries where it's launched it's Germany France the Alpine countries Nordics Iberia U.K.
and Israel.
And then the pricing discussions they're still ongoing but it's in the range of about EUR 25 000 per course.
The next question is from Glenn Novarro of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I had 2 follow-up questions on the U.S.
spine number in the quarter down 8%.
Do you think you were down with the market? Or did you lose market share? And then my second question is on price.
Dominic you said pricing got a little bit worse but I thought in 4Q you said pricing was down mid-single digits as well.
So did price go from maybe down 4 in 4Q down to 5? Any additional color on pricing would be great.
Well on share it's too early for us to comment until we see the results from other folks.
I should have added that the overall little bit further decline in price was a factor of mix.
So actually the overall price decline in the first quarter of '12 was comparable to the fourth quarter of '11 at mid-single digits but we saw a little bit worse product mix impact in Q1 2012 that we saw compared to the fourth quarter of '11 and that made the overall comparison price/mix comparison a little worse in the first quarter of '12.
Hopefully that's clearer now.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's great.
Can I just ask one quick follow-up on utilization? Do you feel like spine utilization is any better? Is payer pushback subsiding? Any color on utilization would be great.
Yes I think overall utilization is starting to stabilize meaning that we're not seeing the rapid declines that we saw and the continual declines and the data that I mentioned earlier overall in procedure volumes was encouraging.
Although I must say it's modest and it's really just one quarter.
So we're happy to see a turn but it is one data point so we'll have to wait and see how it plays out in the future quarters.
So I wouldn't read too much into it just this early in the year.
The next question is from David Lewis of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Dominic just one quick question here on R&amp;D.
Seasonally this quarter is always a kind of a low R&amp;D quarter and it builds throughout the year.
This is a little lower than the year-on period.
I guess maybe just talk to us about this.
Is there anything structural we should be thinking about in terms of where that R&amp;D came into the first quarter? Or should we just simply believe that R&amp;D is going to build throughout the remainder of the year? Yes there isn't anything structural.
R&amp;D will build throughout the remainder of the year as it usually does.
And as I mentioned earlier the timing of milestone payments with our licensing and collaboration partners has a factor -- is a factor in that particular expense category.
And compared to last year first quarter of 2011 really 2 factors.
One is the timing of milestone payments that occurred in first quarter '11 and no such comparable payments in the first quarter of '12.
And remember that it wasn't until middle of 2011 that we stopped the drug-eluting stent development program.
And so there was some lower R&amp;D spend as a result of no DES development in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Louise your comments on endomechanical I think were very clear.
I just wondered if you had a little more detail specifically your commentary on low-cost competition.
I think we've heard that before.
But on MIS or minimally invasive penetration is that simply a move to single-incision procedures? Or is that pressure potentially from robotic competition? I didn't know if you had that detail.
It seems to be a consistent commentary that we're receiving from the company.
But that particular detail I don't have David sorry.
We will now get some final remarks from Dominic.
Okay.
Thanks Louise and thank you everyone.
As I said earlier we're off to a good start in Q1 and we're in line with our own expectations.
We remain very optimistic for the remainder of the year and we see further opportunity for growth as the global economy stabilizes.
And as our new products our robust pipelines and our core businesses continue addressing the critical unmet health care needs of patients and customers I remain confident in our prospects for the year thanks to the dedication focus and integrity of the people of Johnson &amp; Johnson.
And I look forward to updating you all on our progress throughout the year.
Thanks for your time this morning and have a wonderful day.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Dodds with Citigroup.
Alex I guess first for you.
If you look at where Europe is heading I think Europe you were flat when you take out Synthes roughly.
Looks like it's a little worse than it's been.
Where do we think we are today and can you align the costs with some of the pressures you are seeing in Europe? Yes Matt.
Matt are you talking across the portfolio or in a specific segment? Well I think the overall looked flat.
I was wondering if any segments you’re being hurt more than others in Europe broadly as well? Yes.
Matt your observation is right that overall I think we are up about 1.5% and again there is puts and takes across that.
But what we are seeing is obviously some additional pressure with price as well as volumes and price being regulated mostly to tendering and some of the contract things that we would see in our pharmaceutical group.
What we are seeing is consistent with around 2011 with perhaps slightly more in Southern Europe.
If you look at MD&amp;D we are also seeing pressures some in price but some just in extended queues longer wait times for certain procedures.
So we are watching it very closely.
We have not seen a dramatic change over what we saw in 2011 but obviously we still think that there are a lot of macroeconomic conditions and dynamics that may impact that going forward.
And pharma on the pricing side has that also been more of an impact? Again we are seeing some impact in pharma on the pricing side mostly related to tenders and other austerity measures but not to a significantly greater degree than what we have commented around 2011 so far this year.
Dominic one quick one for you.
When you look at the operating margin leverage both this quarter and the back half can you roughly say how much of that might be due to local currency in the lower cost from the FX as an offset to the top line? Yes I think that one of the things that bear in mind is we typically hedge our foreign currency commitments at about 18 months.
So our operations ex-translation are not significantly impacted by changes in foreign currency Matt.
So really what you're looking at is sort of a reasonably equal mix of changes in simply translating the top line and the expenses from the local currencies to the U.S.
dollars.
So I don’t think there is a pronounced difference between those two factors.
Dominic could you help us bridge the current top line guidance versus the prior the prior was 4 to 5% the current I think you said was 5.5 to 6.5% and there was a lot of moving parts that you mentioned but how much was it the increase due to Synthes and some of the offset? That’s my first question.
Sure Larry.
Let me just try to give you a general order of magnitude on that.
So the addition of Synthes and I think you have to bear in mind that with the Synthes impact I’m going to give you there’s two other factors to bear in mind.
The impact of the divestiture of the trauma business and we've taken into consideration some disruption in the overall business as a result of the integration and planning etcetera.
So we’ve increased our guidance about 2.5 points or thereabouts for the net of all that related to the Synthes integration and divesture of trauma etcetera and we have decreased the guidance about a little more than 1 point maybe 1.2 points related to the supply disruptions we talked about earlier and having a better estimate now on the resupply of products in the OTC business.
So those two factors up 2.5 down 1.2 or thereabouts hopefully reconcile the change for you.
Then just two quick product questions.
INCIVO was a little bit lighter than our expectations.
Can you talk about what’s happening in Europe there? And then just lastly on CONCERTA does your guidance assume that any change to generic competition in 2012? Thanks.
Sure.
Let me take the last question first.
On CONCERTA we have not assumed any change with respect to the current generic competition so status quo there for this year.
And with respect to INCIVO I’ll start by just commenting that we did see as Louise mentioned in her script discussion that in fact we saw some seasonal adjustments in the rate of treatment patterns throughout Europe.
And maybe I’ll ask Alex to comment some more as we have been through with the team to understand what’s happening there with INCIVO.
Overall I’d say we are really pleased with the launch of INCIVO.
As we look at it starting I believe in about the fourth quarter of last year it's uptake in terms of share as well as volume has been very impressive.
A lot of the volume obviously coming out of France and Germany and so overall we are very pleased with it.
We did see some deceleration of that as we went into the second quarter.
A part of that we think is just due to the bullish or new urgent patients that you see in the larger markets when we got out there early in the year.
Second we think there's probably some seasonality related to it.
So if we combine all of that we are still very confident in what we think the future prospects for that drug look like.
If I could get an update on the XARELTO ACS regulatory process? In other words at this point do you know what the FDA is looking for and if you have any rough guidance on when you may might be able to resubmit the NDA?  We are in an ongoing dialog right now with the Agency.
We remain very confident in our file.
You are obviously familiar with some of the comments that were made at the review committee.
We are working our way through those and so again if we think if we look at the overall data set we are confident that we are going to be able with the agency towards a positive resolution of that in the future.
Also if I could ask a quick follow-up on the OTC maybe this is better for Dominic can you give us some sense of when we should see this spending ramp related to the relaunches? Would it be late this year or is most of that going to ‘12 and ‘13? As we said before it's awfully difficult to predict the pace at which we will ramp up but we will obviously not be spending on the relaunch of those products until we are confident that the supply situation is stabilized and we can provide a consistent supply to the market.
So I think we are going to monitor that and not get too far ahead of that quite frankly because we want to ensure that there is first a consistent supply of product and then of course we will invest significantly behind that once we achieve that.
As we said before we think the return of the products at the market will continue for the balance of 2012 and into 2013.
Alex first congratulations on your new appointment as CEO.
In your prepared remarks and committing the Company to remaining a broad-based healthcare company it sounds like you are coming out and rejecting some other strategies that your peers such as Abbott and Pfizer have embraced in which the market has rewarded.
So I’m wondering if you could comment on that.
And then secondly I guess this question is for Dominic.
On the pharmaceutical side it looks like international revenues slowed sequentially quite a bit despite much easier year-over-year comps because of the Merck agreement plus obviously increased sales from ZYTIGA and INCIVO you didn’t have a year ago.
So maybe you could tie that with what you are seeing with the macro environment in Europe? I know sort of Alex touched upon the environment being worse but not dramatically worse than you would expect it but if you could parse out what you are seeing in terms of price declines volumes you had mentioned tenders but if you could be a little bit more specific in what you are seeing in terms of receivables? Thanks.
Thanks a lot for the question and also we always appreciate the challenge and some of the background and comments that you have written about.
What I’d say and as you heard in my earlier comments we do believe that based upon the evolving marketplace going forward that our diversified portfolio gives us additional strength and will help us achieve further growth.
That being said we think that there are components of that model that are going to need to be ramped up to make us even more competitive.
So let me start with first the marketplace.
As we look at their marketplace going forward and particularly for example in the hospital space we believe there will be further consolidation further aggregation of some of those customers and as a result we believe that they are going to be looking for more comprehensive offerings and greater solutions as well as outcomes versus just products.
And in that case when you have a very large portfolio depth and breadth of scale we think that that's going to be an important source of competitive advantage.
Again a good example of that may be with an ACO in the United States or frankly with some of the governments particularly in emerging markets where critical mass is particularly important and where we see a greater opportunity for growth.
Next we also think it’s going to be important in terms of what we are actually offering.
If we look at products we think a great opportunity for differentiation is going to be combining and bringing convergent products or offerings forward.
So in pharmaceutical that may relate to biomarkers and diagnostics along with some of our therapeutics in MD&amp;D that may relate to things like the Fibrin Pad or frankly things that we have done with our VICRYL Plus line anti-infective suture devices and we think the scientific the clinical the regulatory as well as the commercial differentiation that that provides is a real opportunity for us.
That being said we also realized that we are going to have to be likely more selective and more decisive in what areas we are going to be and where we are not going to be.
So we are going in fact through a strategic planning process as we speak and we are committed to making sure that we make those decisions and are putting our resources and energy in our effort behind the areas that we think are going to drive the greatest growth opportunities for us going forward.
Dominic?  Yes.
Jamie in Europe just a couple of comments I think our overall growth in the pharmaceutical business internationally did grow of course second quarter versus first quarter sequentially but we did see some impacts.
I think pricing has in fact been an impact.
The tender process has been an impact and in particular what we saw in Southern Europe it's much much more difficult in the new tenders to get any sort of price increase in fact they usually come with significant price decreases.
So we have seen that in the low single-digit rates that seems to be just accelerating maybe a little bit but not that pronounced.
The real difference in the period is really just the timing of various tenders.
I mean one example is with respect to VELCADE the timing of the tender in Russia is such that you don't see much of an impact this quarter and they will get that impact as the tender gets approved in the future.
With respect to receivables I will tell you that either it varies by different countries so we just look at Southern Europe our receivables continue to build in countries like Italy and a little bit in Greece but in other countries such as Spain our receivables have significantly decreased.
We recently received a very significant payment from the Government of Spain.
So what we are doing is working very closely with all the governments with respect to payment terms etcetera but overall our second quarter receivables and days sales outstanding at the end of the second quarter are much better in Southern Europe than they were at the end of the first quarter.
I had a question first returning to the topic of the portfolio and it sounds like there is some potential for an accelerating pace of divestitures.
I was just wondering if that's a reasonable expectation as you come out of this strategic review.
What I’d say and we have been very clear about it with our management team is that our goal is to be very decisive about what businesses we're in and that we are not in.
We realized that when there are areas where frankly we don't think we are going to make the difference for patients or we are not as competitive as we should be as we were in drug eluting stents but we should divest or be out of those businesses and reallocate our resources elsewhere.
And where we think there is a greater opportunity Synthes in those areas we think we should put additional resources and make the right investments to make us even more competitive.
So we are going to be very disciplined.
We are going to be also very decisive in how we are going to go forward recognizing dynamics in the healthcare marketplace.
I did have one follow-up for Dominic just regarding the operating margin expansion 100 to 150 basis points this year.
Now I think a lot of us are looking for accelerating growth next year.
And I’m just wondering as we think about the operating margin expansion this year are there elements in there that we should think of as not coming back in 2013 just to help us kind of gauge where our expectation should be? Rajeev I think one of the things that point out about the 100 to 150 basis points expansion is it’s what we called for at the beginning of the year and despite the inclusion now and the guidance of the Synthes with the Synthes amortization expense we still think we’re going to achieve 100 to 150 basis points expansion.
So obviously the underlying business at Synthes is performing in a more efficient manner than even we thought at the beginning of the year.
How that continues for the balance of 2012 and into ‘13 I don’t want to project into 2013 too much because obviously we want to make sure that we balance out the appropriate investments we want to make in the business as we go forward.
The only thing I’d say that's of any significant consequence in the current year and as we progress throughout the balance of ‘12 and into ‘13 is the remediation costs related to the consumer business are in fact higher than we thought this year and hopefully as we go through that process they should then tail off as we move into 2013 but we will see how the progress is and we will update you on that when we do the 2013 guidance.
I wanted to start with a couple of questions on the Synthes acquisition.
Alex I think that when you announced the deal over a year ago you were talking about expectations for the trauma market growing 7% and since then it seems like the trauma market and nearly Synthes sales in particular have slowed.
So I was wondering what your expectations moving forward now were for the trauma market and Synthes sales in particular? And secondly maybe you could talk a little bit about how you will be integrating the spine sales forces for Synthes and DePuy given the direct and indirect distributor models that you have? And then lastly maybe Dominic what is your accretion guidance for Synthes assuming in terms of synergies? You are right.
If we go back to the announcement and the discussion that we had again the announcement of the Synthes deal at that time if you looked historically at the trauma market I believe you saw historical growth rates that were very consistent in the 7% plus range.
If you look about over the last 18 months we have seen that come down probably reduced in about half consistent with what we have seen in a lot of the other MD&amp;D markets.
We think there is a number of factors that are driving that and at this point it's difficult to predict whether or not they are secular or cyclical.
But some of them or as the macroeconomic environment has had an impact although it's a bit lagging relative to some of the other markets such as general surgery in particularly that need kind of the discretionary procedures.
We also believe there's been some seasonality issues but just as you look at overall macroeconomic ranging from construction to weather to a lot of other things that may be impacting it.
As we project going forward we think likely the next couple of years we are likely to see growth in the lower to mid single-digits versus what we had seen previously but we would expect that to return to more robust levels as the economy picks up.
We are also seeing obviously stronger growth in the emerging markets particularly in Asia-Pacific and some of the areas over there.
So that gives you a little bit of background on what we think is going to happen overall with the trauma market.
If we look at the integration with spines first of all we think the portfolios are very complementary.
If you look at the two organizations coming together and I have been very impressed with the work that our team Michel Orsinger Gary Fischetti and the rest of the team has done as we worked our way through this integration.
As we mentioned earlier we are pleased that if you look at our senior leadership we have been able to retain our top leaders and while there has been some transition in the sales organization.
Overall we are pleased with the performance that we have seen and we expect to have a mix in our spine sales force of a direct as well as some distributors and that's going to vary between the U.S.
and outside the U.S.
But overall again we remain optimistic and we think that the spine market is a good opportunity longer term but clearly it's come down and been impacted by some of the other events as well.
Before I hand it to Dominic let me just make one other statement regarding the overall Synthes integration.
I think we are really pleased with what we have seen so far.
The organizations have come together.
They share a lot of the similar values.
Again if you look at our turnover if you look at the core performance of some of our segments ranging from trauma recon sports medicine they were really solid in this quarter.
When you look at the leadership and the people that we been able to maintain people and keep onboard through the transition obviously we have lots of opportunities going forward to look at the synergies from our R&amp;D as well as our supply chain and other issues in the backend.
But we think this represents a significant opportunity for us going forward as the world-leading orthopedics and neurologic company.
Dominic? I mean one of the things that I mentioned Derrick about our guidance which we gave as $0.03 to $0.05 for 2012 and $0.10 to $0.15 accretion in 2013 is that it’s largely based on growth and not primarily based on expense synergies right.
There are some expense synergies in those numbers but as we announced when we did the acquisition announcement early on we said our primary focus here was going to be on growth of the businesses together.
So on top line synergies and not so much of a focus on expense synergies.
There will be some.
I think it's important to note that the business is already a very profitable business that we are adding all into the Johnson &amp; Johnson business and in fact there are pre-tax operating margins.
Excluding this impact of amortization we’re healthier than the overall Johnson &amp; Johnson pre-tax operating margins.
So there will be some we have included those in the estimates that we gave you for ‘12 and ’13 but I don’t see them as the major driver of the accretion.
Louise just a quick housekeeping can you repeat the INCIVO sales I just missed that? It contributed about 3.5% to the pharmaceutical international sales.
With the Synthes acquisition now completed can you talk about Alex the change in strategy for use of cash over the next 12 to 24 months? Was the deal structured with ASR to make it accretive to give you more flexibility on the acquisition front going forward and if so what healthcare assets would make the most strategic sense for J&amp;J? Yes.
Alex let me take that on the overall use of cash.
I think many of you have heard me discuss this the answer to this question in the past.
So just to reiterate our primary focus is to generate sustainable long-term free cash flow generation in the business which we are very proud of our ability to do that and then we have prioritized and I think we will continue to prioritize our use of cash as first to dividends as a primary return to shareholders.
Secondly an investment in value creating acquisitions that enhance our ability to generate free cash flow in the future and thirdly any future returns of shareholders in the form of share buybacks.
I don’t think that the impact of the Synthes transaction changes our philosophy there in any significant way.
We are also maintaining our AAA credit rating which gives us enormous flexibility in our ability to fund our operations going forward or any particular investment we want to make.
With respect to the accelerated share repurchase program you are correct that that is a factor in providing immediate accretion as opposed to a longer term accretion value and it's basically a result of needing to have the shares necessary to complete the acquisition in a relatively short period of time.
After the regulatory approvals were received we needed to close in a couple days obviously and rather than issue shares and buy them back over extended period of times we elected to do what many companies have done before us to do an accelerated share repurchase program and obviously we had the financial strength to able to do that.
So we are very pleased with that.
And then just on the point as far as acquisitions go would healthcare assets that exist today make strategic sense for J&amp;J?   Alex I don't have my list handy I don't know if you have.
No Danielle what I’d say is look we are looking for areas that where we think first of all there is a lot of unmet medical need so it could be a new technology and new platform that just makes a big difference and that we think offers a real growth opportunity.
The other areas are where there's an obvious complement to maybe something that we already have and we've got a number of examples of those.
Some of the things where we have gone out in oncology some of the recent things that we have done in other areas of our business represent those.
And then sometimes it could be for vertical integration where we want to be able to become to more effective and more efficient about what we're doing.
So those are some of the strategic drivers that we look at but obviously it's always done in the context of what the competitive environment is and other dynamics.
Two questions.
First on bapineuzumab it’s probably one of the most anticipated trial results of the year.
I think most investors in the street expect the primary endpoint to be missed.
But let's assume that some of the secondary endpoints or some of the sub-group analysis is favorable.
What does the company do at that point? Do you submit or you go back and do another clinical trial? That's my first question and then I had a follow-up for Alex as well.
You know I don't think it's really appropriate for us at this point to speculate on it.
Louise went through in pretty good detail.
Our thoughts about bapineuzumab in her comments and about where we are.
So really until we get a look at the data it’s difficult for us to speculate on it going forward.
Obviously Alzheimer's is an area that we remain very excited about when you just consider the sheer unmet need and the opportunity for patients as well as for our business that it represents.
And then just a second question on the hospital purchasing environment.
In your prepared comments you said utilization was stable but it appears that Obama care is here to stay and this is going to add increased cost to hospitals.
So Alex as you travel what’s your sense as you talk to hospital executives CEOs CFOs on the CapEx side? Is this something that’s going to flow here in the near-term or are we thinking about big ticket items that may get pushed off as the implementation of healthcare reform goes forward? Now it’s a good follow-up Glenn.
Overall look obviously we think that there are going to be opportunities as well as challenges associated with healthcare reform and how it ultimately gets rolled out.
Certainly if we look at some of the data for example in the first quarter of this year what we have seen hospital admissions up just about 2%.
We saw some surgical procedures up around 4%.
We saw lab procedures up at around 3% ortho procedures up around 3% offset with office visits actually down about 3% the only caveat.
That’s first quarter data.
That’s the most recent data that we have.
And frankly we believe that the hospitals are going to be looking for ways to become more efficient and more effective across the board.
And that's what we hear from our customers and again that’s here in the United States as well as abroad.
The offset of course in the United States is the increased volumes that the hospitals will be getting from the newly covered patients that will be coming into the system under healthcare reform.
But clearly we would expect there to be additional challenges in the pricing environment and therefore all the more important to my earlier statements as we look at our portfolio as we look at our capabilities having a broad base having offerings that go beyond the product building on our relationships building on our scale are going to be more and more important.
Thanks for taking my questions.
A couple for Alex.
And I appreciate the preamble and the reference to the credo on your long-term strategy.
You mentioned emerging markets and so to the breadth of the products and technology that you can bring to those markets.
I'm wondering how do you expect to match some of the economic parameters of these emerging economies with some of the advanced top-tier products and brands you deliver.
Really what some of your strengths are in developed markets? And maybe if you could put your recent China medical device acquisition albeit small into that strategic context? Then I have one follow-up.
Sure.
Matt thanks a lot for the question.
What I have seen having just recently been over to Russia and made a number of visits over to China as well as to Brazil and to some of the other emerging markets is most importantly that the customer in those markets is the government.
And what we've found is that the government is very interested as they are building their healthcare systems in the developing markets of not just replicating what's been done in the developed markets but looking for ways to expand access and frankly also to expand and accelerate their access to some of the new technologies in a cost effective way.
So what we're doing is first of all making sure that we're trying to work closely with them and again this is where I think our breadth and depth and our scale is very important as Johnson &amp; Johnson in those and if you look at our share position in a lot of those emerging markets it remains very strong and competitive.
Second it entails new offerings.
And that's why we put R&amp;D centers in many of these locations and we continue to invest in them.
We're pleased with the rollout of products such as absorbable suture linear cutters and staplers that I would say are of very high quality yet more appropriate for those particular markets both in terms of their actual construction as well as their pricing model.
And some of our other things that we're working on right now again to take smart application of technology for those markets where we think there is a big opportunity.
The other areas that we're focusing on frankly is training and education.
And in many of those areas it's a case of trying to get more physicians trained on things like minimally-invasive surgery on getting the right treatment paradigms for diabetes and cardiovascular procedures.
So we're working closely again in many cases directly with the governments in China and Russia on extensive training programs to help them train their physicians.
So that's why we think that there again it's a significant opportunity.
Related to our most recent acquisition in China we're very excited about it.
As we stated on a number of occasions we think our biosurgicals area is one of our most exciting in terms of new science and technologies they are really going to make a difference for patients as well as represent a significant growth opportunity for our business.
And in China we’ve been very limited in what we’ve been able to do so far and with this most recent acquisition it's going to give us a source of a porcine based biologic that we’ll be able to use there and roll out a significantly broader line of products to help patients and again grow our business.
So we’re very excited about that.
And then the one follow-up is a subject that’s kind of emerged over the past several years developed market question specifically for the U.S.
given the more challenging pricing and regulatory environment in the U.S.
You speak about innovation.
We know that that's important for J&amp;J and for the industry particularly in medical technology and medical devices though maybe how should we think about what that means going forward? Are you placing longer duration bets on earlier stage technologies or do the shorter-term opportunities become tougher more pricing more commoditized maybe help us understand what the path for innovations is for devices going forward in the U.S.? Sure.
What I would say Matt it’s going to take a combination and it really starts with innovation but different kinds of innovation.
Now in some areas this is going to mean better technology that overall delivers better results for patients.
So some examples I would have of that is what we’re doing with Biosense Webster and the great progress that they've made with so many of their products and the treatment of AFib.
And just what you see is a huge difference for patients and for systems.
We’re also excited about a higher technology plan something like the fibrin pad which we think can truly transform the way you treat moderate to severe bleeding intra-operatively and longer-term potentially for a trauma application.
So areas like that we see technology still being very very important.
But we also think it's going to be important in how we relate with our customers.
And what I'm talking about there is innovating with the way that we work with them that we partner with them that we truly leverage our overall portfolio in working together.
And obviously it may include new services new approaches new partnerships with them in unique ways as they try to not only manage their increased patient volume but also try to manage their costs going forward as well.
And we also see an opportunity longer term to take some of these simplified approaches actually that we would develop in developing markets and basically bring them back to developed markets.
We are already seeing some signs of that with things that we are doing in the diabetes space and potentially some others.
So we think even in developed markets people are going to be looking for very effective but lower cost opportunities as well.
So Alex just a quick question to follow-up on some of the earlier ones on your perspective on utilization and I know your comments were as of Q1 but I'm just curious from you look at the Q2 results and what you are hearing from the field.
Is there anything different going on in the second quarter versus the first as far as you're concerned as it relates to surgical procedure volumes? No we haven't seen significant changes.
I have got to say we're encouraged by what we are seeing in orthopedics.
If we look at overall worldwide joints against Q1 but as we look at the results we saw Q1 results around 3% hips up about 1.5% knees up about 3% spine down slightly although I think a slight improvement on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
So again we don't have second quarter I think we're the first large orthopedics company coming out so we're going to have to wait and see with everyone else.
That's our current view on it.
Okay.
And then a question on Synthes in terms of some of the opportunities for you in the United States.
I guess I'm curious as to how quickly you think you can benefit from the new scale that you have in orthopedics and how quickly we might see that translate into share gains especially as it relates to some of the underperforming areas like spine which have been struggling below market for a couple of quarters.
Just any thoughts on timing? Will this take a couple of years to really see the benefit or can we see tangible share gain process in the near-term you think as a result of your scale and ability to contract? Thanks Bob.
And again I would start by saying how pleased I am with the performance of the team so far through such a significant and large-scale integration.
We're really excited by again what we've seen so far.
As you know when you do these kind of things leadership is so important and critical to keeping consistency through this kind of a process.
I think we've been able to do that and obviously [Michelle] and his entire team are looking at ways for how do we accelerate growth going forward.
Obviously likely the biggest short-term challenge is spine because you're bringing two organizations together.
We are really pleased with the overall way we're able to work our way through the antitrust issues.
We think we've got very complementary portfolios.
And we're working our way through the integration with direct sales as well as some of our distributors sales as we speak.
And we're are going to do everything that we can to accelerate it but we also realize that look this is a multi-year process and our first focus is with the customer.
We want to make sure that our customer doesn’t experience any disruption and in fact sees a net benefit to what we’re doing.
So we’re working hard both with our sales forces as well as with our contracting organizations.
Our second major area is our R&amp;D prioritization and making sure that we are prioritizing the portfolios looking for areas where there may be synergies across the different organizations particularly in places like ENT or maxillofacial or even in the areas such as biosurgicals and some of the things that we’re doing here.
So we think that there is a real -- biologics there is a real opportunity.
And then third it’s the area of how can we integrate our backend so to also make it very seamless very efficient and very effective.
And so again we see it as really being prioritized in that order as we roll out over the next couple of years.
And what kind of disruption are you assuming on the sort of dis-synergies of sales related to the integration within spine? Is that sort of in the $30 million to $50 million range Dominic? I think you mentioned that was part of the equation on guidance.
Yeah I won’t be able to give you an exact number in that regard.
But we did consider that in providing the guidance for both this year and the estimates we gave you in advance for next year.
So we do think there’ll be some disruption as we convert and combine those two businesses together.
But I won’t be able to give you specifics Bob on that.
I was just wondering if you could comment a little bit further on just kind of the orthopedic trends that you saw in the quarter? It sounds like you guys are looking at the market as being improved from 1Q to 2Q.
I just want to make sure I understand your comments were at just looking backwards at 1Q data.
Then maybe just comment on the price and mix of orthopedics and whether the strength is coming from maybe improved price and mix as well as volumes? Yes.
Let me just take a couple of parts of your question.
The first thing that I would say is as we look overall at orthopedic trends again it's difficult because we are the first company out.
But if we look at the trends from Q1 combined with our sales results from Q2 I would say that we are slightly encouraged by what we're seeing and we're obviously going to be watching it very closely.
We are not seeing the growth that we saw several years ago in what I'd call pre-recession times.
And I'm particularly pleased with the performance of the DePuy Reconstruction Group now the DePuy Synthes Reconstruction Group through this period.
And I think that's been the result of not only just really good execution through this integration process but also the rollout of new products in both our hip and knee areas.
So I think that was important.
If we look at spine we see some progress quarter-to-quarter.
There is still significant pricing pressure on spine and other market dynamics but again longer-term we see that as being an opportunity.
But if I look specifically at our hip business what we saw overall was total price change of about down 4% mix up about 0.5%.
So a hip price mix change of about minus 3.4% for the quarter.
And if we look at knees if you look at product mix up around 2% up about 1% on knee price and mix change and hip so the overall for hip and knee we saw a mixed change of about minus 1%.
Okay.
Perfect.
And then anything you that you're seeing just across the broader medical device businesses in terms of pricing or do you have any concerns I guess going forward in light of the continued pressure in Europe that things may get more challenging on the price front? Look we do expect there to be continued pricing pressure.
As Dominic mentioned earlier you see some of that and particularly in Southern Europe with some of our other tenderings in Europe.
We're seeing that in some of the U.S.
markets particularly those might be things like diabetes based upon some of the contracting as well as spine.
We're seeing more in other areas.
It's been pretty consistent with what we've seen in earlier trends.
Okay.
Perfect.
And then one last on the OTC business.
I know Dominic you had mentioned that you had updated sales and I guess on the earnings side just for some changes on OTC.
Am I correct in just assuming that things relative to kind of last quarter are just taking a little bit longer and it sounds like you're pushing off some of the expenses related to the launch maybe further out and potentially into 2013? Yeah.
Well just to clarify so we did update our guidance now that we -- on sales that we have a full half-year already in and we have a pretty good idea what it's going to take to comply with the consent decree for the balance of the year.
So we took that into consideration in the sales guidance that I gave you.
And we still think that the products will still be rolling out in 2012 and through 2013 as we said before.
Just to clarify that we did not change our earnings guidance with respect to OTC at all.
Right.
We maintained our earnings guidance with respect to the base business despite some changes in sales and increased our earnings guidance as a result of the accretion related to Synthes.
So the impact of OTC is something we're just going to have to manage and we are managing in the business.
Alex you've commented with respect to remediation and I realize it's a focus of that particular unit in consumer.
But the question is you made some statements about learning since the consent decree was actually signed.
Could you comment on what one or two of those learnings have been? And then I often note that there is a strain between the FDA and a company under a consent decree or there can be.
Sometimes senior management needs to get directly involved and interface directly with the FDA.
Have you found the need to do that at this point or do you think that people within the division are able to actually handle that process.
And I have one follow-up thanks? Tony thanks a lot for your question.
Let me start with the second half of that first and then I’ll go back to the first part.
First of all we feel very good about our overall relationship with the FDA and it’s one that we take very seriously that we work on building in an appropriate way with a lot of open dialog and we think it's critically important that the most senior levels of the organization that we demonstrate a commitment and are clearly aligned around our goals and our plans going forward.
And so it absolutely involves people the most senior level of the organization including myself.
So that’s a real priority for us.
And again we see the FDA as a very important partner not only in this area of our business but really in all areas of our business where ultimately we are attempting to get products to patients or to patients in a timely and well considered manner.
I think the other aspect when you talk about learnings as you’re going through it a couple of thoughts Tony.
First of all while we agreed to the consent decree about a year ago the actual submission of the consent decree didn't go until like Q3 of last year.
And so you continue to work with the agency on all the specifics steps as we worked our way through the agreement process and getting aligned that's one aspect.
The second is we are working with an outside party [Quantic] that is working with us verifying validating different procedures.
So that's also a learning process as they come onboard ensuring that we're fulfilling all the commitments that we have made along the way.
I'd say the third significant learning for us is getting the right balance between our consent decree requirements resources and commitments and then also producing product and getting into the marketplace.
Our customers working with them are clearly interested in getting a consistent and reliable supply.
We are very encouraged that when we have got product back on the shelves that we've seen a very solid demand on the part of customers.
But that's something as well that we're working again very deliberately on and that we will make sure we want to get right having that balance going forward.
Thank you very much for that color.
Then a smaller more modest question.
While consumer operationally was up sequentially modestly wound care struck me as being down.
And while Q1 was actually up year-over-year due to new products I'm curious what may have occurred in Q2 to drive wound care in a different direction? Yes.
Tony we have seen some competitive pressure and I know that in one case we decided not to go ahead with the contract on some of our first aid kits but overall we think we remain fairly competitive.
This will be our last question and then we'll have some closing remarks from Alex.
Alex I wanted to come back to your short-term priorities and your long-term priorities.
McNeil obviously was your significant first short-term priority and Global was your second long-term priority.
And I guess in most of the comments today there is a great focus on McNeil but if I sort of go with the intersection of those two comments it seems like if you take your broader kind of holistic consumer business emerging markets for consumer seems that it should be a much greater priority for the total business and a much bigger potential gross impactor than McNeil.
Can you just sort talk about how you see your emerging market consumer franchise versus your peers and steps you can take to perhaps accelerate growth there? Sure.
Thanks a lot for the question Davis.
You're absolutely right.
The emerging market growth in our consumer business is a top priority for us.
And we've been focused there for a number of years.
If you look at for example the acquisition that we did with Dabao several years ago we see a tremendous opportunity.
We're seeing very strong performance as of late particularly in Brazil.
China we’ve dealt with a few other issues but we're very confident in our long-term positioning there and we've also made some changes in our approach in Russia as well.
So we do see that as a major growth opportunity.
That being said or over-the-counter business particularly domestically as well as internationally is significant and so we know that that's a major priority for us.
Okay.
And just Dominic one quick clarification.
I know you're very specific on the change in underlying operational guidance on the revenue side and the factors.
If I think about the absolute change that implies to the back half of the year it seems large relative to the size of the divisions like OTC and energy you mentioned.
Is there anything else that's a big driver of that relative change other than OTC or energy? Now I think that it's primarily OTC for the change in guidance and to a lesser extent the impact of energy and as we mentioned earlier the supply constraints in the endovascular business.
But I'd say of that total it's primarily the OTC change when I compare the current guidance to the previous guidance.
So hey everybody thank you very much.
I hope after the discussions that we’ve had this morning that you have a better understanding of our strategies priorities and plans to really help more patients and to drive our growth going forward.
Please keep in mind that the contributions we make to our shareholders always start from the innovative ever-increasing contributions our employees make every day to patients and consumers all around the world.
I really believe that healthcare is one of the most important and rewarding industries around the globe and we look forward to Johnson &amp; Johnson to helping lead it shape it for many years to come.
Thank you all for joining us today.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning and welcome to the Johnson &amp; Johnson Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) This call is being recorded.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the conference over to Johnson &amp; Johnson.
You may begin.
Good morning and welcome.
I’m Louise Mehrotra Vice President of Investor Relations for Johnson &amp; Johnson.
This is my pleasure this morning to review our business results for the third quarter of 2012.
Joining me on the call today are Dominic Caruso Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer; Joaquin Duato Worldwide Chairman Pharmaceuticals Group; and Dr.
Paul Stoffels Chief Scientific Officer and Worldwide Chairman Pharmaceuticals Group.
A few logistics before we get into the details.
This call is being made available to a broader audience via webcast accessible through the Investor Relations’ section of the Johnson &amp; Johnson website.
I’ll begin by briefly reviewing highlights of the third quarter for the corporation and highlights for our three business segments.
Then Dominic will provide some additional commentary on the third quarter results and discuss guidance for the full year of 2012.
Following Dominic’s remarks Joaquin and Paul will provide a brief update on the pharmaceuticals business.
We will then open the call to your questions.
We expect the call to last approximately an hour and a half.
Included with the press release that was sent to the investment community earlier this morning is a schedule showing sales for key products and/or businesses to facilitate updating your models.
These are also available on the Johnson &amp; Johnson website as is the press release.
Please note this webcast includes slides.
The slides are available on the website.
Before I get into the results let me remind you that some of the statements made during this review may be considered forward-looking statements.
The 10-K for the fiscal year 2011 identifies certain factors that could cause the company’s actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements made this morning.
The 10-K is available through the company or online.
During the review non-GAAP financial measures may be used to provide information pertinent to ongoing business performance.
These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered replacements for GAAP results.
Tables reconciling these measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are available in the press release and on the Investor Relations’ section of the Johnson &amp; Johnson website at investor.jnj.com.
Lastly today we will be discussing new molecular entities or NMEs and line extensions based on the company’s current knowledge of the status of development.
NMEs and line extensions are subject to the challenges and difficulties inherent in product development.
The company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.
A number of the compounds and products discussed today are being developed in collaboration with strategic partners or licensed from other companies.
These slides list the acknowledgment of those relationships.
Now I would like to review our results for the third quarter of 2012.
If you would refer to your copy of the press release let’s begin with the schedule titled Supplementary Sales Data by Geographic Area.
Worldwide sales to customers were $17.1 billion for the third quarter of 2012 up 6.5% as compared to the third quarter of 2011.
On an operational basis sales were up 10.8% and currency had a negative impact of 4.3%.
The acquisition of Synthes was completed in the second quarter this year.
In the third quarter the acquisition net of the impact of the divestiture of the legacy DePuy trauma business contributed 5.8% to the worldwide operational sales growth.
The impact to the U.S.
and outside the U.S.
growth was 7.2 points and 4.8 points respectively.
In the U.S.
sales were up 13.4%.
In regions outside the U.S.
our operational growth was 8.9% while the effect of currency exchange rates negatively impacted our reported results by 7.5 points.
The western hemisphere excluding the U.S.
grew by 12.8% operationally while the Asia Pacific Africa region grew 9% on an operational basis.
Europe grew 7.1% operationally.
The success of new product launches and Synthes sales made strong contributions to the results in all regions.
If you’ll now turn to the consolidated statement of earnings net earnings attributable to Johnson &amp; Johnson were $3 billion compared to 3.2 billion dollars in the same period of 2011.
Earnings per share were $1.05 versus $1.15 a year ago.
Please direct your attention to the box section of the schedule where we have provided earnings adjusted to exclude special items.
As referenced in the accompanying table on non-GAAP measures 2012 third quarter net earnings were adjusted to exclude the after tax impact of noncash net charges related to in-process research and development due to the discontinuation of the Phase III clinical development of Bapineuzumab IV transaction and integration costs related to the acquisition of Synthes Inc.
and a few ASR hip replacement costs.
Third quarter 2011 net earnings were adjusted to exclude the after tax impact of a mark-to-market adjustment to the value of the currency option and deal costs related to the acquisition of Synthes Inc.
Excluding these special items net earnings for the current quarter were $3.5 billion and diluted earnings per share were $1.25 representing increases of 2.3% and 0.8% respectively as compared to the same period in 2011.
I would now like to make some additional comments relative to the components leading to earnings before we move on to the segment highlights.
For the third quarter of 2012 cost of goods sold at 32.8% was up 110 basis points from the same period last year primarily due to an inventory step-up charge related to the Synthes acquisition.
Excluding the inventory step-up charge which has been treated as a special item cost of goods sold increased 20 basis points versus the same period last year primarily due to ongoing remediation costs in our consumer business.
Third quarter selling marketing and administrative expenses at 30.6% of sales were down 210 basis points due to cost containment initiatives across many of our businesses.
Our investment in research and development as a percent to sales was 11.3% 20 basis points higher than the third quarter of 2011 primarily due to the timing of milestone payments in our pharmaceutical business.
Interest expense net of interest income of $120 million was up $3 million for just the third quarter of 2011.
Other income net of other expense was $90 million in the third quarter of 2012 compared to $308 million in the same period last year.
Excluding special items other income net of other expense of $175 million was $449 million less than 2011 due to lower gains on divestitures.
Excluding special items the effective tax rate was 22.2% in the third quarter of 2012 in line with 2011.
Turning now to business segment highlights please refer to the supplementary sales schedule highlighting key products or businesses for the third quarter of 2012.
I’ll begin with the consumer segment.
Worldwide consumer segment sales for the third quarter of 2012 of $3.6 billion decreased 4.3% compared to the same period last year.
On an operational basis sales increased 1% while the impact of currency was negative 5.3%.
U.S.
sales were down 0.4% while international sales grew 1.8% on an operational basis.
Baby care products decreased on an operational basis by 1.9% when compared to the third quarter of 2011 primarily due to lower international sales of lotions and creams partially offset by strong growth of hair care products.
Sales in the oral care business increased 3% operationally due to strong sales outside the U.S.
from newly launched Listerine products.
For the third quarter of 2012 sales for OTC pharmaceuticals and nutritionals increased 5.9% on an operational basis compared to the same period in 2011 with U.S.
sales up 5.7% and sales outside the U.S.
up 6% on an operational basis.
Sales in the U.S.
increased primarily due to the relaunch of selected key products and the impact of the acquisition of full ownership rights to certain digestive health products partially offset by supply constraints on other products.
McNeil PPC is operating under a consent decree covering the manufacturing facilities in Las Piedras Puerto Rico and Fort Washington and Lancaster Pennsylvania.
McNeil continues to operate the manufacturing facilities in Las Piedras and Lancaster.
As previously discussed production volumes from these facilities continued to be impacted by additional review and approval processes.
We expect this to continue throughout 2012 and most of 2013.
Plants operating under the consent decree are producing a simplified portfolio focused on key brands.
Our Skin Care business grew 0.2% on an operational basis in the third quarter of 2012 with the U.S.
up 3.7% due to strong performance of Neutrogena.
Sales outside the U.S.
were down 2.2% due to competitive and marketplace pressures.
Women’s Health declined 3.2% on an operational basis.
Sales in the U.S.
were down 22.1% while sales outside the U.S.
were up 2.3% on an operational basis.
The sales decline this quarter was primarily due to the divestiture of Monistat in August last year.
Excluding the impact of the divestiture sales were flat.
Wound Care Other sales decreased 3.6% on an operational basis compared to the same period last year due to competitive pressures.
That completes our review of the consumer segment and I’ll now review highlights for the pharmaceutical segment.
Worldwide net sales for the third quarter of $6.4 billion increased 7% versus same period last year.
An on operational basis sales increased 11.3% with a negative currency impact of 4.3 points.
Sales in the U.S.
increased 14.6% while sales outside the U.S.
increased on an operational basis by 8.2%.
Now reviewing sales for the major therapeutic areas.
Immunology products achieved strong double-digit operational sales growth of 19.8%.
Sales in the U.S.
increased 15.1% while sales outside the U.S.
increased 37.1% operationally.
On operational basis STELARA was up 56.4% with the U.S.
up 57.9% and sales outside the U.S.
up 39.5% operationally.
The strong results were due primarily to market share gains complemented by strong market growth in all major regions.
SIMPONI was up 47.9% operationally with U.S.
sales up 57.6%.
Strong market growth and increased market share accounted for approximately half of the U.S.
growth with timing for certain items accounting for the balance.
In the quarter sales outside the U.S.
were up 39.7% on an operational basis primarily due to the continued success of the launch in Japan.
REMICADE grew 14.3% on an operational basis.
The U.S.
was up 7.3% with approximately half the growth due to changes in wholesaler inventory levels and the remainder due to a strong double-digit market growth partially offset by lower market share.
Combined export and international sales grew approximately 25% on an operational basis with customer inventory planning contributing approximately 60% of the operational growth in the quarter.
With the strength of our portfolio we continue to be the U.S.
market leader in immunology.
Sales of infectious disease products increased 18.6% on an operational basis.
Continued momentum in market share growth of PREZISTA and insulins for HIV was partially offset by lower sales of vaccines.
INCIVO a treatment for hepatitis C contributed approximately half of the infectious disease worldwide operational growth in the quarter.
On a sequential basis INCIVO sale were down primarily due to seasonality in treatment patterns in Europe impacting new patient starts in the summer months.
Sales accelerated significantly in September.
Neuroscience product sales increased 3.3% on an operational basis.
Growth was impacted by generic competition for CONCERTA Rasadyne RISPERDAL and DURAGESIC.
The long acting injectable antipsychotics RISPERDAL CONSTA and INVEGA SUSTENNA or Zeplion achieved operational growth of nearly 20% due to an increase in combined market share.
INVEGA sales outside the U.S.
achieved operational growth of 26.9% primarily due to the strong growth in Japan.
Sales of oncology products increased 36.2% on an operational basis due to the very strong results for Zytiga and VELCADE partially offset by lower sales for Doxil/Caelyx related to manufacturing issues at a third-party supplier.
Zytiga is currently approved to treat chemo refractory methastoic castration resistant prostate cancer.
In the quarter Zytiga achieved sales of $265 million.
On a sequential basis reported sales increased just under 15%.
Velcade is a treatment for multiple myeloma.
Operational sales increased 20.7% on an operational basis due to continued strong performance in patient share in the frontline setting.
Doxil/Caelyx declined 80.4% on an operational basis in the quarter.
We have been working diligently to restore a reliable supply of Doxil and as announced yesterday full access in the U.S.
has commenced.
In the E.U.
we expect Caelyx to be available in the fourth quarter of 2012 and in non-E.U.
countries the timing is projected to be the first quarter of 2013.
Other pharmaceutical products declined 3.3% on an operational basis due to divestitures and lower sales of EPREX ands osofectperrett due primarily to the impact of generic competition.
Positively impacting results XARELTO sales grew 40% on a sequential basis contributing over two points to the U.S.
pharmaceutical growth rate.
On the pipeline front during the quarter Zytiga was granted priority review by the FDA for the chemo naive filing petaqualine to treat pulmonary multi drug resistance tuberculosis was filed in Europe and granted priority review by the FDA.
The FDA approved new Synthes ER for the management of neuropathic pain associated with diabetic peripheral neuropathy.
Dockogen was approved in the European union for the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia SIMPONI IV was submitted to the FDA for treatment of moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis and subcutaneous Velcade was approved in the U.E.
for the treatment of multiple myeloma.
That completes a review of the Pharmaceutical segment.
I’ll now review the Medical Devices and Diagnostic segment results.
Worldwide Medical Devices and Diagnostic segment sales of $7.1 billion grew 16.1% operationally as compared to the same period in 2011.
Currency had a negative impact of 3.6 points resulting in a total sales increase of 12.5%.
Sales excluding the net impact of Synthes were up 1.4% on an operational basis with U.S.
sales up 0.4% and sales outside the U.S.
up 2.2% on an operational basis.
Now turning to the MD&amp;D business starting with the Cardiovascular Care.
Cardiovascular Care sales were down 2.7% operationally with the U.S.
down 1.5% and sales outside the U.S.
down 3.3% operationally.
Excluding the impact of drug-eluting stents worldwide sales were up approximately 3.5% operationally due to strong results for Biosense Webster partially offset by lower sales of endovascular products due to the impact of a supply disruption that was a result late in the third as well as competitive launches.
Biosense Webster achieved worldwide operational growth of over 20% in the quarter driven by strong market share growth.
The success of the new thermaco catheter launches made strong contributions to the results.
The Diabetes Care business operational sales declined 1.1% in the third quarter of 2012 with the U.S.
business down 3% due to a decline in both mail order and hospital sales.
The business outside the U.S.
grew 0.8% operationally with strong sales in emerging markets partially offset by lower sales in some of the developed markets.
The Diagnostics business declined 1.9% on an operational basis with the U.S.
down 3.4% and sales outside the U.S.
down 0.5% operationally in the third quarter.
Sales were impacted by lower donor screening sales due to competitive pressures and the divestiture of the Rogaine business during the third quarter.
Orthopedic sales were up 68.6% on an operational basis when compared to the same period in 2011.
Excluding the impact of Synthes and the divestiture in December 2011 of certain neurosurgical instruments sales grew approximately 2.5% on operational basis with similar results both in and outside the U.S.
Operationally hips were up 3% worldwide driven by 6% growth in the U.S.
due to strong results in primary stem platform sales partially offset by continued pricing pressure.
Hips outside the U.S.
were flat with soft sales in Europe offsetting gains in other regions.
Competitive pressures and the softer market impacted growth in Europe.
Knees worldwide increased 3% on an operational basis with the U.S.
up 6% driven by fixed bearing and revision platforms.
Sales outside the U.S.
were flat due to softer sales primarily in Europe due to competitive pressure.
Including the Synthes business in both periods and excluding the divested DePuy trauma business in both periods trauma grew approximately 4% on an operational basis with the U.S.
up 1% and sales outside the U.S.
up 7% on an operational basis.
U.S.
growth was impacted by shipping patterns.
Including the Synthes business in both periods worldwide spine was down 3% on an operational basis with the U.S.
down approximately 6% with continued pressure on price.
Outside the U.S.
sales grew approximately 1% operationally.
Specialty surgery achieved operational growth of 7.2% in the third quarter of 2012 with the U.S.
sales up 5.5% and sales outside the U.S.
up 9.1% on an operational basis.
Sales from the acquisition of SterilMed and strong biosurgery products and international sales of energy products were the major drivers of growth this quarter.
Surgical care worldwide sales grew operationally by 0.1% with the U.S.
down 1.1% and sales outside the U.S.
up 0.9% operationally.
The success of new product launches SECURESTRAP PHYSIOMESH and the ECHELON FLEX Powered ENDOPATH Stapler were offset by lower sales of mechanical products and pelvic floor repair products.
On September 28th Ethicon received a complete response letter from the FDA on the biologics license application for the Fibrin Pad with questions specific to product labeling.
On October 5th final labeling was agreed to with the FDA and the response was submitted.
We expect to hear from the FDA in the near future.
Rounding out the review of the medical devices and diagnostic segment our Vision Care business achieved operational sales growth of 4.4% in the third quarter compared to the same period last year.
Sales in the U.S.
increased 3.6% while sales outside the U.S.
increased 4.8% on an operational basis.
Growth was driven by daily lenses and astigmatism lenses partially offset by lower sales of reusable lenses.
That completes highlights for the medical devices and diagnostic segment and concludes the segment highlights for Johnson &amp; Johnson’s third quarter of 2012.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Dominic Caruso.
Dominic? Thank you Louise and good morning everyone.
I would like to provide some additional comments about our third quarter results highlight a few recent business and pipeline developments and then provide guidance for you to consider in refining your models for the remainder of 2012.
Then I will turn over the call to Joaquin Duato and Dr.
Paul Stoffels who will provide an update on the pharmaceutical business and pipeline.
Let me first begin by sharing my view of Johnson &amp; Johnson’s third quarter results which Louise has reviewed for you.
Despite continuing marketplace and economic pressures we reported solid sales growth in the third quarter of 6.5% which was slightly higher than analyst estimates as published by first call.
Foreign currency in particular the weak euro continues to negatively impact sales results.
Third quarter sales on an operational basis excluding the impact of unfavorable currency grew 10.8%.
Currency translation negatively impacted sales by 4.3%.
Sales included the impact of the recently completed acquisition of Synthes which contributed 5.8% to worldwide operational growth net of the divestiture of the DePuy trauma business.
Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Synthes the underlying global business grew by approximately 5% on an operational basis.
Also excluding special items this quarter we delivered solid earnings per share of $1.25 which exceeded analyst estimates.
Turning to market conditions in the U.S.
healthcare utilization rates primarily hospital admissions and surgeries show early signs of stabilization and U.S.
joint reconstruction volumes appear to have improved in the latest data that we have.
While some positive signs can be seen these signs are still too early to signal any meaningful recovery.
Adapting to this change in environment is important and our leaders continue to apply financial discipline to our operations while investing in key growth opportunities.
Let me take a moment to provide some detail on special items in the third quarter.
We recorded several special items totaling approximately $550 million after tax that reduced reported net earnings for the quarter.
In August we announced that we would be taking a charge in the third quarter for the discontinuation of the Phase III clinical development of Bapineuzumab IV in mild to moderate Alzheimer’s disease.
That amounted to a net charge of $340 million consisting of a $679 million charge for the write-off of in-process research and development offset by the approximately 50% share of that cost which is attributable to our partner in the program.
As we described during the announcement of the closing of the Synthes acquisition we expected to incur additional special charges throughout 2012.
And in the third quarter we recorded an after-tax charge of $135 million consisting of transaction and integration costs.
And finally we also recorded a $94 million after tax increase in the accrual for DePuy ASR hip related costs based on updated international registry information.
Louise has already updated you on developments in the consumer business and I would just note a few business milestones for the medical device and diagnostic business for the quarter and I’ll leave the pharmaceutical highlights to Paul and Joaquin.
In MD&amp;D this quarter we launched several new products with significant benefits most notably in areas of energy and orthopedics.
The new 45-millimeter version of the Echelon Flex Power ENDOPATH Stapler was launched.
This new 45-millimeter design allows surgeons to have more control near vital structures such as in the thorax.
The new Endura tip solutions a new system of instruments and devices marks our entry into the rapidly growing field of hip arthroscopy.
These are a few recent highlights and on November 1 we will provide a more in-depth review of our medical devices and diagnostics businesses as part of our annual business review with the investment community.
At that meeting the three heads of our MD&amp;D business groups Global Surgery Global Medical Solutions and Global Orthopedics will update you on our exciting product offerings and the strategic direction of their respective businesses.
I certainly hope you can join us for that meeting.
Let me now provide some guidance for you to consider as you refine your models for the rest of 2012.
Let me begin with a discussion of cash and interest income and expense.
At the end of the third quarter we had approximately $2.9 billion of net cash.
This consists of approximately $19.8 billion of cash and investments and approximately $16.9 billion of debt.
And we continue to generate strong cash flows.
For purposes of your models assuming no additional major acquisitions during 2012 I suggest you consider modeling net interest expense of between $500 million and $550 million consistent with our previous guidance.
Turning to other income and expense as a reminder this is the account where we record royalty income as well as gains and losses arising from such items as litigation investments by our development corporation divestitures asset sales or write-offs.
This account is difficult to forecast due to the nature of some of these items.
Assuming no major additional items of this nature I would recommend that you consider modeling other income and expense for 2012 as a net gain excluding special items ranging from approximately $1 billion to $1.1 billion slightly higher than our previous guidance.
And now a word on taxes.
On a year-to-date basis through the third quarter of 2012 the company’s effective tax rate excluding special items was 22.2%.
We suggest that you model our effective tax rate for 2012 in the range of 21% to 22% consistent with our previous guidance and this assumes the extension of the research and development tax credit later in the year.
Now turning to sales and earnings guidance.
Our guidance continues to be based first on a constant currency basis reflecting our results from operations assuming that average currency rates for 2012 will be the same as they were for 2011.
This is the way we manage our business and we believe this operational view provides a good understanding of the underlying performance of our business.
We will also continue to provide an estimate of our sales and EPS results for 2012 with the impact that current exchange rates could have and we’ll use the euro as an example.
So turning to sales we would be comfortable with your models reflecting an operational sales increase on a constant currency basis of between approximately 5.5% to 6.5% for the year.
This is consistent with our previous guidance as our business continues to build the momentum we had expected.
This would result in estimated sales for 2012 on a constant currency basis of between approximately $68.6 billion and $69.3 billion.
While we are not predicting the impact of currency movements to give you an idea of the potential impact of currency exchange rates for the remainder of 2012 were to say where they were as of last week as an example with the Euro at approximately $1.29 then our sales growth rate would be negatively impacted by approximately 2.5% for the year.
Thus under this scenario we would expect reported sales growth to be between approximately 3% and 4% for the year for a total expected level of reported sales between approximately $67 million and 67.6 billion dollars.
And now turning to earnings I suggest that you consider full-year 2012 operational EPS estimates of between $5.27 and $5.32 per share which excludes the impact of special items and assumes the same average exchange rates for 2012 as we saw in 2011.
While we’re not predicting the impact of currency movements to give you an idea of the potential impact on EPS if currency exchange rates for the balance of 2012 were to remain where they were as of last week then the impact of currency movements primarily the Euro would be unfavorable by approximately $0.22 per share.
Therefore our reported EPS excluding special items would be between $5.05 and $5.10 per share.
This is slightly higher than our previous guidance assuming that the recent strengthening of the Euro holds up and reflects tightening of the range at this late stage in the year.
On a final note I’d like to point out that as you update your models for the guidance we provided you should see pre-tax operating margins for 2012 improve between 100 and 150 basis points even with the incremental amortization expense related to Synthes.
Operating margin expansion can certainly vary from year to year but we are certainly pleased with our progress this year.
That concludes my comments on our operational performance this quarter and our guidance with respect to your models.
In summary we are very pleased with the third quarter results and we expect to continue on our core strengths recent launches and ongoing investments to build for future growth.
I remain confident in our prospects for the remainder of this year and beyond thanks to the dedication and focus and integrity of the people at Johnson &amp; Johnson.
And now I’d like to take a few minutes to introduce the two leaders of our Pharmaceuticals Group Joaquin Duato Worldwide Chairman of the Pharmaceutical Groups; and Dr.
Paul Stoffels Worldwide Chairman of the Pharmaceuticals Group and recently appointed to the role of Chief Scientific Officer for Johnson &amp; Johnson.
These two leaders long with the many talented and dedicated people in our pharmaceuticals group have made our business one of the fastest growing in the pharmaceutical industry.
They have been instrumental in selecting and developing great compounds and have launched them in a challenging marketplace with excellence.
They have also positioned the business very well for continued growth.
It is now my pleasure to turn the discussion over to Joaquin.
Thanks Dominic and good morning everyone.
My name is Joaquin Duato and I am the Worldwide Chairman of the Pharmaceuticals Group at Johnson &amp; Johnson a responsibility I share with Paul Stoffels.
This is an exciting time for Johnson a time of transformation for our business a time of impacting the lives of patients with an unprecedented number of innovative medicines.
Pharmaceuticals is a dynamic global market valued at $950 billion and expected to grow to more than $1.2 trillion by 2016.
This growth is driven by volume increases in emerging markets and a spending uptick in developed nations.
Our focus and efforts are paying off as we continue to build momentum with an industry-leading portfolio.
Across our core therapeutic areas we are delivering robust growth and outpacing the markets where we compete.
We have launched eight new products since 2009 achieving a strong track record of success and generating excellent results through best in class commercial capabilities.
We are also expanding our global presence by broadening our geographic reach to include emerging markets and Japan.
At the core of our success are the people of Johnson committed to the values of Our Credo and caring for the world one person at a time.
global reach with local focus excellence in execution and leading with purpose.
We will use this framework to update you on the progress of our Johnson business.
So let’s begin with creating value through innovation.
With 11.3% operational growth in Q3 we have changed the trajectory of our business achieving ten quarters of consecutive growth.
We are transforming our pro portfolio.
Our new products are projected to comprise 40% of our sales by 2016.
You’ll note a healthy balance of mature brands core growth products and new launches.
As you can see we are driving growth across all of our key therapeutic areas reflecting our underlying strength.
Our Immunology franchise our largest is growing operationally at 19%.
After acquiring the rights of REMICADE and SIMPONI in 150 territories we are expanding our worldwide leadership in immunogly.
We now manage two-thirds of REMICADE and SIMPONI global sales.
And in the U.S.
we are the market leaders with approximately 33% share.
Our long-acting antipsychotic franchise including INVEGA SUSTENNA known as Sepion in many markets outside of the U.S.
and RISPERDAL CONSTA is growing 18% exceeding category growth in the broad antipsychotics market.
In Oncology continuous growth of bellkad and the very rapid uptick of Zytiga have helped us realize 29% growth.
In addition we are restoring full access to Doxil and working to reestablish its reliable supply.
Our global HIV business is up 28% thanks to the continued growth of PREZISTA INTELENCE EDURANT and the combination product complata.
Currently one in three U.S.
patients were treated with a new HIV regimen as prescribed at Johnson’s therapeutic medication.
Let’s now briefly review some of our leading products.
With 16 regulatory approvals REMICADE is our largest brand and we continue to expand its indications.
Earlier this year we received approval in the E.U.
for pediatric ulcerative colitis.
1.7 million patients have been treated with REMICADE worldwide and in October we marked a U.S.
milestone having treated one million patients.
Our marketplace position remains solid with more than 75% share of the U.S.
infusible market for immunology products.
With sales of 4.6 billion year-to-date REMICADE is sustaining growth at 15.1% globally with 8.5% in the U.S.
and 25% quarter-to-date in the reacquired territories.
Our exclusivity runs until 2018 in the U.S.
and in the majority of the E.U.
countries we recently filed for an additional six-month extension of our patent turn related to pediatric studies.
If granted this would extend our patent exclusivity of REMICADE to mid February of 2015 from August 2014.
At the end of 2009 we launch Estalada for the treatment of moderate to severe psoriasis.
Reducing therapy from 28 a week to 4 injections a year.
We are very proud that this game changing therapy was awarded the International (inaudible) earlier this month.
Year-to-date STELARA sales were $756 million growing at 46%.
Physician acceptance is increasing as STELARA has 25.4% share in the U.S.
dermatology market up three points from a year ago.
Uniquely our five-year efficacy and safety data represents the longest continuous study of a psoriasis biologic treatment.
And we continue to invest in STELARA with Phase III programs underway in psoriatic arthritis and Crohn’s disease.
And now a brief update about SIMPONI.
With 50% operational growth and sales of $452 million SIMPONI is building momentum with expanded indications and a new formulation on the horizon.
It is currently approved in 57 countries for rheumatic diseases and we recently launched in Japan with a strong uptake.
We are excited about this product’s potential.
We have submitted applications in the U.S.
and Europe for ulcerative colitis via subcutaneous injection and for the approval of an intravenous formulation for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis if approved SIMPONI will be the only entity available in both subcutaneous and intravenous formulation.
Let’s move into our reinvigorated long-acting injectable franchise.
We launched INVEGA SUSTENNA in the U.S.
in 2009 and it is now approved in 37 countries outside of the U.S.
In many markets under the name Sepion.
The successful launch of INVEGA SUSTENNA has accelerated the growth of our long-acting antipsychotic franchise from mid single digits to 18% year to date.
We have seen significant expansion of our prescriber and patient base many of whom are new to the long-acting antipsychotics category.
Based on the success of our once-a-month injection clinical development of a three-month formulation of INVEGA SUSTENNA is currently underway.
We are very pleased with the performance of ZYTIGA.
With sales of $697 million year-to-date ZYTIGA is the most successful global oral oncology launch ever.
Since its first approval in the U.S.
for metastatic prostate cancer in April 2011 ZYTIGA is now approved in more than 50 countries around the world.
Physician uptake has been remarkable.
The number of post chemo patients treated has grown to 75% from 40% at the time of launch.
More than 30 000 patients have received treatments since 2011.
Our estimated patient share in the U.S.
chemo refractory market is approximately 67% and in the G5 it’s approximately 81%.
We are now expecting responses from the FDA and EMEA on our pre-chemo indication which will triple the eligible patient population.
Now on to VELCADE.
This first in class treatment for multiple myeloma has approximately 36% share outside the U.S.
and is growing 16% with almost $1 billion in sales year-to-date.
VELCADE was recently approved for subcutaneous administration in Europe and Canada.
We also have ongoing clinical studies in other hematological cancers such as Mantle Cell Lyphoma.
Let’s review infectious diseases and virology.
PREZISTA is now approved in more than 100 countries worldwide with robust 24% operational growth.
It is the leading protease inhibitor in Europe and is ranked number two in the U.S.
We are now awaiting the approval of our single 800-milligram tablet.
Moving from PREZISTA to INCIVO our hepatitis C treatment approved in Europe in 2011.
INCIVO achieved reimbursement more than 100 days faster than the European benchmark.
Following strong initial uptake we experienced a slow-down in sales during the summer season.
Now we are regaining traction as market activities stabilizes.
We have already seen a pickup in September.
INCIVO has achieved 67% market share and continues to maintain a strong lead over Procepravil across Europe.
Finally let’s talk about XARELTO.
First approved in 2011 XARELTO has the broadest indication profile of any of the newer oral anticoagulants with additional indication spending regulatory approval for the treatment and long-term prevention of deep vein thrombosis pulmonary embolism and to reduce the risk of secondary cardiovascular events in patients with acute coronary syndrome in combination with the standard and the platelet therapy.
According to IMS XARELTO has overtaken prevaksa and is now capturing 53% of new-to-brand share of the NEVO oral anticoagulants in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation.
Additionally based on our profitability attitudes and use of September survey XARELTO is the number one brand preferred by cardiologists.
Ahead not only of prevaksa but also of Warfarin.
XARELTO continues to make positive gains in access with 93% commercial formularies and 90% of lives in Medicare party.
I hope this brief summary of our key products reinforces the strong performance of our portfolio.
Now let’s move on to how we are extending our global reach with local focus.
Our global presence is broadening.
In 2006 sales outside of the U.S.
accounted for 35% of our worldwide revenue.
By 2011 they comprised 51% of our total sales.
Emerging markets are playing an important role in our global growth.
With a five-year growth of 15% markets such as China Brazil Russia India and others now comprise 14% of our worldwide sales.
In China we expect strong growth due to a number of factors.
These include our leadership position in over-the-counter products the expected growth of CNS oncology and immunology franchises and the expansion of China-based manufacturing and R&amp;D capabilities.
For example we have had the first NME declaration by a China based team.
We are also making inroads in Brazil.
Strong performances from REMICADE and VELCADE are helping to drive double digit growth twice that of the market.
We will have launched five new products in Brazil between 2011 and 2012.
And in Russia we are ranked number two in the reimburse market.
In addition to broadening our base of new products we are forging innovative partnerships with local companies such as the full cycle technology transfer product for VELCADE.
Now let’s talk about excellence in execution.
Matching superior science with industry leading commercial capabilities is at the core of our success.
Our results reflect our expertise in market access launch readiness care integration and customer engagement.
In the U.S.
we hold the leadership position in total sales of new products launched during the last three years.
In 2012 eight out of 12 of our euro sales forces were voted best in class by our physician customers while payers selected us as department of choice in specialty pharmaceuticals.
In EMEA Europe the Middle East and Africa Johnson is the fastest growing among the top 20 companies in the first half of 2012.
Consistent with this performance net promoted course for Johnson in Europe grew seven points and we are the preferred company among our competitive set with investigators payers and physicians.
Japan is a priority market for Johnson.
We have launched six new products in Japan in the past two years with very good results.
And we are the fastest growing company in Japan among the top 25.
So before I hand it over to Paul I want to quickly summarize a few points about our strategy and results.
We have changed the trajectory of our business with ten consecutive quarters of growth the latest rate at 11.3%.
We continue to build momentum across our core franchises outpacing many of the markets where we compete.
We are leading in the industry in sales of new products and we are broadening our global reach in key geographies beyond the U.S.
and Europe.
It’s the people of Johnson around the world who are critical to our success.
They make a meaningful difference in patients’ lives every day.
Paul? Thank you Joaquin and good morning everyone.
It is my pleasure today to discuss with you our pipeline and R&amp;D strategy and give you an overview of our enterprise approach to innovation.
As leading healthcare company in the world we believe that innovation is a critical driver for future growth.
A key mandate in my new role will be to further develop the innovation agenda for Johnson &amp; Johnson.
Our enterprise approach will focus on several key elements: An end-to-end R&amp;D strategy focused on the highest needs and leverage deep medical expertise and scientific know how to select winners.
Accessing the best science and technology through internal research or external innovation.
By being agnostic to where the innovation comes from we will access a diversity of innovation and meet a high threshold with products that exceeds market expectations.
We will leverage our global development operations to increase efficiency cost effectiveness and flexibility and ensure quality.
As a broadly-based healthcare company focused on three different sectors we have world class talent and expertise and capabilities in multiple areas of science and technology.
One of my key mandates will be to leverage those capabilities across the three sectors for maximum impact on healthcare.
In pharmaceuticals we take a therapeutic area end-to-end approach for all compounds in our pipeline.
We focus on five therapeutic areas: Neuroscience Cardiovascular Metabolism Immunology and Oncology and Infectious Diseases.
Within that’s therapeutic areas we focus on specific diseases with the most important and highest unmet needs.
Our vision is to transform patients’ lives by discovering and developing innovative solutions in each of these disease areas.
We do this by identifying the medical needs accessing the best science internal or external and combining this with operational excellence.
In 2011 we advanced our portfolio in a significant way with approval and launch of five new different shades of drugs.
Zytiga for chemo refractory prostate cancer INCIVO once daily treatment for HIV INCIVO a novel treatment for hepatitis C Xarelto for prophylaxis and for stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation and Synthes ER for chronic pain.
With these new medicines and our strong existing brands we have built an industry leading portfolio of new and differentiated medicines.
We also have worked to build an exciting and robust late stage pipeline of new and differentiated medicines.
It features a healthy mix of NMEs with differentiated profiles and several major line extensions of drugs we launched in the past two years.
I’ll highlight a few of these in more detail.
Chemically frozen for Type 2 diabetes seen a preview of TMC 435 for chronic hepatitis C and PCI 32765 for approved for P-cell malignancies.
Chemically frozen is a novel SGLT-2 inhibitor.
It has an attractive clinical profile has a potential convenient oral once daily agent.
It acts uniquely on the kidney and has shown in studies to lower glucose by inhibiting glucose reabsorption in the kidneys and contribute to weight loss through secretion of glucose.
It is a potential first choice for add-on therapy to metformin.
Our Phase III program forcana is designed to assess the safety and efficacy of chemically frozen across the spectrum of beta cell function and in broad patient types.
To support this we are fully enrolled nine Phase III pivotal clinical studies encompassing more than 10 300 patients.
This includes the cardiovascular study canvass.
Canvass is a large prospective study enrolling more than 4 400 patients to assess the glycemic efficacy and safety of chemically frozen in Type 2 diabetes patients who are also at high risk or have a history of cardiovascular disease.
We recently presented results from this trial which showed that chemically frozen lowered blood sugar levels when used as an add-on therapy in patients with Type 2 diabetes who were treated with insulin and who had a greater risk for cardiovascular disease.
Chemically frozen was also effective and well tolerated in patients with Type 2 diabetes age 55 to 80 in a separate Phase III studies.
These data were represented at the European Association for the Study of Diabetes Meeting in Berlin earlier this month.
We filed an MDA in the U.S.
in May and an MAA in Europe in June and also filed a multiple additional countries simultaneously following these submissions.
We look forward to working with the regulatory authorities on approval for these indications.
Let me now turn to SIMEPRAVIVE or TMC 435 which is a potential best in class protease inhibitor for chronic hepatitis C.
The compound which we are codeveloping with Medaviv is suitable for one pill once a day administration.
It significantly improved viral cure rates in Phase IIb studies in both treatment naive and treatment failure patients.
Earlier this year we presented final results from our Phase IIb ASPIRE study in which we evaluated 435 as an additional to pegalated Interferon and Ribfarin in patients with genotype I chronic hepatitis C.
These patients had failed prior treatment with pegalated Interferon and Ribfarin either because they had relapsed had a partial response or had no response.
TMC 435 based therapy significantly improved viral cure rates in each of these patient subgroups.
Our global Phase III trials for TMC 435 are currently ongoing.
We have two Phase III trials in naive patients and one in relapsing patients.
In addition we have a Phase III study ongoing in non-responders and studies ongoing in Japan.
While protease inhibitors are an important milestone in hepatitis C treatment the ultimate goal is the development of Interferon free regimens.
We have several programs under development to explore Interferon free regimens including two Phase II studies exploring combination regimens of SIMEPRAVIVE with 7977 from Killiat and an NS5a from BMS.
Needless to say we are excited about SIMEPRAVIVE for which we have worldwide marketing rights with the exception of the Nordic countries.
We are targeting filing in the first half of 2013 in the U.S.
and Europe and Japan.
Finally let me spend a few minutes on Eguitamib or PCI 32765 and two Phase III studies for relapsed and refractory chronic lymphocitic leukemia.
In addition a number of Phase I and II studies with Eguitamib are ongoing across a panel of indications.
With the introduction of several new drugs over the past two years we also have significant major line extensions that we are pursuing.
We are following on our success with REMICADE which grew from an orphan indication to 16 different indications and taking a similar approach to many of our products in other therapeutic areas.
These products begin with targeted therapies in small indications and grow over time with expanding indications to be pipelines within a product.
Let me highlight a few here on the slide.
We are excited by the three-month formulation of INVEGA SUSTENNA for schizophrenia which has the potential to keep symptoms under control with only four injections per year.
We anticipate filing in 2014 in the U.S.
and in 2015 in Europe.
With XARELTO we are pursuing multiple additional indications including VTE treatment in acute coronary syndrome both delivering important advances to large populations.
XARELTO has the broadest profile of the new oral anticoagulants in the U.S.
With SIMPONI we are pursuing IV formulation for rheumatoid arthritis and additional indications in ulcerative colitis and juvenile ideopathic arthritis.
With STELARA we expect to file for additional indications including psoriatic arthritis Crohn’s disease and rheumatoid arthritis.
We anticipate filing for psoriatic arthritis in the fourth quarter of 2012 for both U.S.
and Europe and for Crohn’s disease in 2015 in the U.S.
and Europe.
Finally with ZYTIGA we are pursuing broader indications in chemo naive metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer and metastatic breast cancer.
We are excited about all of these indications and their potential to address large unmet needs in patients worldwide.
A key part of our strategy is to access the best science through internal research or external innovation.
In the first half of this year we have established more than 30 different collaborations.
Let me highlight three new deals that we announced recently.
In June we acquired Core-Immune and gained access to a compound in early clinical development for heart failure.
In August we signed an exclusive worldwide licensing and development agreement with GenMap for their Atunomap a human CD38 monoclonal antibody currently in development for multiple myeloma.
And earlier this month we also signed an agreement with Astellas Pharmaceuticals to gain exclusive worldwide right except Japan to develop and commercialize a novel JAK inhibitor ASP015K.
The compound is currently in Phase IIb for rheumatoid arthritis.
At Johnson &amp; Johnson sustaining our position as a leading global healthcare company requires continuous access to the best science and technology in the world.
Last month we announced plans to establish regional innovation centers as part of a novel approach to accelerate early innovation in all three sectors of Johnson &amp; Johnson.
Each innovation center will house science and technology experts focused on identifying early stage innovation academia and small biotech and have local deal-making capabilities with flexibility to adapt deal structures to match the early stage opportunity.
Our J&amp;J innovation centers will be located in the world’s leading innovation hot spots so that we can become an active part of these ecosystems.
We have flourished with four innovation centers in California Massachusetts London and China and we look to set up additional satellite locations as driven by business needs.
Operational excellence is critical to our strategy.
We have built an R&amp;D network with world-class clinical partnering manufacturing and regulatory capabilities.
Over the past few years this has helped us successfully execute massive clinical programs such as the 10 000 patient canagliflozin program and set new industry benchmarks in patient recruitment data collection and timelines for regulatory filings and submissions.
We have the ability to develop file and launch drugs simultaneously across the globe with the highest degree of quality and we are accelerating our pipeline in China and Japan.
We have excellence in safety surveillance with around the clock pharmaco vigilance capabilities and pan life cycle safety risk management for every product.
Our global development organizations have helped us to significantly increase our productivity.
Over the recent three-year period when looking at Phase III development and registration success our latest development success rate continues to be at the top third for the industry and well above industry median.
We are currently No.
1 in development cycle time.
We have also dramatically improved our submission cycle times while maintaining quality resulting in a cost per NME approved which remains well below industry median.
We are fortunate to be in an industry where human health is the basis of our business.
In particular at Johnson &amp; Johnson the benefit we generate to patients and consumers is at our core.
We’ve measured our success by the years of life saved and the quality of life improved.
Our pipeline products and people are impacting human health and making a big difference for patients worldwide.
We continue to enhance broad and global access to medicines through a variety of programs.
We continue our efforts to facilitate developing world access to HIV therapies and we also take pride in the fact that we are bringing the power of science for global health.
We discovered developed and filed TMC207 at the B-drug with the first new mechanism of action in more than 40 years and have multiple efforts ongoing in HIV and vaccines for global health.
In closing our strategy is delivering.
We have an industry-leading drug portfolio.
We are driving growth from core brands and achieving strong growth from new products.
By identifying the highest medical need and matching it with the best science internal or external we are delivering differentiated medicines bringing life and quality of life for patients and value for society and for our business.
We execute with operational excellence to deliver products globally and competitively and with industry-leading benchmarks in efficiency productivity quality and timelines.
The approach has brought us back to growth in the pharmaceutical sector and our goal is to maintain the momentum and continue delivering growth for Johnson &amp; Johnson.
Thank you.
And let me now turn it back to Louise.
Thanks Paul.
Stephanie could you please provide the instructions for the Q&amp;A session?  Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Matthew Dodds with Citi.
Good Morning Matt.
Morning.
Quickly just for you Dominic then I’ll go to pharma.
When you look at the gross margin it was flat year-over-year down a little bit quarter over quarter and you had a big performance in U.S.
pharma.
So I was just wondering why we didn’t see a little more there.
Right so as Louise pointed out Matt the quarter includes this inventory step-up from the acquisition of Synthes which we’ve excluded in our earnings.
And so what you saw when you exclude that for the quarter – I don’t know if you did that for the year-to-date basis – was just a slight uptick year-over-year of 20 basis points I think it was Louise.
And that’s related to the continued remediation efforts in the Consumer business.
So I don’t think that gross margin excluding this impact from Synthes which will of course you know rotate off after all that inventory is sold I don’t think that will be a big driver one way or the other to our earnings.
I must have missed that.
I will look at that again.
Thanks guys.
And Joaquin quickly for you can you give some comments on what you’re seeing in Western Europe? You talked a lot about emerging markets Japan and you showed EMEA.
What are you seeing in Western Europe in terms of the volumes today and where you might be seeing some pressure? For us Matt as I described in Western Europe we are having a very positive evolution in the first half of the year.
We had double-digit growth and we are leading the industry in growth.
And it’s based on the strength of our launched new products in particular INCIVO Zytiga and Sepion which is the name that INVEGA SUSTENNA has outside of the U.S.
Having said that we continue to see headwinds in most of the European countries and particularly Southern Europe but also in Central Europe.
The headwinds are in different areas.
We see continued pressure on price on one side and at the same time we see stricter guidelines in the use of generics too and also we see in many different countries HTA agencies coming up which are going to make access more complex and difficult.
Overall a complex situation very fluid and our view is that we have to take a long-term view on that.
We are pleased with our results to date and we are confident that our portfolio is the right one for this market environment Thanks Joaquin.
Thanks Dominic.
Next question please.
Your next question is from Mike Weinstein with JP Morgan.
Morning Mike.
Good morning.
Maybe Dominic let me start with the big picture question before I go to pharma as well.
Dominic if we look at it from a top line perspective the 5% organic growth this quarter is your best quarter in five years.
Could you just give us your big picture thoughts on sustainability with JNJ’s stock going through a difficult period going through RISPERDAL and Siplomax and some of the challenges ACTO 798 so it’s been a long time coming.
Can you just talk about your thoughts on NAPS or fact that this 5% level whether this is reasonable or sustainable range for the company? Thanks Right.
Good morning Mike.
Well you’re right we have been through some tough times which of course some of those are expected because of patent expirations and the like but nonetheless I think the focus that we had during those times to continue to invest particularly in our pharmaceutical pipeline has paid off for us.
So if you look at the three businesses in particular pharma of course is now as Joaquin said ten quarters of growth and accelerating that growth and we’re excited about the way the products are performing in the marketplace.
And as Paul mentioned we have new products coming that we’re also very excited about.
MD&amp;D of course is challenged by the lower procedure volumes that continue but offsetting that of course we now have Synthes as a member of the Johnson &amp; Johnson family of companies.
And having a large presence in orthopedics which we think will be in fact a growth area within Medical Devices given demographics and emerging market trends.
So that should help us continue growth in that business along with new product innovation throughout all of MD&amp;D.
And the Consumer business is holding up well you know in a tough consumer environment generally.
But of course we’re looking forward to the return of the OTC products and we know that we’re delayed in that return.
We want to do this right.
But of course we see those returning over the near term horizon in 2013.
And so all in all I think the business is on sound footing Mike.
I think the investments we made were the appropriate ones.
They’re paying off.
And the execution of the talented people of Johnson &amp; Johnson is paying off.
So I feel pretty good about where the business is right now and obviously I can’t give you a forecast or guidance for next year.
We’ll talk to you about that in January.
But overall I feel pretty good that we’re on solid footing here.
Okay.
Let me switch to pharma.
Paul can you just cover two items for me? One is The Street’s been a bit cautious on canagliflozin and given the challenges in diabetes and getting products not only through the FDA but having successful commercial launches post-approval.
Can you just talk about your confidence in the safety profile and the degree to which you’ve had discussions with the FDA on that? And then second can you talk about in Hep C your strategy for an all oral regimen and where you think you take 435 from here? Thanks.
Okay.
Thank you.
The first we’re pretty constant in canagliflozin and first the basics.
If you look at the cancer there was no evidence of any clinical meaningful imbalance in the incidence of cancer including breast and bladder in clinical trials with canagliflozin.
I think we are pretty confident from that side that we have a safe compound.
The urinary tract infections if you look at our studies then there was also in the pooled analysis is the incidence of UDI was a placebo for 100 milligrams 5.9 for 300 milligram 4.3.
No real dose-related increase and it’s known for this type of compound.
And typically these products are all managed with OTC medication.
So from a long-term safety perspective we as you know we are doing the CANVAS study with a first part of the data which went to the FDA.
We’ll have a second interim analyst in 2013 and then later on when the study is finished it’s an event driven trial so we’ll see when the study will be finished.
But we are pretty confident that in those data the support is there for a filing and an approval.
The data show – we think the data shows solid cardiovascular safety in the balance between the LDL increase if you look at the overall ratios LDL HDL sorry they were absolutely okay.
If you look at the combine that with the blood pressure decrease the reduction in triglycerides the weight loss and the improved glycemic control we think that the balance between efficacy and safety is very solid for canagliflozin.
On 435 with 435 we have a best-in-class protease inhibitor which we are – which we’ll submit in the first half of next year.
Drugs are developed one by one so the first indication will be in the combination with interferon and ribavirin.
We are doing additional early studies on testing the combination with 7977 from Gilead as well as with NS5a from BMS.
And in addition to that we have our internal drugs which we are developing for our combination.
I think as you – I think it’s now absolutely clear that it’s going to go to interferon-free regimens.
The task will be combining safe and effective drugs together to make sure that we have the efficacy and the safety.
And as I said drugs will be developed one by one.
You have to show the efficacy and the safety of each of the drugs.
And we’ll participate significantly in that field.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from Catherine Arnold with Credit Suisse.
I think your line is open.
Catherine? Hello can you hear me? Yes we can.
Hi Catherine.
Okay.
Hi.
Good morning.
First question’s for Dominic.
I was wondering if you could clarify the relative intensity you might be considering as far as looking for franchises that maybe the company should exit that are weighing on businesses.
Obviously I know that you have been very clear that you’re not planning on doing any significant restructuring and spin off type plan; however as you exited stents and there may be other opportunities where your growth profile could further increase by you exiting certain businesses.
I guess I’m wondering to what extent that is a conversation at the board table.
And then a question for Paul.
I just wondered Paul if you could give your commentary on the arthritis market and what you see as being most impactful whether it’s oral agents entering the marketplace.
You’ve obviously committed to that yourself and or bio similar entries into the marketplace.
Thanks.
Okay.
Thanks for the question Catherine.
Well as far as exiting certain businesses we consistently discuss portfolio choices.
So our executive team along with all of our business leaders are consistently reviewing each of the businesses and trying to determine the ones that are performing well versus the competition those that require more investment those that require some more investment but we might not see the return like in the case of drug-eluting stents.
So we’re constantly reviewing that.
We periodically have divestitures as you know in our results and we typically use those gains as quite frankly a switch in portfolio emphasis by then reinvesting you know those gains in other parts of the business.
So we continuously do that.
And I think we’ll continue to do that.
I think we can do some more pruning of the businesses as we look to the future and determine where to best place our bets.
So suffice it to say it’s a conversation that’s always ongoing and top of mind and I think we’ll continue to do that going forward.
And Paul? Yeah let me address your question on first of all with SIMPONI Celerra and REMICADE.
I think we have a leading franchise and we are continuing to work with antibodies on new mechanism of actions here with ALV-3 L-6 we have additional new products coming there.
At the same time we are having a significant research activity internally on getting oral immunological agents.
And while we didn’t have an advanced JAK that’s why we made the deal on getting also a JAK inhibitor in our pipeline.
It’s a selective JAK 3 and we think it has the potential to in preclinical showing safety and selectivity so have a significant differentiation with the existing product.
It’s also a once-a -day product which we think compares favorably with the Pfizer compound twice a day and this field is still to play out about selectivity and we have to learn about the longer term safety and efficacy of these products.
So we continue to bet on the two ways: It’s the antibody space for new targets as well as the oral active agents.
And Joaquin if you can answer on the biosimilars.
Biosimilars Catherine we described before our exclusivity situation in the U.S.
and Europe in the U.S.
in 2018 and in Europe with our pediatric extension is accepted would be until February 2015.
So those are our core markets with REMICADE.
Certainly we continue to work to shape our policy around guidelines and product development and approval of biosimilars particular around the interchangeability and extrapolation of indications.
So it’s an area which we are working hard in order to try to protect patient safety as far as using biosimilars.
For us it’s also very meaningful in this context the fact that we file SIMPONI IV in rheumatoid arthritis and we file it in September and we believe that SIMPONI IV it’s going to be a very good option for patients.
It has a 30-minute infusion time which compares favorably with REMICADE.
It has a low rate of infusion reactions and it has a patent life until 2024.
So we are confident that SIMPONI IV it’s going to become an important option for patients and it’s going to make SIMPONI the only anti-T and F which is going to be available at this point in subcutaneous and intravenous formulation.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from the line of Larry Biegelsen Wells Fargo.
Morning Larry.
Morning Louise and everyone.
Thanks for taking the question.
The 14.6% U.S.
pharma growth was obviously very strong.
Dominic could you parse out some of the timing related items and give us what you think the underlying growth was there of the U.S.
pharma business in the quarter? Yeah hi Larry.
I think there was some.
As Louise mentioned earlier in her script there was some inventory build in the quarter not overall significant to the entire growth in the quarter.
So we’re pleased with the quarterly results and I would say although somewhat impacted by these pipeline builds I wouldn’t consider them significant as a significant impact at all.
And then one more for you Dominic.
Just the healthcare utilization trends in the U.S.
and Europe for the med tech markets maybe if you could you know give us just an update on what you saw.
I know the data you typically use is based on the second quarter but how do you – what was your sense of how things trended in the third quarter? You’ve said that future growth is a good proxy for procedure growth.
What did you see there? And what are you hearing from the field? Just any color you can give us on procedure trends.
Thank you.
Sure Larry.
So let me deal with the U.S.
first.
So the statistics we have again are one quarter back so I don’t want to project for the third quarter until we actually see the data.
So with respect to second quarter we saw overall utilization trends continuing to increase in both hospital admissions hospital surgeries physician office visits.
They were all single digit increases however.
I don’t want to overstate the increase.
We did see orthopedic procedures grow at around the mid single digit range and that of course did translate into third quarter results for us as you saw with our orthopedics business and the joint reconstruction results.
So that seems to be stabilizing because we’ve now seen a couple quarters of these low rates of growth and of course they’re not exciting low rates of growth but they’re not declines which is what we saw for the previous nine quarters and more growth in orthopedic procedures in particular.
In Europe we do see in the MD&amp;D businesses some volume pressures particularly in Greece Spain Portugal and early signs also in Italy.
And just to give you a sense the Europe business for Johnson &amp; Johnson we reported 7% operational growth excluding Synthes that’s about 2% operational growth and within the MD&amp;D business excluding Synthes it was marginally declined in the quarter but only slightly.
So we are seeing some pressure as we expected to see early in the year in procedure volumes in Europe as well.
Thank you very much.
You’re welcome Next question please.
Your next question is from Rajeev Jashnani with UBS.
Hello? Hello.
Hi Rajeev.
Hello.
My question was on canagliflozin also and following up on the response to a previous question I was wondering if you can talk about cardiovascular safety and a little bit more detail given the LDL signal.
It seems possible the FDA could look fairly closely at the interim look from the canvass trial or perhaps a composite of the CV data across the Phase III.
Maybe you could talk about that and whether that data might actually show a cardiovascular benefit.
And if not just from a regulatory perspective would it make sense to approve a drug at this time without showing that cardiovascular benefit? Thanks.
Well it’s difficult for me to judge on what the regulators will do.
But based on the information and what we have submitted I think all the information is in favor of a good safety profile and a balanced cardiovascular risk.
The benefits we think significantly balance the cardiovascular risk and therefore I think we’ll have to see.
We anticipate we’ll have an advisory panel before the approval so more debate will happen there and I think our people are very well prepared to address this question.
And so I think it’s not appropriate for me to further go into this at this point.
Okay.
I did have a couple of other form of follow-ups if I could.
One on SIMPONI IV I was wondering if you would comment on whether there might be any proactive switch strategy with REMICADE that the company could take on and also with respect to ZYTIGA and the rollout of chemo naive I think you gave a sense for what the market opportunity may be there relative to chemo experience maybe to talk a little bit about what the existing use of ZYTIGA is in chemo naive patients and maybe some of the constraints that will get lifted from a payer perspective once you have formal approval.
Thanks.
Thanks for the question.
Regarding the ZYTIGA as I said we are waiting to see the FDA response in December.
Certainly we are very hopeful about that indication.
It’s going to significantly expand the patient population that is eligible for ZYTIGA treatment.
And today our estimates of use in the chemoknife population are about 30% in the U.S.
very low very low in Europe.
We are very pleased with the progress that ZYTIGA is having on the market.
We are seeing very strong demand trends through September and we continue to hear about the positive impact that it’s having in patients and the positive attitudes that physicians are having about ZYTIGA.
So we are very confident that if granted the approval in the pre-chemo population is going to further enhance the progression of ZYTIGA.
Which as I have said before it’s been the most successful oral oncology launch ever.
The other question can you repeat it Rajeev the first one that you were asking? Oh it’s with respect to SIMPONI and the IV formulation and whether there might be a strategy to switch patients from REMICADE I guess both in sort of on a global basis.
Thanks.
It’s a very good question.
It’s certainly for us to tell you what is going to be the strategy with SIMPONI particularly with regards to REMICADE.
REMICADE it’s a great option for patients.
Physicians are very satisfied with the use of REMICADE.
Today REMICADE as I mentioned has about 75% of the U.S.
infusible market so that reflects how satisfied physicians are with REMICADE.
At the same time we do believe that SIMPONI IV it’s going to offer some advantages like the reduced infusion time.
And when you are looking at the clinical data it’s going be a very strong clinical data package that we’re going to be able to present.
So we are confident that we’re going to have a great option there.
Now how they are going to be positioned vis-à-vis each other it’s certainly for us to speculate.
We are pleased that we’re going to have two options that’s what I can tell you.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from Jamie Ruben Goldman Sachs.
Hi Jamie.
To follow up on an earlier question regarding the company reshaping its portfolio.
I think I heard you say you would consider pruning businesses and would that include pruning entire divisions such as pharma or consumer? And then just a follow-up question on the pharma side.
With INCIVO I think Louise I heard you say that INCIVO represented about half the growth of I think the operational growth of infectious – of the infectious category.
If you can just confirm that.
And also what types of patients are coming into treatment and are you seeing warehousing of patients in Europe? And just as a bigger sort of strategy follow-up just to follow-up on what you’re doing to leverage TMZ 435.
Clearly you have partnerships in place with Gilead and Bristol-Myers but you don’t own the other regimens and your competitors Gilead Abbott and Bristol own the all-oral regimens.
I’m just wondering if you can pontificate a bit on whether it’s important.
Do you think can you achieve success in Hep C through partnerships or do you feel you have to own all the regimens? Thanks.
Okay.
Hi Jamie.
Let me take the first question about the portfolio and then turn it over of course to Paul on the Hep C question and other questions in the pharma business.
When I referred to pruning our portfolio for businesses that might not fit or require more investment than we think would justify based on the return I don’t view shifting out of pharma MD&amp;D or consumer as pruning.
That would be a pretty major decision.
And I could tell you we’re not considering that now and we feel very good about having a broad-based business in healthcare.
We think that’s the way to be best positioned for where healthcare is going globally and we believe having a broad portfolio is in fact the strongest set of cards we can have.
So I would say the pruning refers to businesses that are not contributing to growth or for which investments are not worthy.
And we always do that.
We have done it over our history and I would think we would continue to do it in the future as well.
But not a wholesale reshaping of Johnson &amp; Johnson.
That’s not under consideration now.
Paul? Or Joaquin.
I was going to address the question Jamie about the patients that are coming to therapy in Europe.
So the patients that are coming to therapy come from two sources: One patients that have advanced liver disease and the other one patients that have failed previous therapies.
So that contributed to have an initial bolus of patients that was conducive to the strong start that we had in INCIVO in Europe.
Are we seeing warehousing? Not at this point.
I mean at this point what we are seeing is what I would call a reduced urgency to treat based on the fact that this initial bonus of patients has already been treated.
But we are not seeing warehousing at this point.
As I described in my presentation we had some seasonality patterns and now we are starting to see a pickup in September and in October that we think is going to continue With regard to 435 I don’t have the holy grail answer but on every drug you develop one by one every drug needs preclinical safety and preclinical safety needs safety and efficacy.
And if you combine three drugs you need to have a massive amount of information and also luck to make sure the three drugs are both all safe and effective.
And I think at this moment drugs are developed one by one showing efficacy and safety getting approved by the FDA.
We’ll see a change probably in having combinations approved.
But I think we have a very solid foundation with a very well tolerated PI best in class PI once a day combinable with other drugs.
There is very limited limitation.
It’s a low dose.
And we have shown very strong efficacy data in Phase II and now Phase III of all enrolled.
So I think we are in a strong position to partner.
We have our own internal compounds which we are doing combination studies with that also.
We look for combinations with external partners.
And the future will tell.
And just to confirm I said it’s half the infectious disease worldwide operational growth that contributed.
Okay? Next question please.
Your next question comes from Derrick Sung Sanford Bernstein.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
I wanted to start out with a question on Consumer and then I’ll turn to pharma.
On Consumer I think I heard you mention that you’ve begun re-launching a number of products in OTC and that contributed to growth as well as some acquisition.
And I was wondering if you could separate out the two for this quarter.
But then just more broadly speaking if you could also give us a sense for where you are in that re-launch of your OTC resupply.
Are you a quarter of the way there? Halfway there? Kind of give us a sense for the progress.
Sure Derrick.
Thanks for the question.
So Louise talked about the fact that we re-launched some products this quarter and we acquired the rights for some Digestive Health products.
So generally speaking the growth is attributed about half to each.
Okay? So about half of the growth came from the re-launch of some products and half from the year-over-year comparison because of the new products we acquired in the Digestive Health space.
As far as our progress we continue to make progress with the consent decree requirements.
We have actually met all of the milestones that we’re required to meet at the end of each quarter so far.
We look forward to discussing with the FDA our progress in the near future.
And we still are moving forward with completing all the remediation efforts.
And as I said in previous discussions it’s just difficult to predict the speed and ramp at which the products can leave the plant until we complete the steps required and get the review and approvals required under the consent decrees.
But overall we’re making good progress and I’m pleased to say that some products have come back to the market already and more are planned in the month ahead and obviously throughout 2013.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then for Joaquin and Paul a number of your recently launched products are going to be facing some significant competition quite shortly the ones that come to mind are ZYTIGA facing competition from innovation you’ve got Tovacivativ the oral RA agent launching and potentially competing with your Immunology franchise and then while XARELTO looks to have picked up it’s going to be facing competition from Eloqueez shortly.
So I was wondering if you can kind of go through each of those products and talk about how you expect the competitive threat to impact your business and how you plan to respond to those competitive threats? Thanks for the question.
Let me start with ZYTIGA.
So ZYTIGA as I said before it’s been the most successful global oral oncology launch ever.
It’s really transformed the post-chemo patients.
When ZYTIGA was launched 40% of the post-chemo patients were treated now 75% of the post-chemo patients are treated.
That’s the reflection of the positive benefit that it has for the patients and the very positive efficient experience so far.
All our service indicate very high satisfaction with Zytiga by physicians and patients.
As I said before we have had a strong demand trends through October and certainly we have seen the launch of Extendi there it’s very early on.
Some of you have shown some data IMS prescription data for the first four weeks and it’s still very preliminary.
What that data shows is that it is 10% below launch align Zytiga.
Our service indicate that most of the use of Extendi it’s been used in patients that have progressed from Zytiga.
So I think that that makes sense.
And at the end of the day it’s good for patients to have more options in these circumstances.
We feel very confident of the trajectory that Zytiga is having.
We also feel very good about the coverage and patients programs that Zytiga has.
And I think that’s going to even play out more with the price that Ensaluata might have which is 28% higher than Zytiga.
We are very much looking forward to the approval on the pre-chemo population that would significantly expand the eligible patient pool.
So we feel good about how Zytiga is tracking and certainly looking forward to that approval.
Moving to Xarelto Xarelto has the broadest indication profile of the new oral anticoagulants and it’s the fastest growing new oral anticoagulant.
As I commented it has overtaken Pradaxa in new to brand sales in patients in all novel new to brand patients in atrial fibrillation.
It has also overtaken Pradaxa in new to brand share in cardiology and it’s approaching Warfarin in that context.
As a matter of fact our attitudes and usage survey of September shows that Xarelto is the preferred brand by cardiologists ahead of Pradaxa and Warfarin.
In other categories like in orthopods it has garnered very strong acceptance so we feel again very confident on the trajectory of Xarelto.
Obviously we are awaiting two important decisions from the FDA.
One is in deep vein thrombosis in pulmonary embolism but we are looking forward to the decision in November.
And then in March in ACS.
So with all that and supported by the strong access that Xarelto has as I mentioned 90% both in commercial and in life 70% of that is preferred.
We think that we are going to have a very good 2013 and on and that we are confident that Xarelto is going to perform good in the face of the competition.
Again I think it’s important that it’s going to be the one with the broadest indication profile.
Orals I think we discussed it before.
Look we need to see how the label for the orals play out on one side and also we need to see how the risk benefit profile of the orals also comes to fruition when it’s used in the practice.
It’s an interesting market.
We recognize that and as a matter of fact we have done the deal as we described before.
We believe that at this point the anti nifs will remain the standard of therapy.
Next question please.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Your next yes comes from Danielle Telsey with Leerink Swann.
Thank so much for taking the question.
Quick question Dominic for you on capital allocation.
Can you just give me a sense of what your strategy is going forward? Obviously on the dividend one of – another large cap med tech company increased their dividend by about 30% the stock reacted very favorably.
Just curious as to whether that could be in the cards for J&amp;J going forward and how you’re thinking about capital allocation.
Thanks.
Yeah sure Danielle.
Thanks for the question.
Well as we have said before the – our priority on capital allocation are first you know generate significant cash flows which we do.
And then use those cash flows appropriately and we generally view the use of the cash flow to towards the dividend as the first priority.
And with respect to that I know others in med tech have increased their dividend significantly but you probably know that med tech companies generally have been low dividend payers and pharma and consumer companies have been higher dividend payers.
So just to give you some perspective on that our blended competitive set so if you took a company that had the same kinds of businesses as J&amp;J has based on revenues the competitive set blended dividend payout ratio is around 34% and for Johnson &amp; Johnson our dividend payout ratio is 45%.
So we’re already at a healthy dividend payout ratio compared to our competitive set.
We then want to use the remaining cash that we generate to build our businesses and we will look for value-creating opportunities to do that.
Synthes is a good example of that.
And then of course as we’ve done in the past we would then allocate any remaining capital back to shareholders in the form of share repurchases as we’ve done in the past but we do view that as the third priority.
So that’s the way we think about it and I think the reference to the med tech sector is a good one but of course our business competes in three sectors.
So I think – just make sure you take a look at that when you compare our dividend payout ratio to those of others that we compete with.
Okay.
Great.
That’s totally fair.
And then on operating leverage going forward you came in – you showed a little bit more operating leverage on the SG&amp;A side than we were looking for this quarter.
Just curious how much of that might be attributable to more Synthes synergies than maybe folks have been looking for.
Any way to quantify that impact? Thanks so much guys Sure.
Well Danielle I don’t think that this particular quarter there’s much impact of Synthes synergies.
We just began the integration process.
We’re going to do that over some period of time.
Our priority will be first you know no disruption to our customers and then of course as we move forward with the integration we will take appropriate actions to create the synergies that are available to us.
But in this quarter no contribution really from that particular acquisition.
I think just good cost management and as I said in my comments operating – pre-tax operating margins can vary from year to year and quarter to quarter depending on stages of development in the R&amp;D cycle launches of products milestone payments in R&amp;D collaborations etcetera.
So we’ll certainly give you a good indication of what you can expect for 2013 when we meet then.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
With respect to everybody’s time we’ll take two more questions.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from Glen Novarro with RBC Capital Markets.
First question is on orthopedics.
Louise I think you mentioned that orthopedic pricing was down.
I wonder if you can clarify those comments and tell us what knee and hip pricing was down on both U.S.
and worldwide basis.
And then sticking on knees and hips one of the smaller players reported last week and kind of talked about excessive or more enhanced seasonality.
I wonder if you saw that in the U.S.
and Europe.
Then I had one follow-up on spine.
Okay.
So in terms of worldwide price we don’t do price and mix on a worldwide basis but worldwide price the U.S.
was down about 1% international was flat which left the worldwide down about 1%.
In terms of the U.S.
I can give you price and mix.
So in the U.S.
the hip price was down about 4% which is very similar to what we saw in the second quarter.
But we did see a nice positive tailwind from mix which actually brought us to about net-net about 2.5% negative price mix in the U.S.
In terms of knees in the U.S.
it’s down about 1% in price but we did see a nice tailwind again in terms of mix and net-net we’re up about 1% price mix in the U.S.
and that’s similar.
And then just on spine one of the smaller spine players reported earlier pre-announced earlier and highlighted more payer pushback.
And so we’ve been hearing about payer pushback for years.
But I’m wondering in the quarter if you saw enhanced or increased payer pushback.
Thanks We did not see that in our business though the payers have been asking for evidence in the spine world for many many years.
And I think that that’s just a continued trend.
Okay.
Thank you.
And Glenn this is Dominic I think pricing in the U.S.
for spine where you see that did not accelerate in the third quarter.
It’s been about the same as it was negative mid-single-digit price in spine in the U.S.
which is what we saw in previous quarters.
So the takeaway is pricing is still down but stable and payer pushback no big change that we’ve seen recently? No I mean you’re continuing to get pushback on it but that’s a continuing trend.
Okay? Okay.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Your next question comes with Matt Miksic with Piper Jaffray.
That’s me actually.
Sorry.
Can you hear me okay? Yes we can.
I just want to be clear.
That last comment was not me.
Thank you so much for squeezing me in.
One follow-up on pharma.
I appreciate all the color on the call.
I guess this is for Joaquin and Paul I don’t know Dominic if you may want to weigh in on this.
Just taking a step back you made some great progress on the pharma pipeline as you talked about.
Looking at the R&amp;D investments as you continue to expand indications for many of your key franchises how should we think about the leverage and margin trends there for your pharma business as you roll these things out? It is sort of an intermediate long-term question but would love to get your sense and any color on how we should think about operating margin trends for that division maybe as they compare to historical trends.
And then I have one follow-up.
Okay.
Matt good question.
One thing I’ll say about pharma R&amp;D investment is it as you probably know at the higher end of the industry range for R&amp;D investment.
You know obviously when I’m talking about a medians or above the median.
The more successful companies do invest more in R&amp;D and from my perspective as a CFO if our internal development and the licensing strategy that the pharmaceutical team continues to do well with continues into the future we’re happy to be spending above-industry norms for R&amp;D investment because that is unlike many of our competitors this is a very capital efficient way of developing the pharma business right? Rather than a large capital infusion in the business.
We’re talking about a continual level of R&amp;D investment that has proven as Paul has pointed out to have a success rate that is above the industry norm.
So I think that that should continue and we’ve been the beneficiaries of it so far and I think as long as we continue to see that as worthwhile investment and a strategy that will continue into the future we should continue to see it be above industry norms.
As far as the overall operating margins for the second sector I’m not going to comment on specific operating margins overall for one sector because as you know and we have talked about this many times we manage the business of Johnson &amp; Johnson holistically and we make decisions across each business depending on the needs and the opportunities of each business.
So we’ll provide more color commentary on the overall operating margins when we next meet in January.
Fair enough.
And then just one follow-up on the device side.
It would be helpful if you can expand as you get through the Synthes integration maybe how your efforts there are trending relative to your expectations in terms of – in terms of maintaining the continuity of that business your efforts to retain elements of that business both on the trauma and the spine side.
And you mentioned in Europe one of the elements I think you threw into one of the businesses there was a competitive dynamic in the quarter.
If you could maybe highlight where that was and the nature of that pressure that would be very helpful as well.
Louise do you want to take that? Okay.
So the competitive dynamic in hips and knees were actually some lower-cost competition.
So Dominic did you want to -? Sure.
On the Synthes integration it’s early.
We closed the deal in mid-June as I said our first priority is no disruption to customers.
But the updates that we’re getting tell us that things are moving along just fine.
We’re integrating obviously the spine businesses because they’re the two businesses that we had that were similar.
So that’s where the bulk of the integration is occurring.
And so far so good.
We’re going to take this carefully.
We’re going to be measured in the way we do this so that there’s very little disruption if any and we’re confident that’s the right way to do it for the long term.
The leaders are intact.
We’re very pleased to have the Synthes leadership team join Johnson &amp; Johnson and as you all know Michelle Orzinger the previous CEO of Synthes now leads our entire combined orthopedics business.
And on November 1st you’ll get to hear more from Michelle and I’m sure he’ll give you some more color commentary on the how the accretion is going but so far we’re pleased So some closing remarks from Dominic? Sure.
Thanks Louise.
And I also want to take a moment to thank Paul and Joaquin for joining us this morning and giving us an update on the exciting development in the pharmaceutical pipeline and in our pharmaceutical business.
I look forward to speaking to you again on November 1st at our MD&amp;D business review and then again in January early mid January when we review our fourth quarter and full-year results.
So thank you for your time this morning and have a great day Thank you.
This does conclude today’s Johnson &amp; Johnson Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Johnson &amp; Johnson First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be able to listen-only until the question and answer session of the conference.
This call is being recorded.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the conference over to Johnson &amp; Johnson.
You may begin.
Good morning and welcome.
I’m Louise Mehrotra Vice President of Investor Relations for Johnson &amp; Johnson and it is my pleasure this morning to review our business results for the first quarter of 2013.
Joining me on the call today is Dominic Caruso Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
A few logistics before we get into the details.
This review is being made available to a broader audience via webcast accessible through the Investor Relations’ section of the Johnson &amp; Johnson website.
I’ll begin by briefly reviewing highlights of the first quarter for the corporation and highlights for our three business segments.
Following my remarks Dominic will provide some additional commentary on the financial results and guidance for 2013.
We will then open the call to your questions.
We expect the call to last approximately 1 hour.
Included with the press release that was issued earlier this morning is the schedule of sales for key products and/or businesses to facilitate updating your model.
These schedules are available on the Johnson &amp; Johnson website as is the press release.
Before I get into the results let me remind you that some of the statements made during this review may be considered forward-looking statements.
The 10-K for the fiscal year 2012 identifies certain factors that could cause the company’s actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements made today.
The company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.
The 10-K is available through the company or online.
During the review non-GAAP financial measures are used to provide information pertinent to ongoing business performance.
These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered replacements for GAAP results.
Tables reconciling these measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are available in the press release and on the Investor Relations’ section of the Johnson &amp; Johnson website at investor.jnj.com.
Now I would like to review our results for the first quarter of 2013.
If you would refer to your copy of the press release let's begin with the schedule titled supplementary sales data by geographic area.
Worldwide sales to customers were $17.5 billion for the first quarter of 2013 up 8.5% as compared to the first quarter of 2012.
On an operational basis sales were up 9.8% and currency had a negative impact of 1.3%.
The acquisition of Synthes was completed in the second quarter of 2012.
In the current quarter the acquisition net of the impact of the divestiture of the legacy DePuy trauma business contributed 5.7% to the worldwide operational sales growth.
In the U.S.
sales were up 11.2%.
In regions outside the U.S.
our operational growth was 8.7% while the effect of currency exchange rates negatively impacted our reported results by 2.4 points.
The Asia Pacific/Africa region grew 11.8% operationally while the western hemisphere excluding the U.S.
grew by 9.1% operationally.
Europe grew 6.2% on an operational basis.
The success of new product launches and Synthes sales made strong contributions to the results in all regions.
If you’ll now turn to the consolidated statements of earnings.
Net earnings were $3.5 billion compared to $3.9 billion in the same period in 2012.
Earnings per share were $1.22 versus $1.41 a year ago.
Please direct your attention to the box section with the schedule where we have provided earnings adjusted to exclude special items.
As referenced in the accompanying table of non-GAAP measures 2013 first quarter net earnings were adjusted to exclude special items primarily related to an increase in the litigation accrual as well as integration and transaction costs related to the acquisition of Synthes Inc.
First quarter 2012 net earnings included a gain related to an after-tax special item of $106 million as outlined in the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures.
Excluding these special items for both periods net earnings for the current quarter were $4.1 billion and diluted earnings per share were $1.44 representing increases of 8.0% and 5.1% respectively as compared to the same period in 2012.
I would now like to make some additional comments relative to the component leading to earnings before we move on to the segment highlights.
For the first quarter of 2013 cost of goods sold at 31.7% was up 130 basis points from the same period last year primarily due to an inventory step up charge related to the Synthes acquisition.
Excluding the inventory step up charge which has been treated as a special item cost of goods sold increased 50 basis points versus the same period last year.
Incremental amortization expense related to Synthes of approximately $140 million negatively impacted cost of goods sold by 80 basis points.
Also impacting cost of goods sold were the ongoing remediation work in our OTC business and the medical devices excise tax.
Positive mix and cost reduction efforts partially offset these items.
First quarter selling marketing and administrative expenses at 29.8% of sales were down 130 basis points due to tightening up expenditures as well as cost containment initiatives across many of our businesses.
Our investment in research and development as a percent of sales was 10.2% consistent with our 2012 results.
Interest expense net of interest income of $104 million was down $26 million versus the first quarter of 2012 due to a lower average debt level.
Other expense net of other income was $515 million in the first quarter of 2013 compared to $611 million of other income net of other expense in the same period last year.
excluding special items other income net of other expense of $83 million was $411 million less than 2012 due primarily to lower gains from divestitures.
Excluding special items the effective tax rate of 19% in the first quarter of 2013 compared to 22.8% in the same period last year.
Dominic will provide commentary on taxes in his remarks.
Turning now to business segment highlights please refer to the supplementary sales schedule highlighting key products or businesses for the first quarter of 2013.
I’ll begin with the consumer segment.
Worldwide Consumer segments sales for the first quarter of 2013 of $3.7 billion increased 2.2% as compared to the same period last year.
On an operational basis sales increased 3.3% while the impact of currency was negative 1.1%.
U.S sales were up 2.4% while international sales grew 3.8% on an operational basis.
Excluding the impact of divestitures net of acquisitions operational growth was approximately 4.3%.
Baby care products increased on an operational basis by 7% when compared to the first quarter of 2012 primarily due to wipes hair care cleansers and powders.
Sales in the oral care business increased 5.1% operationally.
Results were driven by strong sales of LISTERINE due to the continued success of new product launches partially offset by the impact of the divestiture of the manual toothbrushes in the U.S.
For the first quarter of 2013 sales for OTC pharmaceuticals and nutritionals increased 7.6% on an operational basis compared to the same period in 2012 with U.S sales up 14.4% and sales outside the U.S up 3.9% on an operational basis.
The strong sales results in the U.S were driven by analgesics and upper respiratory products due to progress in returning to a reliable supply of products to the marketplace and a strong flu season.
Strong growth of analgesics drove results outside the U.S.
Our skin care business was flat on an operational basis in the first quarter of 2013.
Strong results for NEUTROGENA were offset by the impact of divestiture the initial stocking related to new product launches last year and competitive pressure.
Women's health grew 0.8% on an operational basis due to strong growth in liners offset by lower sales of KY products.
Wound Care/Other sales decreased 10% on an operational basis with the sales decline in the U.S.
of 13.3% and outside the U.S.
operational sales were down 6.1% due to competitive pressures and the impact of divestiture.
That completes our review of the consumer segment and I will now review highlights for our pharmaceutical segment.
Worldwide net sales for the first quarter of $6.8 billion increased 10.4% versus the same period last year.
On an operational basis sales increased 11.4% with the negative currency impact of 1 point.
Sales in the U.S.
increased 14.7% while sales outside the U.S.
increased on an operational basis by 8.1%.
U.S.
results included a positive adjustment to previous estimates for managed Medicaid rebates under the Affordable Care Act related to new data received from the states.
Excluding this item both U.S.
sales and worldwide sales were up approximately 8% operationally.
The most significant impacts from the adjustment were in immunology neuroscience and PROCRIT.
Now reviewing sales for major therapeutic areas.
Immunology products grew 16.8% operationally with sales in the U.S.
up 12.8%.
Excluding the adjustment U.S.
immunology growth was approximately 6.5% with REMICADE excluding export sales up approximately 4%.
SIMPONI up approximately 22% and STELARA up approximately 57%.
Results were driven by strong market growth across the major products complemented by increased market share for STELARA.
With the strength of our portfolio we continue to be the U.S.
market leader in immunology.
REMICADE exports sales declined 7.7% due primarily to a change in inventory levels.
Immunology sales outside the U.S.
increased by 30.1% operationally due to strong results for both SIMPONI and STELARA.
SIMPONI's strong growth was due to the increased shipments to our distribution partner and very strong growth in Japan.
STELARA made significant contributions due primarily to market share gains complemented by strong market growth in the major regions.
Sales of infectious disease products increased 8.6% on an operational basis.
INCIVO a treatment for hepatitis C grew 24.9% on an operational basis due to the success of the continued rollout primarily in Latin America.
Please note for your models 2012 sales by quarter for both INCIVO and XARELTO have been included in the sales by major product schedule.
Continued momentum in market share growth of PREZISTA made notable contributions to the results as to the combined sales of COMPLERA and EDURANT.
Neuroscience product sales increased 7.7% on an operational basis with U.S.
growth at 10.7%.
Excluding the managed Medicaid adjustment which is primarily related to TOPAMAX and CONCERTA U.S.
sales declined approximately 2% impacted by generic competition primarily for CONCERTA and DURAGESIC.
The long-acting injectable antipsychotics RISPERDAL CONSTA and INVEGA SUSTENNA or Xeplion achieved operational growth of nearly 20% due to an increase in combined market share.
INVEGA achieved double-digit operational growth of 11.1% due to strong operational growth outside the U.S.
primarily driven by increased market share in Japan.
Sales of oncology products increased 35% on an operational basis due to the very strong results for ZYTIGA.
ZYTIGA is now approved to treat both chemo-refractory and chemo naïve metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer.
In the quarter ZYTIGA achieved operational sales growth of over 70% with U.S.
sales growing 61% due to a very strong market growth of over 20% and increased market share in the combined metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer market.
ZYTIGA has captured 28% of that market and is up 1.5 points sequentially.
Operational sales outside the U.S.
grew 83.4% versus first quarter 2012 and on a sequential basis were up over 20%.
ZYTIGA is approved in more than 75 countries.
VELCADE is a treatment for multiple myeloma.
Sales increased 2.5% on an operational basis.
As I mentioned last quarter the timing of tender business negatively impacted the growth rate in the first quarter of 2013.
Excluding the timing of the tender business operational growth was over 20%.
Strong performance in patient share in the frontline setting and the launch of the subcutaneous version continues to drive sales growth.
Other oncology increased primarily due to Doxil/Caelyx.
Regarding Doxil in the U.S Johnson is releasing additional Doxil produced by an alternate manufacturing approach under the regulatory discretion of the U.S FDA.
The longer term solution for Doxil/Caelyx production involving transitioning manufacturing to additional suppliers continues to meet expected milestones.
Other pharmaceutical products declined 1.7% on an operational basis with lower sales for Eprex and Pariet related primarily to generic competition.
PROCRIT results were impacted by the managed Medicaid adjustment.
Excluding this item PROCRIT sales declined approximately 14% due primarily to a market decline.
Positively impacting results Xarelto sales grew over 60% on a sequential basis capturing 38% of the new to brand scripts in cardiology.
Total prescription share in the broader anticoagulant market grew 1.6 points on a sequential basis to 5.6%.
as an update on the status of the acute coronary syndrome indication for XARELTO the FDA issued a second complete response letter.
Johnson is continuing to work with the FDA to address their questions.
That completes a review of the pharmaceutical segment.
I’ll now review the medical devices and diagnostic segment results.
Worldwide Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment sales of $7.1 billion grew 11.9% operationally as compared to the same period in 2012.
Currency had a negative impact of 1.7% resulting in a total sales increase of 10.2%.
Sales excluding the net impact of Synthes were down 2.4% on an operational sales with U.S sales down 5.2% and sales outside the U.S down 0.2% on an operational basis.
Divestitures and exit from certain businesses drove approximately half the worldwide operational decline in the quarter.
Market dynamics including lower distributor inventories pricing pressures as well as the impact of less selling days particularly in our orthopedics business negatively impacted operational growth by approximately 2 points.
I will provide more commentary on these factors in the franchise reviews.
Now turning to the MD&amp;D business starting with cardiovascular care.
Cardiovascular care sales were up 8.5% operationally with U.S.
up 12.5% and sales outside the U.S.
up 6.2% operationally.
Excluding the impact of drug eluting stents worldwide sales were up nearly 11% on an operational basis due to strong results for Biosense Webster's and endovascular products.
Biosense Webster our electrophysiology business achieved worldwide operational sales growth of nearly 12% in the quarter driven by market share growth.
The expansion of the install base of the CARTO 3 system and the success of catheter launches made strong contributions to the results.
Strong double digit growth for endovascular products were driven by the re-launch of the S.M.A.R.T.
vascular stent system and the EXOSEAL Vascular Closure Device.
The diabetes care business operational sales declined 9.8% in the first quarter of 2013 with U.S business down 19.6% due to the impact of the initial stocking related to new product launches last year lower price and competitive pressures including private label.
The business outside the U.S.
grew 0.9% operationally with strong sales in emerging markets largely offset by lower sales in many of the developed markets.
operational sales grew approximately 2% with U.S.
growth of approximately 8% and growth outside the U.S.
down approximately 3% operationally.
Results in the U.S were driven by strong growth in clinical labs and donor screening.
Infection prevention declined 10.5% on an operational basis with sales in the U.S.
down 26.7%.
Last year in the U.S.
a customer program to upgrade systems to STERRAD solutions ended in the first quarter impacting the timing of capital purchases for the balance of the year in 2012.
Excluding capital sales U.S.
results declined approximately 3.5% in the quarter due primarily to timing of purchases for consumables.
Outside the U.S.
operational growth of 4.1% was driven by both consumables and capital items sales.
Orthopedic sales were up 60.7% on an operational basis when compared to the same period in 2012.
Excluding the net impact of Synthes and the divestiture of certain neurosurgical instruments operational sales were flat with the U.S.
flat and outside the U.S.
down approximately 1% operationally.
Worldwide sales were impacted by approximately 1.5 less selling days in the quarter.
Operationally hips were 2% worldwide driven by 5% growth in the U.S.
due to strong results in primary stem platform sales partially offset by continued pricing pressure.
Hips outside the U.S.
were flat on an operational basis with strong results in emerging markets offset by slower sales in the developed markets.
Knees worldwide declined 1% on an operational basis with U.S.
up 1% driven by fixed bearing and revision platforms offset by lower sales of rotating platforms.
Sales outside the U.S.
were down 2% with lower sales of low contact stress or LCS and mobile bearing technology.
Including the Synthes business in both periods and excluding the divested DePuy trauma business in both periods trauma grew approximately 2% on an operational basis with similar results both in and outside the U.S.
The fourth quarter supply disruption in the U.S.
was substantially remedied late in the first quarter.
Including the Synthes business in both periods worldwide spine was down 7% on an operational basis with the U.S.
down approximately 10% impacted by the continued softness as well as the restructuring of the commercial sales organization.
Outside the U.S.
sales were down approximately 3% operationally.
Specialty surgery operational growth was 1% in the first quarter of 2013.
U.S.
sales were down 2.4% and sales outside the U.S.
were up 4.7% on an operational basis.
Strong sales of energy products outside the U.S.
and solid results for bio-surgical products were substantially offset by lower sales of mental products due to market and pricing pressure.
Surgical care worldwide sales were down 5.4% on an operational basis with the U.S.
10.5% and sales outside the U.S.
down 2.4% operationally.
Negatively impacting growth were divestitures and business exits as well as other factors such as reduction in inventory levels.
Excluding these items the underlying business was down approximately 1.5 points.
Competitive and pricing dynamics impacted sales in the quarter.
Rounding up the review of the medical devices and diagnostics segment our vision care business achieved operational sales growth of 1.6% in the first quarter compared to the same period last year with the similar results both in and outside the U.S.
Growth was driven by daily lenses and astigmatism lenses partially offset by lower sales of reusable lenses.
That completes highlights for the medical devices and diagnostics segment and concludes the segment highlights for Johnson &amp; Johnson's first quarter of 2013.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Dominic Caruso.
Dominic? Thank you Louise and good morning everyone.
I would like to start by saying that our thoughts and prayers are with the families and victims of the tragic event in Boston yesterday.
Now turning to the business of this call.
I would like to provide some additional comments about our first quarter results highlight some of our recent business and pipeline developments and then provide guidance for you to consider in refining your models for 2013.
I am pleased that we are off to a good start in 2013 with solid results in the first quarter.
We continued delivering on our three near term priorities building on the momentum in our pharmaceuticals business integrating Synthes and returning a reliable supply of OTC products for the marketplace.
I would like to make a few comments on the state of the healthcare market.
While we believe that overall healthcare utilization trends continues to show signs of stabilization the modest positive increases we saw in the fourth quarter do not appear to have persisted.
And at this point we are not anticipating a meaningful market acceleration this year.
Adapting to these changes in the healthcare environment is important and our leaders continue to apply financial discipline for operations while investing in key growth opportunities.
Our growth strategies of creating value for innovation global reach with a local focus excellence in execution and leading with a purpose are begin executed well across our businesses as you will see in the review of our highlights for the first quarter.
The breadth of our business which provides balance and consistency to our overall performance as well as the extraordinary achievements and dedication of our people in all of our locations around the world positions us well to sustain and drive growth in this increasingly dynamic global healthcare market.
Let’s review some highlights for the Q1 results.
We had a solid start to the year and are pleased to report earnings per share of %1.44 excluding special items.
This result was driven by operational sales growth from the first quarter of 9.8% versus the prior year which was led by the success of many of our recently launched pharmaceutical products as well as the addition of Synthes to our orthopedics business.
As we announced in February our first quarter earnings were impacted by the Venezuelan government’s decision to devalue its currency for which we incurred a charge of approximately $100 million net income and which resulted in a $0.04 negative impact to earnings per share.
This charge is related to the re-measurement of our local balance sheet at the date of the devaluation.
We did not treat this charge as a special item and I’m pleased that this negative impact to earnings was more than offset by strong operating performance in the first quarter.
As you know the federal R&amp;D tax credit was renewed by congress in January under the American Taxpayer Relief Act for both 2012 and 2013 and during the first quarter we recorded the full year impact of the 2012 effect.
We recorded special items in the first quarter of approximately $600 million on an after tax basis that consisted of charges primarily for litigation expense accruals related to various legal matters and as expected continued costs associated with the global integration of Synthes.
Along with the charge for in process research and development these special items negatively impacted our first quarter results by $0.23 per share.
Excluding these special items our adjusted earnings per share of $1.44 for the quarter exceeded the mean of the analyst estimates of $1.40 as published by First Call.
Let’s look at sales performance by segment.
In pharmaceuticals we reported operational sales growth in the quarter of approximately 11.4% fueled by the continued strong performance of long established brands including REMICADE PREZISTA STELARA and INVEGA SUSTENNA and more recently launched products such as ZYTIGA and XARELTO which are continuing to grow share even with new competitors entering their markets largely due to the strength of the clinical profiles of these medicines themselves and the strong commercialization capabilities in our pharmaceuticals business.
In MD&amp;D sales increased 11.9% operationally versus the prior year.
this included the impact of Synthes net of the divestiture of the legacy DePuy trauma business which contributed 14% growth.
In addition to Synthes Biosense Webster's electrophysiology devices and Cordis' endovascular products in our Cardiovascular Care business coupled with Vision Care's ACUVUE TRUEYE and 1-Day ACUVUE MOIST disposable contact lenses also contributed to our growth.
Strategic divestitures and exits from certain businesses have impacted the growth in our MD&amp;D segment this quarter as did key market dynamics such as the initial implementation of the Medicare competitive bidding legislation in diabetes significant decreases in the women’s health market and reductions in U.S distributor inventory levels as well as less selling days particularly in orthopedics as Louise mentioned.
In our consumer business of particular note this quarter is the growth in our over the counter medicines businesses as we continued to make progress in returning a reliable supply of high quality products to consumers.
In the quarter we saw operational sales increase of 3.3% driven by the positive contribution of TYLENOL and MOTRIN analgesics upper respiratory over-the-counter medications baby care products LISTERINE mouthwash and our NEUTROGENA skin care products.
Divestitures impacted the growth in this segment by 1%.
I’d like to provide an update on exciting developments in our pipeline of new products and I’ll start with developments in our pharmaceuticals business.
We were extremely pleased to have received FDA approval for INVOKANA the first in a new class of SGLT2 inhibitors for type 2 diabetes to be available in the United States.
It’s also the first pharmaceutical product for Johnson &amp; Johnson in this category and will be a core component of our comprehensive platform for the management of diabetes.
As such our diabetes care business will partner with our pharmaceuticals business to directly sell INVOKANA to healthcare professionals treating patients with diabetes.
We’re also expecting a decision from the European Medicines Agency on our application for INVOKANA later this year and in order to expand its use in March we submitted a marketing authorization application to European Medicines Agency seeking approval for a fixed dose therapy that combines INVOKANA and immediate release metformin.
You will recall that we filed an application for this combination with the FDA in December.
In the quarter simeprevir or TMC435 was filed for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C in both Japan and the U.S.
and an EU filing is expected in the second quarter.
In addition the FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy Designations for the investigational oral agent ibrutinib as a monotherapy for three B-cell malignancies.
We continue to anticipate filing for the mantle cell lymphoma indication by the end of the year.
This designation is intended to expedite the development and review time for potential new medicines that treat serious or life threatening diseases or conditions based on preliminary clinical evidence.
Turning to our MD&amp;D businesses Ethicon Endo-Surgery earned 510(k) clearances from the U.S.
FDA for two products in the ENSEAL G2 line the cordless tissue sealer a first of its kind product that includes a power generator and the ENSEAL G2 articulating tissue sealer device which makes it easier for surgeons to seal some vessels and control bleeding.
Supporting our strategy to further our position in the endovascular market Cordis completed its acquisition of Flexible Stenting Solutions a leading developer of innovative flexible peripheral arterial venous and biliary stents.
And recently our diabetes care business submitted a premarket approval application for the FDA for the Animas Vibe insulin pump and continuous glucose monitoring system.
This next generation insulin pump incorporates Animas' color screen and waterproof technology and a Dexcom G4 Platinum sensor which enables people with diabetes to make more informed decisions to help control their disease.
In our consumer business during the quarter Johnson &amp; Johnson China Investment completed the acquisition of Shanghai Elsker Mother &amp; Baby Co.
Ltd a well-regarded baby care company in China known for its position in the naturals segment.
This is in line with our growth strategy of driving global growth with products intended for use in specific local markets.
Our ability to continue to advance our pipeline for new products in all three of our segments supports our confidence in the continued growth of our business.
Now let me provide some guidance for you to consider as you refine your models for 2013.
Let me begin with a discussion of cash and interest income and expense.
At the end of the quarter we had approximately $6 billion of net cash.
This consists of approximately $22 billion of cash and marketable securities and $16 billion of debt.
For purposes of your models assuming no major acquisitions I suggest you considering modeling net interest expense between $450 million and $500 million consistent with our previous guidance.
Turing to other income and expense.
As a reminder this is the account where we record royalty income as well as gains and losses arising from such items such as litigation investments by our development corporation and other divestiture asset sales and write-offs.
This account also includes the impact of the Venezuelan government's decision to devalue its currency.
This account is difficult to forecast but we would be comfortable with your models for 2013 reflecting other income and expense as a net gain excluding special items ranging from approximately $750 million to $850 million which is consistent with our previous guidance.
And now a word on taxes.
The first quarter reflects the full year impact of the 2012 R&amp;D tax credit and for the first quarter of 2013 the company's effective tax rate excluding special items was 19%.
We suggest that you model our effective tax rate for the full year of 2013 at approximately 20% consistent with our previous guidance.
As always we will continue to pursue opportunities in this area to improve upon this rate during the remainder of the year.
Now turning to sales and earnings.
We would be comfortable with your models reflecting an operational sales increase on a constant currency basis of between approximately 5.7% and 6.7% for the year which is higher than our previous guidance.
This would results in estimated sales for 2013 on a constant currency basis of approximately $71.1 billion to $71.7 billion.
While we’re not predicting the impact of currency movements to give you an idea of the potential impact of currency exchange rates for the remainder of 2013 or to stay where they were as of last week as an example with the Euro at approximately $1.31 then our sales growth rate would be negatively impacted by approximately 1% for the year.
thus under this scenario we would expect reported sales growth to be between approximately 4.7% and 5.7% for the year for an expected level of reported sales of approximately between $70.4 billion and $71.1 billion which is lower than our prior guidance due exclusively to the weakening of several currency exchange rates versus the U.S dollar.
Turning to earnings as a reminder our guidance reflects the following major assumptions.
The implementation of the Medical Device Excise Tax.
This has an incremental negative impact to earnings per share of approximately $0.05 and is recorded in cost of goods sold throughout the year.
We will have a full year impact of amortization related to Synthes of approximately $550 million on a pretax basis or an incremental half year negative impact to earnings per share of approximately $0.06.
Our estimated 2013 earnings include total amortization expense for the enterprise of approximately $1.4 billion on a pretax basis.
Considering these factors that I just noted as well as the early strength we saw in our operating results for the first quarter we suggest you consider full year of 2013 EPS estimates excluding the impact of special items of between $5.33 and $5.43 per share on an operational basis or a growth rate of between 4.5% and 6.5% on a constant currency basis which is higher than our previous guidance.
We are not predicting the impact of currency movements but to give you an idea of the potential impact on earnings per share if currency exchange rates for all of 2013 were to remain where they were at the end of last week then our reported EPS excluding special items would be positively impacted by approximately $0.02 per share or $0.03 lower than the $0.05 positive impact we had previously estimated in our guidance due to exchange rate fluctuations.
We therefore suggest that you model our reported earnings per share excluding special items in a range between $5.35 and $5.45 per share or a growth rate of between 5% and 7% resulting in our reported EPS guidance being consistent with our previous reported EPS guidance reflecting some stronger operational earnings offset by the negative impact of weaker currency exchange rates.
Overall as you update your models for the guidance I just provided you should see that pretax operating profits are expected to improve at a slightly better rate than we had previously contemplated when we provided guidance back in January.
Now Louise back to you for the question-and-answer session.
Thank you Dominic.
Stephanie can you please give instructions for the Q&amp;A session? (Operator instructions).
And your first question is from the line of Matthew Dodds with Citigroup.
A couple of quick questions.
First on the managed Medicaid how far back does that accrual go and why in Q1? Because you didn’t highlight it in the fourth quarter call.
Sure Matt.
Good question.
The Affordable Care Act was instituted in 2010 in March of 2010 and it’s only recently in the first quarter that we received sufficient information from the various states to true up the estimates we had made leading from the time that legislation was passed till now.
So hopefully that answers your question.
It does.
And then one more quick one for you Dominic.
On foreign exchange it’s now up to a negative 100 basis points on the topline but it’s positive $0.02 in the bottom.
Usually does it work that way with you? How come it’s a positive on the earnings this time? Well the major swing currencies Matt that are negatively impacting sales are primarily currencies where although there may be significant sales growth there is lesser earnings impact.
So for example the Yen has dramatically weakened.
However the amount of money we earn in that currency is different than the level of sales in that currency or as the euro which is where most of the profitability of the company reside ex-U.S.
has not been impacted as greatly as some of the currencies like Yen.
So there is a different weighting factor of the currency's impact on sales as there is on earnings.
Your next question is from Larry Biegelsen with Wells Fargo.
Dominic could you just help us with the outlook on the diabetes blood glucose monitoring business.
You know the Medicare cuts start I think in July 2013 so I assume the U.S.
growth will probably get worse before it gets better.
Maybe if you can just help us with some metrics to understand how to forecast that business given what's going on there.
And maybe a little bit about your strategy to address these issues and then I had one follow-up.
Sure Larry.
Great questions.
I know you have all been following the recent legislation it provides a pretty dramatic reduction in pricing for diabetes test strips.
Of course that legislation pertains to the Medicare portion of the business.
I think roughly the Medicare portion of the business for us is in the 20% to 25% range.
So it's not obviously the entire business.
And then in terms of the strategy going forward of course you know we just -- I just described earlier that we were pleased to have filed an application for a new blood glucose monitoring system the continuous glucose monitoring system with the Dexcom technology.
So I think it's important that we continue to innovate where we have the ability to provide patients and healthcare professionals with the tools to better manage their diabetes care.
I think that will always be an important part of what we continue to do although we will have to manage through the pricing impacts that pertain to the Medicare portion of our business and that I just noted.
And then one more for you.
You know more and more of your peers are excluding amortization from non-GAAP earnings.
You mentioned  I think $1.4 billion and that by our math that potentially reduces your stock price by about $6.
Do you think that impacts your valuation? Is that something that you may be willing to revisit in the future excluding it from your non-GAAP earnings? Thanks.
Right.
Larry so we are certainly aware of that.
I think that if it was just as easy if it was that easy for me to just change our earnings by excluding the amortization and our stock would go up $6 I guess we would do that in a heartbeat.
But we think our company is very well followed understood and we try to be as transparent as possible with our earnings guidance.
And hopefully the data we give you provides you all enough data to model the company appropriately.
Your next question is from Mike Weinstein JPMorgan.
I guess the one piece in the guidance that surprised me Dominic was what Matt was touching on which is the FX swing.
So you had 130 basis points swing on the top line versus your initial guidance in the fourth quarter but that’s only $0.03 impact to your EPS guidance for the year.
That’s purely just because of the differentials and profits or is that related more to either your transfer pricing or some hedges you may have there that we are just not aware of? Well it's primarily related to the reasons I mentioned.
You know currencies like the Yen have dramatically decreased but a currency like the euro for example is only off two or three pennies from our previous guidance and most of our ex-U.S.
earnings are quite frankly in the euro zone.
So the impact to earnings is not as pronounced as the overall basket of currency would indicate.
I wanted to focus on some of your commentary around utilization and your medical device end markets.
Obviously I understood you were trying to signal that you don’t see a pick up in some of your device end markets.
And you also made comments about your kind of the competitive positioning in a couple of them.
So maybe you could spend a minute more maybe on both.
And I want to focus on two areas one is general surgery and the second is orthopedic.
So can you just give us more of a sense of both how you are feeling about those end markets and competitively particularly on the general surgery side where you may be seeing some impact.
Mike with respect to utilization we were trying to follow what's happening in the market place and obviously we have the good vantage point from where we stand with the broad-based business that we have but we did not see any meaningful continuation of the upswing that we saw although it was modest in the fourth quarter.
We didn’t see that persist into the first quarter and we also know that certain hospitals are already predicting lower levels of procedure volume than they had previously indicated.
We just saw something this morning from HCA for example that talked about the level of procedure volume that they see which is quite frankly lower than the level they had predicted when they announced their guidance for 2013.
So overall I think that the market is probably seeing some seasonality quite frankly.
So if I comment on orthopedics first we did in fact see an uptick in the orthopedics market overall and we did particularly well in the fourth quarter.
We did not see that persist in the first quarter of 2013 although there is some noise there of course because then you have less selling days as Louise pointed out.
So if you neutralize for that it’s about equal in terms of the overall impact to our business first quarter versus fourth quarter.
So no great acceleration but no deceleration per se in orthopedics just really the selling days impact is what is dramatically impacting that business.
For surgery there’s a number of factors that we mentioned.
For example lowering levels of inventory by distributors some pricing impact and we did see some competitive inroads in general surgery and obviously our response to that is to continue to improve with the offering of products that we have like the ENSEAL product that I just described were recently produced.
So I’d say more competitive pressures in surgery less so in orthopedics if you were distinguishing those two particular markets.
Your next question is from Kristen Stewart Deutsche Bank Just going back to the guidance and I guess increasing the constant currency sales guidance I just want to be clear on what gives you I guess the comfort that you can raise it at this stage of the year especially given or you just described as being generally weak I guess within the medical device business and it sounds like your expectations for utilization in that category or more moderate relative to what you saw entering the year.
Sure Kristen.
So that’s a good observation obviously but as you know we have a broad based business.
So even though we may see some weakness in the MD&amp;D market we’re very pleased with the launch of the products in the pharmaceutical market.
We did have the adjustment that Louise described that was obviously positive for the quarter and positive for the year and our consumer business is also a very good start as well and we expect that to pick up as products continue to come into the marketplace from the products that were previously off the market.
So overall the breadth of our business allows us to feel comfortable and although some areas of the business we may experience some market weaknesses other areas of the business are more than picking up.
So that gives us good confidence to lean forward in terms of how our business is doing for the balance of 2013.
And then any update on the diagnostics business just in terms of your thinking on that franchise whether it’s a spin-off of selling it? No.
No update just yet.
We’re still going through the process and it’s probably too early to comment.
Your next question is from Rajeev Jashnani with UBS.
My question first on the consumer business the margins in the consumer business are obviously quite depressed right now and maybe talk about the path to improving margins in that business over the longer term.
Sure Rajeev.
Well we are very pleased with the rebound in the consumer business.
As you saw the OTC business in the U.S was up 14%.
I think that has to do with two things the expected rollout of our products back in the marketplace but also a pretty healthy I can say that in quotes “healthy” cold and flu season from our perspective.
So I think we did benefit from that.
I think we are basically on track as we thought we would be to return about 75% of the products that were previously off the market to back on to the market.
So our plan is unfolding as we have predicted it would and it looks like we are going to see a buildup throughout the remainder of the year.
You know both the intermittent supply differences between the products so it's not as if 75% of the entire volume is back in the business but 75% of the brands will be on the shelves by the end of the year we feel pretty confident about that.
In terms of managing margins in that business I think our team of leaders and consumer have done a very good job of managing in a very tough time and they will continue to do that I am sure going forward.
And as the OTC products return to the marketplace continue to build back share that’s obviously a very profitable piece of the business so we would expect that they would improve their margins accordingly.
I would caution though in terms of making sure that you understand that when these products come back to the market we are going to do whatever we can to gain share and invest appropriately behind them.
So we think that investment now will more than pay off in the future.
So we would expect the return of profitability would be tempered in the consumer business as we do the right things to bring the products back to the market.
Thank you.
I just have one follow-up if you don’t mind on INVOKANA.
Perhaps you could talk about the resources you are putting behind that launch and I know we will talk about this in a month or so at the pharma meetings but where do you see this class in the broader spectrum of diabetes care.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
Let me defer the comment on the broader class of diabetes care until May 23<sup>rd</sup> when we have our experts there.
Obviously I hope you will be there as well others to hear from our leaders who have much more knowledge about that market.
But we are obviously very pleased with having this approval of the first in its class and the indication as you know is broad and the adverse event profile is very manageable.
So we think this is an important addition to the armamentarium of care for diabetes patients.
So I will let Joakim and others in our business to talk about the impact that they see overall in the marketplace.
I would say that overall the pharma business is doing well really well.
So we are very pleased with that.
And the launches have gone incredibly well despite the fact that we have seen some competition as you all know.
I mean you all have written very vividly about the new products come in the market in various classes like in XARELTO's class and in ZYTIGA's class.
So you get the products pretty well.
So I say that because we have really focused our efforts on clinically differentiating our products and I say that about INVOKANA as well.
And I think our scientific teams led by Paul Stoffels and Bill Hait have done a great job of selecting the right clinical profile for the market place.
And then coupled with the commercial excellence that’s led by Joakim and his team that’s a great combination.
So we feel very good about our progress in the pharmaceutical marketplace.
Do you have one more question? I did and I apologize I am dragging on.
But Dominic you take the [pharma] you said it's quite well consumer there is some opportunity for margin perhaps longer term.
How do you feel about the long-term margin trajectory of the company and that’s it from me.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Well Rajeev you know we have good healthy margins today.
We are managing through what I mentioned at our call in January when I was with you all.
That as of now we have $1 billion of cost of U.S.
healthcare legislation embedded in our business and we are able to manage through that.
So I give our business leaders around the world a lot of credit for being able to manage in the various dynamics of the marketplace including slower growth markets and including areas of the business where cost pressures are continuing.
So I think we have done a good job at doing that and I expect we will continue to do a good job of doing that and we will always keep a focus on investing appropriately for the future.
So each time we give guidance hopefully you will get a clear picture of how we are doing that while also investing in the future but I’ll say it’s not easy but I give a lot of credit to the teams of people and leaders around the world who are experts at being able to manage well in challenging times.
Your next question is from Derrick Sung with Sanford C.
Bernstein.
I wanted to go back to procedure volumes in particular get some color from you on what you’re seeing in Europe.
On the MD&amp;D side how much of the selling days impacted your European years? Maybe if you can comment specifically on orthopedics how much of the slowdown there was selling days versus procedure volume.
I’ll ask Louise to help me with that but of course in Europe you have the dynamics of the Easter holiday season as well as that was in the first quarter of this year compared to the second quarter of last year.
Louise maybe you can give some more specifics on the particular question that Derrick is asking.
Sure.
The U.S it was about one day and in Europe it was probably about two days and you know that’s rather a rough calculation but it impacted growth about 1.5% in terms of sales about 1% in the U.S and about I think 2.5% outside the U.S.
Okay but generally speaking your sense is that are you seeing any change say from Q4 in terms of austerity measures procedure volumes things of that nature anything that you’d call out? In terms of the austerity measures it’s very similar to what we saw in the fourth quarter but we are still feeling it as everybody else is feeling it but we are the first company that’s out.
So we need to wait for the others to report.
Okay.
While you’re going through your numbers would you mind giving us the price mix write down for hips knees and spine in the U.S? Sure.
So in the U.S in the first quarter price was down about 4% and that’s fairly similar to what it was in the fourth quarter a little bit more unfavorable.
And in terms of mix it was actually 1% favorable.
So you came out to about a 3% unfavorable for the hips.
In terms of knees it’s about 2% unfavorable 1.5% 2% unfavorable and totally offset by favorable mix.
So you actually come to about 0.5 a point favorable on the knee.
And what about spine? In terms of spine we are about 3% negative in price and again this is only U.S and we are positive in terms of mix by about 4%.
So netting about 1% positive.
Maybe just one more quickly for Dominic.
I noticed that in your special items you increased accrual due to pending litigation on product liability.
I was just wondering if you could comment there on remind us on the total amount of accruals that you’re taking and maybe also if you can comment on how these pending product litigations might impact your thinking around use of cash as you move forward.
Just help us get comfortable with that.
Well with respect to the total accrual comment there I’m not going to comment specifically and I’ll just refer you to our 10-K disclosures regarding the status of the various legal matters.
In terms of use of cash these litigation accruals obviously sometimes extend for years until the actual cash is disbursed.
So although we contemplated in our cash planning I don’t necessarily associate the specific accrual on any one quarter or any one year with the cash impact in any quarter or any one year and I’m happy to say as you know we generate substantially strong cash flows year in and year out and now the team will continue to focus on that.
Your next question is from the line of Tony Butler with Barclays Capital.
I’d like to focus for a minute if we could within the pharmaceutical division and particularly again with ZYTIGA.
There was a patient assistance program in Q4.
I assume that had concluded and actually led to fairly substantial sales in Q1 and I’m curious if we can break that apart that is to say does that affect continuing to Q2? The second part of the question is around international demand which was up 22% sequentially and again very very strong demand.
Was that due to the countries which I realize Louise I think you mentioned 70 odd 79 particular countries which were approved but still extremely strong growth and I recognize that there was a pre-chemo approval earlier in the year.
Was that the principal driver? And the last question again on the same product really is is there any attempt to give some consideration of strategy around the patent extension of the product.
Thanks very much.
I will take the first one on the patient assistance.
So we have a patient assistance program in place and it continues to be in place.
It's part of what we do for all of our products.
What you saw in the fourth quarter was a replenishment to the wholesalers of certain of the ZYTIGA products.
So it has nothing to do with whether or not we have implemented a patient assistance program we always have patient assistance programs in place for people that need the products.
Right.
With respect to the balance of the questions on ZYTIGA I am going to not comment currently on the status of patent extension strategies except to say that obviously our teams are working on that.
In terms of the overall impact of ZYTIGA's worldwide sales other than what Louise mentioned on patient assistance which is not really a major impact.
The major impacts you did see were the chemo naïve indication and you are absolutely right Tony a number of new markets outside the U.S.
specifically in Europe came online during the quarter and will continue to come online for the balance of the year.
So those two factors pre-chemo and additional country approvals are the major drivers of the uptake in ZYTIGA sales.
Your next question is from the line of Rick Wise with Stifel.
Couple of things.
Dominic back to the U.S.
weakness question.
Did you actually expect a stronger O-U.S.
performance ex all the noise and did the weakness that you clearly saw and are talking about did it accelerate or pickup throughout the quarter or was it just consistently below fourth quarter trends? So just to clarify your question the weakness that you are referring to in the U.S.
is in the medical device business not in pharma not in consumer.
Exactly.
And you are right there was a lot of noise in the quarter and we tried to parse through that.
After parsing through all the noise including selling days etcetera Louise's  data indicated -- Louise's comments indicated that overall the medical device business is probably flat or modestly increased in the first quarter.
But the major driver of that is in fact the utilization trends that we did not see accelerate in the first quarter across primarily the surgery businesses including outpatient surgeries etcetera and some competitive pressures that I have mentioned earlier.
So I can't comment specifically month-by-month in the quarter but I would say that overall the trends that you saw a modest uptick in the fourth quarter did not persist into the first quarter.
So whether that's seasonality and how people use their  high deductible insurance plans or not we will have to wait and see as others report but that maybe a contributing factor and we expected to see some of that in the first quarter.
And I think you also mentioned Dominic that possible inventory levels were down I would say again because I saw we would be through most of that process.
Is it much more to go there or is that actually something encouraging for later quarters? Yeah I think that in this particular quarter from the best information we have is related to system implementations and other factors and the particular distributors that we deal with and not something that we would expect to continue happening for the remaining quarters of the year.
Great.
And one last one.
At the January analyst day obviously by talking about exploring strategic alternatives for diagnostics it seems like Alex both by that statement and just his tone was signaling a bit more active stance towards portfolio review.
You are always buying and selling and reviewing but should be expect a little more active stance now with Alex on board and given the ongoing challenges.
Thank you.
So Rick well I think as Alex mentioned in his commentary that we always obviously look at our portfolio in a strategic way.
I think with changes in the marketplace that we see happening in healthcare I think it's even more important for us to be very discerning and very deliberate about the places we will play in where we can make a big difference and areas where we may not be able to make a difference or where in fact investment may not be worth it or the property maybe better in someone else's hands.
So I don’t know that it's precisely related to just Alex being on board although that’s always been a strategic focus of Alex even before he became CEO but I think it’s also how we adapt and how our management teams adapt to an ever changing marketplace.
So I think we’ll continue to be deliberate in that regard and obviously we’ll update you along the way.
Your next question is from Jami Rubin with Goldman Sachs.
Dominic can you just elaborate a little bit further on the managed Medicaid true-up? I’m confused about that that came on the left field.
You had talked about how that impacted immunology and neurology products.
Is that a onetime impact or do these growth rates reflect the organic growth rates that we should anticipate going forward? How do we think about that with respect to the numbers going forward for future quarters? And the other question relates to sequestration.
You have a number of products that are reimbursed through Medicare part B including REMICADE and as you know there as a 2% reduction to Medicare part B which impacts part B’s ASP plus 6.
So obviously Q1 didn’t reflect this but are you seeing anything out there that could have some impact on your Medicare part B business? Thanks very much.
Sure Jami.
Thanks for the question.
Well with respect to the adjustment for the managed Medicare rebates and I’ll let Louise provide some additional color here it’s pretty obvious that that level of adjustment is not really reflective of the current run rate of the product.
So as Louise in her comments described the fact that excluding that adjustment the pharmaceutical business in the U.S and worldwide the underlying growth rate was 8%.
So it’s not the 14% or 11% that you saw in the numbers because that would be less than transparent if we told you that.
But the underlying rate of 8% is something we’re quite proud of to be honest.
So nonetheless even despite that adjustment the business is doing very well with a very healthy growth rate of 8%.
This adjustment as I mentioned earlier relates to a catch up of Medicaid rebates for managed Medicaid in the States under the new legislation and various states across the United States that provided this information most recently to all pharmaceutical players and us in particular we took a look at all that data now that we have it in hand although it’s not all in hand.
So there may be some additional adjustments going forward and we’ll be transparent again if that should happen.
Having said that the level of rebates in the States that we have previously predicted are now predicted to be lower.
That’s why we included this adjustment in our sales because we have previously reflected too high on rebate for example.
So going forward although the adjustment may not be that significant the overall level of rebates are expected to be quite lower than we previously thought.
And with respect to Medicaid part B and REMICADE we’re obviously aware of the sequestration impact and you’re right REMICADE is a significant product that reimbursement of the Medicare Part B and beginning in April we instituted a program with our REMICADE infusion customers on their contract to receive a discount on the continued use of REMICADE to help them deal with and help them offset the impact of this reimbursement that they’ll see.
And just for some context REMICADE is about a third of Medicare and PROCRIT also impacts about 60% Medicare.
Your next question is from Danielle Antalffy with Leerink Swann.
Just wanted to see if you could talk a little bit about Synthes integration and how that’s going particularly on any potential sales force turnover side and if there is any change to when we could see accretion on the EDS side of things from Synthes.
And to follow up on Rick’s question about potentially more activity on the M&amp;A and or divestiture front on the context of the med-tech market that we was in today so specifically in MD&amp;D business where do you see potential opportunities understanding that you just made this big acquisition with Synthes but maybe even something smaller or another big acquisition.
Where do you see opportunities in med-tech for growth over the next five plus years? Thanks.
Well Danielle the integration of Synthes is going well.
I would say that the challenge as we expected was going to be in the area of integrating the spine sales forces.
You may recall that we converted our current legacy DePuy spine business from a distributor based system to a direct selling basis which is what Synthes had in mind was doing.
And we had always expected that would be the way to go in the marketplace.
So we have completed that transition.
And I would say there are some disruptions that we have seen as a result not totally unexpected but in fact some disruptions.
But we think that’s a short-term issue because we think that’s a long-term benefit of having a direct sales force plus the combination of the two portfolios.
It's something that will allow us to compete very effectively in spine space.
In terms of accretion the focus of the business integration now is really on sales synergies and we are starting to see some sales synergies.
It's too early to give you a specific number on that.
The focus is primarily on sales synergies as opposed to the cost synergies and we expect that that will improve as the integration continues to progress throughout this year and into next.
And with respect to M&amp;A and divestiture activities we are very active always in M&amp;A and divestiture activity as you know.
And with our broad base in healthcare and our broad purview of the medical device sector we look at all areas of medical device to see where we can make a difference.
And what enters into calculus Daniel as you heard me say before is not only where we would like to play but where we think the asset is not only better in our hands but has a current valuation that’s attractive to us and is not for example overvalued.
So we will always look at that.
I can't give you any specifics but with a broad-based medical device business that we have there is lots of areas for us to look at to improve on if in fact that acquisition would create shareholder value.
That’s our number one criteria when looking at the acquisition potential.
Okay.
Perfect.
One quick follow-up on spine if I could.
Any changes underlying the endorsement trends there? I haven’t seen anything in particular in the data Louise have you seen anything? Not that I am aware of.
With respect to everyone's time we will take one more question and then we will have Dominic sum up with some final remarks.
Your final question is through the line of Matt Miksic with Piper Jaffray.
Thanks so much for squeezing us in.
I just had a follow-up and I am sorry to bead this dead horse here on the utilization side.
But Dominic just to clarify the comments that you are making about the trends the general surgery trends.
In the past sometimes these have been kind of coming out of your suture business and the scope and visibility you have into surgery and in the past sometimes it's been a trailing indicator.
I am wondering just to be clear are the metrics that you are able to provide color up through March or is part of it through December just a clarification and then I have one follow up.
Sure.
Let me have Louise answer that.
She has that data right in front of her.
Yes.
So we have good data up till the fourth quarter.
And as you know we are one of the first ones out in the first quarter but we do a lot of market research.
We have a very good team that extracts data from other companies reports quite frankly analyst reports.
So that’s kind of an amalgamation of it.
It's not precise it's where we think it's directional at this point in time and of course we will know a lot more once we get the data from the other company.
There is some noise in our suture numbers in the quarter and if I take out that noise in the suture numbers it's flat on a worldwide basis and is actually positive about 2% on U.S.
basis excluding the noise that we had in our own numbers at that point.
Okay.
And that would have compared to the prior quarter? Similar results.
Similar.
Okay.
So similar [sideways] if you will from a group standpoint? Yes.
And then the other follow-up I had was on -- I appreciate all the color on price and mix you had given some particular color on spine over the last few quarters.
And I guess knees and spine have started to kind of trend positive on a price mix basis.
Having [listed] last several years that’s sort of an anomaly a little bit for us I think.
And I just wanted to get a sense if you have any color as to what's improving there? What's enabling you to sort of either moderate the pricing pressure or get back on the -- effectively drive mix? I think mix comes from innovation of new products and that’s where the positive mix impact is coming from.
That’s right Louise.
I mean we can't ever lose track of the fact that innovation is the name of the game in all these markets.
So as we continue to innovate hopefully we’ll get a positive mix equation out of it and that’s what our leaders and folks in the labs and our engineers et cetera are totally focused on and they do a pretty good job of it.
So we’ll just continue to look for that as hopeful in terms of mix being positive because overall price regardless of mix is going to be pretty hard to come by as you all know.
So I think our focus has always been needs to continue to be on innovating in these markets.
Final remarks? Thanks everyone for tuning in today.
As I said earlier we’re off to a very good start in Q1 and we remain optimistic for the remainder of the year.
we see further opportunities to drive growth in this dynamic global marketplace as our new products our robust pipelines and even our core businesses continue to address the critical unmet healthcare needs of patients and customers.
I would like to again thank the people of Johnson &amp; Johnson for their dedication and commitment and I look forward to updating you all on our progress throughout the year including at our upcoming pharmaceutical business review on May 23.
So thanks for your time this morning and have a great day.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Johnson &amp; Johnson second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
All participants will be able to listen-only until the question-and-answer session of the conference.
This call is being recorded.
If anyone has any objections you may disconnect at this time.
(Operator Instructions).
I will now turn the call over to Johnson &amp; Johnson.
You may begin.
Good morning and welcome.
I am Louise Mehrotra Vice President of Investor Relations for Johnson &amp; Johnson and it is my pleasure this morning to review our business results for the second quarter of 2013.
Joining me on the call today are Alex Gorsky Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer and Sandy Peterson Group Worldwide Chairman and Dominic Caruso Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
A few logistics before we get into the details.
This review is being made available to a broader audience via a webcast accessible through the Investor Relations section of the Johnson &amp; Johnson website.
I will begin by briefly reviewing highlights of the second quarter for the corporation and highlights for our three business segments.
Following my remarks Alex will provide some additional commentary on our results and an update on our near term priorities and Sandy will provide an update on our consumer business and our global supply chain.
Please note the presentation for the company's Sandy's and Alex's remarks are available on our website.
Dominic will provide some additional commentary on the financial results and guidance for 2013.
We will then open the call to your questions.
We expect the call to last approximately one and a half hour.
Included with the press release that was issued earlier this morning is the schedule of sales for key products and/or businesses to facilitate updating your models.
These schedules are available on the Johnson &amp; Johnson website as is the press release.
Before I get into the results let me remind you that some of the statements made during this review may be considered forward-looking statements.
The 10-K for the fiscal year 2012 identifies certain factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements made today.
The company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.
The 10-K is available through the company and online.
During the review non-GAAP financial measures are used to provide information pertinent to ongoing business performance.
These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered replacements for GAAP results.
Tables reconciling these measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are available in the press release and on the Investor Relations section of the Johnson &amp; Johnson website at investor.jnj.com.
Now we would like to review our results for the second quarter of 2013.
If you would refer to your copy of the press release let's begin with the schedule titled supplementary sales data by geographic area.
Worldwide sales to customers were $17.9 billion for the second quarter of 2013 up 8.5% as compared to the second quarter of 2012.
On an operational basis sales were up 10% and currency had a negative impact of 1.5%.
In the U.S.
sales were up 8%.
In regions outside the U.S.
our operational growth was 11.8% while the effect of currency exchange rates negatively impacted our recorded results by 2.8 points.
Sales included the impact of the acquisition of Synthes net of the divestiture of the DePuy trauma business.
Excluding this impact worldwide operational sales growth was 5.6%.
The western hemisphere excluding the U.S.
grew by 14% operationally while Europe grew 11.4% on an operational basis.
Asia-Pacific Africa region grew 11% operationally.
The success of new product launches and Synthes sales made strong contributions to the results in all regions.
If you will now turn to the consolidated statement of earnings.
Net earnings were $3.8 billion compared to $1.4 billion in the same period in 2012.
Earnings per share were $1.33 versus $0.50 a year ago.
Please direct your attention to the box section of the schedule where we have provided earnings adjusted to exclude special items.
As a reference to the accompanying table reconciling non-GAAP measures 2013 second quarter net earnings were adjusted to exclude special items related to increases in litigation expense accrual integration and transaction cost related to the acquisition of Synthes and cost associated with the DePuy ASR Hip program.
Second quarter 2012 net earnings included after-tax special items of approximately $2.2 billion as shown in the accompanying reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures.
Excluding these special items for both periods net earnings for the current quarter were $4.3 billion and diluted earnings per share were $1.48 representing increases of 17.7% and 13.8% respectively as compared to the same period in 2012.
I would now like to make some additional comments relative to the components leading to earnings before we move onto the segment highlights.
For the second quarter of 2013 cost of goods sold at 30.7% was down 50 basis points from the same period last year primarily due mix lower cost associated with strong volume growth in our pharmaceutical business and cost improvement initiatives across all the businesses.
This was partially offset by incremental amortization expense related to Synthes of approximately $140 million or 80 basis points and the impact of the medical device excise tax.
Second quarter selling marketing and administrative expenses were 30.1% of sales consistent with our 2012 results.
Our investment in research and development as a percent of sales was 10.9% up 20 basis points due to milestone payments.
Interest expense net of interest income of $101 million was down $28 million versus the second quarter of 2012 due to a lower average debt level.
Other expense net of other income was $172 million in the second quarter of 2013 compared to $2 billion in the same period last year.
Excluding special items other income net of other expense of $394 million was $220 million favorable compared to 2012 the gain on sale of the ECHELON investment is reflected in this amount.
Excluding special items the effective tax rate was 20% in the second quarter of 2013 compared to 21.6% in the same period last year.
Dominic will provide commentary on taxes in his remarks.
Turning now to business segment highlights please refer to the supplementary sales schedule highlighting key products or businesses for the second quarter of 2013.
I will begin with the consumer segment.
Worldwide consumer segment sales for the second quarter of 2013 of $3.7 billion increased 1.1% as compared to the same period last year.
On an operational basis sales increased 1.7% while the impact of currency was negative 0.6% U.S.
sales were up 1% while international sales grew 2% on an operational basis.
Excluding the impact of divestitures net of acquisitions operational growth was approximately 2.5%.
Baby Care products increased on an operational basis by 3.1% when compared to the second quarter of 2012 primarily due to hair care and cleansers.
Sales in the Oral Care business increased operationally 0.2%.
Results were driven by strong international sales of LISTERINE due to the continued success of new product launches partially offset by the impact of the divestiture of manual toothbrushes in North America.
Beginning this quarter we are reporting OTC Pharmaceuticals separately and have moved Nutritionals to the other line.
To assist in updating your models a summary under the new format is included in the sales schedule that accompany the press release.
For the second quarter of 2013 sales for OTC pharmaceuticals increased 5.4% on an operational basis compared to the same period in 2012.
U.S.
sales were up 17.4% driven by strong growth in analgesics and other key brands as we continue to make progress in returning a reliable supply products to the marketplace.
International sales were up 0.9% operationally.
Our Skin Care business was down 0.4% on an operational basis in the second quarter of 2013.
Strong results for [renal] were offset by the impact of divestitures.
Excluding divestitures operational growth was approximately 1%.
Women's health grew 3.6% on an operational basis due to strong growth in women's sanitary protection products.
Wound Care other sales decreased 4.3% on an operational basis impacted by competitive pressures as well as a divestiture and nutritionals.
That completes the review of the Consumer segment and I will now review highlights for the pharmaceutical segment.
Worldwide net sales for the second quarter of $7 billion increased 11.7% versus the same period last year.
On an operational basis sales increased 12.9% with a negative currency impact of 1.2 points.
Sales in the U.S.
increased 9.1% while sales outside the U.S.
increased on an operational basis by 16.5%.
Now reviewing sales for major therapeutic areas.
Immunology products were 17.6% operationally with sales in the U.S.
up 7.3% and sales outside the U.S.
up 51.5% operationally.
During the quarter the company made certain supply chain changes from for REMICADE resulting in sales to distributors previously recorded as U.S.
exports sales now being international sales.
Adjusting for this impact the U.S.
immunology growth was approximately 14% with REMICADE excluding expert sales up approximately 4% SIMPONI up 38.1% and STELARA up 53.3%.
Results were driven by market growth across the major products complemented by increased market share for both STELARA and SIMPONI.
With the strength of our portfolio we continue to be the U.S.
market leader in immunology.
Adjusted immunology sales outside the U.S.
increased by over 25% operationally with REMICADE up approximately 20% due to strong growth in Canada and the emerging markets including a tender shipment.
STELARA made significant contributions due to market share gains and market growth across the major regions while very strong growth in Japan drove the results for SIMPONI.
Sales of infectious disease products increased 23.9% on an operational basis.
INCIVO a treatment for Hepatitis C grew 71.8% on an operational basis due to the success of the continued rollout most notably in Latin America as well as a shipment for tender business.
Continued momentum in market share growth of PREZISTA made notable contributions to the results as did the combined sales of COMPLERA and EDURANT.
Neuroscience product sales increased 0.4% operationally.
U.S.
sales declined 4.9% impacted by generic competition primarily for CONCERTA.
The long-acting injectable antipsychotics RISPERDAL CONSTA and INVEGA SUSTENNA or XEPLION achieved operational growth of approximately 15% due to an increase in combined market share.
Sales of oncology products increased 53.2% on an operational basis due to the very strong results for ZYTIGA and VELCADE.
ZYTIGA is now approved to treat both chemo refractory and chemo naïve metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer.
In the quarter ZYTIGA achieved operational sales growth of 70% with U.S.
sales growing 54% due to very strong market growth of over 20% and increased market share in the combined metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer market.
ZYTIGA has captured over 30% of that market and is up approximately 3.5 points sequentially.
Operational sales outside the U.S.
grew 85.2% versus second quarter 2012 and on a sequential basis ZYTIGA was up over 20%.
Additional country rollouts and the expansion of the label to chemo naïve patients drove the strong results.
ZYTIGA is approved in more than 80 countries.
VELCADE is a treatment for multiple myeloma.
Sales increased 22.7% on an operational basis.
Strong performance in patient share in the frontline setting and the launch of the subcutaneous version continue to drive sales growth.
Other oncology increased primarily due to DOXIL/CAELYX.
Other pharmaceutical products declined 2.7% on an operational basis with lower sales for ACIPHEX and PARIET related primarily to generic competition.
PROCRIT sales declined 18.1% due primarily to a market decline.
Positively impacting results XARELTO sales grew over 20% on a sequential basis capturing nearly 39% of new to brand scripts in cardiology surpassing warfarin.
Total prescription share in the broader anticoagulant market grew 1.7 points on a sequential basis to 7.4%.
As an update on the pipeline during the quarter in immunology the FDA approved SIMPONI for the treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis and the EMA application for SIMPONI IV for the treatment of adults with moderately to severely active RA was resubmitted.
In infectious diseases a marketing authorization application was submitted to the European Medicines Agency seeking approval for simeprevir for Hepatitis C and it was granted U.S.
priority review status by the FDA with a PDUFA in late November.
The European Commission approved a new twice daily dosing for INCIVO.
In neuroscience regarding bapineuzumab JANSSEN Alzheimer Immunotherapy and its alliance partner Pfizer have decided to discontinue development of the subcutaneous formulation.
Studies with other compounds in earlier stages of development in the alliance portfolio are ongoing and future development strategies will be discussed jointly by the alliance partners.
We remain committed to our efforts to discover and develop promising new treatments for people with Alzheimer's disease.
Regarding the stent thrombosis sNDA for XARELTO a complete response letter was received from the FDA.
We remain confident in the results of the ATLAS ACS trial and are in ongoing discussions with the FDA regarding this sNDA.
In oncology Breakthrough Therapy Designation for daratumumab for the treatment of certain patients with multiple myeloma was granted by the FDA and the positive opinion from the European authorities on two variations relating to the use of VELCADE were received.
The first recommendations for the use of VELCADE as retreatment in adult who had previously responded to the treatment with the same medicine the second recommendation was for using induction combination therapy for certain adult patients.
And ibrutinib was submitted to the FDA for use in the treatment of previously treated patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia or CLL and small lymphocytic lymphoma or SLL and for its use in treatment of previously treated patients with mantle cell lymphoma or MCL.
That completes the review of the Pharmaceutical segment.
I will now review the Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment results.
Worldwide Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment sales of $7.2 billion grew 12% operationally as compared to the same period in 2012.
Currency had a negative impact of 2.4 points resulting in a total sales increase of 9.6%.
Sales excluding the net impact of Synthes were up 0.5% on an operational basis with U.S.
sales down 3.3% and sales outside the U.S.
up 3.5% on an operational basis.
Adjusted for divestitures and exits from certain businesses underlying growth was approximately 1.5% reflecting continued market and pricing pressures.
I will provide more commentary on these factors in the franchise reviews.
Now turning to the MD&amp;D businesses starting with Cardiovascular Care.
Cardiovascular Care sales were up 7.7% operationally with U.S.
up 4.6% and sales outside the U.S.
up 9.6% operationally driven by Biosense Webster our electrophysiology business with worldwide operational growth of over 16% in the quarter.
The success of a number of catheter launches made strong contributions to the results.
The Diabetes Care business operational sales declined 11.8% in the second quarter of 2013 with U.S.
business down 23.1% due to the impact of lower price competitive pressures and softness in the retail market.
The business outside the U.S.
was down 0.5% operationally with strong growth in the emerging markets offset by lower sales in many of the developed markets.
The Diagnostics business declined 4% on an operational basis.
Excluding the impact of divestitures of RhoGAM and Theracos businesses operational sales grew approximately 2.5% primarily due to growth and donors screening in the U.S.
and emerging markets outside the U.S.
Infection Prevention increased 5.2% on an operational basis with sales in the U.S.
down 4% due to lower sales of capital equipment.
Outside the U.S.
operational growth of 12.3% was driven by both consumables and capital item sales.
Orthopedic sales were up 48.9% on an operational basis when compared to the same period in 2012.
Excluding the net impact of Synthes operational sales were up approximately 3% with U.S.
up approximately 2% and outside the U.S.
up approximately 3.5% operationally.
Operationally Hips were up 4% worldwide driven by 5% growth in the U.S.
due to strong results in primary stent platform sales partially offset by continued pricing pressure.
Hips outside the U.S.
were up 4% on an operational basis driven mainly by heads and acetabular products.
Knees worldwide increased 2% on an operational basis with the U.S.
up 3% driven by the ATTUNE fixed bearing knee as well as revision platforms offset by lower sales of rotating platforms.
Sales outside the U.S.
were up 1%.
Including the Synthes business in both periods and excluding the divested DePuy trauma business in both periods trauma grew approximately 4% on an operational basis due to both new products and stronger underlying demand.
Growth in the U.S.
was 2% and 7% operational outside the U.S.
Including the Synthes business in both periods worldwide spine was down 2% on an operational basis with U.S.
down approximately 7% impacted by continued softness in the market as well as the impact of the attrition of the commercial sales organization as we integrate the businesses.
Outside the U.S.
sales were up approximately 6% operationally with strong growth in Latin America Canada and Asia-Pacific.
Specialty surgery operational growth was 2.8% in the second quarter of 2013.
U.S.
Sales were down 1.5% and sales outside the U.S.
were up 7.5% on an operational basis.
Strong sales of balloon sinuplasty products from Acclarent and biosurgical products were partially offset by lower sales of Mentor products due to competitive and pricing pressures.
Sales of energy products were flat on an operational basis with new product launches and continued penetration driving strong sales outside the U.S.
offset by softer sales of HARMONIC products in the U.S.
Surgical care worldwide sales were down 1.2% on an operational basis with the U.S.
down 4.2% and sales outside the U.S.
up 0.6% operationally.
Negatively impacting growth were divestitures and business exits.
Excluding these items the underlying business was flat with lower sales of women's health and urology offset by strong demand for endocutter products with the ECHELON FLEX Powered ENDOPATH Stapler.
Rounding out the review the medical devices and diagnostics segment our Vision Care business achieved operational sales growth of 5.4% in the second quarter with the U.S.
up 3.6% and sales outside the U.S.
up 6.4% operationally.
Growth was driven by daily lenses and astigmatism lenses.
That completes highlights for the medical devices and diagnostics segment and concludes the segment highlights for Johnson &amp; Johnson second quarter of 2013.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Alex Gorsky.
Alex? Well hello everyone and thank you Louise and thanks to everyone for joining us on this call today.
Now it is really my pleasure to review our results for the first half of the year and also the progress we made under near-term priorities.
Now you recall in January that I discussed the framework for managing our business.
The success of our enterprise is built first on Our Credo which unites Johnson &amp; Johnson as a global enterprise.
Our strategic operating principles continue to service well in the evolving marketplace and with our four growth drivers we have a sound approach to sustaining and driving growth in today's dynamic global healthcare environment.
At the mid-year point we have achieved strong growth across our enterprise.
A year ago our team established a set of critical near-term priorities for moving the business forward.
As part of our commitment to keeping you appraised of how we are doing against them I am pleased to say that with the laser focus approach we have taken we have made solid demonstrable progress in delivering on our financial commitments restoring a reliable supply of OTC products to consumers continuing the successful integration of Synthes and building on the strong momentum in our pharmaceutical business.
Reflecting our broad base of leadership in healthcare we have generated sales of $35.4 billion thus far in 2013 up a strong 9.9% operationally versus this time a year ago 4.8% operationally excluding the net impact of Synthes.
Medical devices and diagnostics represents 40% of our total sales generating $14.3 billion in sales year-to-date.
Sales grew 12% operationally driven by the positive growth contribution of the Synthes acquisition.
Excluding Synthes overall growth in this segment was impacted by portfolio decisions to divest and exit certain businesses as well as the continued economic and pricing pressures within these markets.
Underlying growth was essentially flat year-to-date.
With $13.8 billion the pharmaceutical segment represented 39% of our total sales and has continued its strong momentum reporting operational growth of 12.1%.
Our consumer segment generated 21% of our total sales at $7.3 billion in revenue at an operational growth rate of 2.4%.
Now as the global economy evolves more people are entering the middle-class in emerging markets and increasing demands on the healthcare system.
As I outlined at our year-end earnings meeting in January we are investing in growth and expansion in the broader emerging markets by leveraging our strong iconic brands as well as acquiring market specific products and to-date they account for nearly a quarter of our sales.
As a subset of the emerging markets we are also seeing growth in the brick nations which account for approximately 10% of our overall sales this year.
We are encouraged by the double-digit growth rates we are seeing in these countries driven by our core pharmaceutical and the Indian consumer brands as well as the complementary acquisitions we have made in Russia and China.
As our global reach with local focus strategy for driving growth matures we will overtime be introducing more products that will increase options for consumers in these fast-growing parts of the world.
Moving now to the segment highlights.
I will start with pharmaceuticals.
Our pharmaceutical segment continues to drive robust growth by delivering meaningful innovations that will improve patient care demonstrating the effect of the transformation we made in this segment.
I am very proud of the accomplishments that our pharma team has exhibited in this process.
Our market leading execution in support of the 11 new products we've launched since 2009 has led our Pharmaceuticals business to a record 13 consecutive quarters of operational growth.
That pace positions us as the fastest growing top-10 global pharmaceutical company and U.S.
leader in new product sales.
Those new products which includes ZYTIGA STELARA and INVEGA SUSTENNA comprise 24% of our global pharmaceutical sales in the first half of 2013.
Now we gave you a full review of our Pharmaceutical business in May at which time we announced our intention to file more than 10 new molecular entities and 25 significant brand line extensions by 2017 so today I will just comment on two important developments we made in the quarter within our oncology division since the meeting which will really help to increase our leadership position in the category.
As we announced last week ibrutinib became one of the first medicines to be filed with the FDA and the new breakthrough therapy designation.
And if approved it will be a first-in-class treatment option for patients who received prior therapy for chronic lymphocytic leukemia and small lymphocytic lymphoma and also for patients who received prior therapy for mantle cell lymphoma population today have very limited options.
Now recognizing this need we and our strategic partners at Pharmacyclics are pleased to have been able to open an expand access program for relapsed or refractory MCL patients in the U.S.
The program began enrolling in May.
It is allowed by the FDA as a means of making an investigational drug available to patients with a serious or immediately life-threatening disease without comparable or satisfactory alternatives.
We also announced a definitive agreement to acquire Aragon Pharmaceuticals a move that will add their androgen receptor antagonist program to our R&amp;D engine including a lead development stage product ARN-509 for prostate cancer which is attractive to us because the way it complements ZYTIGA were also increasing new options we can eventually offer patients in this important and growing segments of the oncology field.
So now let's look at the market performance of some of our recent pharmaceutical launches.
By combining superior science with best-in-class commercial capabilities many of our newly launched products are delivering robust growth and outpacing our peers.
As you can see XARELTO which is the broadest indication among novel oral anticoagulants is tracking well at of warfarin and the others in the category in new to brand prescriptions among cardiologists and ZYTIGA is continuing on its strong growth trajectory gaining 22% in the U.S.
chemo naïve market since its approval in this indication in December.
INVOKANA our new treatment for Type 2 diabetes was launched in the U.S.
in April was demonstrating very strong early results with the primary care and endocrinologists.
Access INVOKANA is also building steadily and we are seeing strong interest from payers.
Overall 80% of patients with commercial plans now have access to INVOKANA in either Tier 2 or Tier 3.
The success coupled with the supported joining the forces our pharmaceutical group with our Diabetes Care business has helped INVOKANA overtake Januvia Onglyza and Trajenta in share of new to brand prescriptions in the important Endocrinologists segment.
This type of early progress demonstrates the power of leveraging our enterprise-wide capabilities to offer patients a full solutions based approach to diabetes management and we are looking at leveraging our broad capabilities across the enterprise to support the growth of our products in other categories in similar ways.
As I referred to earlier the pace of growth in the global MD&amp;D markets has slowed and competition is intensifying.
In spite of the economic compression however the medical device industry remains attractive and we are transforming our go-to-market approach to drive our competitiveness in this dynamic environment and ensure we continue to lead the sector.
With market-leading platforms and products we succeeded in sustaining or grown share in the majority of our key platforms holding number one or number two positions in about 85% of them.
We are continuing to bring innovations to patients and providers through meaningful product launches that will help sustain and drive growth and we are especially excited about the steady cadence of innovation emerging across the segment.
For example Biosense Webster a business unit that's on track to deliver another year of double-digit growth as it has for more than 10 years in a row.
Their nMARQ circular ablation catheter is designed to reduce cardiac ablation procedure time and complexity to key customer needs.
It launched last year in Europe and we began enrolling patients in the clinical trial that will support our regulatory filing in the U.S.
planned for next year.
Also the ThermoCool SmartTouch Catheter is an important innovative product that measures the catheter tip contact force and direction inside the heart during ablation procedures in real time.
We launched this product in the EU in 2012 and compelling new safety and efficacy data were presented recently at the Heart Rhythm Society meeting.
These data will be included in our application for U.S.
approval that we plan to submit later this year.
We are also bringing products to patients to meet specific market needs.
The Bioseal fibrin sealant in China is just one of many.
We are Also focusing our resources to advance more strategic options in our portfolio that start with taking a comprehensive view on the disease like we have done in large chronic disease states such as diabetes.
Now to help dim the cost curve in healthcare we are focusing our broad and diverse R&amp;D approach and portfolio to deliver total solutions of products that will increase the clinical value we offer patients and providers as well as the economic value we offer for healthcare systems and payers across the globe.
Consider the ATTUNE knee system which DePuy Synthes has just recently launched.
The development team conducted extensive research in its design to help improve functional outcomes for patients performance for surgeons and efficiency for providers.
From the patient perspective ATTUNE is designed to provide better range of motion and address the unstable feeling some knee replacement patients experienced and also provides an extensive range of sizes for better patient matching.
From the provider perspective simply reducing the number of instruments used with ATTUNE in addition to several innovative design features flattens the learning curve and delivers more efficiencies for the surgeon and operating room staff.
Now an update on DePuy Synthes.
We are a year into the integration and as we envisioned by broadening our base of offerings and expanding our reach in emerging markets we have built a compelling growth combination that solidified our leadership in the $40 billion global orthopedics and neurologics marketplace.
Our joint reconstruction business continues to do well especially with hips in the U.S.
which have grown approximately 5% thus far in 2013.
The ATTUNE knee that I just described has had a favorable initial response.
In trauma we are encouraged by the second quarter results that generated mid single-digit operational growth in international markets fueled by Europe as well as in emerging markets notably China.
In spine disruption due to sales force attrition has improved and favorable increases in volume are being seen as the sales force continues to see momentum with cross-selling by the combined forces especially outside the U.S.
with operational growth this past quarter in the mid-single digits.
While we still have work to do in certain areas of the integration we are making good progress and we are seeing the benefits of bringing a broader portfolio of products to our customers to cross-selling including the collaboration between our cranio-maxillofacial and Codman businesses.
We are also looking forward to similar results and to begin cross-selling products from our power tools and biomaterials platforms.
Now as we advance we see additional growth in synergy opportunities within the organization and we are turning our attention to R&amp;D and manufacturing and supply chain and to standardizing the IT infrastructure across the globe to improve our focus speed and efficiency in order to realize them.
You will hear more about the progress of our orthopedics business in the third quarter when Michel Orsinger our worldwide chairman for DePuy Synthes will be on the call.
Our consumer segment is showing signs of its continued return to growth through its increasing momentum in returning a reliable supply of U.S.
OTC products to the shelves the continued expansion of iconic brands in the emerging markets and an overall focused portfolio and management approach.
Sandy Peterson who joined at the end of last year has already made an important impact on the organization.
As group worldwide chairman she holds a broad leadership role leading our supply chain information technology and our consumer business sector.
She is bringing a high level of broad and relative experience to our enterprise and I am pleased to be turning the call over to her in just a minute so that she can discuss her vision and plans for these vital areas of our business.
To recap the year is off to a strong start.
We have also made strong progress against our near-term priorities and long-term growth drivers to help sustain and drive growth in this dynamic global market.
I will end by thanking our employees who work everyday on behalf of the patients communities and shareholders that depend on us to deliver a high-quality and innovative products and solutions.
Now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to Sandy Peterson.
Thanks Alex.
I have been with Johnson &amp; Johnson now a little over seven months.
It has been a great beginning and the longer I am here the more excited I am about our ability to have a meaningful impact on people's lives around the globe.
I have had the privilege to work at a number of well-respected companies both inside and outside of healthcare and across geographies.
With that perspective I am convinced that Johnson &amp; Johnson is uniquely differentiated by its virtue of its broad portfolio talented people and geographic reach to make a profound difference in health care.
As you know health care across the globe is changing as governments and consumers work to improve the quality of care and the rolls that providers healthcare professionals and retailers also adapt and become more global.
I have spent much of my time so far meeting our customers and colleagues around the globe and learning our business.
I have been to our major business and manufacturing campuses in the US Brazil Ireland Puerto Rico Belgium China Singapore Vietnam and Thailand.
I have met with numerous retail and provider payer customers in the U.S.
and in our key other regions both large global customers as well as small mom-and-pop operation.
What is most striking to me is the talent and diversity of our colleagues around the globe.
And equally impressive is experiencing our credo as the source of constancy and inspiration in a time of remarkable change inside our company and in health care across the globe.
Our consumer brands are strong and resilient.
Our breadth is a source of strength and competitive advantage.
Although we have been challenged in recent years our reputation with consumers retailers healthcare professionals and providers remain strong.
As you know I have accountability for some of the company's key enterprise functions supply chain including quality and information technology as well as our consumer business sector.
This integrated portfolio affords us the capacity to leverage these important functions to help deliver innovation and value to our customers and company across sectors and across the globe.
We have the opportunity to leverage our scale and breadth through world-class deployment of information technology services and supply chain to better serve the evolving needs of our customers and consumers.
Today I will provide update related to our consumer businesses and the Johnson &amp; Johnson supply chain.
Let's start with what Alex had previously identified for you as one of our top enterprise-wide priorities restoring a reliable supply of our U.S.
OTC products.
Our priorities in the U.S.
OTC business are first to deliver on our consent decree milestones second to ensure reliable supply of OTC products to retailers and consumers.
Third to achieve both brand leadership and sustained healthcare professional number one recommended status fourth to rebuild customer trust and become our customers' preferred partner and fifth to execute a return to market plan for core U.S.
OTC brands and SKUs.
Our consent decree work plan was approved by the FDA without modification in the fourth quarter of 2012.
We've achieved 100% on-time execution of the prescribed step through the second quarter.
Additionally all reports have been submitted to the FDA on time.
We are making good progress on restoring our OTC brands to the shelf.
We have achieve solid steady unit sale rates and consistent delivery commitments to customers and retailers.
By year end our plan is to deliver reliable and consistent supply of three quarters of the product brands.
In the first half of 2013 we achieved the U.S.
OTC operational growth of 19.7% which includes 26% growth in revenues in over-the-counter medicines and we are winning the hearts of consumers as these products return to the shelves in all four segment cough cold and flu allergy pain and digestive health.
For instance Extra Strength TYLENOL is the number one code in adult pain.
Children's TYLENOL and MOTRIN are the top two SKUs in pediatric pain and we are leading in other important categories such as allergy care with ZYRTEC and our digestive health brands IMODIUM and IMODIUM are returning the strength.
We are focusing on our top retail customers.
We have achieved full distribution of key brands and point-of-sale has improved with all top retailers.
We are partnering with them on strategic initiatives that are rebuilding our relationships and supporting their health and wellness strategies in order to educate consumers simplify their purchasing experience and ultimately to help bring more consumers into their stores.
Our strategic purpose for our consumer segment is caring for people around the world by anticipating their needs and creating solutions and experiences that help them and those they care for to live a healthy vibrant lives and we are uniquely suited to do just that.
Our broad consumer portfolio from well-being and beauty to health and (inaudible) is a competitive advantage as are our iconic brands.
We have a legacy of innovation that leverages our scientific heritage and wins us unparalleled professional endorsements trust-based relationships with healthcare professionals and deep consumer insights.
We are applying the portfolio of discipline that calls on us to make choices that will drive global brand growth in key priority markets including rationalizing SKUs and harmonizing formulations.
With our long history in emerging markets which represent a proportionately higher share of segment sales than elsewhere in Johnson &amp; Johnson we are globalizing existing brands such as Listerine Motrin Johnson's Baby and Carefree and complementing our portfolio with key local brands like Elsker in China and Rinzai and Dr.
Mom brands in Russia.
Our consumer segment is not only a critical component of Johnson &amp; Johnson's diverse portfolio and growth plan our iconic brands are those that stakeholders most closely identify with Johnson &amp; Johnson.
We are pleased with the value creation opportunities ahead of us but we know there is still work to be done to restore our OTC businesses to sustainable growth while globalizing our remaining brand portfolio and investing in key market growth.
Let us now shift to how we are working to deliver a reliable and cost competitive supply of high quality products to our customers consumers and patients across our businesses.
Three years ago we created a global enterprise supply chain.
Our goal was to integrate into a network that would employ consistent quality standards and systems leverage the scale and technological breadth of our portfolio and enable continuous production of cost-effective and high-quality products.
This is a multiyear effort to integrate and leverage over 120 manufacturing sites over 500 external manufacturers 450 distribution centers and over 60 ERP systems that support about 275 operating companies.
But the opportunity to leverage our scale and breadth to better meet our customers' evolving needs and maintain the highest quality and regulatory standards is significant.
We have implemented a new quality and compliance operating model to ensure consistent standards and capabilities across all products businesses and geographies while strengthening independent oversight processes.
For instance we have adapted and are now deploying 34 common quality standards for all companies around the world.
An independent internal audit program launched three years ago is ensuring that all Johnson &amp; Johnson sites are in full compliance with health authority regulations and our own quality requirements.
Each of the three business segments has a chief quality officer responsible for developing the quality and compliance strategy and overseeing quality results for all companies in the segment globally.
Each of the three business segments had the quality and compliance systems group to drive standardization and quality and compliance practices.
We are evolving our supply chain model to enable leverage across our global network in sourcing logistics transportation and distribution management and to strengthened business continuity plan.
Our improved product launch performance demonstrates tighter commercial integration.
We have begun to consolidate and harmonize ours ERP landscape.
This is a four-year program that will deliver efficiencies in terms of cost to offset pricing pressures and working capital improvements supply reliability and flexibility for years to come.
We are integrating Synthes into our global supply chain network and quality systems and we are optimizing our products supply network both internally and externally to meet our growth objectives for new product launches and emerging market growth.
Health care is a challenging but intensely rewarding space.
In a few months that I have been part of the Johnson &amp; Johnson leadership team I have gained even more conviction and we are making a real difference for consumers for patients for customers providers and health care system.
I see the enormous opportunity we have to do more and I am looking forward to growing our businesses and creating meaningful innovation for our customers and value for shareholders.
Thank you for the opportunity to share some of my thoughts with you today.
And now I'll turn it over to Dominic.
Thank you Sandy and good morning everyone.
It is really great to have Sandy join us today on the call and it's a real pleasure working with her as a new member of our executive committee  I would like to now provide some brief comments about our results and also provide our guidance for you to consider in refining your models for the balance of 2013.
I am pleased to say we've had a strong first half of 2013.
The breadth of our business which provides balance and consistency to our overall performance as well as the extraordinary achievements and dedication of our people in all of our locations around the world positions us well to sustain growth in this increasingly dynamic global health care market.
While there are some indicators of general economic improvement the healthcare market data we see in terms of utilization is still relatively flat over the prior year with just a modest sequential improvement over the first quarter utilization data.
Overall however we continue to drive growth in many areas of our business especially in the pharmaceutical segment with the launch of new products addressing unmet needs.
Alex and Louise already commented on our results for the quarter so let me just mention the impact of special items this quarter.
There were special items recorded in the other income and expense line during the second quarter of approximately $560 million on a pretax basis.
That consisted of charges for litigation expense accruals related to various legal matters DePuy ASR hip program cost.
And as expected continued costs associated with the global integration of Synthes.
Excluding these special items our adjusted earnings per share for the quarter of $1.48 exceeded the mean of the analyst estimates as published by first call.
Now let me provide some guidance for you to consider as you refine your models for 2013.
Let me begin with a discussion of cash and interest income and expense.
At the end of the quarter we had approximately $10 billion of net cash.
This consists of approximately $25 billion of cash and marketable securities and $15 billion of debt.
We continue to generate very strong cash flows.
For purposes of your models assuming no major acquisitions I suggest you consider modeling net interest expense of between $400 million and $450 million a slight improvement from our previous guidance.
Turning now to other income and expense as a reminder this is the account where we record royalty income as well as gains and losses arising from such items as litigation investments by our development corporation.
and other divestitures asset sales or write-offs.
As previously disclosed during the second quarter we sold our equity interest in ECHELON and that gain is reflected in this line.
This account is difficult to forecast but we would be comfortable with your models for 2013 reflecting other income and expense as a net gain excluding special items ranging from approximately $750 million to $850 million which is consistent with our previous guidance and includes the gain from the sale of our equity interest in ECHELON.
Now a word on taxes.
Through the second quarter of 2013 the company's effective tax rate excluding special items was approximately 19.5%.
We suggest that you model our effective tax rate for the full year 2013 at approximately between 19% and 20% or slightly lower rate than our previous guidance.
As always we will continue to pursue opportunities in this area to improve upon this rate during the remainder of the year.
Now turning to sales and earnings.
We would be comfortable with your models reflecting operational sales growth on a constant currency basis of between approximately 6% and 7% for the year which is higher than our previous guidance.
This would result in estimated sales for 2013 on a constant currency basis of approximately $71.3 billion to $71.9 billion.
While we are not predicting the impact of currency movements to give you an idea of the potential impact if currency exchange rates for the remainder of 2013 were to stay where they were as of last week then our sales growth rate would be negatively impacted by approximately 2% for the year.
Thus under this scenario we would expect reported sales growth to be between approximately 4% and 5% for the year for an expected level of reported sales of approximately between $70 billion and $70.6 billion which is lower than our prior guidance simply due to the overall weakening of foreign currency rates versus the U.S.
dollar particularly the Japanese Yen Brazilian Real and the British Pound.
Now turning to earnings.
Considering the strength we saw in our operating results for the first half we suggest that you consider full year 2013 earnings per share estimates excluding the impact of special items of between $5.42 and $5.49 per share on an operational basis at constant currency rates or an operational growth rate of between 6.5% and 7.5% which is higher than our previous guidance.
As a reminder the benefit from the Elan gain as we noted would largely be reinvested in the business and our other income guidance is unchanged.
So this increase is related to the operational performance of the business which we see improving.
We are not predicting the impact of currency movements but to give you an idea of the potential impact on earnings per share if currency rates for the balance of 2013 were to remain where they were as of last week then our reported EPS excluding special items would be negatively impacted by approximately $0.02 per share or $0.04 lower than the impact we had previously estimated in our guidance solely due to exchange rate fluctuations.
We therefore suggest that you model our reported earnings per share excluding special items in the range between $5.40 and $5.47 per share or a growth rate of between 6% and 7% resulting in a reported EPS guidance being higher than our previous reported EPS guidance reflecting our strong operational performance somewhat offset by the movement in currency rates.
Overall as you update your models for the guidance I just provided you should see pretax operating margins will continue to show improvement over the prior year as we indicated at the beginning of this year and which we feel confident we can achieve given the strength our operating performance while we continue to invest for future growth.
Now Louise back to you for the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Dominic.
Stephanie can you please give the instructions for the Q&amp;A session? (Operator Instructions) Your first question is from the line of Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
I wanted to ask that at a recent event which was the allowance of the patent application on ZYTIGA in combination with prednisone and could you give us your updated view on the life of that ZYTRIGA in the U.S.
and how ZYTIGA is going to fit with ARN-509 and the Aragon acquisition and where do you see the position in the two products? Thanks Hi Mike this is Alex.
Thanks a lot for the questions.
As you know Janssen has got five years of data exclusivity in the U.S.
from the date of approval which was April 2011 or until April 2016.
We are also watching the Hatch-Waxman extension to December 2016.
At this point in time we believe that those are the correct dates of using.
Obviously we are going to be looking at some of these other recent events closer to see what impact it may have.
But at this time we are sticking with December 2016.
Regarding the Aragon look we think it’s a great complement to our portfolio.
If you look at the great job frankly that our team has been able to do with Zetia in the launch regarding the clinical backup actually the actual approval of the compound the ongoing clinical development very impressive the commercial penetration that we have seen as well as the care programs for the patients we think it represents a significant capability.
Now when you complement that with the Aragon compound it will certainly enable us to leverage all of those skills on to a next phase.
We think that there could be potentially complementary utilization of those compounds together and again as one another example of us continuing to really make a difference for patients and for our business and is very exciting oncology area.
Two quick follow ups if I can.
One is there an update on the plans for the Clinical Diagnostics.
And two Dominic where are you with the completion of last year's ASR and could you just talk about thoughts on additional share repurchase following that? Thanks.
Sure Mike.
I'll take the first half of that question and then I'll ask Dominic to follow up on the second part.
As you remember earlier this year we announced that we were going to be exploring the future.
The Diagnostics group at an enterprise level.
And the initiation of this process was really part of a broader strategic planning process across Johnson &amp; Johnson.
Recognizing that we wanted to be very disciplined and decisive about what we are going to do with our businesses and our capabilities going forward.
Now as we stated back in January we expect that this process could take anywhere from about 12 months to 24 months.
We're on track for that.
We're still in the early-stages and we think it's premature at this time to speculate about specific impact but we are continuing to look at our options.
Dominic? Yes.
Hi Michael.
On the ASR program we expect it will be completed in early August and we are near of the completion of it.
As soon as we complete that programs then we will be permitted to recommence the share purchases that we normally do in a normal course of business which as I think you all know we repurchase all the shares that are issued in connection with any employee compensation programs so we'll obviously commence that right after the ASR program is completed in early August.
As far as any larger more significant share buyback program as we said before we always evaluate that in the spirit of utilizing our strong cash flows but quite frankly in the priority we've always said first our dividend second to use in building our businesses to generate even more sustainable cash flows for the future and then finally considering an additional return to shareholders as appropriate given the first two.
Okay.
Next question please.
Your next question is from the line of Rajeev Jashnani UBS.
My first question was on consumer business Sandy.
And I was hoping you would talk a little bit about the margins in that business and clearly there is some cost associated with compliance that are ongoing now.
But maybe if you talk about how you see that playing out over the next few years and some of the investments you had to make on the brand.
Thanks.
Thanks for the question.
As you know we are still in the process of remediating the OTC business which is an ongoing effort.
And clearly we will spend what it takes to ensure that we are completely compliant with the CD and we are bringing all of the products back.
Our expectation is that that will continue for the near-term.
But in addition to all of the remediation efforts we also are going to ensure that we are investing sufficiently to bring these brands back and bring them back fully to consumers and retailers and that our current estimation is that we will probably be spending at a higher rate than our historical averages as we are bringing all of these brands back.
So that clearly in the near-term will have some impact on our margins.
But at the same time we are also working very hard to you globalize our core brand portfolio and by doing that that will improve our margins over time across the total consumer portfolio.
And we have also the team has put a lot of effort in the last couple of years in reducing overheads and driving efficiencies throughout the business.
So I think what you will see that over time we will start seeing improvements in our margins as we bring the OTC portfolio back and as we globalize the rest of our core portfolio.
And our expectation is that our business will have similar margin in the consumer sectors as you see in the other parts of the JNJ portfolio as we bring all of these businesses back and we will continue to improve the margins over time.
Okay.
Next question please? Your next question is from the line of Matthew Dodds with Citigroup.
Good morning one for Alex and one for Sandy.
Alex if you look at the Pharma results ZYTIGA XARELTO and INCIVO were big drivers globally but it looks like Europe accelerated again this quarter even if you back out adjustments one timers ZYTIGA INCIVO.
So my question is whether one or two things that's changed in Europe is maybe going to gain all the share.
I am sorry Matt.
Would you repeat the last part of that question? Yes.
What's driving the share gains in Europe for kind of the base business not the new products but the base? It seems like you continue to do better and better in Europe in pharma.
Yes.
Well Matt really its strong performance across both base and launch brands.
So if you take a look for example of how we are doing in the CNS area continued growth with those products.
We have had of course a number of new launches on top of that.
I think overall our team is just executing extremely well.
So I really think it’s a mix both of some of the core brands combined with the new product launches that’s driving that kind of performance.
Okay then.
Just to hear from Sandi.
Sandi one area you didn’t hit on was skincare which is almost as big as OTC nutritionals and the last I would say three quarters even again ex-divestitures it looks like it slowed a little bit.
Is that market share or market growth and is there anything coming there innovation wise that could accelerate the growth? Matt thanks for the question.
Actually the overall skin care market as a category is improving but it is still not what it used to be at our historical level.
However our own business is doing relatively well.
So our Neutrogena portfolio in the U.S.
we have gained 0.5 share point in the first half of this year.
Our Aveeno business is up almost 8%.
Our LPN business in Europe is growing close to 10%.
Our Johnson's adult business is growing in the mid-single digit level.
So those are all very positive things and we are feeling good about our businesses in Asia as well.
The one thing that is impacting those that are in this category is the sun care business.
The market category is down 11% in the first half of this year.
We have actually been gaining share in the U.S.
over 2% and we are now the number two global sun care provider in the world.
So the impact of the sun care market clearly is having an impact on the overall business and while we are doing very well in it a little over 2% is less than the historical rates that you would see normally in that business.
So that’s a general sense of how we are doing in the skincare portfolio and that’s why you see a relatively low overall growth rate because of market growth.
But our shares are actually growing in our core brands.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from Kristen Stewart Deutsche Bank.
I just want to take a step back I guess and just discuss what gives you I guess the confidence to raise the overall operational outlook for the rest of the year? Is it coming more and obviously you had a good first half but is there anything kind of in the end markets either within medical devices that gives you some increased confidence or are you just having a higher level of mix on more of the pharma side with some the performance there? Hi Kristen this is Alex.
Thanks for the question.
I will start off and then I will ask Dominic to finish.
But I think overall as we characterize our business we are really pleased with what we have seen during the first six months.
We have made a lot of progress around our top objectives that we have been very clear about from the very beginning delivering on our financial performance.
Obviously accelerating the launch of our pharmaceutical products.
As we look at that portfolio and particularly there is a couple of things one is in spite of new competition really all of our newly launched categories we continue to see very good uptake.
We think that’s driven first of all product profiles that really important for patients but they also have been very well-developed by our clinical development team.
Two by great commercial excellence.
I think that’s demonstrated in our ability to differentiate but also in our ability to ensure access for these products through managed care Medicaid in the United States but also through tendering processes outside the United States.
We have also seen good performance in our pipeline and development by bringing in through licensing and acquisitions but also continued progress in our own.
So all around our pharma business we believe is in a good place and certainly positioned well for future growth.
If we look at the MD&amp;D clearly we have been challenged by the macroeconomic situation that’s having an impact on demand around the world.
If I start in the United States what we have seen is fairly flat performance overall.
By the way if we look at some of the leading indicators for example if we look at hospital admissions if we look at inpatient procedures we see relatively flat to even slightly negative statistics.
The primary care physician visits are in the low single-digits.
We have got you multiple quarters consecutive quarters now with those types of trends.
We don’t expect that to turn in the near-term.
Longer-term we will have to see the impact of the Affordable Care Act on that.
That being said we remain very committed to our MD&amp;D business.
In areas such as Biosense Webster ENT Vision Care we have seen very positive performance this quarter.
However if you look at some of our other core businesses surgical care for example sutures and surgical instruments we see the challenges associated with the macroeconomic environment.
We're also somewhat I would say I encouraged as well by what we are seeing in orthopedics particularly in hips and knees and trauma over the past quarter.
And clearly if we look at our consumer group we see a very strong performance from our U.S.
OTC business.
Sandy took you through some of that earlier.
I think around the rest of the world we tend to follow more what we are seeing with GDP but if we total all of that we think that we are continuing to make good progress.
We still see challenges ahead.
At the same time our teams and our employees I think continue to demonstrate that we are delivering on our commitments and that's the way we intend to finish out the rest of the year.
So I wouldn't add anything else except that we are not reading into our performance any uptick in utilization trends generally speaking so I think that that still remains to be challenging for the balance of the year.
But as Alex said individual product performance is really pretty exceptional especially in the Pharma business.
And then just really quickly just the breaking out of the Nutritionals from the OTC business what was the rationale for that as Nutritionals is an area where you might look to divest or how should we just think about that separation? Yes.
We wanted to break it out so actually for your benefit so you can track the progress in our return of the OTC business.
You know it's pretty significant in terms of our progress there.
I think it sometimes gets buried by the groupies of different things in the same line so really for your benefit in your modeling purposes we want to show you singularly what the U.S.
an overall OTC business was doing.
No other reason than that.
Next question please? Your next question is from Larry Biegelsen Wells Fargo.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
One for Alex and one for Dominic.
Alex could you share with us your first and second quarter growth rates in emerging markets? Given the macroeconomic and political dynamics could you give us your latest thoughts on the outlook in those markets for health care in general and your business? And for Dominic then after that I'll ask my question for Dominic.
Larry this Alex.
Larry we are not splitting it out specifically for all emerging markets but if we take a look at our BRIC markets Brazil Russia India China what are saying is about 19% growth.
You can see obviously that that's a significant multiple of what we are seeing in developed markets.
Again I think it's built on the fact that we've been in these markets for a substantial period of time particularly if you take a look at our consumer and our MD&amp;D business in places like China but even our pharmaceutical business as well as the other businesses in places like Brazil we made investments over the last several years in our consumer and our MD&amp;D business for example with (Inaudible) [Elsker] Bioseal in China and so we see these markets as very important for our growth.
We continue to see good uptake in health care.
It's something that we are watching very closely in light of the larger macroeconomic environment.
But overall we believe that these markets represent a significant growth opportunity simply because more patients are receiving access to treatment.
And secondly because we have solid positions in many of these areas.
That's helpful.
Just to clarify the 19% Alex in the BRIC markets.
Was that for Q2 or the first half of the year? That was Q2.
And it excludes Synthes.
Larry and it excludes Synthes.
Okay.
And Dominic you grew I think 4.8% year-to-date ex-Synthes.
I think Alex talked about earlier in the presentation.
Correct me if I am wrong but the updated guidance implies about 2% to 4% in the second half of the year.
Is my math correct and is this just conservatism or is there any reason why you would expect the second half to be slower than the first half.
Thanks.
Yes.
So we were looking at operational growth.
Let's focus on that because obviously currencies that have a negative impact on our sales growth.
Operationally for the first half we had pretty strong growth all related to the pharmaceutical business primarily and obviously the inclusion of Synthes.
In the back half of the year to get to about between 6% and 7% operational growth that I was referring to we would expect about 4% overall growth for the back half of the year because the first half obviously was impacted by Synthes.
So that’s that math I have Larry about 10% this quarter roughly 10% for the first half of the year between 6% and 7% for the full year which implies about 4% in the back half of the year on an operational basis excluding any currency impacts.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from Derrick Sung with Sanford Bernstein.
My question to start off with just a couple of housekeeping items.
Was there any impact to sales this quarter from either in the pharma the Medicaid rebate adjustment or in medical devices any extra selling days that might have inflated sales growth rates? So Derrick no Medicaid rebate adjustments in this particular quarter.
We had a significant adjustment last quarter that we talked extensively about but nothing of that nature in this quarter.
With selling days we don’t know if there is any real significant impact for selling days this quarter.
Really no significant impact.
It's about 0.2 days.
That’s all OUS.
It only really impacts our orthopedics business.
Okay? Great and Louise could you give us a sense for the breakout of pricing and mix again for the orthopedic divisions? Sure.
So price worldwide just price is about 1% decline and that’s consistent U.S.
OUS and total and that’s as the same as the first quarter.
Now if we get into the U.S.
only where I have a price and mix number.
For hips the price was down about 3.5% very consistent with the prior periods.
Mix however was up about 1.5%.
So it netted to about a 2% decline.
So that’s a little bit more favorable than the first quarter.
When you go into knees the price number was down about 1%.
We did have favorable mix again.
For now we are about 0.5% favorable and that is very consistent with what we had in the first quarter.
How about spine? Okay so in terms of spine price was about 3% negative for the second quarter and mix was about to 2.5% positive netting to about 0.5% negative very similar trend on the total between the first and the second quarter.
However just a little bit of changes between price and mix.
Great thank you.
Just one more for Sandi if I could.
Sandi what are your expectations for how much share you will gain once you get your products back into the market now that you have seen how the initial relaunch of your OTC products is going.
I understand that’s 75% expectation for brands to market.
But how much of that lost share do you recapture when you hit the market? Thank you.
Thanks for the question.
Quite honestly we were still in early days.
Our intent and we are on track to bring 75% of those brands back this year.
We have others that we will be bringing back next year.
But as we begin to get into the stores and interact with consumers again we have had very positive responses from not only retailers but that consumers and healthcare professionals.
It is a little early to be able to answer that question but what I can tell you is that in the first half of the year we have seen with the limited on distribution now we have full distribution but in the first half we only had limited distribution we have seen things like our Extra Strength TYLENOL share double in the first half of the year.
We have seen significant growth with most of our other products that we have brought back to the market.
But it’s a little early for us to actually give you a clear sense of what that number will be.
Clearly our intent and our desire is to get back to the share numbers that we had before we went in to the CD process and that’s what we are really focused on doing.
Next question please.
Next question comes from the line of Jami Rubin with Goldman Sachs.
Just two questions to Dominic.
I just want to follow up on an earlier question.
That is the implied guidance for the second half of the year.
Even if I assume the top end of the guidance that still assumes a second half earnings growth of 4.5% versus 9% during the first half.
So I can't imagine that having Synthes now fully annualized would affect the operational growth rate that much.
May be it does but if you just talk about what specific headwinds you expect in the second half that we did not see in the first half.
Then Alex a question for you as long as we have the opportunity to have you on the call if you could talk sort of bigger picture about business development Dominic said that your priority is number one the dividend.
Number two business development or maybe you have that mixed up.
And then number three share buybacks.
But now with Synthes having fully annualized just wondering if you could talk to what your business priorities are in terms of specific businesses what sort of size we should anticipate.
How are you thinking about business development? Thanks.
So Jamie on the earnings part of the back half versus first half comparison remember we did indicate that we expected this other income and expense line to be about $800 million for the year that's consistent with our guidance now so no change there.
But of course you with the Élan gain coming all in one quarter the vast majority of that has already happened in the first half of the year.
So.
That contributes this quarter? Yes.
As you look at that we released in April we talked about the fact that we sold our Elan shares and we filed a registration statement concerning that and we indicated the estimated gain was going to be about $200 million from that sale we then sold some additional shares later in the year.
So think about it as a better $0.07 kind of number that we disclosed earlier but to put one thing in perspective with this other income and expense line your models of course have modeled one quarter of the $800 million which is about what I had expected a model and this quarter we had within that line $400 million of other income and expense right because as the Élan gain in there.
So if you look at the impact just this quarter of the Élan gain versus the overall analyst models I would say that that $200 million excess or roughly $150 million after-tax is worth about $0.05 compared to what the Street has been modeling.
Okay.
And Jamie for your first question I think the way that I would frame our overall position is look we are going to continue to look for internal and external opportunities that we feel is going to drive our growth going forward.
We've been very consistent in saying that when there are new technologies new innovations that give us a platform to build and I think a great example of that is what we have done in oncology over the past few years and our pharmaceutical business.
There is a lot of unmet medical need and we've been able to do some great partnering to rapidly build what we feel is now a world-class platform in oncology both from a pharmaceutical development but also from a commercial and access point of view.
The next area that we look at of course is what businesses could be complementary to our existing businesses.
What may round out some of our current portfolios or allow build on capabilities that we currently have and there are other opportunities perhaps where we look at vertical integration.
What we've done for example in our biosurgicals business is a great example of that with OMRIX and we are excited about the potential that has is we are in the process of launching that on a global level but that's the way we look at it.
But regarding our pharmaceutical business look I am really proud of the work the team has done there in taking agreement such as what we've done with Pharmacyclics what we've done with (Inaudible) what we have done with other organizations in partnering and adding on to our portfolio to bring forward great opportunities for patients but also for our business.
In MD&amp;D obviously the Synthes transaction was very large transaction.
Michel and his team are doing a very nice job through the integration process but we realize that that does take some time.
We remain committed to having the broadest and most comprehensive orthopedics platform.
We are seeing that happening right now as those businesses come together.
In consumer we think the consumer area [level]-one consumerism will also be very important as we go forward in healthcare.
And we have made some select acquisition they are particular in China over the past couple of years.
We have also done some other divestments in our business as we really focus more in certain areas of our portfolio and as we have also done in MD&amp;D so I think that's overall our approach.
We want to continue to look for technologies and innovations that really make a difference for patients we want to continue to look for opportunities to that can be complementary add-on give us additional customer offerings or if we see other brand-new areas that we think can really be transformational obviously we would be interested in that as well.
Next question please.
Your next question is from the line of Danielle Antalffy with Leerink Swann.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks so much for taking my question.
I just wanted to touch on the diabetes business a little bit.
You mentioned some of the impacts on competitive bidding.
Can you talk a little bit Alex about your commitment to that business going forward and how we think about the business now in the context of competitive bidding? Louise if you could remind us the impact of competitive bidding to the business? How much of the business is as opposed to Medicare? Hi Danielle thank you vey much for the question.
Look overall what I would say is that J&amp;J and our diabetes companies we still feel we are very uniquely positioned for strong leadership and success in the category based on a great track record that we have had in technology innovation scale and brand equity.
If you just look at diabetes of course its one of the largest and most significant issues in healthcare today.
I think there is somewhat around 370 million people with diabetes today projected to go to almost 500 million by 2020.
So the need is great.
It is a very difficult area to control.
Now what I would say is that with the recent launch of Invokana our sales and marketing efforts are broadly targeting both endocrinologists and primary care physician to treat a vast majority of these Type 2 patients.
Both Janssen and LifeScan Animas are partnering to accomplish this objective.
It is the first time where LifeScan Animas have been involved in promoting an oral therapeutic agent of any kind.
That really helps to expand their reach and it strengthens basically their commercial and clinical relevance beyond just glucose monitoring and insulin delivery among those healthcare professionals.
Then when you compound that with the Calibra acquisition that we recently did it’s the Wearable Insulin Patch technology we feel that that’s going to be a very good opportunity for patients making it easier for them.
If they are currently on basal only insulin therapy and they need an easy to administer mealtime dosing option that certainly provides that.
But while we look at all that we also acknowledge the realities of the market and now with a competitive bidding process the 72% reduction in pricing that we are experiencing in the United States we are having to adapt our business model to meet that challenge.
But again it’s a diabetes we think is a very important space of a lot of unmet medical need.
We think we have a number of offerings across our MD&amp;D pharmaceutical and consumer segment that can address them.
But clearly we will adapt to those changing dynamics as events unfold and as we predict they will unfold in the coming years.
And Medicare sales are just over 20% of the U.S.
business.
Okay great.
Thanks so much.
Then on Synthes if I could dig a little bit deeper on that.
You mentioned a stable or some positive momentum and fine procedures.
I am wondering how much of that is underlying market growth versus specific to Synthes and how is Synthes doing relative to your internal expectations as far as sales force attrition goes and how are you managing that going forward? Thanks so much guys.
Sure.
Let me start with Synthes.
Overall look we are really pleased with the way the integration is going.
Taking on a company the size of Synthes with a reputation that scale its capabilities is no small undertaking.
Bringing those together the way that our teams have I think they are really to be commended for it.
We have got a multi-phased program in place to bring it together commercially the entire research and development organization as well as all the supporting functional areas.
When you look at for example our hip and knee performance in the United States we saw growth in our hip area up 5% again based on new products being introduced things like (inaudible) CORAIL other things our knee business being helped by the introduction of the ATTUNE new knee system.
If we compare those to the U.S.
growth rates we are estimating and this is first quarter data because we don’t have all second quarter data yet of 1% in hips and slightly down in knees.
We think that’s very favorable performance and again keeping those segments focused keeping them delivering while going through the integration is no small feat.
If we look at trauma we are up 2% in the U.S.
versus the market that we think is probably going around 6%.
We have seen some loss of share due to the nail recall that we experienced early in the earlier.
We think it's being managed well we think we will see our way through that on a worldwide basis so we think we are you growing commensurate with what we are seeing with the market so continued strong emerging market growth the globalization that we offer to some of those businesses we think is real opportunity.
Now last but not least in spine on a worldwide basis what we see the market is down about 2%.
We think we are down about 1% so we think we are commensurate.
In the U.S.
we have seen the performance when we were down about 7% versus the market that was down about three.
We were clearly impacted by some transitional issues with our sales force during that period.
They put a comprehensive plan in place where we think that we project that will do much better going forward.
And more importantly when you look at the offerings that our representatives have across the minimally invasive segment degenerative spine a number of other areas combined with the rest of our portfolio is going to put us in a very good position in that marketplace.
So we remain very optimistic pleased with the performance around the integration and feel that DePuy Synthes again is going to be good for patients and also be good for our business.
Next question please? The next question is from the line of Tony Butler with Barclays Capital.
Good morning and thank you very much for the time.
Really two questions and one is two parts.
Alex a question for you first clearly some discussion not only in the press today which has been in the press for some time about the ministry of public security looking into business practices principally in China.
And I am concerned that that you'd spread not only to Glaxo but to other companies including JNJ.
Just simply looking business practices can you comment on what you know today maybe going on what sort of investigations and whether or not your practices are being discussed.
Then two product questions.
One clearly around the very strong growth of PREZISTA up 80% sequentially Louise or Dominic any commentary that you can make regarding that very strong growth sequentially.
Then second on XARELTO if I understand 20% sequential growth but you believe that's solely driven by DTC.
Thanks very much.
Sure Tony.
Let me start up.
Look on the first question what I would is that we are absolutely committed to ensuring that our businesses are run in a highly compliant manner around the world.
And we have a very active compliance program in place in the country such as China little on all the BRIC countries.
We continue to update our policies and procedures as we get more information.
At the same time we recognize that these countries are very important markets going forward.
By that there is still a lot of unmet medical need with patients.
And clearly we know that these governments are also very committed to ensuring that they have a compliant environment at the same time they are getting access for their citizens to important health care options.
So we remain very diligent on it.
We've made significant investments in these areas in compliance and we want to work closely with these countries and governments to ensure that we are working together in a collaborative way to ensure we have a very compliant environment going forward.
Louise? Charlie more in PREZISTA we have seen just the basic market share improvement over the quarter.
I mean PREZISTA is doing very well.
Our sales team is doing an excellent job and the product has become quite frankly a mainstay in HIV therapy so it's really just we saw pretty strong market share growth sequentially.
Then on XARELTO we did do some DTC there but I think that product as we've talked about before with the breadth of its indications is becoming much more recognized as a standard of care in that marketplace.
And as Alex pointed out earlier you know we've now surpassed warfarin in the new to brand share.
So I think the breadth and our strategy around the breadth of that compound in the market that needs that kind of therapy that has both exceptional efficacy and obviously safety is what's driving that growth.
I wouldn't just pin it on overall DTC advertising.
I would say just a breadth of the overall indications for the product as we expected.
That's what our strategy was and looks like to playing out.
Yes Tony I would just add one other thing on to that because I think Dominic gave a really comprehensive answer.
That is in addition to the clinical development program which resulted in numerous indications it's really gives physicians a very broad application of the product.
They have also done a great job done by our access team in ensuring broad formulary access in our managed care in places here in the United States.
So I think now we have got more than 85% access of Tier 2 in both private as well as Medicare customers.
That’s very important for them.
It relates to an issue of affordability of convenience and of course the reason that we are able to get that kind of access is because our team has done a great job of demonstrating the clinical and overall economic value of XARELTO to those patients and in those settings.
Next question please.
Your next question is from the line of Glenn Navarro with RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks for taking my question.
A question for Alex.
Alex I would like your view on the CapEx environment in the United States.
It appears the environment remains challenging.
I know you spend a lot of time visiting hospitals and hospital executives.
Is the CapEx challenged environment a function of utilization? Is it a function of healthy health care reform? So just curious of your views.
Then as a follow-up what do you think turns the CapEx environment to the positive in the U.S.? Thanks.
Hi thank you very much Glenn.
Look I would say in discussions that I have had with hospital CEOs and with other people in the marketplace I have seen a couple of things.
One is clearly there has been a recession now for I believe almost 10 to 12 consecutive quarters where we see that admissions in the hospitals as well as numbers of procedures being flat to negative.
Now clearly we are seeing some shift to the outpatient setting but when it comes to inpatient procedures and additions that market is obviously being impacted by the macroeconomic conditions.
I think secondly people are waiting to see the full impact of the Affordable Care Act.
They are still working their way through the details and how that might affect.
There is certainly changes regarding risk bearing areas such as hospital acquired infections and other procedures.
So I think that’s also having an impact.
Third we are seeing is that patients frankly and customers as being more demanding about the data that is supporting justification for new approaches new procedures and innovation.
So that’s the way I would describe the overall CapEx environment as it related to hospitals.
And just as one quick follow-up.
Do you have a view on Europe? Europe has remained very challenging from a utilization and a capital point of view? That appears to be stable.
Is that correct? What I would say Glenn is it’s a bit of a tale of two cities.
I think on one hand what we see in CapEx particularly if you go to Southern Europe it’s a very challenging environment and it's because of again the macro economic situation they are facing.
I don’t think we have seen a pronounced decrease or improvement.
We have seen it fairly steady quarter-to-quarter but we expect that to remain a very challenging environment going forward.
On the other hand what we have seen is that when you introduce new innovations such as our pharmaceutical group has done over the past 12 months they can really make a difference for patients that you can get reimbursement and get access for patients.
Next question please.
Your next question is from Matt Miksic with Piper Jaffray.
Thanks good morning.
So Alex I very much appreciate the update in perspective.
There is a lot to talk about here.
But I was wondering if you could expand a little bit on your thoughts on innovation as you had just mentioned and earlier in the call particularly as it pertains to MD&amp;D and a few different factors just the first to a degree towards new technologies smart instruments and your competitors in different areas of putting that out.
You have put that out obviously effectively with Biosense Webster over time.
Number two whether these opportunities are greater in areas where you have an established business like orthopedics like cardio or whether new platforms and opportunities are as attractive.
Then finally I you think you just mentioned again presenting innovations in a way that hospital and caregivers can recognize the value and are willing to pay for them.
So maybe just your broad thoughts as to factors pertaining to MD&amp;D and I have one follow-up for Sandy.
Sure.
Matt thanks a lot for the question.
If I reflect on it at a very broad level what I would say around MD&amp;D is that look innovation is going to continue to be important.
However I think that the bar will be raised on the data will be required to describe and represent that innovation so let me give you a few examples.
I think overall what we are saying is incremental innovation while still clearly an important part of the overall portfolio and ultimately that can help you lead a path a significant breakthrough innovation is not being rewarded with for example increased pricing or improved pricing in the marketplace and we would expect over time that we will need to have more transformational innovation or more significant innovation.
We recognize that that's going to require additional clinical development and investments.
At the same time we think at Johnson &amp; Johnson we are uniquely positioned in that category.
Given the broad breadth and scale capabilities that we have at our pharmaceutical group and in our medical device group.
So for example what we've done in our biosurgicals area as we are getting ready to launch Fibrin Pad the way that we are having our cardiovascular team even the for example work with XARELTO and some of the things that we are doing Biosense Webster it gives us a unique opportunity for convergence.
And in fact we see opportunities in some of these segments to look innovation differently and frankly raise the bar with innovation from a clinical point of view but also from a regulatory point of view that's in the best interest of patients as well as for our business.
We look at areas going forward.
I think it's going to be a combination.
We still think that in areas such as general surgery when we look at biosurgicals when we look at your areas such as energy there's a lot of opportunity to make procedures less invasive to simplify the procedures particularly in emerging markets that will ultimately lead to better overall outcomes and reducing morbidity.
We think in other areas there is great technology opportunity.
Such in Biosense Webster so in the in the general surgery category I think there is a lot of opportunity for growth in orthopedics.
We are working on innovation with products like the ATTUNE Knee like a number of things that we are doing in spine and hip as of late.
We're also looking at innovation from a commercial model standpoint.
What can we do around having a broader offering a different kind of relationship and partnership with hospitals and other large payers again in a way that's good for patients that helps to improve outcomes but also is better for the institution and we think again there too we are uniquely position given the breadth the depth the scale and size of our business.
That's great.
Thank you for that.
And then for Sandy and maybe Alex you may want to chime in on this as well but around the quality and regulatory and we tend to have focused over the past couple of years on the pathway and the process for OTC in sort of managing through the OTC-specific challenges that have come up but it would be very helpful if you touch a little bit on this with respect to the supply chain but it would be great to hear and maybe some of the changes you made proactive in ongoing at your other major businesses and facilities and maybe if you could provide some examples or anecdotes it would help illustrate the progress that you are making across the organization in terms of quality.
So Matt thanks for the question.
As I mentioned in the opening remarks our quality effort is across the enterprise across all of our businesses our manufacturing sites as well as all of our R&amp;D sites because they are under the scope of trying to ensure that we have the highest standard of quality for the safety and care of our patients and consumers.
So when we launched the quality initiative a number of years ago the focus really was ensuring that we have got consistent quality standards.
We went through a three-year cycle that were just ending the first of the cycle over a three year period where we have gone through all of our manufacturing facilities all of our core strategic suppliers as well as all of our R&amp;D site to ensure that all of them are living up to the appropriate regulatory standards in those countries that also are standard that at J&amp;J we believe is one of the highest in the industry and its across all of our sectors.
So there has been an immense amount of work and focus in ensuring that we have consistency across our operations across our product lines and across all of the countries in which we operate.
We have obviously as we gone through all of this work we have identified corrective actions and we have immediately taken those corrective actions.
We are harmonizing systems.
We are putting in place processes and systems so that we have early warning.
Systems in place to understand if there is we think may be something going on with a product so we identify it early and we go out and correct it.
In addition to that an important component of all of this is how we are managing our global supply chain.
So one of the very important changes that we have been making with our global supply chain is ensuring that all of our external suppliers so our material suppliers are thoroughly reviewed are thoroughly managed and that they are living up to our quality standards.
In that process in the last three years we have actually consolidated our external manufacturing our external material suppliers by about a third.
So we have a third less than we had three years ago.
That means that we an ability to manage them much more effectively and ensure that we are reviewing their quality of their products coming into our facilities.
We have also looked at our external manufacturers those that provide finished products to us and we manage those across the enterprise now in a very rigorously manner with thorough and thorough audits and we are learning across the enterprise how to share best practice from business to business and technology to technology.
So this effort is not just focus on the OTC business it is really across all of our businesses in all of our countries globally.
We are ensuring that we independent audits and independent approach to managing this but we are ensuring that we also are putting the right systems processes and capital and automation in place in all of our facilities around the globe.
So we have made significant progress.
I think one other indication of that progress is that over the last couple of years we recently closed out a number of warning letters and we are making very good progress on the ones that are remaining but we are feeling good about where we are.
Always things can happen.
We have 300 000 SKUs around the globe.
So that’s where our vigilance has to be as ensuring every single one of those SKUs are meeting our high standards.
Next question please.
Your next question is from the line of Jeff Holford with Jefferies.
Just wanted to get a little bit more of an update on the diabetes care businesses where you have been progressing to in terms of market share versus your key competitors and just what you think outside of reimbursement changes what the underlying growth rate here just for expectations going forward? Thank you.
Jeff are you referring to which of our businesses? Our MD&amp;D diabetes business or Invokana? Sorry MD&amp;D diabetes.
Okay.
We believe that we have been relatively flat in share this last quarter.
We think that there may have been a slight downtick based upon some of the pricing changes that are being made and particularly intrusion of store brands and other offerings.
Obviously it's something that we are watching very closely.
Jeff I want to add our estimation is that the overall market is declining there.
So overall market trends are negative in the diabetes test strips.
The market volumes are declining overall.
Next question please.
Your next question is from the line of Bob Hopkins Bank of America.
I know its getting late.
So two very quick ones.
Thanks for taking the call.
First there hasn’t been a lot of commentary on your general surgery franchises within medical technology.
So I am wondering if you can just comment a little bit more specifically on of those businesses and what you are seeing there because the growth rate in general surgery and especially surgery did look like it was a little better than last quarter.
So just a little bit of a commentary there on what you are seeing in those markets and what you are seeing competitively? Is the uptick more of a little better market or is it a little bit more little better market or is it little bit more or less share loss more you can think? Sure.
Look there's a number of things driving our performance over there.
I think first of all we saw modest growth overall in the specialty surgery category for the quarter.
Our biosurgicals platform had solid growth particularly outside the United States.
We also saw good growth in the U.S.
in our ENT business.
And while the worldwide energy business continues to grow driven by the continued expansion in new emerging markets and new product launches we were challenged in the U.S.
with our energy business with low cost competitors as well as some competitive pressures.
So that's the way I would described specialty surgery.
In general surgery of course our business was impacted by what has taken place and women's health and our decision to exit some of those businesses so that had negative.
We look at suture and some of those basic platforms we are seeing very consistent growth with the overall market that we think it is basically up about 1% or 2%.
Okay.
Then just one quick follow up on an earlier question on emerging markets.
I know you talked a lot about how well position you think change is but just in terms of the outlook for growth of the markets in emerging markets especially as relates to MD&amp;D how confident are you that the current growth trends in the market can continue as we look forward over the couple of years.
So again it's really question of gauging confidence in light of some of the things that have gone on in these economies in your confidence and abilities of these market specifically medical devices to continued growth nice pace we've seen over the last year or so.
Sure.
Look I think there is a couple of forces and dynamics that will be impacting it.
You know first of all you've got a significant increase in the middle-class populations in those countries.
So for example in China I think most of the recent statistics would suggest you have about 150 million people in the middle-class.
That could go as high as north of 500 million close to 800 million people over the next 10 years.
And what we also know is that these people move up the economic ladder they generally consume more health care.
And so we think that the urbanization trend the trend towards an increasing middle-class does offer a significant growth opportunity.
Now of course offsetting that will be pressure put on governments on how they are going to control overall healthcare spending.
But if you look at the healthcare spending levels in places like Brazil Russia India and China it's very low single digits.
We think that it's an opportunity for them to invest in their society even have a more stable society as well as a more productive society so we think that the growth opportunities there will continue.
We recognize that it's going to take perhaps a different portfolio of products that are really targeted towards specific disease states areas of unmet medical need for those markets.
It will take time for different commercial approaches but overall we do think that emerging markets will be a major source of growth for the next several years.
With respect to everybody's time we will take one more question and then we'll have some closing remarks by Alex.
Your next question is from the line of David Lewis Morgan Stanley.
Good morning.
Maybe two quick ones here Louise to keep on the time schedule here.
First Dominic on the cash flow free cash specifically got better in 2012 versus 2011 I believe.
How do you feel about first half free cash generation.
I know you don't give specific guidance but if you just think about free cash versus net income how do you expect back half '13 and '13 general to shape up relative to '12.
And then I had a quick follow-up maybe for Louise just on ibrutinib any timing expectations can could we see that approval for year end.
Thank you.
David we are pleased with our cash flow generation.
And for the first half of the year free cash flow is little over $6 billion so we expect to be well north of $12 billion which is where we ended last year's free cash flow so I think we will see '13 overall free cash flow generation better than we saw in '12 and that we are off to a good start already.
Yes.
And regarding ibrutinib look the NDA the new drug application for ibrutinib was submitted June 2013 which was announced recently and this was announced by the FDA.
We do have the Breakthrough Therapy designation which we are very excited about for the treatment of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL SLL and we have received at least one prior therapy in patients also with mantle cell lymphoma MCL who have received at least one prior therapy.
We got to two pivotal trials that we think are both the very strong and the FDA has not communicated the PDUFA date and the review period is not dictated in the existing breakthrough therapy guidelines from the FDA.
Now that being said we have requested a priority review designation which has an FDA goal for completion of six months after a two-month validation period but we really cannot comment beyond that at this time.
All that being said we think this is going to really offer a great option for patients and for physicians in a very difficult to treat area and be a tremendous extension of our emerging oncology portfolio and franchise.
So some final remarks Alex? Okay.
So thanks for your time everybody.
On behalf of Dominic Sandi Louise and myself and even more importantly from the 128 000 employees of Johnson &amp; Johnson around the world I would like to close today's conference call by thanking you for participating in the meeting.
Your engagement in our business is much appreciated.
We look forward to discussing our future results as we move through the rest of the year.
So enjoy the rest of summer and thank you very much.
Thank you.
This concludes today's Johnson &amp; Johnson second quarter earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Johnson &amp; Johnson third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
All participants will be able to listen-only until the question-and-answer session of the conference.
This call is being recorded.
If anyone has any objections you may disconnect at this time.
(Operator Instructions).
I would now like to turn the call over to Johnson &amp; Johnson you may begin.
Good morning and welcome.
I am Louise Mehrotra Vice President of Investor Relations for Johnson &amp; Johnson and it is my pleasure this morning to review our business results for the third quarter of 2013.
Joining me on the call today are Dominic Caruso Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer and Michel Orsinger Worldwide Chairman of DePuy Synthes Companies.
A few logistics before we get into the details.
This review is being made available to a broader audience via webcast accessible through the Investor Relations section of the Johnson &amp; Johnson website.
I will begin by briefly reviewing highlights of the third quarter for the corporation and highlights for our three business segments.
Following my remarks Michel will provide an update on our DePuy Synthes business and the progress made on our near-term priorities in successfully integrating Synthes.
Please note the presentations that accompanies Michel's remarks is available on our website.
Next Dominic will provide some additional commentary on the financial results and guidance for 2013.
We will then open the call to your questions.
We expect the call to last approximately 90 minutes.
Included with the press release that was issued earlier this morning is a schedule of sales for key products and/or businesses to facilitate updating your models.
These schedules are available on the Johnson &amp; Johnson website as is the press release.
Before I get into the results let me remind you that some of the statements made during this review may be considered forward-looking statements.
The 10-K for the fiscal year 2012 identifies certain factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements made today.
The company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.
The 10-K is available through the company and online.
During the review non-GAAP financial measures are used to provide information pertinent to ongoing business performance.
These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered replacements for GAAP results.
Tables reconciling these measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are available in the press release and on the Investor Relations section of the Johnson &amp; Johnson website at investor.jnj.com.
Now I would like to review our results for the third quarter of 2013.
If you would refer to your copy of the press release let's begin with the schedule titled supplementary sales data by geographic area.
Worldwide sales to customers were $17.6 billion for the third quarter of 2013 up 3.1% as compared to the third quarter of 2012.
On an operational basis sales were up 4.7% and currency had a negative impact of 1.6%.
In the U.S.
sales were up 1.7%.
In regions outside the U.S.
our operational growth was 7.1% while the effect of currency exchange rates negatively impacted our reported results by 2.9 points.
Europe grew 8.4% on an operational basis while the western hemisphere excluding the U.S.
grew by 8% operationally.
Asia-Pacific/Africa region grew 5.1% operationally.
The success of new product launches made strong contributions to the results in all regions.
If you now turn to the consolidated statements of earnings net earnings were $3 billion consistent with the 2012 results.
Earnings per share were $1.04 versus $1.05 a year ago.
Please direct your attention to the box section of the schedule where we have provided earnings adjusted to exclude special items.
As referenced in the accompanying table reconciling non-GAAP measures 2013 third quarter net earnings were adjusted to exclude the after-tax special items of $937 million primarily related to an increase in the accrual for litigation expenses in-process research and development and integration costs associated with the acquisition of Synthes.
Third quarter 2012 net earnings included after-tax special items of approximately $553 million as shown in the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures excluding these special items for both periods net earnings for the current quarter were $3.9 billion and diluted earnings per share were $1.36 representing increases of 11.3% and 8.8% respectively as compared to the same period in 2012.
I would now like to make some additional comments relative to the components leading to earnings before we move onto the segment highlights.
For the third quarter of 2013 cost of goods sold at 30.4% was down 240 basis points from the same period last year.
In the third quarter of 2012 we recorded an inventory step up charge related to the Synthes acquisition.
Excluding the inventory step up charge which was treated as a special item cost of goods sold decreased 150 basis points versus the same period last year.
Positive mix strong volume growth in our Pharmaceutical business and cost improvement initiatives across many of the businesses was partially offset by the impact of the medical device excise tax.
Third quarter selling marketing and administrative expenses were 30.2% of sales or 40 basis points lower than our 2012 results due to cost containment initiatives across many of the businesses.
Our investment in research and development as a percent of sales was 11.6% up 30 basis points due to increased spending in the Pharmaceuticals business.
Interest expense net of interest income of $87 million was down $33 million versus the third quarter of 2012 due to a lower average debt level.
Other expense net of other income of $943 million in the third quarter of 2013 compared to other income net of other expense of $19 million in the same period last year.
Excluding special items other income net of other expense of $43 million was $132 million less than 2012 due primarily to the impact of 2012 gains on divestitures.
Excluding special items the effective tax rate was 18.9% in the third quarter of 2013 compared to 22.2% in the same period last year.
Dominic will provide commentary on taxes in his remarks.
Turning now to business segment highlights please refer to the supplementary sales schedule highlighting key products or businesses for the third quarter of 2013.
I will begin with the consumer segment.
Worldwide consumer segment sales for the third quarter of 2013 of $3.6 billion increased 0.8% as compared to the same period last year.
On an operational basis sales increased 2% while the impact of currency was negative 1.2%.
U.S.
sales were up 0.9% while international sales grew 2.6% on an operational basis.
Excluding the impact of divestitures net of acquisitions operational growth was approximately 2.5%.
Baby care products increased on an operational basis by 2.6% when compared to the third quarter of 2012 due primarily to the impact of the health care products acquired earlier this year.
Sales in the Oral Care business decreased 3% operationally.
Excluding the impact of the divestiture of manual toothbrushes in North America operational sales were essentially flat.
For the third quarter of 2013 sales for OTC Pharmaceuticals increased 6.5% on an operational basis compared to the same period in 2012.
U.S.
sales were up 17.9% driven by strong growth in analgesics and other key brands as we continue to make progress in returning a reliable supply of products to the marketplace.
International sales were up 2% operationally.
Our skin care business grew 2.7% on an operational basis in the third quarter of 2013.
Strong results for AVEENO were partially offset by the impact of divestitures.
Excluding divestitures operational growth was approximately 4%.
Women's health grew 2.5% on an operational basis due to growth in international women's sanitary protection products.
Wound care other sales decreased 6.9% on an operational basis impacted by competitive pressures as well as divestitures.
That completes our review of the consumer segment and I will now review highlights for the pharmaceutical segment.
Worldwide net sales for the third quarter of $7 billion increased 9.9% versus the same period last year.
On an operational basis sales increased 10.9% with a negative currency impact of one point.
Sales in the U.S.
increased 7.9% while sales outside the U.S.
increased on an operational basis by 14%.
Now reviewing sales for major therapeutic areas.
Immunology products grew 13.4% operationally with sales in the U.S.
up 3% and sales outside the U.S.
up 47.7% operationally.
Earlier this year the company made certain supply chain changes for REMICADE resulting in sales to distributors previously recorded as U.S.
export sales now being recorded as international sales.
Adjusting for this impact the U.S.
immunology growth was approximately 8% and operational growth outside the U.S.
was approximately 28%.
In the U.S.
REMICADE excluding export sales was up 7.8% SIMPONI was up 19.4% and STELARA are was up 23.9%.
Results were driven by market growth across the major products complemented by increased market share for both STELARA and SIMPONI.
With the strength of our portfolio we continue to be the U.S.
market leader in immunology.
REMICADE outside the U.S.
adjusted for the supply chain change just mentioned was up approximately 15% operationally due to strong growth in Canada and the emerging markets.
STELARA made significant contributions to growth outside the U.S.
due to market share gains and market growth across the major regions while SIMPONI's strong growth was due to increased shipments to our distribution partner complemented by additional country launches and strong growth in other markets.
Sales of infectious disease products increased 2.4% on an operational basis.
INCIVO a treatment for Hepatitis C grew 5.3% on an operational basis reflecting launches in additional countries partially offset by lower sales in Europe impacted by a combination of patient warehousing patients enrollment in clinical trials and seasonality in treatment patterns impacting new patient starts in the summer months.
Continued momentum in market share growth in the major markets for PREZISTA made notable contributions to the results.
Results outside the U.S.
were impacted by the timing of tender business.
Strong growth for the combined sales of COMPLERA and EDURANT also contributed to the results.
Neuroscience product sales declined 1.9% operationally with U.S.
sales down 11.4% impacted by generic competition primarily for CONCERTA.
The long-acting injectable antipsychotics RISPERDAL CONSTA and INVEGA SUSTENA or XEPLION achieved operational growth of over 15% due to an increase in combined market share.
Sales of oncology products increased 57% on an operational basis due to the strong results for ZYTIGA and VELCADE.
ZYTIGA is approved to treat both chemo refractory and chemo naïve metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer.
In the quarter ZYTIGA achieved operational sales growth of over 70% with U.S.
sales growing 50% due to very strong market growth of nearly 25% and increased market share in the combined metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer market.
ZYTIGA has captured 33% of that market and is up approximately 2.5 points sequentially.
ZYTIGA sales outside the U.S.
nearly doubled on an operational basis versus third quarter of 2012 and on a sequential basis sales were up over 15%.
Additional country rollouts and the expansion of the label to chemo naïve patients drove the strong results.
ZYTIGA is approved in more than 80 countries.
VELCADE is a treatment for multiple myeloma.
Sales increased 26.3% on an operational basis.
Strong performance in patient share in the frontline setting and the launch of the subcutaneous version continue to drive sales growth.
Other oncology increased primarily due to DOXIL/CAELYX.
Regarding DOXIL/CAELYX ensuring a efficient supply for physicians and their patients remained our urgent priority.
We have begun to encounter supply outages of DOXIL in the U.S.
due to issues at our third-party manufacturer.
We continue to take the steps needed for the long-term transition to suppliers which we are accelerating wherever possible.
The FDA has approved the generic doxorubicin hydrochloride liposome injection which is currently available for patients.
In Europe the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use or CHMP has approved manufacturing at CAELYX from an alternate supplier.
We anticipate receiving CAELYX from this manufacturer by the end of the year.
Other pharmaceutical products increased 5.9% on an operational basis with strong results for XARELTO and INVOKANA partially offset by lower sales for EPREX and PARIET primarily related to generic competition.
XARELTO more than tripled compared with the same quarter last year and grew nearly 30% on a sequential basis reaching nearly 40% of the new two brand scripts in cardiology in September surpassing warfarin by over eight points and widening the lead by three points versus the last quarter.
Total prescription exit share in the broader anticoagulant market grew approximately 1.5 points on a sequential basis to nearly 10%.
In the U.S.
INVOKANA achieved 17% new to brand share with endocrinologists within the defined market of type-2 diabetes excluding insulin and metformin.
At 17% INVOKANA is the number one branded non-insulin product NBRx in that market.
In addition to the number of approvals and filings that Dominic will highlight in his remarks during the quarter ibrutinib was granted priority review by the FDA for the use in the treatment of previously treated patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia or CLL and small lymphocytic lymphoma or SLL and for its use in the treatment of previously treated patients with mantle cell lymphoma or MCL.
In late February PDUFA date has been assigned.
We announced the simultaneous submissions of a biologic license application to FDA and a marketing authorization application to the European Medicines Agency or EMA for siltuximab an experimental product for the treatment of patients with multicentric Castleman disease.
The resubmission to the FDA complete response for the use of XARELTO to reduce the risk of secondary cardiovascular events and [Centrum] in patients with acute coronary syndrome was filed with a PDUFA date of mid-February next year.
In October a marketing authorization application was submitted to the EMA seeking approval for a once-daily single tablet fixed dose antiretroviral combination product containing darunavir a protease inhibitor developed by Johnson with cobicistat a pharmacokinetic enhancer developed by Gilead Sciences for use in combination with other HIV-1 medicines.
That completes the review of the Pharmaceutical segment.
I will now review the Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment results.
Worldwide medical devices and diagnostic segment sales of $6.9 billion declined 2% versus for the same period last year.
On an operational basis sales increased 0.3% with a negative currency impact of 2.3 points.
Sales in the U.S.
declined 4.2% while sales outside the U.S.
increased on an operational basis by 4.2%.
Adjusted for divestitures and exits from certain businesses underlying growth was approximately 1% reflecting continued market and pricing pressure.
I will provide more commentary on these factors in the franchise reviews.
Starting with cardiovascular care sales were up 4.2% operationally with U.S.
up 0.5% and sales outside the U.S.
up 6.6% operationally driven by Biosense Webster our Electrophysiology business with worldwide operational growth of over 11% in the quarter.
The success of a number of capital launches made strong contributions to the results.
Diabetes care sales declined 11.3% on an operational basis in the third quarter of 2013 with the U.S.
business down 27.7% due to the impact of lower price primarily related to competitive bidding.
The business outside the U.S.
was up 6.5% operationally with strong sales in the emerging markets partially offset by lower sales in some of the developed markets.
The success of the launch of Animas Vibe in certain international countries has contributed to growth in the quarter.
The diagnostics business declined 8% on an operational basis.
Excluding the impact of the divestiture of the Virco's business operational sales were down approximately 2.5% due to the exit from certain donor screening contracts and lower capital placements.
Infection prevention decreased 0.5% on an operational basis with sales in the U.S.
down 7.1% due to the soft capital equipment sales reflecting a lower level of trade-ins.
Outside the U.S.
operational growth of 4.3% was driven by both consumables and capital item sales.
Orthopedic sales were up 1.1% on an operational basis when compared to the same period in 2012 with the U.S.
down 0.8% and sales outside the U.S.
up 3.4%.
Operationally hips were up 6% worldwide driven by 7% growth in U.S.
due to strong results on primary stent platforms sales partially offset by continued pricing pressure.
Hips outside the U.S.
were up 4% on the operational basis driven mainly by heads and acetabular products.
Knees worldwide increased 3% on an operational basis with similar results both in and outside the U.S.
Growth in the U.S.
was due to the successful launch of ATTUNE Fixed Bearing Knee as well as strong sales of Revision platforms partially offset by lower sales of rotating platforms and pricing pressure.
The launch of ATTUNE drove the results outside the U.S.
Trauma was up 1% on an operational basis with the U.S.
flat and outside the U.S.
up 2% operationally.
Low cost competition impacted to the results in the U.S.
while the timing of tender business negatively impacted the results outside the U.S.
Worldwide spine was down 2% on an operational basis with the U.S.
down approximately 10% impacted by pricing pressures the continued softness in the market as well as the disruption in the commercial sales organization as we integrate the businesses.
Outside the U.S.
sales were up approximately 9% operationally with strong growth in Latin America and Asia-Pacific.
Specialty surgery operational growth was 6.7% in the third quarter of 2013.
U.S.
sales were up 4.2% and sales outside the U.S.
up 9.2% on an operational basis.
Strong sales of biosurgical products and international sales of energy products were the major contributors to growth complemented by sales growth from new products for both MENTOR and ACCLARENT.
These gains were partially offset by lower sales of HARMONIC products in the U.S.
due to competitive pressures.
Surgical care worldwide sales were up 1.4% on an operational basis with U.S.
down 2.5% and sales outside the U.S.
up 3.9% operationally.
U.S.
sales were impacted by lower sales of women's health and urology products.
Outside the U.S.
future sales and strong demand for endocutter products with the ECHELON FLEX powered ENDOPATH Stapler were the important drivers of growth.
Rounding up the review of the medical devices and diagnostic segment.
Our vision care business achieved operational sales growth of 3.9% in the third quarter with U.S.
up 1.9% and sales outside the U.S.
up 4.9% operationally.
Growth was driven by daily lenses and ASTIGMATISM lenses.
That completes highlights for the medical devices and diagnostics segment and concludes the segment highlights for Johnson &amp; Johnson's third quarter of 2013.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Michel Orsinger.
Michel? Thank you Louise and good morning everyone.
I look forward to providing you with an update on the integration of the DePuy and Synthes the value we are seeing in the combination of these two companies and our strategy for leading and shaping the industry.
Having now worked with Johnson &amp; Johnson prior to the Synthes acquisition and now as a J&amp;J leader I have had ample opportunity to get to know the enterprise and discover its richness breadth resources and capabilities.
I am very impressed by the values expressed in our credo and the ability of a large global organization to nourish and live by such values in an increasingly complex world.
I now have a lot of respect for the people in Johnson &amp; Johnson.
Before I start my presentation I would like to give my perspective on the DePuy Synthes third quarter results that Louise presented.
While I am not entirely satisfied with our results we have had some important wins.
Joint reconstruction especially in the U.S.
is performing very well and we believe we grew market share in hips.
Furthermore we generated double-digit growth in emerging markets with the best results coming from China Russia and Brazil.
Our performance in trauma and U.S.
spine was lower than expected.
Trauma results were due mostly to a biannual tender that did not repeat this year and pressure from lower price competition which we are managing by leveraging sales force coverage segmenting the market and introducing new product configurations.
U.S.
spine results were due to integration disruptions which we are addressing.
Overall we are pleased to maintain our strong market leadership positions.
I am very confident about the future.
DePuy and Synthes two of the most successful and respected companies in orthopedics and neuro joined together at the right time to actively participate in and shape the changing healthcare environment.
I am convinced that we are all well positioned to expand our leadership in the industry and I am excited by the opportunities in front of us.
As a combined organization we are better suited to optimize our offerings.
For patients and surgeons there is the potential for exciting medical innovations that leverage the product development capabilities from both organizations as well as from the larger J&amp;J enterprise.
For providers our scaled and unparalleled product portfolio which spans many platforms opens new possibilities to consolidate suppliers.
In emerging markets the same benefit will enable us to continue accelerating growth.
In addition our larger experienced sales force leadership and professional education and collaboration with the AO and the values driven combined talent from both organizations offer competitive differentiation in the industry.
DePuy Synthes participates in a market that has very strong fundamentals.
At $44 billion the market is large and diverse.
There is plenty of opportunity to address unmet orthopedic and neuro needs.
We believe that as the global population ages demand for the types of products we offer will increase and many emerging markets are investing in the healthcare systems to provide more and better care for their citizens.
As you look over our planning horizon emerging market growth is projected to increase roughly four times the rate of developed markets.
As healthcare systems around the world face the reality of cost containment and provide us participate more in decision making with clinicians DePuy Synthes as part of J&amp;J is primed to offer new value-added solutions and help transform healthcare delivery.
Against the backdrop of these market dynamics we are expecting the worldwide ortho and neuro market to grow between 2% and 4% compounded annually by 2017.
Our first year at DePuy Synthes has been exciting and rewarding.
As you can imagine combining two organizations of this size and complexity is a significant undertaking.
Our employees are doing a great job and I am pleased to say the integration is on track.
Our primary goal during the integration was to minimize customer disruption.
Based on feedback from customers we believe we have achieved this in all but one platform.
As we combine two different sales forces with two different sales models in U.S.
spine we have experienced some disruptions in that business and we continue to take corrective measures.
In other parts of the business I am particularly encouraged to see synergies being realized by cross-selling initiatives we envisioned from the onset as well as revenue and cost synergies.
Initially having very much focused on commercial integration we are now spending more time on internal systems and processes including IT HR supply chain and quality.
This work remains a priority as the successful integration is one of the foundational elements of our future.
We have combined terrific talent from both organizations and supplemented our team with new capabilities to help address the changes in our markets.
We achieved a high retention rate of our global DePuy Synthes staff during integration and we are engaging in a new innovation agenda.
Our strategy is focused on four growth drivers.
We have continued to transform our business and drive growth through continuous innovation focus on emerging markets excellent execution and cultivation of talent and an engaged organization.
For the rest of today's discussion I will focus on our approach to innovation and our emerging market strategy.
In today's dynamic healthcare environment our customers are looking for new solutions that improve clinical outcomes increased patient satisfaction and do this at reduced cost specifically to address patient satisfaction and to unmet patient needs improving the instability some patients experience with existing knew replacements.
ATTUNE also was developed to address provider interest in outcomes and efficiency of healthcare delivery.
To-date 27 publications document the science behind the design thereby addressing our stakeholders' need for evidence.
The ATTUNE knee system launch is off to a very successful start with positive feedback from patients surgeons and physical therapists.
Following commercialization in North America launches are underway in 13 European and Asia-Pacific countries.
In addition to developing new products we have started to complement our product offering with value-added programs and services.
Let me describe one such program we are piloting DePuy partnered with CAELYX [ph] and Janssen to create a program to help hospital reduce the length of stay for joint replacement patients while enhancing quality of care and patient satisfaction.
The result is a patient care pathway program called Care4Today Orthopedic Solutions that integrates patient education a change management program for hospitals and home recovery support.
The first impressive results from the pilot show reduced patient length of stay and excellent patient and staff feedback.
The third pillar of innovation is new business models.
We are piloting many different cross-selling arrangements across DePuy Synthes and J&amp;J that leverage our considerable product portfolio.
For example in the U.S.
joint recon distributors are selling power tools and they are in community and they are rural community and rural hospitals selling trauma.
Trauma is selling joint week on as sports medicine products in academic centers.
Sports medicine is selling trauma products in community and rural hospitals and ambulatory research centers.
Across Johnson &amp; Johnson Ethicon is selling and marketing CMS tissue metrics product as part of its hernia portfolio.
We formed a strategic account management group that is leveraging our broader offerings to become one point of contact for all of our customers' orthopedic and neuro needs.
As providers seek to reduce vendors the team is steadily gaining traction in identifying and winning accounts that would benefit most from our comprehensive portfolio.
Taking collaboration one step further we are in active discussions with large institutions to jointly define value based on their specific needs set new standards and pilot entirely new approaches to delivering healthcare.
The combination of the DePuy and Synthes and even the broader efforts across MD&amp;D and J&amp;J place us in a very unique position to accomplish these goals.
Now I would like to move to another significant source of future growth emerging markets.
These countries represent a small part of our revenue at this point yet we anticipate close to 40% of our projected growth in years to come from these countries.
Today I will focus on China where DePuy Synthes has a strong foundation.
Our three pronged strategy there is based on helping patients gain access to care.
First the premium segments remains vital to our business and it will continue to provide innovations for the urban customer segments.
While doing so we will continue to refine core products to match different anatomical and search and preferences.
Our second strategy is to develop value segment products which are simple easy to ease and more affordable options for underserved patients in more rural areas.
We are adapting existing premium products that still maintain our high quality standards.
One example is our rich knee instruments a simplified instrument set for the Sigma Fixed Bearing Knee.
We are planning the launch of this affordable option in China and India this year.
Our other differentiating approach to the fast growing value segment is to become a local supplier in China for trauma.
Products that are manufactured and have undergone clinical trials in China are considered local and give us access to a whole new market segment with attractive reimbursements.
A few years ago we took the strategic decision to build a plant in Suzhou which helps us to maintain our manufacturing standards and also invested in clinical trials for trauma products.
In fact we have breaking news on this front.
Just this past Saturday we received our product license for domestic manufacturer for four classes of trauma products.
We will launch these locally manufactured and approved products next year giving us a significant advantage in addressing the value segments.
Finally as the demand for healthcare in the region grows more surgeons need training.
Considering our broad-based product portfolio we are exploring expansion of our collaboration with the AO Foundation into new clinical areas beyond trauma in Asia-Pacific.
With DePuy Synthes support the AO offered its first ever neuro trauma course in Beijing and Shanghai.
In November the AO will offer its first ever joint reconstruction course in China.
In conclusion we are making tremendous progress positioning our business for long-term profitable growth.
We recognize the unique opportunity to address the needs of our customers and form strategic alliances.
We are redefining innovation accelerating growth in emerging markets and developing new capabilities and leadership skills in our organization.
I look forward to sharing our progress as our transformation continues.
We have only just begun to realize the power of this great combination.
Thank you.
Now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to Dominic Caruso.
Thank you Michel and good morning everyone.
I must say we are very fortunate to have Michel leading our DePuy Synthes business with his level of energy strong leadership and clear vision for the world's largest orthopedics business and I very much enjoy working with Michel as a member of our management committee.
Now I would like to turn to our third quarter results review some achievements during the quarter and provide an update on our guidance for 2013.
I will begin with a brief comment about what we are seeing in the overall healthcare market.
At this time we are still seeing utilization rates that are essentially flat year-over-year supporting a continued stable environment which is similar to what we saw in the second quarter.
At Johnson &amp; Johnson the level of consistently solid and sustainable performance we deliver is due to the breadth of our business and the extraordinary achievements and dedication of our people around the world.
Our third quarter results reflect the progress we are making in achieving our near-term priorities of delivering strong business results returning a reliable supply of OTC products for the marketplace successfully integrating Synthes and building on a strong momentum in the pharmaceutical segment.
Our innovative products are clearly making a meaningful difference in the treatment of patients.
We have also continued to make advancements in the implementation of our longer-term strategic growth drivers of creating value for innovation as evidence by the productivity of our pipeline and success for our nearly launched products focusing on excellence and execution leading with purpose and by increasing our global reach with greater local focus which is reflected by our double-digit operational growth this year in the BRIC countries.
Let's now review some of the highlights of the Q3 results.
We are pleased to report strong third quarter results with sales of $17.6 billion representing an increase of nearly 5% on an operational basis versus the third quarter of 2012 and earnings per share excluding special items of $1.36 or a nearly 9% increase over the prior year.
As you can see we recorded special items in the quarter of approximately $900 million on an after-tax basis that consisted largely of charges related to an increase in our accrual for various litigation matters charges for in-process for search and development and continued integration and transaction cost associated with the Synthes acquisition.
Together these special items negatively impacted our third quarter results by $0.32 per share.
We have consistently treated these types of matters as special items.
Excluding these special items our adjusted earnings per share was $1.36 which exceeded the mean of the analyst estimates as reported by first call of $1.32.
Now let's look at sales performance and some important business developments by segment.
In pharmaceuticals we reported operational sales growth in the quarter of approximately 11%.
Fueled by sales of INVEGA SUSTENNA REMICADE SIMPONI STELARA VELCADE and PREZISTA and new products including XARELTO INVOKANA and ZYTIGA which has well exceeded $1 billion in global sales this year also recorded very strong sales in the quarter contributing to that segment's continued growth.
Other developments off note in the pharmaceutical segment included the successful completion of the acquisition of Aragon Pharmaceuticals which we initially announced in June.
This acquisition increases our leadership position in the field of prostate cancer and strengthens our pipeline with a potentially best-in-class compound that has just advanced in the Phase 3 development that if approved would complement ZYTIGA and broaden the range of patients that could potentially be treated.
Several important positive regulatory decisions were also made on some of our key products including the FDA's approval of SIMPONI ARIA the IV version of SIMPONI for the treatment of moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis and STELARA for the treatment of psoriatic arthritis.
In Japan the Ministry of Health approved simeprevir which will be marketed as SOVRIAD for the treatment of genotype-1 chronic hepatitis C virus infection and XEPLION the first once-monthly atypical antipsychotic for the treatment of schizophrenia approved in that country.
In Europe the European Commission approved VELCADE as the first therapeutic option in a combination approach for adults with previously untreated multiple myeloma who are deemed eligible for high dose chemotherapy with hematological stem cell transplantation STELARA for the treatment of active psoriatic arthritis in adult patients with response to previous non-biological drug therapy when that has been inadequate and also SIMPONI for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis who have had inadequate response to conventional therapy or who are intolerant to such therapies.
Also in Europe the CHMP granted a positive opinion on INVOKANA for the treatment of adults with Type 2 diabetes.
We also increased our leadership presence in the hepatitis C market just last week with the acquisition of a Phase 2 compound for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C from an affiliate of GlaxoSmithKline.
Under the terms of the deal we acquired all rights to develop and commercialize that product.
In our MD&amp;D segment sales were essentially flat versus the prior year on an operational basis reflecting the continued market and pricing pressures as well as divestitures already described by Louise.
Of note however was double-digit operational growth that we saw in the BRIC markets.
Biosense Webster's electrophysiology products and our cardiovascular care business continues to deliver strong growth as did joint reconstruction products in the orthopaedics business international sales in the surgical care business and continued group performance in the specialty surgery business.
Our consumer business saw an operational sales increase of 2%.
Positive contributors to the operational results were analgesic brands MOTRIN and TYLENOL AVEENO skincare products and international sales of baby care products.
I want to comment that as we continued to return a liable supply of high quality OTC product for the shelves we are seeing strong uptick in the market and as you can see our U.S.
OTC business posted strong nearly 18% growth in the quarter.
Now let me provide some guidance for you to consider as you refine your models for 2013.
Let me begin with a discussion of cash and interest income and expense.
At the end of the third quarter we had approximately $10 billion of net cash.
This consists of approximately $25 billion of cash and marketable securities and $15 billion of debt.
We continued to generate strong cash flows from operations which in this quarter were essentially offset by the finalization and related cash settlement of the accelerated share repurchase program that was initiated in conjunction with the acquisition of Synthes.
With that program now completed we have resumed our normal share repurchases related to employee compensation programs.
For purposes of your models assuming no major acquisitions I would suggest you consider modeling net interest expense of between $350 million and $400 million slightly lower than our previous guidance.
Turning to other income and expense.
As a reminder this is the account where we record royalty income as well as gains and losses arising from such items of litigation investments by our development corporation and divestitures asset sales or write-offs.
This account is difficult to forecast but at this late stage of the year we would be comfortable with your models for 2013 reflecting other income and expense as a net gain excluding any special items ranging from approximately $500 million to $600 million which is lower than our previous guidance.
Now a word on taxes.
For the third quarter of 2013 the company's effective tax rate excluding special items was 19.3%.
We suggest that you model our effective tax rate for the full year 2013 at approximately between 19% and 19.5% which is a tightening of the previous range.
As always we will continue to pursue opportunities in this area to improve upon this rate during the remainder of the year.
Now turning to sales and earnings.
We would be comfortable with your models reflecting operational sales growth on a constant currency basis of between approximately 6% and 7% for the year which is consistent with our previous guidance.
This would result in estimated sales for 2013 on a constant currency basis of approximately $71.3 billion to $71.9 billion.
While we are not predicting the impact of currency movements to give an idea of the potential impact of currency exchange rates for the remainder of 2013 were to stay where they were as of last week but our sales growth rate will be negatively impacted by approximately 1.5% for the year.
Thus under this scenario we would expect reported sales growth to be between approximately 4.5% and 5.5% for the year for an expected level of reported sales of approximately between $70.3 billion and $70.9 billion which is higher than our prior guidance mostly due to the strengthening of the euro versus the U.S.
dollar.
Turning now to earnings considering the strength we see in our operating results which will more than offset the expected lower level of other income guidance I mentioned earlier we suggest that you consider full year 2013 EPS estimates excluding the impact of special items of between $5.44 and $5.49 per share at constant currency rates.
We are not predicting the impact of currency movements.
However to give you an idea of the potential impact on EPS if currency exchange rates for the balance of 2013 were to remain where they were as of the end of last week then our reported earnings per share excluding special items would see no impact related to currency fluctuations therefore we suggest that you model our reported earnings per share excluding special items in the range of between $5.44 and $5.49 per share or a growth of between 7% and 8% which at the mid-point is higher than our previous guidance.
Overall as you update you models for the guidance I just provided you should see pre-tax operating margins will continue to show improvement over the prior year and we now expect that improvement will be greater than 100 basis points.
This will more than offset the expected level of other income as for our updated guidance.
We feel confident we can achieve an even better improvement than we expected at the beginning of the year given the strength of our operating performance while we continue to invest in growth for the future.
Finally a word on the impact of foreign currency transactions related to the devaluation of the yen which may be helpful for you as you update your models.
As you know the yen devalued by approximately 25% versus the U.S.
dollar and the euro this year.
The impact of the yen devaluation on 2013 results has not been significant because of our policy of advanced hedging of foreign currency transactions in a matter that provides certainty in our planning related to currency swings during the year.
However we expect the impact of devaluation of the yen to be a significant headwind in 2014.
We estimate this headwind to negatively impact gross margin in 2014 by approximately 60 basis points.
Of course as we complete our planning for 2014 we will look for ways to mitigate this impact as much as possible.
Now back to you Louise for the question-and-answer session.
Thank you Dominic.
Felicia could you please give the instructions for the Q&amp;A session? (Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Matthew Dodds with Citicorp.
Dominic first for you.
If you look at the geographic results Europe has grown a lot faster than the U.S.
I assume pharma is a big part of it but do you think you are also gaining share in Europe and MD&amp;D? Then broadly for Europe what do you think about the environment for Europe in Q3 versus Q2? That's for you Dominic.
Then Michel for you in U.S.
spine I thought the integration started in the fourth quarter of last quarter.
So why is the hit seem like again it's getting worse as we are moving through 2013 and when do you think that all sorts out? Right.
Hi Matt.
Good morning.
Well you are right.
We do see strong growth in Europe.
It is primarily driven by the pharmaceutical business as obviously we have launched some exciting new products in the pharma business.
In MD&amp;D we continue to see government austerity pressures and quite frankly a reduction of overall volumes in those businesses.
However we seem to making pretty good progress in the Ethicon Surgical Care business and even in our diabetics and the DePuy legacy business in Europe as well.
Good morning Matt.
Indeed related to our U.S.
spine performance we have and continue to go through some disruptions while we are very excited about our international business growing at plus 9%.
Now related to the U.S.
changes as you can imagine combining two sales forces from two different companies is a major task.
We are combining different selling models distributor base versus a direct setting model.
Two sales people are calling on the same accounts on the same hospitals requiring realignment of territories.
The sales force having to deal short-term with the complexity of two different systems processes it all takes time.
Just as one example sales consulting as consultants ordering products need to do this from two different legacy ordering systems which need to be harmonized through IT and that obviously can lead to some frustrations by the sales force.
But having said so we are taking clear measures ongoing measures at very different levels related primarily to ensure we can provide better support to the sales force make their job easier but at the same time also provide enhanced and harmonized compensation and benefit packages.
We are in the final stage of realigning our territories and I think people customers but also our sales people do recognize that we having the opportunity to combine two product bags have one of the most attractive product offering specially leveraging the strength of legacy Synthes in the cervical area leveraging the strength of legacy DePuy in the lumber area.
So time will help to stabilize the sales force and to create the stronger spine company also in the U.S.
Thanks Michel.
Thanks Dominic Next question please.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Weinstein of JPMorgan.
Hi thank you for that.
Thanks for taking the questions this morning.
Since we have Michel Michel with this one comment you made the step that you made you talked about lower price competition in trauma and it wasn't clear if you were talking in the U.S.
if you were talking emerging market.
So could you explain on that? Thanks.
The lower price competition we have been observing is primarily located in the U.S.
We have seen some smaller companies trying to offer very specific product segments in specific institutions.
So we are clearly taking corrective measures by working on major initiatives related to segmentation customer segmentation channel segmentation and products.
We are going to counteract by also cross selling and certainly elevating our agenda with our customers leveraging our breadth and size of our portfolio through contracts and also establishing more strategic relationships.
We see our sales clearly as a total solution provider which includes products and services primarily supported and provided by our well educated salesforce.
Okay.
Thank you Michel.
Then maybe if I could just follow up with maybe one item here.
Dominic if I look at the breadth of J&amp;J everybody looks at it right now and says the pharma business looks fantastic.
You have got some product launches that are driving very strong growth and you are lapping up more that are coming shortly so I think everybody is very comfortable with performance of pharma business and the outlook of the next say let's call it two or three years at a minimum.
The challenges on the other side of the business within MD&amp;D consumers let me spend just a minute on consumer.
If we stripped out and looked at the rest of the portfolio the rest of the portfolio is growing 0% to 1% for last several quarters but it doesn't seems like it has really picked up even as the economy has got in little bit better so can you just talk a little bit about the strategy for the balance of the consumer business and is there any potential for growth to be accelerated for the broader portfolio? Sure Mike.
Well let say the consumer business has had as you know some challenges related to the overall economic slowdown and yes you did comment and we do see some pickup in overall economic activity but certainly not to the level that we all hope it would be at so there are still some carryover elements of trading down if you will store brands and the like and what's incumbent upon our business then is to create the innovations that consumers will want and purchase and remain loyal to.
You see that in certain pockets of our business more than others quite frankly.
For example in skin care AVEENO products are doing extremely well.
You see new advertising campaigns et cetera and AVEENO alone is up 16% year-over-year.
In other elements of the business we have proved our portfolio quite frankly we have had the impact of divestitures that have shown - made the difficulty in comparing the progress year-over-year but we are poised to continue to capture market share through innovation which has been our stronghold in the consumer business in addition obviously to focusing on the return of OTC business.
Just to mention one other thing about consumer our emerging markets in the consumer business continue to do well despite some slowdown in some of these emerging markets we were confident that that consumer business will continue to do well and show growth as those consumers begin to purchase more personal care products in the future so we are happy with the progress to-date.
I think we still have little bit ways to go with some innovation but we have been very fortunate with the level of innovation we have been able to deliver thus far and I am confident we will see more coming in the near-term.
Next question please? Your next question comes from the line of Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Thanks for taking my question.
Dominic I know you had mentioned with the completion of the ASR program that you are going to be resuming your normal share repurchases to offset the employee stock issuance.
I was just wondering if you could take a step back and maybe give us some of your broader thoughts on just capital allocation at this point.
I guess why not doing more significant stock purchases given your net cash balance? Kristen thanks for the question.
Well we have consistently addressed this question in a way that I think investors have come to understand our approach to capital allocation which is first and foremost we are going to generate strong cash flows.
After that we are very proud of having a 51-year history of increasing our dividend and so we have a priority towards allocating capital to our dividend which has proven to be the most enduring return to capital that we have looked at over long periods of time compared to other companies in the industry.
Then we would like to continue to increase our presence in the global healthcare market by doing smart acquisitions at the right time with the right value for shareholders which in the end continues to give us the ability to generate even stronger cash flows for the long-term.
Then finally in order of priority we look at share repurchases primarily as an offset to any dilution we might incur.
For example in the Synthes transaction we completely offset that dilution of the employee stock purchases.
We also obviously continue to offset that dilution so that's the order in which we think of capital allocation to the extent we are opportunistic at times to buy back stock.
We will always entertain that possibility but that's been our approach and we think it has served us well and will continue to serve us well and our shareholder for the long-term.
Okay and then just thinking about Synthes and some of the assumptions that you guys had at the time of acquisition.
I know the growth forecast is a little bit softer now relative to back then.
I think trauma and spine were expected to grow somewhere between 5% and 7%.
I think today on the slides you guys have showed now globally orthopedic closer to 2% to 4%.
How do you guys just think about I guess some of the cost synergies that you had originally targeted? How are those tracking? And are there greater opportunities on the cost side to maybe offset maybe at little bit lower sales growth contribution from the acquisition? Right.
Thanks Kris.
Let me just address that and then ask Michel if he would like to add anything.
You are absolutely right.
The major difference between the time of the acquisition and now is the growth rate primarily in trauma.
Trauma as you know was growing at that point 6% 7% and you saw from Michel's discussion what we expect the growth rate to be going forward.
So that's a major change in assumptions.
We think that in order to answer that challenge we will have to do two things.
Michel talked about the first being making sure that we have a comprehensive offering with the breadth of our portfolio et cetera.
Secondly we will have to look at cost.
However you will remember that the major purpose of this acquisition was not to drive our cost synergies.
It was to as Michel mentioned number one preserve and then enhance the experience with our customers.
But given the realities of the marketplace we will look at in fact at what's an appropriate level of cost structure should be lower level of market growth remain for extended periods of time.
But Michel anything else you would add to that? Indeed Dominic.
The emphasis we have is on growth but considering the new market environment over the last two years it's a relative growth to the market which our people feel accountable to.
Related to cost synergies we see nevertheless attractive opportunities to further realize and within our integration efforts I must say that at least the internally defined growth and cost synergies are on target.
Thank you.
Next question please? Your next question comes from the line of Larry Biegelsen with Wells Fargo.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
One for Dominic and one for Michel.
Starting with Dominic you gave some color on the call on your BRIC market growth but I don't think you gave for overall J&amp;J.
I think it was 19% in the second quarter.
Can you give us that number for the third quarter and just the near-term outlook Dominic there given the issues in China? And if you could just talk about any impact in China across the three segments from the recent years? Thanks.
Right.
Well we did see an overall slower level of market growth in China most recently but let me just give you an idea of year-to-date through the nine months if you exclude Synthes from the numbers because obviously they impact the comparison for last year.
We have double-digit growth across the BRIC markets over 10%.
Somewhere near 11% 12% combined in the BRIC markets.
So I think that's pretty healthy growth considering the relative slowdown that we have most recently are seen.
We still believe the BRIC markets will be a major contributor of our growth going forward across all three of our major segments MD&amp;D consumer and pharma as well.
Thanks for that.
And then Michel I am sure people would love to hear you your reaction to the Stryker-MAKO deal? And just lastly it seems like the large joint market improved in the third quarter based on the two companies as reported so far in the U.S.
Would you agree with that? If so why? Thanks.
Thank you for the question.
First of all related to robotics.
I think it's important to put it the question in to context of enabling technologies.
There are many ways to improve the surgical processes and such enables our computer data territory patient specific instrumentation sensors and enabling technology in today's environment in my opinion must consider in a balanced way outcomes efficiency and costs.
So robotics in its current stage based on my information has not yet been proven that it is the best solution to address all of these criteria in a holistic way.
It has theoretical incremental improvement in surgical accuracy but with increased significant surgical time and capital cost.
Longer-term robotic technology could have a role in facilitating less invasive patient customized implants and to proceeded solutions so we continue to monitor this technology with great interest.
Our focus is currently on procedure and episode of care efficiency.
For example through our TruMatch and Care4Today where we think there are much more fundamental advantages to be gained.
Related to your second question I can confirm your statement.
We also believe that joint in the third quarter has at least maintained momentum if not picked up.
We see an overall very attractive performance from DePuy Synthes recon with plus 7%.
I am confident although we still have to wait until other major players report their quarterly results I am confident that that DePuy Synthes has gained share in the third quarter and that would mean that we have done so in its fifth consecutive quarter.
Next question please? Your next question comes from the line of Tony Butler with Barclays Capital.
Good morning Louise and thank you very much for your time.
Two questions Dominic the first or may be both of you.
One is around free cash flow or cash flow from operations however you wish to address it.
Correct me if am wrong I believe in the second quarter as you mentioned that the second half of this year cash flow from operations would be greater.
If am incorrect I apologize for that but the most important question is regardless of how you view it.
Do you have a view at which point cash flow growth can actually be something similar to the net income growth that you have actually been demonstrating quarter-in quarter-out just based upon at least pharma and to some degree the turnaround in consumer? The second more product-specific question is around abiraterone and clearly very strong sequential growth is all that growth coming from the pre-chemo market or can you comment or are you able to providing the split about whether the growth is ex or pre-chemo and why is it post-chemo? Thanks very much.
Sure Tony.
Well let's see.
Let's talk about free cash flow and just for purposes of definition that's cash flow from operation less capital expenditures.
That's the way we look at free cash flow and that has consistently been very strong at Johnson &amp; Johnson and this year is no exception to that.
Last year we reported free cash flow in excess of $12 billion.
We expect that this year's free cash flow will be greater than that.
With respect to the relationship of free cash flow the earnings many of the special charges that we have talked about are in fact non-cash special charges right now.
If you look at our earnings in comparison to free cash flow what you will find is that generally speaking Johnson &amp; Johnson has always delivered free cash flow in the aggregate that's somewhere in the neighborhood of 95% to 105% or just about equal to the net earnings that the company generates on an annual basis so that has to do with our ability to manage receivables inventory and appropriately invest in capital so a very strong cash flow indeed and that's a credit to all the men and women that operate and run our businesses throughout the world where they do pay attention for the level of free cash flow that's generated because that of course is the fuel for us to invest further in our business.
With respect to abiraterone or ZYTIGA pre-chemo versus chemo Louise was able to look that up for us so let me just turn it over to Louise for that answer.
Okay.
Tony the split of sales in the U.S.
is roughly 55% naive and 45% refractory in the quarter.
If you look at the market growth the market growth in the quarter was 24.5% for that total market refractory grew about 26.5% and naive about 23.5%.
We actually grew share also in a total market going to 33% up from 30.6% and the refractory market you see a slight dip at that 55% from 55.4% because of the new competition but you see nice growth in the naive market 24.6% up from 21%.
Thank you Louise.
Next question please? Your next question comes from the line of Bruce Nudell with Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
I have a couple of questions for Dominic.
First Dominic one of the areas that J&amp;J is not currently participating in is structural heart.
There is a lot of interest in it.
Just broadly speaking do you guys feel that expectations are overhyped that they are assets to be had that are of interest or what's the general level of interest on the part of J&amp;J in that space? Well Tony the structural heart ware or cardiovascular devices in general are of interest to Johnson &amp; Johnson with the exception of the stent market which Bruce we have exited.
So we do view structural heart as an attractive market.
It is true however that whenever we look at acquisitions we look to acquire assets at a price that we believe will generate value for our shareholders.
So to the extent that valuations are a bit inflated we would rather wait and approach that market when valuations come in our view better in line Bruce.
So that's the way we look at it.
So of interest to us but we will watch valuations carefully before acting.
And my follow-on is about XARELTO.
What's your view of the prospects for maintaining leadership in that category in the U.S.? Secondly how do you scale the ACS opportunity within the overall opportunity in the U.S.? Thanks so much.
Well Bruce the main strategy with XARELTO has been and continues to work well for us and that is that the breadth of clinical indications and support for the product is really unparalleled in the marketplace in addition to the convenience of the once-daily dosage.
So we have see steady growth in XARELTO new to brand share in particular with cardiologist and even with primary care physicians primarily because of the breadth of the clinical data despite the fact that there has been much competition entering the marketplace but that competition just doesn't have the breadth of clinical data that we have with XARELTO.
So that's been our strategy.
I credit our cardiovascular therapeutic area team for developing that strategy and it's working really well.
So I expect we will continue to be leaders in this marketplace.
ACS just adds to the total package of clinical data which our experience is that that gives physicians cardiologists et cetera just more confidence in the utilization of that compound given the fact that it's been extensively studied.
We look forward to see what the FDA responses with respect to our new submission for ACS.
But we think that will add to the breadth of good clinical data which has been I think the main driver of the growth of the product.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from the line of Jami Rubin with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning Jami.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Just two questions for you Dominic.
The first is in Simeprevir.
I know that goes before a panel I believe next week.
I am just wondering how we should think it will be used? Do you expect it to be used as part of an all oral regimen beginning in 2014 with Gilead's Sofo or do you expect it's use to be limited to peg riba? My second question is more of a strategy question and I think dovetails with some of the earlier questions on this call and that is clearly pharma has been the key driver of growth for the past couple of years now.
I am just wondering what your plans are to unleashed that value which clearly I think has been hidden by the continued under performance of MD&amp;D and consumer.
Clearly the market is paying up for independent asset showing the type of growth that we are seeing in your pharma business.
I am just wondering how you are thinking about that now.
I know we have discussed this repeatedly in the past but I think this continues to be the case? Thanks.
Sure Jami.
Well with simeprevir it would be premature to comment too much before the panel meeting because obviously the utilization of the compound will be somewhat dependent on the label that eventually is granted by the FDA.
We do think it's a very potent protease inhibitor and as you know we have studied the compound in addition to the single indication that we are now in waiting for FDA approval on.
We have studied it in combination with other compounds including Gilead's compound and others both NS5As and nukes.
Our strategy has been to develop the most potent protease inhibitor and combine it with other compounds in the marketplace and now I am please to remind you that we have just acquired our own NS5A with our acquisition of the compound from GlaxoSmithKline so obviously we will now develop a combination of our own but to comment any further about the actual utilization would be premature for the label and the outcome.
With respect to unlocking value you are right.
We have talked about this many times.
You have also heard us describe our approach to healthcare as a comprehensive approach having a broad base in healthcare.
We believe that that is the best strategy for the long-term to deliver both innovation and breadth of business and solutions for the healthcare marketplace.
We believe we are best positioned by having a combined set of businesses that we currently have and we think that investors and others that follow us very closely understand the composition of our business and can certainly do a very fair some of the parts analysis by looking at the combination of each of the businesses and the appropriate growth rates and above market quite frankly multiples that we think businesses like our Pharma business deserve so it's all readily available and easily done and we think the long-term strategy is one that's sound and we continue to subscribe to having a broad base of healthcare businesses to be most competitive in the marketplace for the long-term.
Next question please? Your next question comes from the line of Rick Wise with Stifel.
Good morning everybody.
Dominic just a few gross margins you know we are almost back of the 70% gross margin what we saw throughout much of changes last decade and I assume that the third quarter gross margin performance was driven by the excellent pharma results which seemed pretty sustainable.
Knowing how focused you are personally on driving efficiencies throughout the organization broadly Dominic can we assume that that kind of gross margin performances we saw that for closer to that 70% level of sustainable basis that's closer hand that maybe we would appreciate it and maybe you could expand on your comments on the positive mixed cost improvement in the third quarter specifically? Sure.
Well the comparison to last year's third quarter just to be clear last year's third quarter included the step up in inventory values from the acquisition of Synthes so you see it 2.5 or 250 basis points improvement year-over-year and about 100 basis points is due to the non-repeat of the step-up in inventory values as that's now flushed out of the system but the rest of it a 150 basis points is primarily due to the mix of the business with pharma driving most of the growth.
Pharma is in fact the highest gross margin business for us but in addition to that we have seen good cost containment and cost efficiencies in our MD&amp;D business.
Of course as we continue to remediate under consent decree we will obviously over time show improvements in gross margin from current levels to future in our consumer business.
Now having said that our supply chain strategy is a long term strategy.
We have been added now for a couple of years and it includes reciting and redistributing where the products are manufactured.
That takes time Rick to implement but we are obviously off to a good start and we expect we will continue to generate cost efficiencies within the supply chain over an appropriate level of time given the regulatory requirement et cetera for reciting products so we are off to a good start.
We are very proud of it and thanks for pointing it out.
Great.
Just a thought but quick one for you and Michel.
I was at (Inaudible) last week and several CEOs suggested that maybe they were seeing some stronger procedure growth in the second half as folks do more procedures ahead of 2014 January 01 that's what we said and constantly changing insurance coverage.
Do you think you are seeing any benefits Michel? Dominic feel free to chime in and maybe talk a little bit Michel about the ATTUNE impact.
I assume as a result of these kinds of launches it takes off gradually.
Are you where you hope to be? Just where are we in the ATTUNE launch? Okay first of all related to spine.
My takeaway from that was in general stakeholders are expecting more and more evidence.
We might see some uplift in the fourth quarter from a market point of view people who have been delaying and may use that co-payment earlier year might finally decide to go for surgeries.
ATTUNE.
We are on track related to ATTUNE.
Very important to us.
All the clinical outcomes which are very good.
Surgeon's acceptance to try the product are also very good.
So we are in the midst of launching not only now in the U.S.
but expanding into Europe and eventually Asia-Pacific.
The key question in my opinion will be how much of our volume goes into current customers versus how much we give to new customers to convert and this is a balance our sales force needs to tackle.
But so far we are very confident that ATTUNE will have a good impact worldwide within the next two to three years.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from line of Derrick Sung with Sanford Bernstein.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
One for Michel and then one for Dominic.
First Michel.
One of the longer term concerns that investors have had about the ortho market has been the potential for a generic or value segment offering to really penetrate and destroy pricing in the marketplace.
The kind of the comments that you made on trauma are the first that I think we have really heard that.
Maybe this is having some sort of a near term impact now and I just wanted to get your comments on your view of whether or not you can the value segment offering is something that's here to stay in the U.S.
and if there is potential that it might spread from trauma to hips to knees to spine and what the impact of that might be on the markets long-term? Thank you.
Certainly the healthcare landscape is changing big time.
And as mentioned before all stakeholders are looking forward continuing to improve patient outcome but also to increase patient satisfaction and do that at reduced cost.
While the landscape is changing we see emerging decision makers like the providers either CEOs of the hospital of groups and having had the opportunity to meet many of them over the last few months there is a demand for value creation there is a demand for transforming the healthcare delivery system and there is a demand to collaborate with larger companies.
Scale in the sense of DePuy Synthes but also leveraging other opportunities within MD&amp;D and within even other Johnson &amp; Johnson portfolios will give us the opportunity to work at a much higher strategic level with providers and yes provide more cost effective procedures products but also services to ensure that this more total oriented solution and not just focused on products will provide a relevant add on solution to every single stakeholder.
So we are confident that now being part of J&amp;J but combining those two companies we can leverage breadth of the portfolio scale and this is what matters more than ever before to the healthcare providers and payers by the way.
But do you Michel feel that the value segment in the U.S.
is here to stay in ortho and continue to grow from here? It depends how you define value segment.
We define it as providing healthcare in a more effective way and this is not just focused on the product.
This is not just focused on the price.
You have to look at the whole continuum.
The patient goes through a process.
We are developing new programs and services to educate the patient working with providers and clinicians to have protocols with standardized procedures but eventually also a company there the patients and the families in the rehab post operatively.
And this is what we see as a better value offering a more relevant offering and not just focused on pricing and discounting.
The discussions will continue obviously to deal on pricing but we have now being part of a larger company DePuy Synthes and J&amp;J the unique opportunity to again leverage size and scale and create beyond product innovation service and program innovation which will create value so in that sense the Value segment is becoming more holistic more complex but representing a great opportunity for us.
Okay.
Thank you Michel understood.
Dominic just quickly I was wondering if you could comment on the progress of the Ortho Clinical Diagnostics divestiture and where you are there in and I appreciate that you may not be able to give us direct answer on the actual status but more importantly when you think about the proceeds that might be generated from that transaction in the future do those come back to shareholders do they get reinvested? Can you give us a sense for what you might do there? Thank you.
Sure Derrick.
Well with respect to the strategic the evaluation of strategic options for Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics we said it would take a 12-month to 24-month period.
We announced that in January.
We are progressing well it's on track.
We are moving through the process.
Things are moving along well so we are progressing as planned.
It's premature to give you any more insight in to that.
Then obviously whenever we do finally complete the analysis and make a decision but I think it would be premature to comment part of that what we do with the proceeds but when we are talk about obviously we will update investors at that time.
Okay.
Thank you.
Next question please? Your next question comes from the line of Danielle Antalffy with Leerink Swann.
Good morning everybody.
Thanks so much for taking the question.
Dominic I wanted to ask about understanding that you can't provide specific 2014 guidance but over the last few quarters pharma has been a big driver of the top line and I suspect bottom line outperformance.
You know as we come up on anniversarying that strong performance potential competition for our recent new product launches our ramping competition there how do we think about where the next leg of growth is going to come for J&amp;J overall in the near to medium-term? Sure.
Well.
Each of the businesses have a substantial innovations that they are launching plans for 2014 and beyond to launch substantial innovations across every one of our businesses.
Pharma you are right has experienced substantial growth as a result of new product launches but those product launches are just beginning.
They have taken hold now and we think they will continue to do well.
Then new products as you have seen us develop our strategy of continuing to in-license new products and launching those into the marketplace successfully I think you will continue to see us do that so I think each one of our businesses has a set of innovation that we plan to launch and each of the businesses should contribute to the growth going forward.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Then within the Medical Devices business in particular one of your competitors has recently talked more about sort of viewing the device business more holistically providing full solutions to the hospital.
Do you have any perspectives on that and how you think the healthcare environment will change as it relates to that and where J&amp;J stands with that any perspective there would be helpful? Thanks so much.
Sure Danielle.
Well Michel talked a great length about that with respect to the orthopedics business and I would like to ask Michel to comment further because he's involved across the broad spectrum of Johnson &amp; Johnson's Medical Devices businesses as well but we see it as an important characteristic in the marketplace and one in which scale and breadth and the power of Johnson &amp; Johnson should serve us well.
Certainly there is very few companies that can match our scale and breadth in dealing with the comprehensive offering to the hospitals.
Michel has been there on the frontlines with hospital CEOs and talking about the breadth and scale of Johnson &amp; Johnson even beyond orthopedic so I am sure Michel you could add a few comments as well.
Yes.
Indeed the key goal in our discussions with key partners is how we could provide value in form of more holistic solutions.
So far the industry has been very much focused on surgeons and patients obviously delivering good clinical outcomes.
Now the healthcare delivery system needs to find new ways to do so in a more cost effective way.
Hence we are driving now not only a strong R&amp;D pipeline but a pipeline of new programs and services collaborating together with the partners.
We don't have all the answers today.
But we understand more and more of their needs.
So elevating our relationship to more a strategic partnership with the providers in providing more holistic solutions.
And maybe one more word a key advantage we have beside our already really relevant critical size within DePuy and Synthes talking about MD&amp;D more and more we find new ways to collaborate for example with Global Surgery  who offer complementary products for one and the same procedure.
So a procedure based approach give us as also opportunity to combine co-solutions from different pockets of the industry.
We will take two more questions.
Your next question comes from the line of Glenn Novarro with RBC Capital Markets.
Hi.
Good morning.
Two questions.
First Dominic the number of selling days.
Any changes in the number of selling days this quarter? Then I wanted to just follow up quickly on a pricing question.
Glenn good morning.
I don't think the number of selling days is very significant this quarter versus last.
I wouldn't attribute any of the change to selling days.
Okay and then second on pricing.
You called out pricing several times on the device side particularly knees and hips as well as spine.
So one can you tell me has pricing got worse or is it just the same type of pressure? Then Louise some times you give us pricing in knees hips and spines.
I wondered if you can do that for us? So let me just give you overall.
We expected at the beginning of the year that pricing would be a headwind for us this year of about 50 basis points in operating margin.
We still think that's the case now that we are nine months through the year.
Pricing is in fact an overall headwind for the business in total.
And Louise specifically for these orthopedics.
So this is U.S.
only.
So price in hips is down about 3% in the quarter.
We have a positive mix about 1.5%.
So a net of negative 1.5% price mix for the hips in U.S.
And as far as knees price is down about 1.5% mix up about 1%.
And do you have that for spine as well? I do.
So price for spine down about 4% in the quarter with a negative mix of about 0.5%.
So close to about 4.5% negative in terms of price mix for spine U.S.
U.S.
only again.
Okay.
Thank you Louise.
Last question.
And your last question comes from the line of Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
Hi Bob.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for squeezing me in.
Just two quick questions.
One Dominic I just wanted to confirm something I heard earlier.
I think you said in Q2 that BRIC growth for J&amp;J was 19% and I think you said in Q3 it was 11% 12%.
Is that correct? Well no Bob.
I didn't say that.
I think the person asking the question was stating comments about the growth in the second quarter.
I commented on year-to-date through nine months the BRIC growth excluding Synthes because that's very important to exclude Synthes in the analysis is 11% to 12% overall for Johnson &amp; Johnson in the BRIC markets excluding Synthes.
Okay and then so it sounds like things are a little slower in Q3 which is I guess not surprising.
Was there any one division where that was more pronounced than another? Well a little slower overall but I don't know that I would point any one particular division versus another.
I mean there's dynamics in the China marketplace each and every quarter.
So I would just say on an overall basis greater than 10% growth is we are pretty happy with that growth and I think it will do.
It will continue to be a major driver of growth for us but what we are seeing is double-digit growth in the BRIC marketplaces but a little lower than what everyone else has previously commented on as an expectation for BRIC growth of maybe mid-teens.
We see it's a little bit slower than that now.
Okay and then lastly for Michel.
Any of the comments on the hip market in your comments do you feel like you are taking share and have been taking share over the last couple of quarters.
I was just wondering is that a general comment because especially around Q3 because you don't see the rest of the market growing at the same rate as you are or was there something specific about a specific competitor that you are referring to in terms of your commentary around Q3 market share? I attribute our Q3 performance primarily to good portfolio mix in the U.S.
primarily driven by Corail/TRI-LOCK and Pinnacle Acetabular Cup System.
I attribute it to a very focused strategy by the way well executed by the sales force and last but not least by a solid leadership.
No major changes in my opinion related to competition.
Good execution by DePuy Synthes.
Thank you.
We will have some final comments from Dominic.
Okay.
Thanks Michel for joining us today and thanks Louise.
Well we are very pleased with our quarterly results and our progress this year in advancing our near-term priorities of returning to a reliable supply of OTC products to the market successfully integrating Synthes and building on the momentum of our newly launched pharmaceutical products.
We are doing all of this while continuing to deliver strong financial results and developing longer term strategies to drive growth in this dynamic global healthcare market where we are focused on addressing the critical unmet healthcare needs of patients and consumers.
I would like to again thank the people of Johnson &amp; Johnson for their dedication and commitment and I look forward to updating you on our full year results our outlook for 2014 and our strategic priorities along with our CEO Alex Gorsky when we meet in January.
Thanks again for your time this morning and have a great day everyone.
Thank you.
This concludes today's Johnson &amp; Johnson third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Johnson &amp; Johnson First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session of the conference.
This call is being recorded.
If anyone has any objections you may disconnect at this time.
(Operator Instructions).
I would now like to turn the call over to Johnson &amp; Johnson.
You may begin.
Good morning and welcome.
I’m Louise Mehrotra Vice President of Investor Relations for Johnson &amp; Johnson and it is my pleasure this morning to review our business results for the first quarter of 2014.
Joining me on the call today is Dominic Caruso Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
A few logistics before we get into the details.
This review is being made available via webcast accessible through the Investor Relations section of the Johnson &amp; Johnson website.
I’ll begin by briefly reviewing first quarter results for the corporation and for our three business segments.
Following my remarks Dominic will provide commentary on the results including some highlights for the quarter a review of the income statement and guidance for 2014.
We will then open the call to your questions.
Included with the press release that was issued earlier this morning is a schedule of sales for key products and/or businesses to facilitate updating your model.
These schedules are available on the Johnson &amp; Johnson website as is the press release.
Also please note that we will be using a brief presentation to complement today’s commentary.
The presentation is also available on our website.
Before we begin let me remind you that some of the statements made during this review may be considered forward-looking statements.
The 10-K for the fiscal year 2013 identifies certain factors that could cause the company’s actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements made today.
The company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.
The 10-K is available through the company and online.
During the review non-GAAP financial measures are used to provide information pertinent to ongoing business performance.
These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered replacements for GAAP results.
Tables reconciling these measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are available in the press release and on the Investor Relations section of the Johnson &amp; Johnson website at investor.jnj.com.
A number of the products and compounds discussed today are being developed in collaboration with strategic partners or licensed from other companies.
This slide lists acknowledgment of those relationships.
Now I would like to review our results for the first quarter of 2014.
Worldwide sales to customers were $18.1 billion for the first quarter of 2014 up 3.5%.
On an operational basis sales were up 5.3% and currency had a negative impact of 1.8%.
In the U.S.
sales were up 2.2%.
In regions outside the U.S.
our operational growth was 7.9% while the effect of currency exchange rates negatively impacted our reported results by 3.4%.
On an operational basis Asia Pacific Africa region grew 10.3% the western hemisphere excluding the U.S.
grew by 7.1% and Europe grew 6.6%.
The success of new product launches and continued growth of key products made strong contributions to the results in all regions.
Turning now to earnings our earnings were $4.7 billion up 35.2% compared with the 2013 results.
Earnings per share were $1.64 versus $1.22 a year ago.
As referenced in the table reconciling non-GAAP measures 2014 first quarter net earnings were adjusted to exclude a net gain of approximately $300 million for after tax special items.
First quarter 2013 net earnings included a net charge of approximately $600 million for after tax special items.
Dominic will discuss special items in his remarks.
Excluding special items for both periods net earnings for the current quarter were $4.4 billion and diluted earnings per share were $1.54 representing increases of 7.8% and 6.9% respectively as compared to the same period in 2013.
Turning now to business segment highlights please note percentages quoted represent the operational sales change in comparison to the first quarter of 2013 unless otherwise stated and therefore exclude the translational impact of currency.
I will begin with the consumer segment.
Worldwide consumer segment sales of $3.6 billion decreased 0.6% with U.S.
sales down 2.9% while outside the U.S.
sales grew 0.7%.
Excluding the impact of divestitures net of acquisitions both worldwide and U.S.
growth were approximately 1%.
Major drivers of the results were skin care and oral care offset by the divestiture of the North America women’s health business.
Skin care results were driven by AVEENO and DABAO new product launches supported by robust marketing campaigns.
Oral care results were driven by results for LISTERINE due to new product launches and successful marketing campaigns.
OTC sales were negatively impacted by a weaker cold and flu season partially offset by strong sales of ZYRTEC with the U.S.
launch of the Dissolve Tabs including sales related to the initial stocking.
Moving now to our pharmaceutical segment worldwide net sales of $7.5 billion increased 12.2% with the U.S.
up 7.7% and sales outside the U.S.
up 16.9%.
As a reminder in the first quarter of 2013 U.S.
results included a positive adjustment to previous estimates for managed Medicaid rebates under the Affordable Care Act related to new data received from the states.
The most significant impacts from the adjustment were in immunology neuroscience and PROCRIT.
Excluding this item 2014 worldwide sales were up over 15%.
In addition in the early part of last year the company made certain supply chain changes for REMICADE resulting in sales to distributors previously recorded as U.S.
export sales now being recorded as international sales.
Adjusting the 2013 base to reflect this impact as well as the U.S.
managed Medicaid adjustment the first quarter 2013 U.S.
pharmaceutical segment U.S.
growth was over 19% and growth outside the U.S.
was approximately 12%.
Pharmaceutical growth was driven in part by a recently launched hepatitis C product called OLYSIO in the U.S.
and SOVRIAD in Japan contributing over 5% to the worldwide pharmaceutical growth versus the first quarter of 2013.
Other significant contributors to growth were ZYTIGA XARELTO STELARA INVOKANA and INVEGA SUSTENNA or XEPLION partially offset by lower sales of CONCERTA and ACIPHEX due to generic competition.
The strong results for ZYTIGA in the U.S.
were driven by increased market share in the combined metastatic castrat-resistant prostate cancer market combined with estimated market growth of 10%.
ZYTIGA has captured approximately 34% of that market.
The expansion of the label to chemo-naïve patients and continued progress and reimbursement drove the strong results outside the U.S.
ZYTIGA is approved in more than 80 countries.
XARELTO sales doubled compared with the same quarter last year and grew nearly 18% on a sequential basis.
Total prescription share or TRx at the end of the quarter in the U.S.
oral anticoagulant market grew to 12.5% with cardiology TRx estimated at nearly 22%.
INVOKANA sales contributed 2.5 points to U.S.
pharmaceutical gross rate and at the end of the quarter achieved 2.1% TRx within the defined market of type 2 diabetes excluding insulin and metformin up from 1.5% in the fourth quarter of 2013.
TRx with endocrinologists grew to 6.6% by the end of the quarter up over 1% sequentially.
Continued momentum and market share for STELARA complemented by strong market growth drove results in immunology while increased market share drove results for INVEGA SUSTENNA or XEPLION.
I’ll now review the medical devices and diagnostics segment results.
Worldwide medical devices and diagnostics segment sales grew 1.8%.
U.S.
sales declined 1.6% while sales outside the U.S.
increased 4.6%.
Growth was driven by orthopedics specialty surgery vision care and cardiovascular care partially offset by lower sales in diabetes care and Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics.
Lower price primarily related to competitive bidding continued to impact the diabetes care business in the U.S.
Orthopedic sales growth was driven trauma knees and hips.
Trauma was up 7% with the U.S.
up 10%.
In the U.S.
strong market growth and the positive impact of the recovery from the prior year nail recall was partially offset by pricing pressure.
Knees worldwide increased 3% with 2% growth in U.S.
and 6% growth outside U.S.
driven by the successful launch of the ATTUNE Fixed Bearing Knee partially offset by price pressure across the region and softness in the U.S.
market.
Hips growth of 2% worldwide was driven by nearly 4% growth in the U.S.
due to strong results in primary stem platform sales partially offset by continued pricing pressure.
Specialty surgery growth was driven by new products launched and market growth in our worldwide biosurgery business and energy business outside the U.S.
as well as strong sales for both infection prevention and MENTOR products.
Vision care sales growth is primarily due to a customer inventory build anticipated to reverse in the second quarter.
Cardiovascular growth was driven by 15% worldwide increase in our Biosense Webster business due to new catheter launches and continued market expansion.
That concludes the segment highlights for Johnson &amp; Johnson’s first quarter of 2014.
I’ll now turn the call over to Dominic Caruso.
Dominic? Thanks Louise and good morning everyone.
We are very pleased with our strong start to 2014 and I believe we are well positioned for continued growth in this dynamic healthcare environment.
As Louise did I have also added a few slides to accompany my remarks which we hope you will find helpful as you are following along on the webcast.
I’ll take the next few minutes to review our financial performance and then provide our guidance for you to consider in refining your models for 2014.
But before I do that I want to comment on what we are seeing in the market for healthcare.
The early first quarter data we’ve seen so far shows continued softer utilization trends impacted by the severe winter conditions.
The data we have shows continued slight declines in the rates of surgical and lab procedures in the United States similar to what we saw over the past 12 months.
Additionally the strong fourth quarter utilization in orthopedic procedures softened in the first quarter due to some seasonality as we and many of you had expected.
Overall as economic conditions continue to recover and given the positive demographic trends we remain confident about the long-term health of the market.
And at Johnson &amp; Johnson we continue to make very good progress on our near-term priorities of achieving our financial targets restoring and re-launching our U.S.
OTC products continuing to capitalize on the potential of DePuy Synthes and building on our strong momentum in pharmaceuticals.
At the same time we also continue to make good progress on our long-term growth drivers which we discussed in detail during our January meeting.
During the quarter we had several key developments across our three business segments including key regulatory milestones in the pharmaceutical and medical device segments and I will mention a few of them here.
In the pharmaceuticals segment these included several CHP recommendations for approvals in Europe for simeprevir siltuximab and VOKANAMET.
VOKANAMET is a fixed dose combination product of canagliflozin and metformin for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.
As well we received FDA approval for the use of IMBRUVICA in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
And in the MD&amp;D segment Biosense Webster received FDA clearance for the THERMOCOOL SMARTTOUCH the first catheter ablation therapy to feature direct contact force technology for the treatment of atrial fibrillation.
During the quarter we accepted The Carlyle Group’s offer to purchase our clinical diagnostics business and we expect that transaction to close towards the middle of the year.
We also made decisions regarding our consumer portfolio as we have signed a definitive agreement to sell global rights for the K-Y brand to Reckitt Benckiser.
If you turn to the next slide you can see our condensed consolidated statement of earnings for the first quarter.
As Louise has already covered our sales results I will review some other key points on the balance of the statement of earnings.
Please direct your attention to the boxed section of the schedule where we have provided earnings adjusted to exclude special items.
We are pleased to report adjusted net earnings of $4.4 billion which are up 7.8% over the first quarter of 2013 and adjusted earnings per share of $1.54 versus $1.44 a year ago up nearly 7% which exceeded the mean of the analyst estimates that’s published by First Call.
As referenced in the table of non-GAAP measures the 2014 first quarter net earnings were adjusted to exclude a net after-tax gain of approximately $300 million or special items which consisted of the following.
A charge for in process research and development related to the discontinuation of the development program for PureTox continued cost associated with the integration of Synthes and finally during the first quarter a capital loss was realized for tax purposes on the sale of shares associated with Conor Medsystems which resulted in a tax benefit of approximately $400 million.
The value of the Conor business was previously written down for books purposes.
Now let’s take a few moments to talk about the other items on the statement of earnings.
I am pleased to point out that we saw very good operating performance in our results.
Cost of goods sold at 30.1% of sales was 160 basis points lower than the same period last year.
Included in last year’s cost of goods sold was the inventory step-up associated with the Synthes acquisition which we characterized as a special item.
Excluding this cost of goods sold was lower by 80 basis points reflecting the mix of our results this quarter which were driven primarily by our pharmaceutical business as well as cost improvements across many businesses.
This was partially offset by the impact of the weakening of the Japanese yen which we discussed as a headwind for 2014 although that negative impact of gross margin will increase throughout 2014.
Selling marketing and administrative expenses were 28.6% of sales or 120 basis points lower as compared with the first quarter of 2013 again due to the growth in our pharmaceutical business of new products and overall good management of cost primarily our MD&amp;D businesses.
Our investment in research and development as a percent of sales was 10.1% at a similar level as we saw in the prior year as we continued to make important investments for the future.
Overall our pre-tax operating margin when excluding special items was 31.2% or 200 basis points higher than the prior year a strong performance early in the year but not fully reflective of the investment plans we have for the remainder of the year more of a headwind related to the weakening of the Japanese yen as I noted earlier.
Interest expense net of interest income of $118 million was slightly higher than the prior year period due impart the higher average debt levels.
And other expenses net of other income was a net charge of $86 million in the quarter compared to a net charge of $515 million in the same period last year.
Excluding the special items that are reflected in this line item other expenses net of other income was actually a gain of $32 million compared to a net gain of $83 million in the prior year period.
Excluding special items the effective tax rate was 20.4% compared to 19% in the same period last year.
This effective tax rate is higher than our guidance for two reasons.
First it does not yet reflect the benefit of the R&amp;D tax credit as that legislation has not yet been passed.
And secondly the mix of our business this quarter which reflects a higher portion of our earnings from the U.S.
driven primarily by the success of our new pharmaceutical product launches.
Now I will provide some guidance for you to consider as you refine your models for 2014.
Before I discuss sales and earnings I will first give some guidance on items we know are difficult to forecast beginning with cash and interest income and expense.
At the end of the quarter we had approximately $12 billion of net cash which consist of approximately $29 billion of cash and marketable securities and approximately $17 billion of debt.
For purposes of your models assuming no major acquisitions or other major uses of cash I suggest you consider modeling net interest expense of between $400 million and $500 million consistent with our previous guidance.
Regarding other income and expense as a reminder this is the account where we record royalty income as well as gains and losses arising from such items and litigation investments by our development corporation as well as divestitures asset sales and write-offs.
We would be comfortable with your models reflecting 2014 other income and expense excluding special items as a net gain ranging from approximately $600 million to $700 million this is consistent with our previous guidance.
And now a word on taxes.
Our guidance for 2014 anticipates that the R&amp;D tax credit will be renewed by Congress although that has not yet occurred.
We would be comfortable with your models reflecting an effective tax rate for 2014 excluding special items of approximately 19% to 20%.
If the R&amp;D tax credit is not approved it will negatively impact the tax rate by approximately 0.5%.
This guidance is higher than our previous guidance reflecting a change in the mix of our business resulting at a higher portion of our earnings in the United States.
As always we will continue to pursue opportunities in this area to improve upon this rate throughout the year.
Now turning to sales and earnings.
As I noted earlier we have received and accepted a binding offer for our Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics business of approximately $4 billion.
We expect the transaction to close mid-year that the resulting gain will be treated as a special item.
As of today we are considering how to best allocate the net after-tax proceeds from the divestiture.
As is our practice with acquisitions and divestitures we will update our guidance after the transaction closes to reflect the impact this divestiture could have on our sales and EPS excluding special items for the remainder of the year.
Therefore our guidance today will not include the impact of this transaction.
However at this time we believe that any such impact will be certainly absorbed within the range of EPS guidance we are providing today.
Our sales and earnings guidance for 2014 takes into account several assumptions that I highlighted to you in January.
Let me just review those briefly now.
Those key assumptions are for sales our assumption for PROCRIT is that there will not be biosimilar competition in 2014 and for INVEGA SUSTENNA and RISPERDAL CONSTA we do not anticipate generic entries for these products this year.
And as for earnings there are several factors to note.
First some comments about foreign currency fluctuations that impact real economic transactions as opposed to only translation which I will discuss later.
As we highlighted in January the Japanese yen devalued by approximately 25% versus the U.S.
dollar and the euro in 2013.
The impact of the yen devaluation on 2013 results was not significant because of our policy of hedging foreign currency transactions 12 to 18 months in advance.
However the impact of the devaluation is a significant headwind in 2014 and our 2014 guidance reflects a negative impact to gross margin of approximately 60 basis points or a negative impact to EPS of approximately $0.11 per share.
In the event of a significant devaluation of any other major currency such as the Venezuelan bolivar we will look to mitigate that impact depending on the magnitude of that impact.
However such a potential devaluation of the bolivar or any other currency is not reflected in our guidance.
We also expect continued pricing pressure in 2014 across many markets particularly in Europe.
The impact of this negative pricing pressure is expected to negatively impact our pre-tax operating margin by approximately 50 basis points.
So as we’ve done for several years now our guidance will be based first on a constant currency basis reflecting our results from operations.
This is the way we manage our business and we believe this provides a good understanding of the underlying performance of our business.
We will also provide an estimate of our sales and EPS results for 2014 with the impact that current exchange rates could have on the translation of those results.
As of last week the euro had strengthened versus the U.S.
dollar as compared to 2013 average levels.
However many other currencies have weakened versus the U.S.
dollar such as the Canadian dollar and the Brazilian real as compared to their average levels for 2013.
Considering the factors I just noted we would be comfortable with your models reflecting an operational sales increase like constant currency basis of between 5% and 6% for the year.
This would result in sales for 2014 on a constant currency basis of approximately $74.9 billion to $75.7 billion.
We’re not predicting the impact of currency movements but to give you an idea of the potential impact on sales of currency exchange rates for all of 2014 were to remain where they were as of last week.
Our sales growth rate would decrease by nearly 0.5% plus under this scenario we would expect reported sales growth to range between 4.5% and 5.5% for a total expected level of reported sales between $74.5 billion to $75.3 billion which is higher than our previous guidance.
Now turning to earnings; our earnings guidance reflects the major assumptions I noted earlier and reflects the strong performance we saw in the first quarter and our plan to continue investing in future growth.
Considering those factors we suggest that you consider full year 2014 EPS estimates excluding the impact of special items of between $5.74 and $5.84 per share on an operational or constant currency basis.
And again we're not predicting the impact of currency movements but to give you an idea of the potential impact on earnings per share if exchange rates for all of 2014 were to remain where they were as of last week then our reported EPS excluding special items would be positively impacted by approximately $0.06 per share due solely to exchange rate fluctuations.
We therefore suggest that you model our reported EPS excluding special items in the range between $5.80 and $5.90 per share or growth rate of between 5% and 7%.
This is higher than our previous guidance.
As you update your models for the guidance that I just provided you will see that we do expect that our pre-tax operating margins will show a stronger improvement in 2014 over 2013 levels than we have previously expected although not at the level we saw in the first quarter despite the negative impact of the devaluation of the yen on our gross margins and the expected pricing pressures.
This is due to the strong performance of our business primarily driven by new product launches and continued management focus on our operating expenses.
You should also see that our net income margin will expand despite the increase in our effective tax rate.
In closing we are very pleased with our strong results for the first quarter of the year.
The breadth of our business which provides balance and consistency to our overall performance as well as the extraordinary achievements and dedication of our talented people around the world positions us well to sustain and drive growth throughout the year.
Thank you.
And now I would like to turn things back to Louise for the Q&amp;A portion of the program.
Thank you Dominic.
Stephanie could you please provide the instruction for the Q&amp;A session? Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
And your first question is from the line of Mike Weinstein with JP Morgan.
Good morning Mike.
Thank you and good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
So Dominic if I take you back to three months ago at the analyst meeting and in also subsequent call on February I firstly will get on the sales guidance for the year and I think I have talked at the call that you’re being conservative and now you've come in here and you reported a better than expected first quarter and you raised your guidance for the year.
So can you talk a little bit about from the January call to to-date what has increased your confidence? And how much of that is from OLYSIO which obviously had a much strong quarter this quarter? And can you talk about that product’s performance and ability? Thanks.
Sure Mike.
Well you're right.
You did challenge us on that presumed level of conservatism.
I would say just as a way of background we are trying to forecast new product sales in a dynamic healthcare environment and we are also trying to forecast various economic trends and utilization rates in the marketplace.
So we do our best to give you our sense for what we are seeing at the time.
What we are seeing now is a better overall sense of the launch particularly the launch of the new products within pharma.
And OLYSIO as you pointed out has done remarkably well.
Yes it’s done better than we expected.
It’s primarily due to the fact that the Liver Society issued guidelines in January recommending the use of OLYSIO along with the product from Gilead Sovaldi.
And that has been adopted by the community by the medical community as a standard of care based on the liver guidelines of the society of liver specialist guidelines.
So that’s something that we learned after our guidance.
We saw it take off and we are very pleased with the results.
And if you look at the total increase in our sales guidance which is about roughly $1 billion I would say the majority of that is due to the fact that OLYSIO now is performing much better than our earlier expectations and we are very pleased with that.
And obviously more patients are gaining the benefit of utilizing this new therapy.
As far as sustainability is concerned I think you know that there are competitive products on the horizon.
The goal of searching for interferon-free therapy seems like it will be a reality.
And there are products that are expected to be approved later this year.
So we’ll have to wait and see whether those products are in fact approved.
And then of course we’ll reassess the long-term outlook for OLYSIO given any new product or new competition.
And just as a reminder we are also studying OLYSIO in a Phase 3 clinical trial along with Sovaldi.
So we’ll have that data after that trial is concluded and that will give us a better idea of the overall sustainability as well.
Okay.
And Dominic just one follow-up on the EPS guidance for the year; it’s sighted to me what you were saying the FX line that there was going to be a $0.06 of earnings pushing your upside based on real time FX rate [if you’re able] to hold that you are not including in guidance.
[So I just wanted that] right? And two I assume that would offset the impact of the OCD divestiture is that [a very little up there]? No Mike let me just reiterate that.
So the $0.06 that I referred to as the benefit from exchange rates versus last year is related to simply we gave guidance on an operational constant currency basis of $5.74 to $5.84 but then when you consider the uptick in exchange rates particularly the euro that will benefit that constant currency range by $0.06 and therefore we’ve increased our guidance by that $0.06 to $5.80 to $5.90 or a midpoint of say $5.85 compared to the midpoint in January of $5.80.
The overall increase in FX impact between those two guidance points is only about a penny it was about $0.05 in the January discussion and just about $0.06 now.
Got you.
But the OCD piece is (inaudible) cadence absorb that dilution or do you expect to when that occurs? Yes.
We expect that given the strength of the business today and the range of guidance we’ve provided assuming that transaction closes at mid-year we believe that any remaining negative impact from not having those earnings for the balance of the year would certainly be absorbed within the range of guidance we’ve now just provided for earnings per share.
Perfect.
Thank you guys.
Welcome.
Next question please? Your next question is from the line of Matthew Dodds with Citigroup.
Good morning Matt.
So Dominic on the SG&amp;A usually it looks like the first quarter does start low as a percent and then it gets higher during the year but you are starting at a much lower base this year.
Is there anything particular this quarter or is the cost cutting and expense control going to be lower this year as you move through the year even though the percent goes up? Yes.
I think a couple of things one is we’re starting the first quarter with tremendous growth from new product launches in pharma.
They don’t have a pro rata increase in SG&amp;A from the prior year.
Secondly we have implemented some cost reductions and combined some businesses in the MD&amp;D sector of our business to better compete in the current dynamic marketplace.
And thirdly we do have a number of programs as we’ve talked about before and Alex spoke about in January the overall streamlines of operations; and not only reduce some cost but also get more focus and more simplicity and agility into our operations.
So I think all of those things will help and would result in SG&amp;A being lower this year as compared to last year.
Although as you pointed out that we haven’t yet invested everything we would like to invest for the balance of the year.
So my guidance does include the fact that we would ramp up some investment in the balance of the year which is not yet included in the first quarter results.
And just quickly on Europe you grew it looks like organically around 7%.
Can you just say [probably] was that mostly driven by pharma or did MD&amp;D consumer do okay in Europe; how is the Europe trending in those businesses or how was it in the first quarter? Yes.
I think that we obviously benefited from strong growth of new product launches in Europe in the pharmaceutical business.
I don’t think there was anything in particular to point out in any of the other businesses.
There is nothing like substantially positive or negative in the Europe business [that is] primarily driven by the pharmaceutical launches in Europe.
Thanks Dominic.
You’re welcome.
Next question please? Your next question is from the line of Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning Kristen.
Good morning.
I was just wondering if you could just explain the tax benefit associated with Conor Medsystems; what way that was I guess included within this quarter’s results? Did you do something (inaudible) part of that business or… Sure.
Kristen well just to remind you we excluded it from our ongoing operating results.
So it’s the earnings excluding special items of a $1.54 exclude this benefit just to be clear.
It’s reported in the overall GAAP results of a $1.64 that’s primarily why the GAAP results are higher.
So that business was the business we acquired for the next generation of drug eluting stents several years ago.
And we pulled out of that business we wrote down the assets associated with that business previously.
And when we took that write down for book purposes we also excluded that from our ongoing earnings and recorded it as a special item.
Now what happened in this past quarter is the underlying shares of the business that we bought we bought the stock of that company we sold that company along with its related intellectual property.
And as part of that sale we recognized for tax purposes a capital loss.
That capital loss generates as you know a tax benefit.
And so we thought it would be prudent to record that tax benefit as a special item because it essentially offsets the previous write down for book purposes which was also special item.
And the sale was this quarter; and can you comment who you sold it to? We did sell this quarter; and no we are not going to comment on who the sale was to.
Okay.
And then can you maybe just provide a little bit more color just in terms of what you were seeing within the medical device business? I know you commented on lower utilization trends but then also commented on expectations I guess for things to improve within orthopedics but any additional color just on the U.S.
markets? Sure.
So what we saw in the U.S.
markets as I commented in my script was a similar type of year-over-year decline in the rate of utilization particularly hospital admissions as well as lab procedure.
So these have been trending now for the past year or so at minor downticks in quarter -- year-over-year growth in the quarter or depression in utilization from the prior year.
So we saw that continue in the first quarter.
With respect to orthopedics in particular we did expect I think many of you all expected that the higher utilization in the fourth quarter was a result of seasonality primarily related to the health plans and also probably some influence from the Affordable Care Act rush to get coverage in some maybe some confusion over what was happening in the marketplace.
So in particular the orthopedic trends did slowdown in the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter.
And we saw this very same phenomenon a year ago.
So it’s now become quite a seasonal business from that perspective that we see a real uptick at the back end of the year and then a slowdown in the early part of the year.
The only other thing I would say that in the medical device business more broadly we did see some softer trends in elective procedures we think in the U.S.
that’s probably due to the severe winter conditions so we don’t have any exact data on that fact but anecdotally that’s what it appears has impacted utilization rates in the first quarter or slightly as far as the data we have is concerned.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
You’re welcome.
Next question please? Your next question is from the line of Larry Biegelsen Wells Fargo.
Good morning Larry.
Hi Larry.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
So maybe for Dominic or Louise you guys have a pretty robust late-stage pharma pipeline again I count 6 phase 3 products right now.
Could you maybe talk about the key pipeline milestones we should look for in 2014 on the pharma side? Sure.
Well Louise maybe you can help me with any particular milestones we have.
So we have -- well we obviously have IMBRUVICA for example has a number of new indications that we’re studying some have already been approved as you know.
But there is a series of new indications being studied for IMBRUVICA and hopefully we’ll hear some of that this year.
Simeprevir is also being studied as I mentioned earlier in the Phase III trial along with Sovaldi.
And I don’t know that there is anything in particular that’s a data or a conference where data will be disclosed or provided in the near-term but Louise you might have more on that?  Yes.
So we’ve announced that the [resonated] data from IMBRUVICA should be shown in this quarter at ASCO.
There is also a significant number of abstracts scheduled to be shown for INVOKANA but at this point I’m not going to be able to give you the specific confer because still they haven’t been published at this point in time.
We are also leaving for the fixed dose combination with for INVOKANA that would be something to watch out for this year as well.
Right.
Thanks that’s very helpful.
And then one last question emerging market growth this quarter Dominic can you talk about what you saw there or BRIC growth? Thanks and I will drop.
Sure.
Yes so for BRIC growth this quarter we saw about 13% growth in the BRIC markets and for the broader emerging markets about 7% growth.
Thank you very much.
You are welcome.
Next question please?  Your next question is from the line of Jami Rubin Goldman Sachs.
Good morning Jami.
Thank you.
Hey Jami.
Good morning.
Just a couple of follow-up questions the OLYSIO numbers was there stocking in that $350 million or $354 million? And I don’t know if you disclose the IMBRUVICA numbers? And then just a question on sort of general pricing that we’ve seen in MD&amp;D I think you said several times during your prepared remarks that growth in orthopedics was offset by pricing pressure particularly in hips and knees.
So I guess sounds like utilization trends have worsened a bit have pricing trends worsened and what are your expectations for pricing for the remainder of the year? Thanks.
Okay.
Well Louise has all the facts in front of her.
So I'll let her take that question.
Okay.
So for OLYSIO in the U.S.
they only have data for in the U.S.
it's about 20% of the sales were inventory build.
So the majority of it was certainly flowing throughout out to the patients which is good news for the patients.
Regarding the hips and knees pricing I can get that number to you.
In the -- this is again U.S.
commentary the price change for hips was negative 4.1% in the first quarter offset by a very modest positive mix to net of the 3.7% negative that is slightly negative versus the fourth quarter of ‘13.
We also for the knees we have a 2.4% negative price offset by about a 2% positive mix for net of 0.6% negative for knees which is very similar to the first quarter the fourth quarter of 2013.
And what about IMBRUVICA? So IMBRUVICA we did report a little modest bit of sales on that but we are going to leave the IMBRUVICA comment for Pharmacyclics in their call because it's actually from the U.S.
Okay.
And just Dominic can you comment on pricing expectations going forward.
Do you expect this to stabilize worsen get better? Yes.
So in January when we provide the guidance in January we said that we thought negative pricing pressures particularly in Europe would impact our pre-tax operating margin by about 50 basis points we still see that.
So we don't think it's gotten any worse.
So we're consistently seeing same type of pricing pressure we saw but we developed our plans for 2014 so no change in our expectation.
So thank you.
Next question please.
Your next question is from the line of Glenn Novarro with RBC Capital Markets.
Good morning Glenn.
Hi good morning guys.
I just wanted to follow-up on the comment about U.S.
knee softness.
So in February here in the U.S.
we did have bad weather and that may have contributed given the fact that you’re still having a very strong rollout.
So I am wondering did you see your volumes even hits to did they improve throughout the quarter.
So in other words February was hit because of weather and then these patients came back in March or if there is a weather impact are we are going to have these patients come back more in the second quarter? That’s my first question.
So to frame the weather impact I also want to pick up the additional selling days.
So in recon we have one additional selling day it’s very specific to recon it does not include trauma.
And that pretty much offset the impact of the harsh weather.
So net-net there was no impact we believe to the knees and hips because of that combination.
But when you look back at when you look at last year seasonality in knees we had about a 5% seasonality and in hips we had about a 2% seasonality which is very similar trends to what we are seeing in this quarter.
As far as January February and March we don’t go into that detail of the monthly sales.
Okay.
And sticking on ortho can you give us the spine results you didn’t give us the spine results in your commentary maybe U.S.
and global spine revenues and any pricing commentary?  Okay.
So spine in the U.S.
on an operational basis is down about 3% o-U.S.
is up about 4% for a flat on a worldwide basis and in terms of price it’s down again this is U.S.
only it’s down 3% in price slight positive mix for a net of down 0.8% in terms of price mix and that’s much less negative than it was in the fourth quarter.
Yes okay that’s great.
And then let me put in one question just on the fixed dose combination of INVOKANA because I believe you had a complete response letter recently.
So what’s changed in terms of it sounds like you’re a little bit more confident that we may get approval this year.
So I am just curious was there more data or what’s changed in your view on the fixed dose combo? For the U.S.
we actually resubmitted the response to the complete response in February and we have a PDUFA date in August.
Right.
And we did get a recommendation for approval of that fixed dose combination in Europe.
That’s correct.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
You’re welcome Glenn.
Next question please? Your next question is from line of Derrick Sung Sanford Bernstein.
Good morning Derrick.
Hi Derrick.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
Going back to gross margins I appreciate some of the qualitative commentary you gave there Dominic on the increase in the impact from the yen moving out to the year.
I was just wondering if you can maybe give us a better sense this quarter of what the impacts from the devaluation of the yen was? And also how much of the strength is coming from OLYSIO in the pharma product launches that might sort of carry through the rest of the year? Yes.
Sure Derrick.
Well as we said in our overall guidance both in January and today we expect the impact of the devaluation of the yen to impact gross margins for the year about 60 basis points and I said that it would accelerate through the balance of the year just because of the way the transactions were hedged.
In the first quarter alone we estimate that that impact was only about 20 basis points negative to gross margin.
So we haven’t yet seen the full impact of the yen devaluation.
And with respect to overall gross margin performance even excluding that primarily driven by the mix of the business because of course our pharmaceutical business is our highest gross margin business and that’s delivered most of the growth this quarter.
And yes in fact that growth in gross margin has been positively impacted by the sales of OLYSIO.
Thank you.
And in the consumer business that was one area that came in a little weaker than we expected particularly OTC baby care wound care were the kind of three categories that just kind of missed our estimates.
Just more broadly speaking I was wondering if you could kind of talk to us strategically about plans to accelerate growth in that business.
Can you get that business back up to sort of market growth? And also how can we think about the margins in that business now that it seems that most of the OTC products are back on the market can we expect to see any sort of margin leverage from that business?  Sure Derrick.
Well just to give you an overall perspective on the consumer business as Louise mentioned the business was impacted by tough comparisons because of the women’s health products that we divested.
So the overall growth excluding divestitures and even excluding some acquisitions that we did was about 1% in the quarter.
Couple of things to note about that 1% that last year’s first quarter of the year 2013 was a very strong cold and flu season and despite the severe winter conditions this was actually a very weak cold and flu season.
We think that has overall a point or a point and half of growth impact between the two periods.
So the underlying business excluding those impacts is about 2.5%.
We did in fact as you know launched the products back into the marketplace in early 2013.
We’re very pleased with the uptake.
It was showing double-digit consumption growth in the products.
And of course we’ve launched some new products such as ZYRTEC quick dissolving tablets.
So overall we’re pleased with the progress that the consumer business is making overall.
We have great plans in place to launch new products.
And overall the margins as you pointed out should improve as we complete the work with the consent decree which we expect will approach completion towards the end of this year or early next year.
So after that we would then expect to see the overall margins improve as the business recovers from that activity and obviously the new products take hold in the marketplace.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Next question please? Your next question is from the line of Rick Wise with Stifel.
Good morning Rick.
Hey Rick.
Hi Louise hi Dominic.
Couple of questions Dominic just one bigger picture question political turmoil trade issues rising in Russia.
Can you remind us what percentage of your sales are in Russia are in that region of the world? And are you concerned -- is this an incremental concern for the rest of the year at all? Sure.
So let me give you sort of a sense for Russia.
So we said that growth for the BRIC markets overall was about 13% this quarter and the growth within Russia was at mid single-digit growth.
Now if I look back first quarter of 2013 our Russia growth was actually negative in the first quarter of 2013.
And that has to do with the timing of tenders within the Russian market.
So there is lots of fluctuations.
The only thing we have seen so far that’s a little bit of a concern is that there does appear to be some funding restrictions in governmental buying patterns of respected capital budgets in the hospitals.
But overall it’s not a very significant piece of the overall business.
With respect to our total BRIC business it’s relatively small piece of the business.
Obviously China and Brazil drive the majority of our growth and the majority of our business in the BRIC markets.
Okay.
And one other question Dominic I mean with the sale of diagnostics it’s hard not to reflect on the rest of the portfolio and look around for other underperformers and I know you are doing that all the time.
But diabetes comes quickly to mind I appreciate that you are going to anniversary the price cut in this summer maybe in the third quarter.
But maybe talk about the diabetes outlook what changes as we get pass that anniversary? And are you taking a harder look at underperformers like diabetes.
Do you need to be in this business longer term for the rest of the franchise or is this something that maybe you could carve out at some point? Thanks Dominic.
Okay.
Sure Rick.
Well just a few comments on diabetes overall and our approach to portfolio analysis.
Alex as you may remember has been very clear about some of the criteria we use to analyze the portfolio.
One criteria is are you number one or number two in your market or do you have the technological wherewithal the technology et cetera new products that could propel you to that number one or number two spot; and lastly are you complementary to any of our other businesses.
So with respect to diabetes despite the significant pricing pressure in the market overall all companies have faced this diabetes business is a market leader.
They have very strong market share positions the business is doing very well outside the U.S.
continues to grow nicely and also it is very complementary to other parts of our business.
We attribute the successful launch of INVOKANA partly to the fact that we have very good relationships with the endocrinologists as a result of our Life Scan business already.
So at this point we haven’t made any decisions with respect to any other portfolio of choices but the diabetes business is well positioned overall in the marketplace and it is complementary to significant part of our other business.
Okay.
Maybe just to follow-up Dominic I apologize with $3 billion in cash and significantly more likely all things equal by year-end any updated thoughts on capital allocation acquisition or share buyback? Thanks so much.
Sure Rick.
So just to correct you I think you said $3 billion in cash; it’s actually nearly 30.
30.
Yes.
Okay.
Well no change in the way we look at it.
We’ve been very consistent with this approach.
We think that looking first at our dividend and we’ll obviously know more about the dividend at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting in a couple of weeks.
After that we look to invest for growth and for value creation so that we’re appropriately generating returns commensurate with the risk associated with putting our investors’ capital to work.
And then finally after exhausting those possibilities we then look to share repurchases if they’re at the right time.
So no change in our overall approach we think it’s a very good approach.
We consistently follow it; it’s proved to be successful in overall balance of both returns to shareholders and investing in growth over the long-term.
So as of now no changes in our approach and nothing else to report.
Thanks.
Next question please? Your next question is from the line of Matt Miksic with Piper Jaffray.
Hey Matt.
Hi thanks.
So just one follow-up detailed question here that I don’t think you’ve provided and then I have a question on consumer.
So in your remarks Louise I think you had not covered the trauma detail I’d love to get some color as to exactly to what happened there.
Okay.
So the U.S.
growth is 10%; the OUS growth is 4% for a total of 7% operational growth.
In terms of the pricing pricing was about 0.7 negative in the quarter and that’s the first time we’ve actually seen that.
It was more than offset by a positive mix of about 2.5%.
So net-net the pricing mix in the U.S.
was about 1.8% stable which was slightly favorable versus the fourth quarter 2013.
Now one thing I would like to add to that is I think that the trauma team has done a remarkable job recovering from the nail recall that happened.
And so they deserve to be congratulated for bringing the product back to the market.
And of course patients are better forward and our customers should have the confidence in us to be able to do that and we’ve demonstrated that their confidence is well earned.
Great thank you for that.
And then on consumer I guess we didn’t spend much time here in Q&amp;A talking about it but that had been topic of some discussion over the past couple of years.
And you made some changes there and then you announced this licensing arrangement around K-Y.
I’d love to get a sense may be strategically how you are thinking about that business particularly as it relates to that $30 billion and obviously $30 billion in cash that you have outstanding there.
Sure Matt.
Well just to clarify with consumer we basically -- we did enter into an agreement to sell the K-Y brand to Reckitt and that transaction should close in the second quarter.
That was a strategic portfolio decision.
We’re looking at the portfolio and consumer as we look at the portfolio in each of our businesses and obviously through the filters that I just described earlier.
And with respect to the utilization of our cash the consumer business like any of our other businesses MD&amp;D or consumer competes for capital in the same way.
We look at strategically where we should be investing the capital and then of course whether or not that allocation of capital will give us an appropriate rate of return given the risk involved.
So it doesn’t -- we don’t treat the businesses any differently except for a change in the risk adjusted rate of return that’s required based on the obvious risk involved that’s different between the businesses.
So there is no specific plans with respect to the $30 billion as I mentioned earlier in answer to Rick’s question.
Can I push you just a little bit on that Dominic? Sure.
I thought I remember there was a time when we thought of consumer pharma MD&amp;D as kind of a three legged stool and consumer kind of being the shorter leg of that stool.
Is there still thinking that you will work to try to make this some more balanced divisional portfolio? So let me just comment a little bit on that Matt.
When we look at the three-legged stool we’re thinking of a broadly based healthcare business across many aspects of the healthcare marketplace both consumer medical devices and pharma.
The relative percent that each of those businesses represents as a percentage of the total and the pie if you will is really the result of decisions previously made.
There is no forward looking predetermined mix that we think is appropriate.
Each and every investment is evaluated on its own merits and the mix today is 40-40-20 is the result of making the investment decisions we’ve already made.
So as we make other investment decisions with appropriate risk return profile that mix might change but there is no predetermined picture of the pie that we think is ideal.
Helpful.
Thank you.
Okay.
You are welcome.
Next question please?  Your next question is from the line of Jeff Holford with Jefferies.
Good morning Jeff.
Hey thanks for taking my questions.
So just a bit more color on OLYSIO.
Can you just give us a bit more color on the usage of this product do you have any information about how much of it is being used in combination with which products? Secondly I don’t know if I have heard you breakout INVOKANA sales yet if you can give us any color either on the actual sales or how much it contributed to growth as you have done previously? And then just lastly if you can update us on the reexamination of the REMICADE patent and just what kind of visibility you might have out there on a potential timeline for biosimilar introductions? Thank you.
Sure Jeff.
Well with OLYSIO as I mentioned earlier the guidelines from the Liver Society was very clear that recommended usage in conjunction with Sovaldi the new product from Gilead.
We did see sales tick up right after those guidelines were issued.
So we don’t have all the specific information that I could share with you now but we do believe a large majority of the sales are in combination with Sovaldi and apparently in an interferon free regimen.
I am going to skip INVOKANA and let Louise talk about that.
There is nothing we can report on the examination of the REMICADE patent no new information.
And with respect to biosimilars we don’t really see any biosimilar impact in the U.S.
And we have seen biosimilar impact outside the U.S.
but it’s been very modest with REMICADE from the product that has been approved to-date which is called what Louise?  Ready (inaudible).
Yes.
But it’s very very modest.
And I think that has to do with generally speaking biosimilars are not expected to have the dramatic impact of change in the marketplace as you see in small molecules for a number of reasons that I am sure you’re aware of.
And with respect to INVOKANA Louise? So in my prepared remarks I said it contributed 2.5 points to the U.S.
growth rate.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
You’re welcome Jeff.
Next question please? Your next question is from the line of Danielle Antalffy with Leerink Partners.
Good morning Danielle.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks so much for taking the question.
I just wanted to if I could follow-up on Rick’s question regarding capital allocation and more specifically focus on M&amp;A.
Dominic I know you’ve touched on it a few times this morning.
But I guess specifically not really related to predetermined mix of businesses but where do you see the most meaningful areas of interest for J&amp;J the highest growth profiles of markets where you’re not currently participating and how do you see deals going down from here on out knowing that Synthes was the largest acquisition ever but it looks like you’re largely integrated at this point.
So any more color there what markets are interesting to J&amp;J that you’re not participating in and sort of how big of an acquisition would you guys make from here on now? Yes.
Well Danielle let me just comment a little bit on our strategy.
So again we want to participate in the fastest growing segments of healthcare and we want to do so in a meaningful way where the asset would be better in our hands as opposed to the hands of the current owner.
But having said that regardless of the growth trajectory of the market or the asset evaluations have to be right.
So today for me to give you any indication on which markets we’d be more interested than others we sort of leave out the corresponding equally important characterization of whether or not evaluations are appropriate.
So I can’t really comment today on that very specifically.
And also with respect to size of transactions we’ve done hundreds of acquisitions over the last 15 or 20 years and just about a dozen or so have been over $1 billion and very few Pfizer Consumer Healthcare and Synthes of course have been in excess of $10 billion.
So it is pretty rare for us to do a large acquisition like that not because we have any particular pre-disposition to not doing it but because as I said earlier the valuation has to be right the asset has to be better in our hands than in the hands of the previous owner and therefore and obviously the premium to be paid has to be sensible.
And then we are already broadly based in human healthcare.
So there are very few areas that we need tremendously significantly greater presence.
Having said that a lot of our capital is in fact allocated to pharmaceutical licensing and collaborations which we think is an enormous benefit to us because it’s the most efficient allocation of capital.
We take some risk afterwards but we don’t put the capital out on day one.
Obviously we do it through the development program that we control.
So that’s the way we think about it.
I’m sorry; I can’t give you any more specifics today with respect to any markets or specifics beyond what I just said.
No that’s helpful.
Thanks Dominic.
I guess just a follow-up on that specifically to medical device business as you mentioned recently you’ve allocated a lot of capital to the pharma business I know that you acquired Synthes that was a big acquisition for you guys.
How do we think about the outlook for the medical device business relative to pharma? I mean pharma has really been the engine driving growth for J&amp;J.
Is that sort of how the future for the company looks as pharma will be the engine going forward and devices are there to sort of generate cash or how do we think about how the med-tech business continues to set into broader change J&amp;J’s business? Yes.
Okay.
So that’s a great question.
So as you know we think of ourselves as a broadly based company in healthcare.
And you think of the MD&amp;D business we have we’re the largest MD&amp;D player in the market.
So we obviously have quite a significant presence in the hospitals.
And that as you know is a very important part of the overall healthcare system.
So Johnson &amp; Johnson is best positioned in medical device as I believe than any other medical device player given what’s happening in the market with respect to hospitals and specifically speaking the U.S.
with the advantage of Affordable Care Act and the accountable care organizations we’re working to not only remain the largest player in medical devices but to take advantage of that position in the hospital setting with respect to providing total solutions to the marketplace.
So it’s a very important part of our business.
It does drive substantial cash flows to the business.
In the past it’s been a significant contributor to growth from new products.
I’m confident it will also be a significant contributor of growth from new products in the future as well.
And we have an upcoming Medical Device Business Review coming up May 22 and you’ll hear Gary Pruden and Michel Orsinger specifically talk about the surgery and the orthopedics business and the plans there.
And I look forward to sharing that information with you then.
Thanks so much.
Next question please? Your next question is from the line of Josh Jennings with Cowen and Company.
Good morning Josh.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Dominic it’s clear that the pharma was the driver for the margin performance in Q1 and also for your updated guidance.
And it sounds like consumer; there is some room here as you work through the consent decree and for some margin expansion as well in that unit.
Can you speak specifically to the device business and particularly on margins; was it a drag in Q1 or a contributor and then also the outlook for the year here for the device business in terms of margin contribution?  Yes Josh.
Well we don’t give outlooks or forecasts by business of margin but I did say that we expect to have overall margin improvement both pre-tax operating margin greater than what we expected when we gave guidance in January but not to the extent that we saw in the first quarter.
And with respect to the first quarter the SG&amp;A line showed very nice leveraging year-over-year and that was due in part to the pharmaceutical business but also very much due to the MD&amp;D business.
The MD&amp;D business has done a very good job of consolidating businesses of streamlining operations et cetera.
And also in the supply chain the medical device business has even further opportunity streamlined footprint et cetera in the supply chain.
So we do think that medical devices will continue to be a contributor to margin.
Although I must say that the business does operate at a relatively high margin already.
And as a leader in the marketplace I think we should operate at that higher margin.
So that’s the way I would characterize it for now but I can’t give you an outlook by sector at this time.
Thanks Dominic.
Next question please?  The next question is from the line of David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning David.
Good morning.
Dominic I just want to -- it sounds like the operational strength of the business is going to offset any pressure from OCD but can you just remind us on an annual basis we had OCD potentially a $0.10 to $0.15 impact to the business is that in kind of the rough ballpark? Yes.
On an annual basis that’s a rough ballpark in terms of its contribution to earnings $0.10 to $0.15 on an annual basis.
That’s right.
Okay.
And this I don’t want to put words in your mouth.
But it did sound I do think operational upside of the business can offset that number this year not $0.10 to $0.15 but obviously the annual impact and you don’t necessarily need to rely on a buyback to do so? Well right now we have no buyback planned.
And I did say that the current guidance that we’re giving the guidance range that we’re giving is sufficient to absorb any impact from the loss of profitability of the diagnostic business for the balance of the year.
Okay very helpful.
And Dominic I don’t want to take anyone’s thunder from next month but as relates to cardiovascular and Cordis and it comes to mind that there has been a new management team in place there I think for 12 to 15 months and it doesn’t really come up much on these calls last couple of quarters.
Can you share with us sort of any strategic or operational changes that are happening in the cardiovascular franchise that perhaps we are unaware of that you find interesting? Thank you.
Well one thing I would say about our cardiovascular business is the Biosense Webster business is just fantastic.
I mean it has been growing year-after-year in double-digit growth rates launching new products making meaningful innovations for patients et cetera.
And I am sure that at the MD&amp;D Day on May 22 you’ll hear much more about that business in particular in new innovations there.
Thanks Dominic.
Two more questions and then we’ll close the call.
Next question please? Your next question is from the line of Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
Good morning Bob.
Can you hear me okay? Good morning.
Yes.
Hi Bob.
So thanks.
I’ll go back into the weeds a little bit here after going big picture for a while.
So I was wondering if you guys could just talk a little bit about what the divisions were telling you in the quarter as it relates to general surgery trends.
It didn’t look to me like those softened at all unlike what you saw in orthopedic.
So I was just wondering if there is any commentary from the divisions on general surgery that you think we might find relevant?  The one comment that the teams told us was that with respect to elective procedures in the U.S.
given the severe weather conditions we did see some slowdown in those types of procedures.
Anything else Louise that you want to… Yes.
So when we went back and talked to our surgical care team they did tell us there is some normal seasonality within the surgical care business.
And then there was some competitive pressure in the endomechanical but there is some seasonality actually in the surgical care business as Dominic referenced.
Okay?  And then one last one just again did the guys give you any indication on why pricing in hips got a little bit worse and just general comments on pricing within the device franchise for the quarter?  I don’t think we have any specifics on pricing within the quarter that we could talk about but I think the numbers Louise gave earlier just give you an indication.
And it was a little bit worse in hips but… Slightly higher rebate that was basically what it is but it’s not such a significant change okay? Next question please?  Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Damien Conover Morningstar.
Good morning Damien.
Good morning.
Thanks for squeezing me in here.
Just a quick question on the non-biologic injectable business just let me get a sense of both with INVEGA SUSTENNA and RISPERDAL CONSTA kind of what you are seeing longer term with generics entering the market? I think you mentioned INVEGA SUSTENNA; SUSTENNA not seeing any generic competition this year but just kind of want to get a sense of when you think that generic competition might comment some of the complexities here that the generic firms have to deal with? Thanks.
Okay.
So the patent on INVEGA SUSTENNA in the U.S.
expires April 2014 and then there are certain other patents that go out to 2017 and ‘18 related to formulations.
We are not aware at this time of any applications in the U.S.
for either INVEGA SUSTENNA or RISPERDAL CONSTA.
RISPERDAL CONSTA is May 2014 that particular patent on it.
And as far as the international INVEGA SUSTENNA in Europe is about June 2018 and RISPERDAL CONSTA is November 2014.
And again we’re not aware of any filings on it.
Both of them are protected by formulation patents well beyond the composition of patent [life].
So with that we will close the call and I’ll ask Dominic to make some final remarks.
Sure.
Thanks Louise and thanks everyone for joining us today.
Obviously we’re very pleased with our strong results for the first quarter and I think we’re very well positioned to drive growth throughout the year.
We do look forward to seeing you all at the Medical Device Business Review on May 22.
So thank you again and have a nice day.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s Johnson &amp; Johnson first quarter earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Johnson &amp; Johnson Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be able to listen-only until the question-and-answer session of the conference.
This call is being recorded.
If anyone has any objections you may disconnect at this time.
(Operator Instructions).
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Johnson &amp; Johnson.
You may begin.
Good morning and welcome.
I’m Louise Mehrotra Vice President of Investor Relations for Johnson &amp; Johnson and it is my pleasure this morning to review our business results for the second quarter of 2014.
Joining me on the call today are Alex Gorsky Chairman of The Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer; Joaquin Duato Worldwide Chairman Pharmaceuticals; Paul Stoffels Chief Scientific Officer Johnson &amp; Johnson and Worldwide Chairman Pharmaceuticals; and Dominic Caruso Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
A few logistics before we get into the details.
This review is being made available via webcast accessible through the Investor Relations section of the Johnson &amp; Johnson Web site.
I’ll begin by briefly reviewing second quarter results for the corporation and for our three business segments.
Following my remarks Alex will provide some additional commentary on the business and an update on our near term priorities.
Next Joaquin and Paul will provide an update on our pharmaceutical business and lastly Dominic will review the income statement and provide guidance for 2014.
We will then open the call to your questions.
Included with the press release that was issued earlier this morning is a schedule of sales for key products and/or businesses to facilitate updating your models.
These schedules are available on the Johnson &amp; Johnson Web site as is the press release.
Please note we will be using presentation to complement today’s commentary.
The presentation is also available on our Web site.
Before we begin let me remind you that some of the statements made during this review are or may be considered forward-looking statements.
The 10-K for the fiscal year 2013 identifies certain factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements made today.
The Company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.
The 10-K is available through the company and online.
During the review non-GAAP financial measures are used to provide information pertinent to ongoing business performance.
These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered replacements for GAAP results.
Tables reconciling these measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are available in the press release and on the Investor Relations section of the Johnson &amp; Johnson Web site at investor.jnj.com.
A number of products and compounds discussed today are being developed in collaboration with strategic partners or licensed from other companies.
This slide lists the acknowledgment of those relationships not otherwise referenced in today’s presentations.
Now I would like to review our results for the second quarter of 2014.
Worldwide sales to customers were $19.5 billion for the second quarter of 2014 up 9.1%.
On an operational basis sales were up 9.4% and currency had a negative impact of 0.3%.
In the U.S.
sales were up 14.9%.
In regions outside the U.S.
our operational growth was 5% while the effect of currency exchange rates negatively impacted our reported results by 0.6%.
On an operational basis the Western Hemisphere excluding the U.S.
grew by 6.5% Asia Pacific Africa region grew 5.3% and Europe grew 4.1%.
The success of new product launches and continued growth of key products made strong contributions to the results in all regions.
Excluding the impact of divestitures net of acquisition underlying organic operational growth was 10%.
Turning now to earnings; net earnings were $4.3 billion and earnings per share were $1.51 versus $1.33 a year ago.
As referenced in the table reconciling non-GAAP measures 2014 second quarter net earnings were adjusted to exclude a charge of $449 million for after tax special items.
Second quarter 2013 net earnings were adjusted to exclude a charge of $456 million for after tax special items.
Dominic will discuss special items in his remarks.
Excluding special items for both periods net earnings for the current quarter were $4.8 billion and diluted earnings per share were $1.66 representing increases of 11.3% and 12.2% respectively as compared to the same period in 2013.
Turning now to business segment highlights please note percentages quoted represents operational sales change in comparison to the second quarter of 2013 unless otherwise stated and therefore exclude the translational impact of currency.
I will begin with the Consumer segment.
Worldwide Consumer segment sales of $3.7 billion increased 3.6% with U.S.
sales down 0.5% while outside the U.S.
sales grew 5.8%.
Excluding the impact of net divestitures worldwide growth was approximately 6% with U.S.
growth of approximately 5%.
Major drivers of the results were over-the-counter products skin care baby care as well as international sales of oral care and feminine protection products partially offset by the divestiture of the North American Sanitary Protection business.
OTC sales were strong due to analgesic growth of nearly 17% worldwide and nearly 25% in the U.S.
driven by market share gains as we continue to return products to the shelves.
Upper respiratory products digestive health and antismoking products also made strong contributions to the results.
Skin care results were driven by share gains for both NEUTROGENA and AVEENO with new product launches supported by robust marketing campaigns category growth as well as an increase in trade inventory levels.
Baby care results were driven by strong sales across the number of categories.
International oral care results were driven by strong results for LISTERINE due to new product launches and successful marketing campaigns.
Moving now to our Pharmaceutical segment.
Worldwide sales of $8.5 billion increased 21.1% with U.S.
up 36.6% and sales outside the U.S.
up 6.9% driven by both strong sales of new products as well as core growth products.
A major driver was our recently launched hepatitis C product called OLYSIO in the U.S.
and EU and SOVRIAD in Japan.
Excluding sales of the hepatitis C products OLYSIO and INCIVO underlying growth worldwide U.S.
and outside the U.S.
was approximately 10.5% 15% and 6.5% respectively.
Other significant contributors to growth were immunology products; STELARA REMICADE and SIMPONI SIMPONI ARIA as well as XARELTO ZYTIGA INVEGA SUSTENNA/XEPLION INVOKANA PREZISTA and recently launched IMBRUVICA.
Partially offsetting the growth were lower sales of ACIPHEX and CONCERTA due to generic competition and INCIVO with competitive entries.
The strong results for immunology were driven by double-digit market growth complemented by increased market share for STELARA and SIMPONI.
We continue to be the U.S.
market leader in immunology.
XARELTO sales were up over 90% compared with the same quarter last year and grew over 13% on a sequential basis.
Total prescription share or TRx for the quarter in the U.S.
anti-coagulant market grew to over 13% with cardiology TRx estimated at over 23%.
The strong results for ZYTIGA in the U.S.
were driven by increased market share in the combined metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer market and estimated market growth of nearly 11.5%.
ZYTIGA has captured approximately 34% of that market.
Continued strong market uptick and progress on reimbursement drove the strong results outside the U.S.
ZYTIGA is approved in more than 90 countries.
Increased market share drove results for INVEGA SUSTENNA/XEPLION and PREZISTA.
INVOKANA sales contributed over 2.5 points to the U.S.
pharmaceutical growth rate and for the quarter achieved 2.3% TRx within the defined market of type 2 diabetes excluding insulin and metformin up from 1.8% in the first quarter of 2014.
TRx with endocrinologists grew to 7% for the quarter up approximately 1% sequentially.
I’ll now review the Medical Devices and Diagnostic segment results.
Worldwide Medical Devices and Diagnostic segment sales of $7.2 billion increased 0.9%.
U.S.
sales declined 1.4% while sales outside the U.S.
increased 2.6%.
Growth was driven by orthopedics cardiovascular care and specialty surgery partially offset by lower sales in diabetes care vision care and diagnostics.
Lower price primarily related to competitive bidding continue to impact the diabetes care business in the U.S.
while reversal of the noted customer inventory build from the first quarter and competitive pricing dynamics impacted growth for vision care.
Excluding OCD and diabetes care worldwide growth was approximately 2%.
Orthopedic sales growth was driven by trauma and hips.
Trauma was up 7% worldwide with sales outside the U.S.
up 11% due to a successful tender offer as a result of our comprehensive portfolio offering.
Hips growth of 5% worldwide was driven by strong volume growth partially offset by continued pricing pressure.
Primary stem platform sales were a major contributor to the results.
Knees worldwide increased 1% with the U.S.
flat and 4% growth outside the U.S.
Increased sales due to the successful launch of ATTUNE were partially offset by price pressures across the region and softness in the U.S.
market.
Cardiovascular growth was driven by a 14% worldwide increase in our BioSense Webster business due to new catheter launches and continued market expansion.
Specialty surgery results were driven by energy and bio-surgery outside the U.S.
with new products driving market growth and market share.
There were some notable developments in the second quarter which we have summarized on this slide to assist as you develop your models.
Alex Joaquin and Paul will provide some additional commentary in their remarks.
That concludes the segment highlights for Johnson &amp; Johnson second quarter of 2014.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Alex Gorsky.
Alex? Well thank you very much Louise and thanks to all of you who are participating in today’s call welcome.
It’s a very dynamic time in the healthcare industry led most importantly by significant advancements in the care of patients and consumers.
Treatment options have never been greater.
Today hepatitis C and certain cancer treatments are more promising than ever and while diabetes and heart disease which we are unfortunately still seeing rates increased they are much more manageable for the patient with oral medication that are increasingly convenient to take.
That being said all of us in healthcare realized that there is still so much more work to do to improve the lives of patients around the world.
It is encouraging to see that healthcare reform initiatives are taking hold around the world which will enable more people to see a doctor or to have procedures they needed it may not have had the means to do so in the past.
Over the past several years we have been discussing with you how Johnson &amp; Johnson has been taking a consistent series of steps to ensure we are best positioned to serve the needs of patients and consumers in this dynamic and rapidly evolving environment.
I would like to begin our discussion today by reviewing some of these issues.
Much as we had anticipated the medical devices landscape is evolving as innovations scale and breadth become more important to meeting the needs of the customer.
At that time we noted that due to market dynamics in segments like orthopedics the industry would likely need to consolidate which was one factor that led to our acquisition of Synthes.
In the larger device space what the industry is now realizing is the companies like Johnson &amp; Johnson with larger portfolios are better able to partner with hospital systems and managed care organizations to find the right balance of innovation value and service.
And as we are all observing there are many dynamics happening in the pharmaceutical industry as well.
We noted several years ago that a focused portfolio consistent investments in R&amp;D and overall increased productivity in our development capabilities would be the key to driving our innovation.
Since making the decision to focus our portfolio on five therapeutic areas where our expertise and the opportunity to make a significant difference aligned our pharmaceutical business has been exceptionally productive with 14 new compounds launched since 2009 making it the fastest growing of the top 10 pharmaceutical businesses in the U.S.
Europe and Japan.
These innovations and indeed the innovations that we’re making in each of our segments enables us to meet the growing demand for health care products and services and creates new opportunities to address unmet medical needs.
I want to now briefly review our perspective on where we see health care today.
As I mentioned in January the worldwide market is immense with an overall spend of over $8 trillion.
At $2.4 trillion products account for nearly 30% of the spend growing at about 3% to 5% a year.
In medical devices we’re still seeing that utilization rates in the U.S.
remain depressed both in admissions and surgical procedures but we continue to believe that as the economy recovers and healthcare reform gains momentum utilization rates will increase.
In terms of prescription rates in the first half of the year trends have modestly continued upward versus 2013 with the U.S.
Rx volume increasing through May by approximately 1% over the prior year.
And global growth and GDP forecast remain above 3% on stronger momentum in advanced economies such as the U.S.
and Europe while key emerging economies including Brazil and India continue to be challenged.
Given the positive demographic trends we’re seeing globally in the underlying strength of our businesses we remain confident about the long-term growth prospects of the health care market and with our comprehensive and diverse portfolio of consumer health products medical devices and pharmaceutical Johnson &amp; Johnson has a distinct competitive advantage in meeting the needs of patients.
We re-implemented the strategic framework a very disciplined and focused approach to evolving our position as the world’s largest and most diverse healthcare company.
Grounded by our credo we identified four growth drivers which by now all of you should be very familiar with creating value through innovation global reach local focus excellence in execution and leading with purpose.
We are executing against these growth drivers and capitalizing on our scale and breadth across Johnson &amp; Johnson to ensure that we’re effectively positioned to drive and sustain strong global growth over the long-term.
Now in the near-term we also have clear priorities for the businesses including achieving our financial targets.
As announced earlier today we had record sales in the quarter of $19.5 billion which is a 9.4% operational increase as compared to the second quarter of 2013.
These strong results reflect a continued success of our new product launches and progress we made in achieving our near-term priorities.
In our Medical Device and Diagnostic segment we are leading the industry with the largest most comprehensive business in the world.
And while combining businesses with overlapping products and different business models can be disruptive our integration over the past two years of DePuy and Synthes which we mentioned earlier has gone well.
Given that we’re largely through it we set a strong foundation for capturing the full growth potential we envisioned at the onset and we’re pleased with the revenue and cost synergy we’ve begun to realize.
And despite the market pressures we remain optimistic about the future in this segment and are seeing strong performance in many of our MD&amp;D businesses.
In hips we experienced strong operational growth at 5% in the quarter and continue to complement this growth with new product introductions such as the recently launched CORAIL Revision Hip System in both the United States and Europe.
We also continue to see solid growth in trauma at 7% for the quarter which is built on the strength of our portfolio and the positive impact of a tender we were awarded in the Middle East as a result of our comprehensive offerings.
In our global surgery business we continue to see progress in many areas including consistent double-digit growth of our BioSense Webster electrophysiology portfolio.
We also have a steady cadence of new product offerings exemplified by the recent FDA approval of our supplemental PMA with the SEDASYS System which we anticipate introducing into the U.S.
market in the latter half of 2014 as well as the launch of the HARMONIC ACE +7 Shears with advanced hemostasis the first purely ultrasonic device with a 7 millimeter sealing indication; it’s really a great technology.
And as you heard at our MD&amp;D Investor Meeting in May our strategy for sustainable long-term growth is driven by building on the strong market leadership positions we hold on the majority of our key platforms as well as the contributions we anticipate from our recently launched products and future pipeline which includes more than 30 major filings planned by the end of 2016 many on which we have already made good progress since our presentations in May.
Finally in-line with our emphasis to tighten the focus within our MD&amp;D portfolio we’re creating value through divestiture opportunities and completed the divestiture of our ortho clinical diagnostics business to The Carlyle Group which Dominic will discuss in his remarks.
OCD plays a very important role in health care and we’re confident that it is well positioned to continue serve in the interest of patients customers and employees.
Turning now to our consumer business where growth is closely tied with GDP trends we’re pleased with the progress of the business and executing the strategy we outlined last summer.
We have successfully exited a few business categories recently enabling us to focus on delivering above market growth in our core business.
And we anticipate greater opportunities to expand the business in the future as global economies recover and the middle-class continue to grow.
Our consumer brands are important for the equity of Johnson &amp; Johnson and consumer health care truly is strategic for us with the potential to serve the 2 billion additional consumers who are predicted to join the growing middle-class in emerging markets.
We made significant progress in this segment over the last few years and have plans for the coming years to accelerate the growth of this business through new innovations brand building and strategic collaborations working off with foundation that starts with deep consumer insights.
As part of our strategy we have defined 11 key need states where with our expertise we can make a difference to consumers and grow our business.
We are also focusing on 12 mega brands including LISTERINE AVEENO TYLENOL and JOHNSON’s Baby to ensure they are exceeding consumers’ expectations around the world and the strategy is working.
We are capturing share in these and several of the other key categories.
For example we have seen strong growth in our oral care business outside the U.S.
at 7% operationally.
Our skin care and baby businesses are both up 7% operationally in the quarter.
And we are also developing innovative collaboration models with retailers across the globe where we are working to create an unparalleled experience for shoppers in OTC categories like cold and flu by sharing insights and developing ways to reduce complexity for consumers and drive visibility for our offerings.
In our U.S.
OTC business we continue making good progress in restoring brands to the shelves delivering above market growth and continue to meet each of our obligations under the consent decree.
While we still have work to do our goal is to ensure all of our U.S.
OTC products are available every time a consumer is reaching for them.
And I’m confident that we are on a good path to meet that goal.
Turning now to our pharmaceutical business and as results show the current business is very strong driven by new innovative products that are clearly addressing the unmet medical needs of patients worldwide and the future is bright with the continued advancement in our pipeline.
By any measure our performance has been outstanding in this segment and we are leading the industry on numerous fronts.
Clinical through commercial and later this morning you’ll hear more from Paul and Joaquin who I am pleased to have joining us on the call later today.
You’ll recall that in the late 2000s our pharmaceutical business faced significant patent expirations as products worth roughly $8 billion went off patent.
We have to rethink that business model and really focused on areas where we could make a difference.
We needed to streamline our organization and made tough choices to gain efficiencies and reduce headcount in developed markets by nearly 25%.
But through our diversified business model with consumer and MD&amp;D continuing to grow during this time we were able to continue to invest in our pharma business.
We are also continuing to invest in R&amp;D in our five therapeutic areas at approximately 20% to 21% of sales and we have put those dollars to work with plan to file more than 10 new drugs and 25 line extensions between 2013 and 2017.
Additionally we are complementing that investment with smaller scale acquisitions and early stage licensing agreements surfaced through our innovation centers.
For Johnson &amp; Johnson this model has been an excellent source of value creation.
And I am delighted that Paul Stoffels Joaquin Duato are joining the call today to provide an update on their tremendous work.
A little over a year ago we created the Johnson &amp; Johnson Research and Development Management Committee led by Paul.
This group brings together the senior most R&amp;D leaders across Johnson &amp; Johnson to foster cross-sector collaboration and deliver transformational new medicines and medical devices.
Under Paul’s excellent leadership our enterprise R&amp;D leaders are harnessing our deep internal expertise and platform capabilities throughout the organization to develop customer focused solutions that combine our capabilities and expertise across our portfolios.
And the commercial pharmaceutical strategies led by Joaquin are delivering outstanding results in very competitive global markets where we’re continuing to gain share and we’re also securing reimbursement and access at accelerated rates.
The teams they have put in place have positioned us for continued success for many years to come in our pharmaceutical sector.
I am please now to turn the call over to Paul and Joaquin.
Thank you Alex and good morning everyone.
Paul and I are delighted to speak to you today about our continued success at our pharmaceutical group.
When we look at the pharmaceuticals market we’re very optimistic about the future with an estimated 4.5% growth anticipated through 2017.
While we recognized we’ll continue to experience headwinds we also see numerous positive drivers including changing demographics and substantial unmet medical needs.
As a result there is significant opportunity to improve the lives of patients by bringing transformational medical innovations to the market.
As Louise mentioned we’re reporting 21.1% operational growth in the second quarter of 2014.
This is our 17th consecutive quarter of growth including the six consecutive quarters in double-digits.
Without our hepatitis C products our growth in the last quarter was 10.5%.
I am often asked Joaquin is this just a lucky run or is there something more to it.
After facing significant challenges in the early 2000 we made a number of strategic changes to our business including building key development manufacturing market access and commercial competencies and focusing our innovation to produce a consistent stream of differentiated new products.
These changes are directly responsible for the success we’re seeing now and we believe position us to continue to succeed in the future.
Specifically with our focus on the five strategic priorities that you see on this slide I will speak to you about the first two of these priorities and then hand off to Paul to cover the remaining three.
When we look at our commercial performance the first thing to note is that our success is global.
We are the fastest growing top 10 global pharmaceutical company in the U.S.
Europe and Japan by a significant margin.
Key to the success has been both the sales of our core growth products and the sales of new products.
Regarding our core growth products you can see that REMICADE VELCADE and PREZISTA all continue to deliver strong growth.
2013 REMICADE sales were 6.7 billion which were 9% higher than 2012.
In the second quarter of this year sales grew at 8.7%.
This is a product that has been in the market since 1998.
VELCADE remains a backbone of multiple myeloma treatment delivering 6.2% growth in the second quarter.
Finally PREZISTA is the number one HIV protease inhibitor in the U.S.
and Europe and we’re pleased to note the recent approval in Canada of PREZCOBIX our fixed dose combination with Gilead’s cobicistat with a file for approval also in the U.S.
and in Europe.
We have achieved remarkable success with our new products.
As you can see on the left worldwide sales of new products launched since 2009 have already generated $5.9 billion of revenue this year and represent nearly 40% of our second quarter sales.
In the United States alone our cumulative sales of new products launched since 2009 is more than our next two closest competitors combined.
I would now like to spend a few minutes speaking about the specific products that have driven this performance.
ZYTIGA is the most successful oral oncology launch in history.
It is now approved for the treatment of metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer in more than 90 countries.
And the metastatic castration sensitive registration trial is on track.
As you can see ZYTIGA continues to hold significant market share in U.S.
gaining 1.2 points versus the first quarter this year.
Worldwide we generated second quarter sales of $562 million representing more than 40% growth year-over-year.
Nearly 60% of the sales in the quarter were outside the U.S.
As for B-cell malignancies in the last year we launched our oral oncology drug IMBRUVICA developed in collaboration with Pharmacyclics with a worldwide license agreement for a 50-50 profit split.
IMBRUVICA is launched in the U.S.
for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia and for the treatment of mantle cell lymphoma in patients who have received at least one prior therapy.
Both indications are based on an overall response rate and improvement in survival or disease related symptoms has not yet been established.
Moving forward we’re pursuing a global regulatory strategy for IMBRUVICA in all major markets with European MCL and CLL decisions expected later this year.
IMBRUVICA has been investigated in a number of global chemical trials across potential indications.
In immunology we are proud to note Janssen was the number one company in total U.S.
sales in 2013.
This was of course driven by REMICADE which I mentioned earlier and by STELARA and SIMPONI.
STELARA is the fastest growing biologic in psoriasis in major markets including number one new-to-brand share in the U.S.
This is in large part due to STELARA key psoriasis and Psoriatic Arthritis approvals and because we are able to demonstrate the five year safety and efficacy of STELARA through real-world trials and registry data.
For SIMPONI its ulcerative colitis indication is approved in 43 countries and I’m pleased to note that the IV formulation for rheumatoid arthritis has launched in the U.S.
and in Canada.
Both of these products have seen robust growth this quarter more than 40% and 60% respectively.
Turning to XARELTO we have established a highly competitive position in the U.S.
with six FDA approved indications and more than 1.6 million patients treated.
XARELTO is a number one novel oral anticoagulant among U.S cardiologists.
This is impart due to the fact that XARELTO has broad market access with more than 90% coverage of insured patients and the lowest co-pay of any branded novel anti-coagulant.
And also because XARELTO offers a strong customer value proposition with once a day dosing convenience.
As a result we are reporting strong sales of $361 million in the second quarter up more than 90% year-over-year.
In the last quarter alone we saw a sequential growth greater than 13%.
Another example of our innovation is INVOKANA our SGLT2 inhibitor we launched recently in collaboration with our Diabetes Care franchise.
INVOKANA is a once daily medication offering improved glycemic control reduction in body weight and reduction in systolic blood pressure.
These are all extremely important factors in the treatment of type 2 diabetes.
INVOKANA is approved in 45 countries and our fixed dose combination with metformin VOKANAMET is approved in Europe.
We expect the FDA decision for this fixed dose combination in the third quarter.
This year alone we have had seven major launches of INVOKANA and have received key reimbursement approvals in the U.K.
Switzerland and the Netherlands.
As you can see we are number one in new-to-brand share among U.S.
endocrinologist in a very competitive landscape.
As Louise mentioned INVOKANA contributed more than 2.5 points to the U.S.
pharmaceutical growth rate.
In schizophrenia we continue to provide medicines and solutions to improve patient care.
In the U.S.
we are pleased to note that the FDA granted priority review of INVEGA SUSTENNA One Month for schizoaffective disorder with a PDUFA date in November.
We also recently leveraged a first of its kind real-world clinical trial with INVEGA SUSTENNA to support the filing of a sNDA.
It includes data for the label demonstrating significant delayed time to relapse in schizophrenia compared to oral antipsychotics.
The chart on the right shows the strong launch performance of INVEGA SUSTENNA outperforming Abilify Maintena which in the second quarter resulted in sales of $394 million representing a 34.4% growth year-over-year.
The last example I will discuss is our recently launched hepatitis C treatment with brand names OLYSIO GALEXOS and SOVRIAD.
We continue to see significant market potential in the hepatitis C area and estimate nearly 97% of the infected population in G7 countries remains untreated.
As you are aware interferon free treatment options represent a significant advance for patients.
OLYSIO is approved for the use in interferon free treatment in combination with other medicinal products in Europe in genotype 1 or 4 patients who are interferon ineligible or intolerant.
In the U.S.
the FDA granted priority review of our sNDA based on the COSMOS trial data for the use of OLYSIO with sofosbuvir currently marketed at Sovaldi by Gilead with a PDUFA date of November the 6.
In-line with the AASLD and IDSA guidelines we have seen very strong adoption in the first half of this year with second quarter sales totaling $831 million.
Moving forward we recognize there will be increased competitive activity with the entrance of new interferon treatment options beginning later this year and thus we expect the current run rate is unlikely to continue into 2015.
We are planning studies to evaluate simeprevir with other agents to offer physicians and patients increased flexibility.
Turning now to emerging markets our strategy is focused on a strong innovative brand growth through targeted capability building and novel access models.
In particular we are harnessing innovation.
One example of this is the opening of our Shanghai Innovation Center expected in October this year.
We’re also improving local manufacturing capacity by building factories such as our state-of-the-art facility in Xi'an China and through technology transfer to local organizations.
Finally we’re pioneering new business models through public-private partnerships leveraging the strength of our Johnson &amp; Johnson organization to improve access to our medicines.
As you can see we have had remarkable global success.
This success is the direct result of a strategic choices and changes that we made to our business years ago.
Going forward we’re focused on two critical success factors to maintain our momentum.
First we will continue to leverage our world class capabilities in clinical development regulatory manufacturing market access and commercial to promote the ongoing success of our new products.
In total six of these products have each sold more than $ 1 billion in the last four quarters and two more are on track to reach this threshold.
As you saw on the previous slide several have robust growth rates of 40% 60% and even 90%.
Second we are deeply committed to sustaining long-term growth and Paul will now tell you more about how our total emphasis on innovation has built a strong pipeline of transformational products that we believe will catalyze the next wave of growth for our business.
Paul? Thank you Joaquin and good morning everyone.
It is my pleasure today to discuss with you our pharmaceutical R&amp;D strategy which is focused on delivering transformational medical innovation and create the cycle of success that positions us for continued growth in the future.
Our vision to enter R&amp;D strategy has not changed.
As a leading healthcare company we believe that by focusing on transformational innovation medical need and differentiation we can make a significant difference in the world and build a sustainable growing business.
We have some of the world’s leading scientific and medical experts who bring deep insights to select and prioritize the best science internal or external to tackle those diseases.
We have established unparalleled global development capabilities and have set industry benchmark for timelines for filing submissions and productivity and also for speed to market.
We launched 14 new products in the past five years in major markets around the world including three new molecular entities or NMEs that we launched since our pharmaceutical’s update in May last year; OLYSIO IMBRUVICA and SYLVANT that strategy is delivering.
In the last update at a Pharmaceutical Analyst Day last May we told you that we anticipated to filing more than 10 potential NMEs and more than 25 significant line extensions between 2013 and 2017.
We are on track to deliver.
Since last May in addition to launching three new products we have received 20 additional approvals for line extensions in major markets.
The significant line extensions approved are SIMPONI for ulcerative colitis SIMPONI ARIA for rheumatoid arthritis in the U.S.
IMBRUVICA for previously treated CLL VELCADE for multiple myeloma retreatment combination therapy and transplant OLYSIO for treatment of experienced patients STELARA for psoriatic arthritis and VOKANAME fixed dose combination with metformin immediately release formulation for type 2 diabetes in Europe.
Our winning formula has been consistent.
First we believe in focus.
We focused on the few key disease areas where we can really make a difference and we prioritize our investments in those areas.
The disease area focus has allowed us to attract the world’s leading scientists and medical experts and build a great depth of expertise in those areas.
Second our experts select and source the best science and technology through our own internal research or by accessing the best science externally through partnerships collaborations licensing and acquisitions.
Third we leverage the present scale of our global development organization.
Our global capabilities have allowed us to simultaneously develop file and launch drugs across the globe with industry-leading efficiency quality and success rates.
And finally one of our key success factors has been our ability to accelerate cycle times and achieve industry-leading timelines for regulatory submissions.
I will focus on each of these success factors next.
Our focus on innovation is a critical aspect of the strategy.
We focus our research in five therapeutic areas and within those areas we focus on specific disease areas where there is a high unmet need where there is transformational science that we can leverage and where we have deep expertise and capabilities that we can bring to bear.
Today we’re focused on 18 disease areas and in each of these areas we have leading expertise and know-how to select the best science thereby increasing the probability of success.
We have also entered into the exciting area of immuno-oncology where there is promising new signs and has established several collaborations.
This slide shows our entire end-to-end strategy on one page.
Build a rigorous approach to sourcing innovation to global development and the key characteristics of a strategy that sets us apart.
In addition to the deep internal expertise within our therapeutic areas we have strong research capabilities in biomarkers and world-class capabilities in our centers of excellence in small molecules bio-technology vaccines and diagnostics.
We complement this with external innovation.
We access early innovation to our J&amp;J innovation centers in London Boston San Francisco and Shanghai.
Today we have over 100 projects in discovery and about 50 NMEs in early development.
In addition we have more than 300 collaborations externally and over 50 companies located in our incubator.
To access innovation in the early development stage we leverage venture capital to invest in exciting growth opportunities explore new areas and accelerate assets.
In late-stage we access innovation via traditional licensing partnerships and acquisition example of which include our recent deals with Genmab on multiple myeloma with Aragon on prostate cancer with ViiV Healthcare on HIV and with Vertex on influenza A.
As I mentioned we have world-class global development capabilities.
We have built strong medical and scientific teams with disease area clinical and regulatory expertise.
We are increasing the value of our R&amp;D portfolio by optimizing outputs time cost and quality.
Our 24x7 development operations speed-to-market and global execution make us a partner of choice in the industry.
These capabilities along with our market access and launch excellence represent some of our key strengths and differentiators.
They have enabled us to simultaneously file and launch our products globally generate compelling value evidence and deliver successful launches of our products in multiple markets.
And the flexibility and commercialization models with partners and our ability to collaborate and leverage our strength and capabilities enable us to achieve industry-leading success and growth.
A deep understanding of the innovation landscape is key to our ability to source innovation.
Our experts define an innovation strategy conduct a holistic scan of the innovation landscape and prioritize all accessible opportunities internal or external to select the best assets.
Here you see a bulls eye chart of the innovation landscape for B-cell malignancy.
The inner circles represent later stage products and the outer circles the early stage preclinical products.
We take this rigorous approach to evaluating and sourcing innovation in each of the disease areas.
Our development organization continues to deliver.
We have a flexible R&amp;D operations engine which can pivot from execution of mega trials to execution of trials for rare diseases and today is supporting about 75 000 patients across 400 clinical studies annually.
These capabilities have accelerated our speeds to market.
They have enabled a successful execution of notable comprehensive and large clinical programs which are outcomes-based and use adaptive study designs.
We have round the world round the clock capabilities in all aspects of the clinical development and a critical path culture that enables the speed while maintaining quality.
Our fourth critical success factor has been our ability to accelerate cycle time.
Because of our focus on medical need and differentiation of the last 10 new NMEs we launched five received priority review status.
In addition we received breakthrough designation for five indications with three of our products.
Today average cycle time from database to submission is about two months better than industry median making us the leader in time to submission.
These capabilities have enabled us to have industry-leading NME success rate with fastest cycle times.
Compared to our competitors we have a higher development success rate resulting in more NME approvals per year.
Looking to the future we have an exciting pipeline.
On the left you see the three NME approvals since May 2013 and the number of significant line extensions approved since last May.
In the middle you can see some of our key NMEs which are under clinical investigation as potential treatment for key unmet needs in a variety of areas.
Daratumumab the first anti-CD38 monoclonal antibody for treatment of patients with multiple myeloma a compound with breakthrough status which we licensed from Genmab; ARN-509 an androgen receptor inhibitor for pre-metastatic prostate cancer which came to us from the acquisition of Aragon; FGFR kinase inhibitors for solid tumors discovered in a collaboration with Astex Pharmaceuticals; Sirukumab the first anti-IL-6 therapy for patients with RA and other autoimmune diseases; Guselkumab the first anti-IL-23 antibody for psoriasis and potentially other autoimmune diseases; Fulranumab an anti-NGF antibody for osteoarthritic pain licensed from Amgen; and Esketamine the first NMDA antagonist for patients with treatment-resistant depression also with breakthrough designation.
And VX-787 a first-in-class influenza A specific oral polymerase inhibitor a compound we recently licensed from Vertex.
We also have a number of key line extensions in development including for key products such as XARELTO and INVOKANA.
We have Paliperidone Palmitate three-month formulation the first three-month long-acting injectable treatment for patients with schizophrenia.
And ibrutinib the first BTK inhibitor oncology drug for the treatment of several B-cell malignancies.
Our people are driven by a sense of purpose to care for the world.
At times we develop a product just because it is a right thing to do.
We have the privilege to serve in health care and we also have a responsibility.
One example of this is SIRTURO the first therapy with novel mechanism of action against TB approved by the FDA in more than 40 years.
SIRTURO is now approved in U.S.
Europe Russia and Korea and the file is under review in seven other countries.
We have established multiple product development partnerships and through our agreement with the Global Drug Facility we are making SIRTURO available to critically ill patients in 130 countries.
We also established a collaboration with the International Partnership for Microbicides for the development of TMC120 for prevention of transmission of HIV which is now in large scale clinical testing.
We are providing access to products by not enforcing patents on PREZISTA in Sub-Saharan Africa and least developed countries and by licensing of HIV products to generic producers.
And finally to a vaccine unit we also make critical vaccines available to children around the world and we’re developing new vaccines for polio and HIV.
In summary we are in an extraordinary cycle of success.
We have world-class commercial capabilities driving our growth.
Our accelerated emerging market performance is sustaining a momentum.
Our focus on innovation medical need and differentiation sets us up to deliver future growth.
We have a leading R&amp;D pipeline with differentiated therapies addressing major unmet needs in significant markets.
Our innovation is delivering growth and our growth is sustaining our ability to invest in innovation.
We believe our business is well positioned to succeed for the long-term.
Thank you and now let me turn it back to Alex.
Thank you Paul and Joaquin.
I hope you can see why we’re also proud of the Pharmaceutical segment and very optimistic about our future growth in this area.
So I would now like to turn it over to Dominic Caruso for more detailed review of our financial performance.
Thanks Alex and good morning everyone.
As you’ve heard on the call we’re very pleased with our progress and strong results thus far in 2014 and we’re well positioned for continued growth in this dynamic health care environment.
I’ll take the next few minutes to review our financial performance in the second quarter as well as the recently completed OCD divestiture.
I will then provide guidance for you to consider in refining your models for the balance of the year.
Turning to the next slide you can see our condensed consolidated statement of earnings for the second quarter of 2014.
Please direct your attention to the box section of the schedule where we have provided earnings adjusted to exclude special items.
We are pleased to report adjusted net earnings of $4.8 billion in the quarter which was up 11.3% over the second quarter of 2013.
And adjusted earnings per share of $1.66 versus $1.48 a year ago up 12.2% which exceeded the mean of the analyst estimates as published by First Call.
These results were driven by strong operational sales growth of 9% primarily from our recently launched pharmaceutical products including hepatitis C treatment OLYSIO or SOVRIAD which is the brand name in Japan.
The net impact of our hepatitis C products including OLYSIO SOVRIAD and INCIVO contributed approximately 4% to the worldwide operational sales growth.
As referenced in the table of non-GAAP measures the 2014 second quarter net earnings were adjusted to exclude certain charges for the following special items.
Cost associated with the continued integration of Synthes and additional reserves for litigation expenses.
Now let’s take a few moments to talk about the other items on the statement of earnings.
I am pleased to point out that we saw a very good operating performance this quarter.
Overall our pretax operating margin increased 230 basis points and a major driver of that increase came from sales of OLYSIO.
Cost of goods sold was 30 basis points higher than a same period last year primarily due to pricing dynamics and the impact of the devaluation of the Japanese yen partly offset by positive mix of the business.
Selling marketing and administrative expenses were 200 basis points lower as compared with the second quarter of 2013 due to the growth of new products in our pharmaceutical business and overall good management of cost primarily in our MD&amp;D business.
Our investment in research and development as a percent of sales was down compared with the prior year primarily due to timing of various R&amp;D programs as we expect to continue to make important investments for the future.
Interest expense net of interest income of approximately $100 million was slightly higher than prior year.
Other expenses net of other income was $226 million in the quarter compared to $172 million in the same period of last year.
Now excluding the special items that were included in this line item other expenses net of other income was actually a net gain of $194 million compared to a net gain of $394 million as prior year reflected the gain we recognized on the sale of our shares in Elan Corporation.
This year the net gain reflects the divestiture of our K-Y brand partly offset by some asset write-downs.
Excluding special items the effective tax rate was 21.1% compared to 20% in the same period last year due primarily to geographic mix of the results in each period.
Early in the third quarter we completed the divestiture of Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics to the Carlyle Group for approximately $4 billion subject to customary adjustments.
On an after-tax basis and we will record a net gain of approximately $1 billion which we will treat as a special item in the third quarter results.
Since we will no longer recognize sales or earnings from this business going forward we plan to buy back shares with the cash proceeds to mitigate the EPS impact on future earnings.
Now I will provide some guidance for you to consider as you refine your models for 2014.
Before we discuss sales and earnings I will first give some guidance on items we know are difficult for you to forecast; beginning with cash and interest income and expense.
At the end of the quarter we had approximately $14.5 billion of net cash which consists of approximately $31.6 billion of cash and marketable securities and approximately $17.1 billion of debt.
For purposes of your models assuming no major acquisitions or other major uses of cash I suggest you consider modeling net interest expense between $400 million and $500 million which is consistent with our previous guidance.
Regarding other income and expense as a reminder this is the account where we record royalty income as well as gains and losses arising from such items as litigation investments by our development corporation as well as divestitures asset sales and write-offs.
We would be comfortable with your models for 2014 reflecting other income and expense excluding special items as a net gain ranging from approximately $450 million to $550 million which is lower than our previous guidance.
And now a word on taxes; our guidance for 2014 anticipates that the R&amp;D tax credit will be renewed by congress although that has not yet occurred.
We would be comfortable with your models reflecting an effective tax rate for 2014 excluding special items of approximately 19% to 20%.
If the R&amp;D tax credit is not approved it will negatively impact the tax rate by approximately 0.5%.
As always we will continue to pursue opportunities in this area to improve upon this rate throughout the year.
Now turning to guidance on sales and earnings.
As we have done for several years our guidance will be based first on a constant currency basis reflecting our results from operations.
This is the way we manage our business and we believe this provides a good understanding of the underlying performance of our business.
We will also provide an estimate of our sales and EPS results for 2014 with the impact that current exchange rates could have on the translation of those results.
Our sales and earnings guidance for 2014 takes into account several assumptions that I highlighted to you in April.
For sales our assumptions remains consistent from earlier guidance that PROCRIT will not have biosimilar competition in 2014 and for INVEGA SUSTENNA and RISPERDAL CONSTA we do not anticipate generic entries for these products this year.
Further our guidance now reflects the divestitures of OCD and the net incremental sales of our hepatitis C products.
Considering the factors I just noted we would be comfortable with your models reflecting an operational sales increase on a constant currency basis between 4.5% and 5.5% for the year.
This would result in sales for 2014 again on a constant currency basis for approximately $74.5 billion to $75.3 billion which is lower than our previous guidance reflecting the net impact of the adjustment for the divestiture of OCD and incremental hepatitis C product sales.
Our underlying operational growth in 2014 guidance excluding the hepatitis C products and OCD for the full year is approximately 4%.
As you know we are anticipating that OLYSIO will face significant competition from new hepatitis C products later in the year the full impact of which is difficult for us to predict at this point.
And while we’re not providing guidance for 2015 this will certainly pose a headwind next year.
We’re also not predicting the impact of currency movements but to give you an idea of the potential impact on sales if currency exchange rates were to remain where they were as of last week for the balance of the year then our sales growth rate would decrease by nearly 0.5%; plus under this scenario we would expect reported sales growth to range between 4% and 5% for a total expected level of reported sales between approximately $74.1 billion to $74.9 billion which is lower than our previous guidance again now adjusted for OCD and hepatitis C products as noted earlier.
Moving on to earnings; there are factors to note about foreign currency fluctuations that impact real economic transactions as opposed to only translation.
As we have discussed in the past the devaluation of the Japanese Yen versus the U.S.
Dollar is expected to have a negative impact on 2014 gross margins of approximately 60 basis points or negative impact to EPS of approximately $0.11.
As a reminder our guidance does not include the impact of an official devaluation of the Venezuelan Bolivar or any other currency.
Our 2014 guidance reflects the strong performance we saw in the second quarter.
The second half impact of the divestiture of OCD a lower level of net gains at other income and expenses and our plan to continue investing in future growth.
Given those factors we suggest that you consider full year 2014 EPS estimates excluding the impact of special items of between $5.80 and $5.87 per share on an operational or constant currency basis.
Again while we are not predicting the impact of currency movements to give you an idea of the potential impact on EPS of currency exchange rates would have remained where they were as of last week for the balance of the year then our reported EPS excluding special items would be positively impacted by approximately $0.05 per share due to exchange rate fluctuations.
We therefore suggest that you model our reported EPS excluding special items in the range between $5.85 and $5.92 per share or a growth rate of 6% to 7%; this is higher than our previous guidance.
And as a reminder our earnings include intangible amortization of $1.4 billion on a before tax basis or an impact of approximately $0.38 on EPS.
As you update your models for the guidance I just provided you will see that we do expect that our pre-tax operating margins will show a stronger improvement in 2014 over 2013 levels than we previously expected.
This is due to the strong performance of our business primarily driven by new product launches including the significant benefit from OLYSIO this year.
In summary we are very pleased with our strong results through the midpoint.
Our strong performance in the second quarter has allowed us to offset the negative earnings impact that will occur in the second half of this year from the recently completed divestiture of the OCD business.
Although we expect to see lower other income and expense gains and along with our intent to invest in future growth we are very comfortable with an overall increase in our earnings guidance.
And now I’d like to turn things back over to Louise for that Q&amp;A portion of the meeting.
Louise? Thank you Dominic.
Jennifer could you please give the instructions for the Q&amp;A session?  (Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from Matthew Dodds with Citigroup.
Good morning.
Quickly for Alex and then also for Joaquin or Paul.
Alex I’m going straight from M&amp;A for you but for big picture I just might kind of your view on GDP growth in developed markets.
It sounds like in Medtech we’re seeing a bit of a disconnect maybe in consumer as well it is a growing to your GDP we’ll be improving.
What's your view in the near-term and long-term that the correlation may improve or get better as you look at your forecast? Yes.
Matt this is Alex.
Thanks a lot for the question.
As you know trying to predict these things out of the future is always a bit of a challenge.
But as we’re experiencing right now and as we discussed earlier in the discussion we’re seeing hospital utilization rates specifically admission surgical procedures lab procedures and even primary care physician visits they remained somewhat subdued.
And we’ve seen this trend for several quarters now.
Long-term of course we see the offset to that in demographics increasing middle class increasing access to care under the Affordable Care Act as drivers for us.
So we remained optimistic because we don’t think that there is a fundamental reason for the underlying demand or disease rights to change but that's not something that we’re certainly watching.
If we look across to Europe we continue to see some challenge in areas.
But overall we would say that the impact in Europe has moderated somewhat and we continue to see good solid growth in the developing markets.
I mean overall we had about 10% growth on an annual basis so far in BRIC and we expect that to continue into the future as well.
So I mean I think that's the way we’re thinking about it right now.
But it’s certainly something that we’re going to continue to watch closely.
Thanks Alex.
And a quick one for Paul or Joaquin you gave us a lot of data on the pharma the pipeline in the near-term can you just say broadly on the R&amp;D because you’re still spending a lot of money as a percent of sales even though the overall pharma growth has accelerated.
Can you say of the five therapeutic areas is oncology and immunology getting the lion’s share of that in the current run rate? Yes absolutely.
Especially oncology is getting the lion share of that we have several new director oncology therapeutics; Daratumumab ARN-509 ibrutinib with all of the line extensions as well as now immuno-oncology where we have several collaborations and a lot of internal research ongoing as well as efforts in biomarkers in establishing diagnostic biomarkers approach to get to a much better patient outcome.
So that is definitely the largest.
As well as immunology where we still continue to focus on several new products; Guselkumab and we have also there a number of new oral therapies in development.
So those two continue to be the focus of the organization with significant resources.
Thanks Paul.
Next question please? Your next question comes from Michael Weinstein with JP Morgan.
Dominic I just want to start with the quarter and with the guidance revision I think one of the questions people have is why didn’t J&amp;J raise guidance by more than they do at this point.
So I wonder maybe we could spend a minute on that but the quarter itself was $0.11 above this rate consensus you raised by $0.05 in the low-end $0.02 in the high-end and you’re observing $0.05 of dilution from OCD it looks like each of them the other income gain assumed for the year by the $0.04 anything else that I am missing there and maybe just want to comment on the decision to raise guidance which you did? Yes sure Mike thanks.
Just a couple of points I mean we did of course exceed street estimates for the quarter by $0.11.
As you know we don’t provide quarterly guidance we provide annual guidance and when we spoke to the investment community last quarter we were confident that our strong operating results would help absorb the OCD dilution in the back half of the year within the range we have previously provided.
So let me just walk down the items that you’ve mentioned.
We did exceed analyst estimates by about $0.11.
Almost half of that will be used of course to offset the OCD lower earnings in the back half of the year.
As you pointed out other income and expense gains will be lower than we expected this year.
That’s another $0.03 or $ 0.04.
Currency was a minor adjustment.
If you look at our overall guidance we therefore after absorbing this $0.11 that we just described we do think that overall guidance is up about four pennies.
If we think about the midpoint of our guidance last time it was about 585 the mid-point now it is about 589.
So we feel good that despite this reconciliation that you just walked through the business will continue to perform well and therefore we are comfortable raising the guidance for the balance of the year.
Okay and let me ask one product question if I can and the reason during the quarter there was a new patent issue for ZYTIGA that I was hoping you could just comment on your current expectations where generic competition for ZYTIGA industry historically assume that would come in late 2016.
Can you update us or your thoughts on that topic? Thank you.
This is Joaquin.
You are correct.
Our expectation is that ZYTIGA patent will go until December 16 that is the composition of matter with a five-year data exclusivity under Hatch-Waxman extension.
And Joaquin the notice of allowance on the three-four patent; does that seem like taking it all in terms of timing? Not at this point.
We are now working and understanding what the impact of this notice of allowance is.
As a matter of patent use so at this point we remain -- we have our position that I described before.
Thanks Joaquin.
Thank you next question please.
Your next question comes from Derrick Sung with Sanford Bernstein.
Just first just starting the quarter Dominic I was wondering if you could call out or help us think through a little bit about the margin contribution of OLYSIO and impact of the Japanese Yen so we can get a better sense for kind of what the underlying operating margin of the business might being moving forward excluding kind of those items.
Sure Derrick.
Well overall including the negative impact of the Japanese Yen to gross margins which was said was about 60 basis points for the year.
Obviously we saw most of that in the second quarter.
The overall pre-tax operating margin improved about 230 basis points despite that headwind.
And I would say about two thirds of that improvement is attributable to OLYSIO.
That’s how we frame it.
Okay and that’s something that -- when we think about sort of next year moving forward how much of that should we think about perhaps not being sustainable? Well I would say it’s a little -- as I mentioned earlier Derrick it’s a little too early to predict.
I mean we know that new competition is coming but at this point it’s premature to speculate on it.
Obviously when we speak to you in January about our guidance for ’15 we’ll make that much clear then.
Okay thanks.
And then a specific pharma product question.
I was wondering if you could comment on the impact of biosimilar competition to REMICADE.
So next year in the European markets the major European market should start seeing some biosimilar competition.
What are your expectations there? Maybe you could talk a little bit about what you were seeing in these few markets where you are already seeing that biosimilar entrant? And then in the U.S.
one of the competitors has talked about filing for a biosimilar REMICADE before the end of this year with potential FDA approval for next year.
And I was wondering if you could kind of talk about how secure you feel about your IP position in the U.S.
for REMICADE? Thanks for the question.
And the biosimilars area is something that we watch very closely.
As you know biosimilars are not identical to their innate or medicines and therefore the contingency in which they will prescribe will be different than the situation we have in a small molecule.
At the same time developing and manufacturing and commercializing biosimilars has different costs.
I mean they need to prepare a full clinical dossier and manufacturing biologics is an expensive and complex process.
And commercializing them will have also additional cost.
So we expect biosimilars to behave as lower cost brands.
And from that perspective biosimilars wouldn’t have the type of impacting erosion that you see with generic and small molecules.
A good example of that is what happened with Epoetin Alfa in Europe.
We lost the patent years ago and we remained a leading Epoetin Alfa product in Europe despite of the biosimilar that had been launched now what is our part in landscape today you refer to the U.S.
in our two key markets in the U.S.
our patent would expire in September 18 and in our key European as present 80% of European sales in February 15.
Our strategy regarding biosimilar remained the same.
We are going to clearly work with the regulatory authorities to ensure patient safety in this area as far as the conditions in which these products have to be developed and have to be prescribed that include naming which we think it’s important that includes to what extent indications should not be extrapolated and that includes also obviously interchangeability so that’s the first point that we’re working globally in order to ensure patient safety.
The second point is that we have an extensive safety real-world evidence database with regards to REMICADE it’s been used already prescribing 2 million patients it was launched in 1998 and we believe that is a factor that this is we consider when they prescribe.
And the third one is that we continue to invest in immunology as Paul described we think there is a still unmet medical needs there and we’re going to work in different mechanic or fractions such anti-IL-6 or anti-IL-23 in order to try to address these unmet medical needs.
So that’s our strategy and now impact so far of biosimilars in the countries that have been launched like Korea or some European countries in which we are not patent protected.
The impact has been very-very limited and the price erosion has also been limited.
The discount in which these products have been launched averaged about 25% to the branded price so that’s the situation today as far as the biosimilar to REMICADE.
With regard to your question of the U.S.
and the patent of REMICADE in the U.S.
we feel very strong about the strength of patents and we continue confirm that our patent as we see today will expire in September 18.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from Larry Biegelsen with Wells Fargo.
Two for Alex so Alex this is one of the best quarters you posted in many-many years I think.
I doubt 10% organic growth and 12% EPS growth is the sustainable long term so what are your financial goals for J&amp;J long term? And how should investors think about kind of what’s realistic for J&amp;J over the next few years? And I did have one follow-up for you Alex.
Sure Larry.
Thanks a lot for the question.
As we articulated back in January we see that longer term the overall healthcare market growing somewhere in the rate of 3% to 5% and we definitely try to manage for the long-term and so while quarter-to-quarter year-to-year we may see some fluctuations.
We think generally speaking as we put in all the ups and downs going forward that’s probably a pretty reasonable estimate in consistent with what a lot of surveys would show.
Our goal is that we want to always exceed the market growth i.e.
we want to be bringing new innovations to market we want to be competitive in the way we gain share.
So we always aspire and shoot to exceed what the market growth is and we said in terms of our overall profitability and bottom line performance that a company of our size and our of our scale should consistently strive to grow our bottom line at or slightly faster than our top.
So that’s really our long term strategy but as you’ve acknowledged at the beginning of the question we’re very proud the performance that we’re posting as of now.
And certainly it’s led by our pharmaceutical group that really by any measure has done exceedingly well starting by bringing a lot of great new therapies that were helping patients but also driving our business.
But I also think if you look across the balance of business our consumer as we noted while up 3.5 operationally if we netted out for divestitures growing at almost 6% and if you look at the strength of some of underlying brands skin care baby care North America OTCs all very solid high single digits taking share across the boards that we’re pleased with that.
And even in our MD&amp;D while clearly we a few areas that had been challenged such as the pricing in the diabetes market the OCD divestiture and some investments we’re making in other areas we think if we net out for divestitures in some of those extremes we’re probably up at about 2% with clearly a path to growth faster going forward.
So that’s the way we see it over all Larry.
That’s very helpful and into good segway into my follow-up so you’ve talked about consolidation the need for consolidation in the med-tech industry earlier in your remarks so can you talk about the implications of the Medtronic-Covidien merger for the industry J&amp;J and how do you use the J&amp;J MD&amp;D business evolving over the next few years? Thanks.
Sure and thank you.
Larry as you think back to about three years ago when we announced the Synthes acquisition I think 2.5 to 3 years part of the strategy rationale that we made at that time was that we we definitely saw consolidation in the future simply because of the number of different participants you had in the market.
The pressures that we expected going forward and as a result of that we believe proactively sought out and conducted the Synthes acquisition which we’re pleased with the way that it’s going and we have achieved our sales as well as our margin goals that we have set for ourselves along the way and in fact I think after the last couple of years of going through disruption which you would anticipate in a merger of that size I think now we’re really poised for solid growth going forward.
And so what I would say is at that time we had predicted to that in fact it would happen I think the other aspect of course we looked at areas like our cardiovascular business and drug alluding stands.
And we saw a lot of market pressure ahead both in terms of volume and pricing.
We therefore made a difficult decision to access that market but nonetheless we think that that was the right decision to make base upon the overall dynamics.
So if we look at ourselves today we think we’re clearly the broadest medical device company.
We think we’re well positioned particularly when you consider areas like general surgery like orthopedics we have not only brought but also deep offerings that gives us solid market positions across the number of different platforms.
We realized that in cardiovascular we’re subscale we have a very strong EP business that’s growing at 14% we also estimate innovations but by continuing frankly to monitor and watch that market as we see what happens in some of those segments.
We don’t think it’s a bad place to be.
And certainly we’ll continue to evaluate our options going forward.
Our next question comes from line Matt Miksic Piper Jaffray.
Good morning.
One for you Alex just on your conversation around emerging markets; I appreciate all the additional color and the update.
I was curious given the traditional strategies for penetrating this market and I’d say over the last several years are you still evolving whether it’s promotion and penetration with diagnostic for commercializing prior generation or lower costs.
Therapeutic that might fit better to these markets.
The local innovation approach or what sales team like comes if (ph) -- like a customization approach as you look at some of these emerging middle markets I’d love to understand a little bit more about how that’s going and maybe when we’ll start to see some of the fruit of those efforts? And then I have one follow-up.
Sure.
Matt look as you know what I think that there been several phases to growth in emerging markets and I think historically we have taken a lot of our technology from the developed markets and we’ve basically appealed to the higher segments in the emerging markets.
And obviously try to adapt those products based upon the commercial model the distribution system that exists in that particular area.
But more and more we’ve realized that our approach is and sometimes actually the unmet medical need is different and so developing the underlying capability or product acquisition developments and commercialization unique to that entity is something that we’re focusing on.
So that’s a major driver behind our innovation center that we focused in Shanghai.
We do have R&amp;D centers in both Shanghai and Beijing.
I think we’re still in the earlier phases of some of the projects that we have coming out of those but clearly it’s our goal to develop a much more customized approach for those particular markets.
That being said we still think that there is good opportunity in some of the premium segments across all three of our sectors.
So we’ll continue to work those very hard as well.
Great and then as it may be a little off script here but either its Louise or Dominic I'd love to understand one of the comments you mentioned on your orthopedic market and your knee business pricing pressure I think you mentioned in the market softness.
Given that you had introduced the rotating platform version of Atune this spring and it seemed like that’s the business that should be firing on at least most cylinders.
Can you give us any more colors as to why it came up flat and what we can expect going forward? Yes Matt this is Alex again.
Let me take a shot at that first and then Louise can certainly add any colors necessary.
But as you know we’re one of the first companies to report in this space.
So it’s always a challenge to predict exactly how everyone is going to come in but as we look at our business we think that we’re maintaining share or slightly growing what we’ve seen is somewhat of a more cyclical trend towards particular knee procedures we think shifting more to the back end of the year.
And if you think about last year and a very robust growth that we saw in Q4 about some of the ways now the patients have a greater responsibility providing their co-payments upfront with the procedures but that does result in more of a second half of the year affect than early in the year.
Again let me put the caveat in but we can’t say that was certainly because we’re coming out early on the reporting we’re going to watch it closely but from what we’re hearing from our people in the field.
We don’t think that there is significant share shifts taking place.
We continue to get really good feedback on the Atune as it continues to be rolled out.
And as you can see from the performance of our hips up 5% trauma up 7% you know the core of our business and our teams we believe are performing well.
So that’s our position at this point in time.
I think you covered it very well.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from Josh Jennings with Cowen &amp; Co.
Hi good morning and thanks for taking the questions.
Just first for Dominic you commented two thirds of the 230 basis points of margin expansion a quarter was contributed by OLYSIO it means about 75 basis points to 80 basis points from the rest of the business.
But can you just comment on relative contributions from the pharma medical device unit and consumer units was each a contributor? And then how should we think about our operating margins for the device unit excluding Ortho-Clinical how much improvement can we expect post divesture going forward? Yes sure Josh.
Well obviously the pharmaceutical business that drove most of our growth this quarter is our best performing business in margin so obviously they are major contributor.
The other two businesses also contributed I mentioned the lower cost in the MD&amp;D business in particular.
I think going forward it’s difficult to predict for each business because as we develop our plans we will balance off investment opportunities for each business with appropriate whether the R&amp;D programs or product launches et cetera.
So I can’t give you a specific as to what to expect from each for the business going forward.
But for MD&amp;D the margins ex-OCD should definitely improve because that was a business that had margins lower than our overall MD&amp;D business.
Great thanks.
And Louise sorry if I missed this but did you comp the growth of the spine unit and then can you download us on pricing mix for spine in the quarter? Okay so the spine unit in the U.S.
this is operational growth.
In the U.S.
it is down 2% O-U.S.
it is up 4% for a worldwide growth up 1% for the total.
And in terms of pricing in spine spine in terms of price in the U.S.
only I don’t have it for the worldwide.
The U.S.
is down 5% in price with a positive mix of about 1.44% and net for about 3.5% down.
Okay next question please.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from Rick Wise with Stifel.
From a point of optimization you obviously have made a lot of moves here with acquisitions since you took over acquisitions and divestitures.
And I assume you’re going to continue to optimize and refine the portfolio but is there a lot more to come are you down to a near term how should we be thinking about it? Hey Rick thanks a lot for the question.
Rick we’re going to continue to stay very active particularly where we see great areas of unmet medical need where we think we can contribute and really bring value to the marketplace.
I think there are opportunities across all of our segments.
We’ve been active as Paul noted earlier in some of the partnerships in development programs that we’ve been able to bring together in our pharmaceutical group.
And we think if there our agnostic approach of internal versus external sourcing is actually really have been a driver.
At the end of the day we went at that science and I think clearly we are seeing the results of that approach with the success that we’re experiencing.
But we are certainly not slowing down we continue to be very active particularly in the five therapeutic areas where we are targeting.
I think if you look across MD&amp;D there too we continue to see opportunities.
As I mentioned earlier given our decision several years ago in cardiovascular we’re going to continue to watch that area very close to augment potentially onto our EEP business which has done very well.
And we continue to look for other ways in orthopedics as well as in global surgery.
Again where we see great technology that’s either a complimentary fit has platform potential or may give us an opportunity for vertical integration.
And in our consumer segment another area that we’re very committed to here too we see opportunities.
We think that we’ve done a very nice job over the past several years of focusing on really what are the key growth opportunities that we have in that segment and as a result we’ve done several smaller divestures.
We think that’s allowed us to be more focused more effective more efficient.
But here too we certainly see opportunities to gain additional scale across different areas of that portfolio.
So we’ll remain active but I think in a strategic level that’s the way that we are currently thinking about it.
Thank you for that.
Just a follow-up question on diabetes.
Diabetes particularly in U.S.
remains challenged but it was a little less challenged this quarter expected.
Are we close to a turning point when do you think that we get back to even if you will on that and maybe can you follow-up with a little discussion about the vibe rollout when will we see the full O-U.S.
launch and where are you in the U.S.
with filings and launch? Thank you very much.
Yes a couple of things.
One is we remain committed to the diabetes space and I think as you know the significant I think it was 72% price reduction took place in the United States occurred in the first half of the year so we do expect to be lapping that.
If we look at the underlying dynamics of the market I’d like to commend our team because we continue to see very good performance in SMDG both in the U.S.
as well as outside.
Also with our insulin pump business Animas we’ve seen proving performance.
We do have Viario under review by the FDA I don’t believe we’re projecting an approval time at this point but we certainly think that that's going to offer a nice addition for patients as well as for physicians.
And the other important dynamic Rick is that our diabetes business has also been involved in launch of INVOKANA.
And when you consider the strong relationships that we’ve had for a number of years with the endocrinologists part of our early success with INVOKANA has been because of the way we’ve been able to bring a broader more comprehensive offering to those specialists and frankly that's better for patients that's better for the physicians and better for our business.
Next question please? Our next question comes from Glenn Novarro with RBC Capital Markets.
Two questions; one how should we be thinking about OLYSIO trends in 2015 it looks like OLYSIO probably this year is going to sum around $2 billion.
Should we think next year closer to $1 billion I know you’re talking about a decline I’m just trying to get a sense of how we should model the decline for 2015 that's my first question.
And then second SG&amp;A came in as a ratio well below our expectations I’m sorry way better than our expectations.
We’re thinking SG&amp;A ratio somewhere in the 29% to 30% in the quarter it came in at 28%.
I don’t think that's a realistic run rate so maybe help us think about SG&amp;A spend for the rest of the year? Thanks.
Yes Glenn.
Let me comment a little bit on OLYSIO then ask Joaquin to comment as well.
Obviously you saw an uptick in OLYSIO sales in the second quarter compared to the first quarter.
We had $800 million in the second quarter.
And we noted that we expect competition coming soon at the latter part of the year.
So obviously for the second half of the year we will have competition for OLYSIO that we did not have in the first two quarters.
So in terms of modeling we do expect that the current run rate is not really a sustainable run rate going forward.
Joaquin anything else to add to that? Not really to what you mentioned was big competition coming in and different fee regiments coming into the market in the later part of this year.
So it sounds like that the current run rate is going to continue.
That said we see OLYSIO a very relevant player in hepatitis C moving forward too.
And we continue to invest in different clinical trials and clinical data to prove additional flexibility for patients and physicians.
Paul described before that the study that we are doing in Phase III with 12 and 8 weeks in cirrhotic and non-cirrhotic patients in combination with sofosbuvir and we plan to continue to do different studies with different treatment regiments to add additional flexibility.
Paul? The focus on shortening therapy as well as increasing Q rates for patients by using multiple different combinations and we are investing significantly in next stage studies.
Hey Glenn just to follow-up on your question about SG&amp;A we don’t give line specific guidance but it is true that this particular quarter we saw 200 basis point improvement in SG&amp;A compared to last year.
And most of the 230 basis point improvement in pre-tax operating margin was a result of that.
And I mentioned earlier that that was also two-thirds driven by OLYSIO.
So I think this quarter is a relative low SG&amp;A quarter relatively speaking but it is an area that we constantly strive to keep an eye on because quite frankly we’d rather invest more in R&amp;D.
So if we can spend more in R&amp;D and get more productive R&amp;D investment we would look to offset that with some lower SG&amp;A spend going forward.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Okay.
Thank you.
Next question please? Our next question comes from Bruce Nudell with Credit Suisse.
Thanks for taking my question.
I have some pharma-directed questions taking advantage of Paul and Joaquin’s presence.
I know you guys talk about your commercial execution and I know you spend a lot of money modeling complex markets like the prostate market.
Could you just comment briefly with regards to any particular hurdles you anticipate with Aragon 509 as it may be difficult to show mortality benefit in a short trial? And secondly how bigger that market be if you the combined prostate market when you are able to penetrate in the prostate the pre-metastatic but high risk category? That's my first question.
Thanks.
So let me start with the size of the market and may be a good example is how ZYTIGA is doing today.
About 60% of the ZYTIGA sales today are already in the pre-chemotherapy setting.
Now how big the non-metastatic setting is going to be because as you know we started the trial with ARN-509 in patients with high rising PSAs and noted metastatic is going to be bigger and mostly likely we’ll have a longer duration of treatment.
It’s difficult for me to give you an exact dimension of that market but it will be certainly bigger in terms of the number of patients and the duration of therapy than the metastatic market in each marketing where there is a significant unmet medical need and we are pleased to see that we have been the first in starting a Phase III trial in that legal setting.
And to add to that And my follow-on question has to do with INVOKANA just schematically how big an accelerator do you think it will be to have the combination of metformin in INVOKANA a single administration? That’s a great question.
We are very mainly pleased with the launch of INVOKANA.
As Alex mentioned it’s been the most successful launch in type 2 diabetes since JANUVIA.
And we’re now the leading oral anti-diabetic in type 2 among U.S.
endocrinologists.
The combination of metformin is a very relevant one.
The most relevant combination we have that combination approved in Europe with the name of VOKANAMET and we’re expecting a response from the FDA with the PDUFA date in August.
So we think it’s going to be an important element for physicians and we’ll have a significant impact in our business moving forward.
Next question please? Your next question comes from David Lewis of Morgan Stanley.
So two good questions.
First Alex I wanted to give you an opportunity maybe to break a tie (ph) here.
At the Analyst Day we heard two messages in MD&amp;D at least we did.
In the morning we heard from a lot of your non-orthopedic segments that there was not significant benefit to scale and in the afternoon we heard a totally different message from Michelle which is that scale really does matter and do you think scale is going to be a driver of share can you talk a little bit about your breadth and depth in MD&amp;D? And I wondered if you just help us out your view on scale driving share in medical devices what is that view and why you think we heard different messages from some of your senior business leaders in the morning sessions versus the afternoon sessions just surely focused on orthopedics? Well David I am not sure that the messages were that inconsistent overall.
And the way that I would answer that is we do believe scale and size and depth and breadth is going to be important across MD&amp;D.
And that has to do with evolving customers right now.
I mean when you think about the healthcare landscape going forward whether it’s hospital systems in the United States whether it’s governments in Europe or in the developing markets we see the opportunity for broader partnerships to be something that customers are both wanting and something that we can definitely provide.
Now I think there is not just one flavor I think it depends on the system it depends on the specific customer as to what kind of partnership they may want to have and I think there could be certain opportunities where a customer might look might desire to look just across the orthopedics portfolio or perhaps the general surgery area to doing a different kind of partnership or other systems who might be a bit more mature might look for something broader across the entire portfolio.
So I think that’s likely the difference in messaging that you’ve heard between some of our global surgery and orthopedics but overall we do think that we see that as a long-term dynamic and something that will be important and frankly one where we’re positioned very well.
Okay thank you Alex and maybe just a follow-up for Dominic.
Dominic just given the strength you’ve seen in the first half of the year specifically OLYSIO.
I guess we’re a little surprised that there hasn’t been sort of more aggressive reinvestment of that upside is that what we’re probably going to see here in the back half of 2014 as you think about next year as we head into this year many investors are focused that if there was going to be in OCD related dilution you would offset that with probably more aggressive buyback activity.
As we head into ’15 is it likely we see a more aggressive buyback activity to offset some of the OLYSIO headwind? Thank you.
So couple of comments on the impact of OCD for this year the OLYSIO benefit does in fact help us absorb the lack of OCD earnings in the back half of the year plus we’re investing in the back half of the year.
So our margins overall will not be as significant as you saw in the second quarter because we do intend to invest in the back half of the year for future growth while still overall providing higher earnings that we previously estimated.
The share buyback that we talked about regarding the proceeds of the OCD divestiture we will do that but that – we’ll see that impact in ’15 of course because the ability to have an impact of a share buyback this late in the year in ’14 is very small but that will help us offset the dilution in ’15 David.
Thank you.
We’ll take two more questions with respect to everybody’s time.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Thanks for taking the question.
One for Alex and a follow-up for Dominic.
Just wanted to be clear on what you’re seeing with cardiovascular I know you’ve said that you have great asset and certainly this quarter shows it was Biosense Webster are you still very much committed to cardiovascular in more a waiting and watching mode to make the right move or are you more in a decision of trying to figure out whether you are committed to cardiovascular? Kristen thanks a lot for your question and let me first of all compliment our EP business and the cardiovascular group for the performance this past year.
I believe now we’ve got over 10 consecutive quarters of double-digit growth and when you think of the new technologies like Cardo and others it’s resulted in great frankly advancements for patients as well as great growth opportunities for our business.
And I would answer your question saying yes we remain committed to cardiovascular.
That being said we know that we have to be very thoughtful about where we are going to compete and how we might expand our position in that particular market.
So as you said we are doing a watchful waiting.
At this point we continue to watch the other segments new technologies as they come in seeing what kind of opportunity they may present and we think we will be well positioned going forward based upon how those dynamics evolve.
Perfect.
And for Dominic I was wondering could you just talk a little bit about the pricing and Louise has mentioned surgery.
Can you just talk specifically about overall orthopedic pricing if that’s intensifying? And then I think for the first time I’ve seen you mention competitive pricing dynamics was envisioned can you maybe just expand upon there or any other pricing trends within surgery business as well.
Yes sure.
I’ll let Louise give specifics on orthopedics pricing but we did see a continual trend by the way it’s not really new a continual trend of negative pricing across the medical device space in orthopedics in surgery.
We’ve also seen various competitive pricing dynamics even in the vision care business and we’re comparing this now to last year.
So we do see increased competitive pricing dynamics and the market is looking for a lower pricing of products.
And in orthopedics in particular this quarter we saw it and Louise if you have in particular the impact for orthopedics.
So in terms of hips in the U.S.
we are seeing a very similar trend of price mix change.
So the price is down about 4% but there is a positive mix.
So it brings it down to about 3.5%.
And in terms of knees we have in terms of in the U.S.
the price down about 2.6% but there is a nice positive impact of mix of about 1.5% so for a net about 1.1%.
And trauma? Trauma is a net price.
So net price and mix together positive about 2.2 and that’s a small negative in the price about 1% and a positive in the mix of about 3%.
Okay thank you.
Okay.
Final question please.
Our final question comes from James Rubin of Goldman Sachs.
Hi Dominic.
Congrats on the quarter and thanks for the taking the questions.
Couple of quick ones.
The first with regard to the Synthes tender and trauma.
Can you just help us understand the dynamics behind winning these large tenders and specifically can they be replicated in other regions? And then how do you prevent these large tenders from being driven by price.
Yes thanks Jay.
Again building on the earlier question we do think this is an opportunity where our breadth and scale is helpful particularly when customers are prepared to deal with a broader offering and this case we are able to provide it.
We have definitely benefitted from that and we expect that to continue and other areas of the market continue to transform.
And I think regarding how do you keep that from becoming just a pricing issue I think it has to do with one of the level of innovation that you are bringing forward; two what’s the overall partnership and solution that you are building with that particular customer that we think would be instrumental in helping us keep good solid growth going forward.
Thank you very much.
And some closing remarks from Alex.
So thank you very much everybody and I hope you all agree and as you can see that the diversified business and strategy that we define in our strategic framework that we discussed with you earlier are in fact delivering very strong financial strategic and operational performance and will continue to be the basis to fuel our growth going forward.
I couldn’t be prouder the people of Johnson &amp; Johnson and a big difference they make in living up to the mission of our credo it’s on behalf of the billions of patients and consumers we serve around the world each day.
We are very proud to have the honor and privilege of doing that.
So I want to thank you all for joining us this morning and I wish you all a great rest of the day.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s Johnson &amp; Johnson’s second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
And welcome to Johnson &amp; Johnson’s Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be able to listen-only until the question-and-answer session of the conference.
This call is being recorded.
If anyone has any objections you may disconnect at this time.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the conference over to Johnson &amp; Johnson.
You may begin.
Good morning and welcome.
I’m Louise Mehrotra Vice President of Investor Relations for Johnson &amp; Johnson and it is my pleasure this morning to review our business results for the third quarter of 2014.
Joining me on the call today is Dominic Caruso Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
A few logistics before we get into the details.
This review is being made available via webcast accessible through the Investor Relations section of the Johnson &amp; Johnson website at investor.jnj.com.
I’ll begin by briefly reviewing third quarter results for the corporation and for our three business segments.
Following my remarks Dominic will provide some additional commentary on the business review the income statement and provide guidance for 2014.
We will then open the call to your questions.
We expect the call to last approximately one hour.
Included with the press release that was issued earlier this morning is a schedule of sales for key products and/or businesses to facilitate updating your models.
These schedules are available on the Johnson &amp; Johnson website as is the press release.
Please note we will be using a presentation to complement today’s commentary.
The presentation is also available on our website.
Before we begin let me remind you that some of the statements made during this review are or maybe considered forward-looking statements.
The 10-K for the fiscal year 2013 and the company’s subsequent filings identify certain factors that could cause the company’s actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements made today.
The company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.
Our SEC filings including the 10-K are available through the company and on our website.
During the review non-GAAP financial measures are used to provide information pertinent to ongoing business performance.
These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered replacements for GAAP results.
Tables reconciling these measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are available in the press release and on the Investor Relations section of the Johnson &amp; Johnson website.
Now I would like to review our results for the third quarter of 2014.
Worldwide sales to customers were $18.5 billion for the third quarter of 2014 up 5.1%.
On an operational basis sales were up 5.8% and currency had a negative impact of 0.7%.
In the U.S.
sales were up 11.6%.
In regions outside the U.S.
our operational growth was 1% while the effect of currency exchange rates negatively impacted our reported results by 1.3%.
On an operational basis the Western Hemisphere excluding the U.S.
grew by 3.5% Asia Pacific Africa region grew 2% and Europe declined 0.8%.
The success of new product launches and continued growth of key products in all regions was partially offset by divestitures the most significant one being Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics.
Excluding the impact of divestitures underlying operational growth was approximately 9%.
Turning now to earnings net earnings were $4.7 billion and earnings per share were $1.66 versus $1.04 a year ago.
As referenced in the table reconciling non-GAAP measures 2014 third quarter net earnings were adjusted to exclude a net gain of $457 million for after tax special items.
Third quarter 2013 net earnings were adjusted to exclude a charge of $937 million for after tax special items.
Dominic will discuss special items in his remarks.
Excluding special items for both periods net earnings for the current quarter were $4.3 billion and diluted earnings per share were $1.50 representing increases of 9.5% and 10.3% respectively as compared to the same period in 2013.
Turning now to business segment highlights please note percentages quoted represents operational sales change in comparison to the third quarter of 2013 unless otherwise stated and therefore exclude the currency translational impact.
I’ll begin with the Consumer segment.
Worldwide Consumer segment sales of $3.6 billion increased 0.3% with U.S.
sales down 4.2% while outside the U.S.
sales grew 2.6%.
Excluding the impact of divestitures worldwide growth was approximately 2.5% with U.S.
growth of approximately 1.5% and growth outside the U.S.
were approximately 3%.
Major drivers of the results were over-the-counter and oral care products offset by the divestiture of the North American Sanitary Protection business.
OTC sales growth was driven by upper respiratory products and analgesics.
Upper respiratory products grew 10% worldwide driven by sales growth outside the U.S.
which included an early seasonal inventory build.
Analgesic growth was 7% in U.S.
driven by market share gains partially offset by comparisons to the third quarter 2013 trade inventory build related to the re-launch of the products.
In the U.S.
adult analgesic market share was approximately 11% up from 8.5% a year ago while U.S.
pediatric share was over 40% up from 26% a year ago.
Oral care results were driven by strong results for LISTERINE due to new product launches and successful marketing campaigns.
Moving now to our Pharmaceutical segment worldwide sales of $8.3 billion increased 18.7% with U.S.
sales up 33.1% and sales outside the U.S.
up 4.1% driven by both strong sales of new products as well as core growth products.
A major driver was our recently launched hepatitis C product called OLYSIO in the U.S.
and EU and SOVRIAD in Japan.
Excluding sales of hepatitis C products OLYSIO and INCIVO underlying growth worldwide U.S.
and outside the U.S.
was approximately 8% 14% and 1.5% respectively.
Other significant contributors to growth were immunology products STELARA REMICADE and SIMPONI SIMPONI ARIA as well as XARELTO INVOKANA ZYTIGA INVEGA SUSTENNA/XEPLION and recently launched IMBRUVICA.
Partially offsetting the growth were lower sales of ACIPHEX due to generic competition and lower sales of vaccines.
The results for immunology were driven by strong double-digit market growth complemented by increased market share for STELARA and SIMPONI SIMPONI ARIA.
We continue to be the U.S.
market leader in immunology.
XARELTO sales were up 68% compared with the same quarter last year and grew 14.5% on a sequential basis.
Total prescription share or TRx for the quarter in the U.S.
anticoagulant market grew to over 14.5% with cardiology TRx estimated at 23.5%.
INVOKANA sales contributed over three and a half points to the U.S.
pharmaceutical growth rate and for the quarter achieved 3.2% TRx within the defined market of type II diabetes excluding insulin and metformin up from 2.4% in the second quarter of 2014.
TRx with endocrinologists grew to 9.2% for the quarter up approximately 1.5% sequentially.
The strong results for ZYTIGA in the U.S.
were driven by increased market share in the combined metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer market and estimated market growth of 11%.
ZYTIGA has captured approximately 33.5% of that market.
Continued strong market uptick and additional country launches drove the strong results outside the U.S.
ZYTIGA is approved in more than 90 countries.
I will now review the Medical Devices and Diagnostic segment results.
Worldwide Medical Devices and Diagnostic segment sales of $6.6 billion decreased 4.6%.
U.S.
sales declined 6.5% while sales outside the U.S.
declined 2.8%.
Excluding the impact of the OCD divestiture worldwide growth was 1.6% while U.S.
growth was 0.6% and growth outside the U.S.
was 2.4%.
Growth was driven by orthopedics and cardiovascular care partially offset by lower sales in vision care and surgical care.
Competitive pricing dynamics impacted growth for vision care.
In surgical care the success of the ECHELONFLEX Powered ENDOPATH Stapler outside the U.S.
was offset by lower sales of women's health and urology products coupled with U.S.
pricing pressure.
Orthopedic sales growth was driven by trauma sports medicine knees and hips.
Trauma was up 3% worldwide due to market growth and new product launches while the successful launch of MONOVISC coupled with the continued strong growth for ORTHOVISC drove results for sports medicine.
Hip growth of 4% worldwide was driven by strong volume growth partially offset by continued pricing pressure.
Primary stem platform sales were major contributors to the results.
Knees worldwide increased 5% due to the successful launch of ATTUNE partially offset by pricing pressure across the regions.
Cardiovascular growth was driven by an 18% worldwide increase in our BioSense Webster business due to strong growth of the ThermoCool SmartTouch catheter.
That concludes the segment highlights for Johnson &amp; Johnson’s third quarter of 2014.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Dominic Caruso.
Dominic? Good morning everyone and thank you Louise for sharing the highlights from our performance in the third quarter.
We are very pleased with our strong performance this past quarter as well as the progress we've made on our long-term growth drivers.
I believe we are well positioned in this evolving healthcare environment.
I'll take the next few minutes to highlight some of the progress we've made to advance our business as well as to review some additional highlights of our financial performance for the third quarter.
Then I will provide our guidance for you to consider in refining your models for 2014.
But before I do that I want to comment on what we're seeing in the market for healthcare.
Although modest we have now seen two consecutive quarters of positive momentum in hospital utilization rates which is in line with recently published analysts’ reports noting the strength.
We continued to remain confident that as economies recover and as healthcare reform continues to gain momentum here in the U.S.
and abroad utilization rates are going to increase.
At Johnson &amp; Johnson we’ve continued making very good progress on our near-term priorities of achieving our financial commitments restoring and relaunching our U.S.
OTC products continuing to capitalize on the potential of the DePuy Synthes acquisition and building on our strong momentum in Pharmaceuticals.
At the same time we’ve continued to focus on advancing our long-term growth drivers which you're familiar with from our previous discussions.
During the quarter we've made several significant advancements against these long-term growth drivers that are worth noting.
We continued to create value through innovation as evidenced by the strong performance of our newly launched products as well as by gaining regulatory approval for expanded uses of important products in our portfolio such as INVOKAMET which is a combination of INVOKANA and metformin into a single pill to treat diabetes that the FDA approved in August.
Further IMBRUVICA added a third indication in July when the FDA approved it for use in treating patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia who have a specific genetic mutation that occurs when part of chromosome 17 is missing.
That's an important advancement for these patients who are considered to have the poorest prognosis and very limited treatment options.
The CHMP also recommended IMBRUVICA for approval for similar uses in Europe.
And just yesterday we announced that we entered into an agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb and Pharmacyclics to evaluate IMBRUVICA in combination with an investigational PD-1 immune checkpoint inhibitor as a potential option for patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
And in our cardiovascular business we launched INCRAFT Stent-Graft System for the treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysms in both Europe and Canada.
Looking longer-term we continued to make important investments to access early-stage innovation.
In the quarter we acquired Covagen the company that is focused on developing new therapeutics for the treatment of a broad range of inflammatory diseases.
On September 30th we announced an agreement to acquire Alios Biopharma which will give us a promising Phase 2 potential treatment for RSD a major pediatric disease with no effective therapy available for prevention or treatment.
Their pipeline also includes two early-stage compounds for hepatitis C that could potentially augment our existing portfolio.
We anticipate that the Alios acquisition will close later this quarter.
And we are also leading with purpose as demonstrated through our partnership with the NIH to fast-track the development of an Ebola vaccine.
Now let's review some highlights from the quarter.
Turning to the next slide you can see our condensed consolidated statement of earnings for the third quarter of 2014 which reflects both the success of our new products and the strength of our core businesses.
We’re pleased to show strong reported sales growth in the quarter of 5.1% or 5.8% operationally as we showed you earlier.
This growth was driven in part by the continued uptake of our newly launched Pharmaceutical products including hepatitis C treatment OLYSIO which is sold as SOVRIAD in Japan.
Please note that this is the first quarter reflecting the divestiture of our Ortho Clinical Diagnostics business.
And in order to mitigate the EPS impact on future earnings from the OCD divestiture you’ll recall that in July we announced a $5 billion share repurchase program.
Excluding the impact of the divestiture of Ortho Clinical Diagnostics our sales increased nearly 8.5% on an operational basis in the quarter.
Our hepatitis C products contributed approximately 1.5% of that growth.
Please now direct your attention to the box section of the schedule where we’ve provided earnings adjusted to exclude special items.
Adjusted net earnings were $4.3 billion reflecting an increase of 9.5% over the third quarter 2013 and adjusted earnings per share were $1.50 in the quarter versus $1.36 a year ago which was up 10.3% exceeding the mean of the analysts’ estimates as published by first call.
Profitability from sales of OLYSIO net of investments we made contributed approximately $0.06 of EPS this quarter and approximately $0.20 of EPS for the nine months of this year.
As referenced in the table of non-GAAP measures the 2014 third quarter net earnings were adjusted to exclude the following special items.
The net gains associated with the OCD divestiture costs associated with the continued integration of Synthes additional reserves for litigation expenses under the DePuy ASR Hip program and an approval for final IRS regulations related to the branded prescription drug fee.
Let me now provide some background about the branded prescription drug fee which we have treated as a special item this quarter.
As you know in 2011 we and all participants in the U.S.
pharmaceutical industry were required under the Affordable Care Act legislation to begin paying the fee based on our respective shares of branded prescription drugs sold to the U.S.
government.
The accounting for that fee has been consistently applied by the industry since that passage of the act as agreed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
During the third quarter the IRS issued final regulations which had the effect of changing the recognition of the fee for accounting purposes from the period in which the fee is paid to the period from which market shares used to allocate the fee are determined.
Therefore we and other industry participants are now required to record an additional year of the fee.
Note that as the fee is still payable as originally provided for in the act there is no resulting cash flow impact.
Now let's take a few moments to talk about the other items on the statement of earnings.
I'm pleased to point out that we saw very good operating performance.
Cost of goods sold was 120 basis points lower than the same period last year primarily due to our product mix offset by currency impact.
Selling marketing and administrative expenses were 60 basis points lower as compared to the third quarter of 2013 due to the growth of new products in our pharmaceutical business and overall good management of cost primarily in our MD&amp;D business.
These factors more than offset the inclusion of an additional year of the branded prescription drug fee which I described earlier.
Excluding the impact of this fee which we have treated as a special item these expenses were 180 basis points lower than in the prior year.
Our investment in research and development as a percent of sales was down compared to the prior year primarily due to timing of various R&amp;D programs that we have and we will continue to make important R&amp;D investments for the future.
Overall our pretax operating margin increased 240 basis points.
And excluding the incremental accrual for the additional year of the branded prescription drug fee pretax operating margins increased 360 basis points.
OLYSIO was a major contributor representing slightly more than one half of that increase.
Interest expense net of interest income are approximately $112 million was slightly higher than the prior year.
Other income net of other expenses was $1.3 billion in the quarter as again compared to $943 million of expense in the same period last year.
Now excluding the special items that were included in this line item other income net of other expenses show the net expense of $25 million this quarter versus a net gain of $43 million in the prior year.
In the quarter the effective tax rate excluding special items was 24.2% compared to 18.9% in the third quarter of 2013 and for nine months excluding special items the tax rate was 21.9% compared to 19.3% in the same period last year.
This was due primarily to the geographic mix of the results in each of the periods.
Now I will provide some guidance for you to consider as you refine your models for the balance of 2014.
Before I discuss sales and earnings I will give some guidance on items we know are difficult for you to forecast beginning with cash and interest income and expense.
At the end of the quarter we had approximately $17.7 billion of net cash which consist of approximately $33 billion of cash and marketable securities and approximately $15.3 billion of debt.
For purposes of your models assuming no major additional acquisitions or other major uses of cash I suggest you consider modeling net interest expense of between $400 million and $500 million which is consistent with our previous guidance.
Regarding other income and expense as a reminder this is the account where we record royalty income as well as gains and losses arising from such items as litigation investments by our development corporation as well as divestitures asset sales and write-offs.
We will be comfortable with your models for 2014 reflecting other income and expense excluding special items as a net gain ranging from approximately $300 million to $400 million which is lower than our previous guidance.
And now a word on taxes.
Our guidance for 2014 anticipates that the R&amp;D tax credit will be renewed by Congress.
And although that has not yet occurred we do anticipate that it will be retroactive for the full year when it is eventually passed consistent with our previous guidance.
If the R&amp;D tax credit is not approved it will negatively impact our effective tax rate by approximately 0.5%.
We would therefore be comfortable with your models reflecting an effective tax rate for 2014 excluding special items of approximately 20% to 21%.
This is an increase in our effective tax rate to reflect a higher portion of our earnings this year being subject to the U.S.
tax rate.
As always we will continue to pursue opportunities in this area to improve upon this rate.
Turning to guidance on sales and earnings.
As we've done for several years our guidance will be based first on a constant currency basis reflecting our results from operations.
This is the way we manage our business and we believe this provides a good understanding of the underlying performance of our business.
We will also provide an estimate of our sales and earnings per share results for 2014 with the impact that current exchange rates could have on the translation of those results.
Our sales and earnings guidance for 2014 takes into account several assumptions that I highlighted to you in previous quarters.
For sales our assumptions remain consistent from earlier guidance that PROCRIT will not have biosimilar competition in 2014.
And for INVEGA SUSTENNA and RISPERDAL CONSTA we do not anticipate generic entries for these products this year.
Further our guidance reflects net incremental sales from our hepatitis C products as well the divestiture of Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics.
Considering the factors I just noted we would be comfortable with your models reflecting an operational sales increase on a constant currency basis of between 5.5% and 6.5% for the year.
This would result in sales for 2014 on a constant currency basis of approximately $75 billion to $76 billion.
This is an increase to our previous guidance.
Our underlying operational sales growth in this 2014 guidance excluding the impact of the hepatitis C products and the OCD divestiture for the full year 2014 is approximately 4.5% a higher growth rate than the estimate we provided on last quarter's earnings call.
We are not predicting the impact of currency movements but to give you an idea of the potential impact on sales if currency exchange rates were to remain where they were as of last week for the balance of the year than our sales growth rate would decrease by nearly 1.5% reflecting the recent weakening of the euro and other currencies against the U.S.
dollar.
Thus under this scenario we would expect reported sales growth to range between 4% and 5% for total expected level of reported sales of between approximately $74 billion and $75 billion.
Our 2014 earnings guidance reflects the strength of our performance we've seen thus far including a strong contribution of OLYSIO which as I noted earlier contributed approximately $0.20 to 2014 EPS for the first nine months net of investments we've made in the business.
Therefore we suggest you consider full year 2014 EPS estimates excluding the impact of special items of between $5.94 and $5.99 per share on operational or constant currency basis which is higher than our previous guidance.
Moving to reported EPS again we’re not predicting the impact of currency movements but to give you an idea of the potential impact on EPS if currency exchange rates were to remain where they were as of last week for the balance of this year than our reported EPS excluding special items would be negatively impacted by approximately $0.02 per share due to exchange rate fluctuations.
This represents a $0.07 per share unfavorable swing from our previous guidance with the weakening euro as a major factor.
We therefore suggest that you model our reported EPS excluding special items in the range between $5.92 and $5.97 per share for growth rate of about 7% to 8%.
This is higher than our previous guidance as our strong operational earnings performance is more than offsetting the negative impact of currency movements.
And as a reminder our full year earnings guidance includes intangible amortization of approximately $1.4 billion before tax or an impact of approximately $0.38 on earnings per share.
Please note that our guidance does not include the impact of an official devaluation of the Venezuelan Bolivar or any other currency.
And while we’re not providing guidance for 2015 if currency exchange rates were to remain where they were as of last week for all of 2015 that impact would be a headwind to earnings per share of approximately $0.15 to $0.20 per share.
As you update your models for the guidance I just provided you will see that we do expect that our pre-tax operating margins will show a significant improvement in 2014 over 2013 levels and approximately half of that is attributed to OLYSIO net of the additional investments we’re making in the business.
In summary we are very pleased with our strong results this quarter and with our ability to deliver an even stronger earnings performance for the full year than our previous guidance.
Our new products continue to produce strong growth and we are advancing our near-term priorities while also continuing to make investments to fuel future growth.
Now I would like to turn things back to Louise for the Q&amp;A portion of the meeting.
Louise? Thank you Dominic.
And Stephanie could you please give the instructions for the Q&amp;A session.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question is from the line of Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Good morning Mike Good morning.
Thanks for taking the questions.
So Dominic first one clarification the $0.06 you called out this quarter and $0.20 for the year for OLYSIO that would seem to imply probably about $0.20 and more of investments netted against that to get to that $0.20 number.
So can you just maybe outline that the $0.20 versus what profitability could have been for that product? Sure Mike.
We are not going to give very specific profitability by product.
But generally speaking when we saw the uptick in OLYSIO sales this year we knew we had the opportunity to invest more in the business including both some marketing investment as well as new R&amp;D program.
So we expected that we would do that while still having our investors see the benefits of the uptick in the OLYSIO product.
So I can’t give you the specifics but generally speaking about $0.20 for the year.
I mean if you assume that OLYSIO is a high margin -- high gross margin product with very very little costs associated with it you can probably estimate what the total impact would be.
And do you view that $0.20 as one-time essentially going away next year.
Is that you want these rates to be picking up in ‘15? Yeah.
I think so because it’s obvious that we saw such a significant uptick this quarter and you all know that Gilead’s compound in this space was just approved Friday.
I think we all expected that.
So we took the opportunity to invest.
I think we're being very transparent with investors of what the impact to this year's earnings are net of the investments of course.
And yes we don't expect that that will continue into next year.
One last question.
Could you walk through the assumptions that you’ve laid for this year relative to biosimilar competition? Do you have any preliminary comments relative to 2015? And are you thinking about competition for REMICADE or can you give a product from the portfolio? Sure.
Louise we have spoken before about the fact that 2015 is biosimilar impact for REMICADE in Europe in particular.
Correct.
And as far as INVEGA SUSTENNA and RISPERDAL CONSTA we are not aware of any ANDA filings on them at this point in time.
Perfect.
I will let others jump in.
Thank you.
Thanks Mike.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from Larry Biegelsen Wells Fargo.
Good morning Larry.
Hi Larry.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the questions.
I wanted to ask a question about international growth which has slowed the last couple quarters.
The U.S.
has obviously been very strong but can you talk about what you're seeing outside the U.S.
and why the U.S.
-- O-U.S.
I am sorry isn’t growing quite as robustly as the U.S.? And then I had a follow-up.
Thanks.
Right.
Well couple things.
This quarter of course we have the impact of the OCD divestiture so the quarter-over-quarter comparisons are difficult for that.
So Europe I think you saw published operational growth of negative 0.8%.
Without the OCD impact it would've been positive 1% growth.
That is slower growth than we’ve seen before.
I think you're all very familiar with the fact that Europe is in fact slowing down and we're seeing that across our businesses as well.
And then Dominic on Vision Care it was down 13% this quarter.
Can you give us a little bit more color about what's going on there? Is that a market issue? Is that a J&amp;J specific issue? And how long do you think it will take to recover? Thank you.
Right.
Well we mentioned in the comments by Louise earlier that there is some competitive pricing dynamics that we’re seeing in the market for our Vision Care products.
So we took the opportunity to price we set some of our products in that marketplace.
We have a lot of new and important innovations coming to market soon.
And when we noticed what was going on in the market we want to price our products competitively with those in anticipation of the new products we have coming in the near future.
So I would say there is a little bit of a slowdown in overall market but the impact you saw for our business was primarily a result of our price we set.
Thanks for taking the question.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from Jami Rubin Goldman Sachs.
Good morning Jami.
Hi Jami.
Good morning.
Just if you don’t mind if I follow up a little bit on OLYSIO.
So just to be clear Dominic you said $0.06 net of investments are you talking net of general investments or net of investments in hep C? I mean what is your commitment level to hep C going forward? And given the new pricing around the Gilead combo it would seem that OLYSIO even if you cut the price dramatically would have a hard time competing.
Are you planning to cut the price and would you expect the $2 billion that you’ve generated year-to-date to just basically go away next year? And then just lastly back to the margin contribution I think you were a little bit more explicit on the previous call.
I think you had said two-thirds of a 230 basis point improvement was attributed to OLYSIO.
If I assume the same thing this quarter that would have led to about $0.15 contribution and that of course it does not include investments.
So if you could just confirm that.
And then lastly I am obliged to ask this do you have any double Irish exposure? Thanks very much.
Okay.
Well let me say I think I counted eight questions Jami so I am going to do more.
I am going to get this opportunity four times a year.
Okay.
So just to be clear when I talk about the impact of OLYSIO net of investments I am talking about net of all investments not just investments in hep C.
So investments across the full range of the Johnson &amp; Johnson portfolio.
We are committed to hep C.
We continue to do studies in combination with other products.
We think there is important new advances still available in that marketplace.
We think the market is substantial and it’s worth pursuing.
So we are still committed to investment there and we’re doing those clinical trials.
As you know we have already filed with the FDA for our combination of OLYSIO with sofosbuvir and then we have additional data coming out I think later this year in addition to that.
And then finally you would ask about pricing given the impact of Gilead’s new pricing for Harvoni I believe the product is called.
And I would just offer the following comments.
First of all we believe that OLYSIO is in fact a very good -- has very good safety and efficacy results in a strong position in patient experienced to date.
We plan to remain competitive in the hepatitis C category and we will work with payers to maintain access for OLYSIO in the marketplace.
And given the size complexity and diversity of this patient population we think physicians will continue to need multiple treatment options and hence my comment earlier about our commitment to continue to study OLYSIO for hep C as well some other combinations.
We think having a potent protease inhibitor available to physicians is important and we’re committed to doing that.
As far as Double Dutch or Irish Sandwiches or whatever they are called I'm not going to comment very specifically about what we do or we don't have but we’ll have to wait to see what the Irish legislation actually says.
But we understand from all the comments that have been made by Irish regulators that there will certainly be some grandfathering period for any changes that they propose because they do expect to keep Ireland competitive in the world economy.
So we certainly expect that there will be some grandfather period.
I don't know how long it will be but we've heard in the range of five years could be three to five could be five to seven.
But we expect that the grandfathering provisions will give us all enough time to adjust any plans that we might have as a result of any impact.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from Glenn Novarro RBC Capital Markets.
Good morning Glenn.
Hey Glenn.
Good morning.
I want to focus on your orthopedics business.
Your U.S.
knees and your U.S.
hips came in a little bit better than we were thinking.
So Dominic and Louise can you provide some commentary about what you see on the U.S side in terms of volumes? Are things feeling a little bit better after kind of a softer first half and then as a follow-up Louise you mentioned in your prepared remarks pricing pressure.
I wonder if you can characterize the pressure that you saw in 3Q compared to how you saw it in 2Q and 1Q? Thanks.
Okay.
Well let me start with just a few comments on volumes.
We did see increased volume in the third quarter.
Consistent with what we expected where we thought that the second half of the year would be stronger than the first half of the year.
Just by the way of reference last year our hip and knee growth we experienced 70% of that growth in the fourth quarter.
So obviously we've now seen a new seasonality that’s very clear in hip and knee market.
And we’ve seen an uptick in the third quarter or in the back half of the year as we expected we would see.
And Louise on pricing.
Okay.
And so just a little further on the market so we are the first one though but our best estimate of the U.S market growth for the third quarter was hips about 3%.
We grew slightly faster and knees about 4% which we also grew slightly faster.
But that’s again just a big estimate because we’re the first or second one out depending on how you count it.
Regarding price so in hips this is U.S only price was minus 5% which is additional negative by 1% versus sequential basis and mix was virtually flat.
So net net price mix in the U.S for hips was down about 5%.
For knees price was negative 2.2% so that's a little better than the second quarter.
Mix coming in about 1.5% positive so negative minus 0.6 on the quarter price and mix together and that’s better than the second quarter.
As a follow-up Louise that negative 5 on hips that’s a big number.
Do you have any commentary why negative 5? We’ve been kind of thinking the market overall for hips would be down more 2 to 3 and you’re coming in at negative 5.
Was there any contract that rolled off any additional commentary you can provide? Thanks.
Yes.
There were some additional contracts that were renewed in the third quarter and that is you’re seeing the impact in that minus 5%.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
And did you want to do spine price in the U.S is down 5% and that’s more negative versus the second quarter.
Mix is up a positive of 1% for a negative of 4% altogether price mix for spine in U.S.
Okay.
Next question please? Your next question comes from Derrick Sung Sanford Bernstein.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
Actually some of the follow-up on your biosimilar comments for next year? So few things can you help us think about how we should think about the impact of competition in Europe sort of relative to maybe what you’ve seen with your [Eagle] (ph) franchise and such? And then in the U.S in terms of the biosimilar threat there last month the U.S.
Patent Office issued a final rejection on one of the key REMICADE patents under re-examination? Now we understand that the final rejection still has an appeals process to it? But I was wondering if you could kind of give us some insight into what that appeals process is and how you think about the -- your IP position in the U.S with potential FDA approval of Celltrion REMICADE next year as well? So Derrick thanks for the question.
So biosimilars in the OUS first we haven't seen much of an impact and we know that that even pricing is sort of in the 30% range down from the branded product but we haven't seen much of an impact of biosimilars in Europe such as Procrit and we’re not seen much of an impact for any other biosimilars as well including REMICADE.
In the U.S you raise a question about the potential biosimilar impact in the U.S because of Celltrion filing.
Just as a reminder we have a patent in the U.S which goes until 2018 and yes it's true that the Patent Office recently issued a rejection to that patent but we have recently filed a revised amendment to that which is now in the public domain.
And until the patent in finally adjudicated which could go up to the Supreme Court with the number of appellate arguments and appellate avenues that we have available to us.
We don’t expect that there will be a final adjudication of the patent for several years now.
So whether or not the biosimilar comes to market in the face of that particular patent situation is up to the competitor.
But we certainly continue to believe in the strength of our patents and the validity of those patents and we’re in active discussions with the Patent Office and we will pursue all available appeals and all the available jurisdictions and avenues of jurisdiction that we have to us which again I would say would take several years before they would be finally adjudicated.
Okay.
Great.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you for that.
Just a quick follow-up on your utilization comments you’ve called out the fact that we’ve seen a couple of quarters of utilization pickup on the hospital side of things? Has that -- it didn't look like that really translated to pickup in your surgical sales and I was just wondering if that’s result of -- that being obscured by pricing or some other fact and when will we expect to see some of that utilization pickup be reflected in your MD&amp;D sales? Right.
Well couple of things I remember the MD&amp;D sales surgical care in particular have been impacted by lower women’s health and urology sales.
Remember we withdrew the more selects product from the market.
So there is some negative impact related to that.
There was also some negative pricing pressure in the quarter.
And the overall utilization uptick that we saw was in the very low single digit.
So I mentioned it was modest growth although encouraging that we saw in two quarters in a row but still very modest Derrick.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Welcome.
Next question please.
The next question comes from Vamil Divan Credit Suisse.
Morning Vamil.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Thanks a lot for taking my question.
Just couple on the diabetes side here with your SGLT2.
Can you just comment what you are hearing from physicians around the differentiation for your product versus some of the competitors that are now in the market? And are you envisioning any tougher pricing dynamics going forward with that class given that there are competitors? And last on the combination with SGLT2 and DPP-4s can you just remind us if you guys are working on that? I would think that would be good strategy to kind of maintain your position and your competitors certainly are working on those combinations.
Right.
Well with respect to the differentiations of INVOKANA to the new competitors INVOKANA of course continues to do very well.
And the data as you know as filed was a result of something like eight different clinical trials which should both the safety and the efficacy of INVOKANA seems to continue to do well even in the face of new competition.
So we’re still growing share even with new competitors coming to the market.
We don't see much of a price issue in the marketplace.
They are all relatively priced competitively.
Remember this is a very large market and the fact that more SGLT2 inhibitors come to market we think is good for the market overall because it increases physician’s awareness of the use of that particular mechanism of action.
We think the market can withstand a number of competitors.
And so we think overall there will be market growth as a result.
As far as the combination I’m not aware that we are actually studying the combination with DPP2 and SGLT2 inhibitor combination.
Yeah.
So INVOKANA was just approved right which is combination with metformin.
And if you look at the usage of INVOKANA where about 50% of it is in triple therapies so they are actually able to get the combination themselves.
Right.
Okay.
Thanks.
One quick follow-up if I could on this because the schizophrenia market just the LAIs the growth there was a little bit less than we anticipated.
Can you just provide any color there on the deceleration in the U.S.
and outside the U.S.
this quarter? I think for our business the combined still grew very well if you take a look at our INVEGA SUSTENNA and Risperdal Consta together.
So the U.S.
is up 10% due to an increase in combined market share for our growth and that’s INVEGA SUSTENNA and Risperdal Consta together.
OUS is up about 3% so worldwide it’s six in operational levels.
Okay.
Thank you.
Next question please? Your next question comes from Kristen Stewart Deutsche Bank.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
I just want to go back to orthopaedics I was wondering Louise if you could just provide the pricing on trauma and then I have other questions?  I think someone was going to ask that one.
Okay so for trauma U.S.
only prices 0.5 0.7 negative and mix was very strong at 2.5% positive so for net net a roughly 2% positive.
Okay.
And then more strategically just thinking about the Medical Device business I don't expect you to comment or rumors but I guess there was some speculation that you guys maybe working where you saw some portions of the quarter’s business.
Can you maybe just tell us Dominic how you are thinking I guess more broadly about MD&amp;D where you expressed an interest in cardiology more broadly although have also said about comments on the growth rate there? But has anything changed just overall and the strategic value of having a more broad-based Medical Device business and maybe make some comments in that theme and just a consolidation that you are seeing in your competitors? Right.
Kristen thanks for the questions.
So couple of things so nothing changed with respect to our overall strategic approach to the space.
We are looking at areas where we think there will be strong market growth either because of demographics or because of innovation or because of our own ability to compete in the market bringing in new technologies with our current presence.
As you know we made the determination some time ago that we’re going to focus on surgery general surgery and specialty surgery and orthopedics and have less of a focus on cardiovascular and we got out of the drug-eluting stent business as we saw that become a commoditized business.
Within the overall approach to medical devices we still believe surgery is the place to be.
We’re obviously very happy with our market position there.
We made a big bet as you know in orthopedics and we’re continuing to see the benefits of that combination with Synthes.
And with respect to cardiology we believe that there are specific areas of focus within cardiology that are important.
And for example electrophysiology where we’re a leader there and we've seen very good growth I think nearly 18% growth this quarter from our Biosense Webster business.
So nothing has really changed.
We believe these are the two main areas within and indeed that we’re going to focus on surgery and orthopedics with selective investments in selective growth areas within cardiovascular medicine.
I think our competitors have basically followed suit in terms of these combinations in orthopedics as you know and there is also combinations along with a current large player in cardiology now acquiring a major player in surgery again confirming our approach that in fact surgery is the place that we’re going to see sustainable growth going forward.
So nothing has changed and I hope that overall picture that I gave you is consistent with the previous discussions we've had and we’re moving along that strategy.
And on the ortho side we’ve seen the special charges for Synthes continue for longer than I would have anticipated.
When I guess will that business be fully integrated and then when will all the one-time charges that are more occurring I guess charges stop for that business? I’ve just been surprised by the magnitude and by how long we’ve been seeing that? Right.
Well we are very careful to integrate this business in a way that wouldn’t be disruptive to our customers.
And we made sure that that was our first priority.
There is a number of sites that we have to consolidate.
These are two very large businesses as you can imagine.
So these integration activities are winding down and we should see less of the special charges going forward.
And I would say that we’re very close to actually completing the full integration of Synthes.
Right.
Thanks very much.
You’re welcome.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from Bob Hopkins Bank of America.
Good morning Bob.
Hey good morning.
Thanks.
Just a couple quick questions.
First Dominic for you you mentioned a couple of headwinds for calendar year 2015.
I think you said that if currency rates would stay the same you would see about a $0.15 to $0.20 headwind that's pretty clear.
But OLYSIO I just want to make sure I understand what the message is in terms of looking forward.
Should we think about that as a significant EPS headwind in 2015? Or are you going to reduce the expenditures that you’ve got running through in 2014 or 2015 such that that won’t be a significant EPS headwind in 2015? Right.
Well one way to think about it is that OLYSIO has been a major contributor this year but we of course invested as I mentioned earlier some of that upside in the business so that overall next year when you see a reduction of that contribution overall net-net it wouldn't be a significant as you might think and that's why I quoted the net $0.20 impact for the first nine months.
We don't believe that that given the dynamics in the marketplace of this significance that we should overreact and adjust our business too drastically just from one year to the next considering the fact that we have many investment opportunities the businesses are still growing nicely and in fact the overall pharmaceutical business as you know even without OLYSIO is still growing at high double-digit rate.
So we continue to bring our consumer products back to the marketplace.
So we don't want to really overreact from a big change in a single item that we believe the investment community is very well versed on and so we’ll continue to invest in our businesses appropriately going forward.
Okay.
I asked the question just because and I realize it's only one year but there was couple of headwinds for next year that people are trying to get ahead of from a modeling perspective so I just want to make sure do you understand all the moving parts? The second question I want to ask was back on your utilization commentary which did seem more constructive this quarter relative to last? And one thing you’ve comment on the past is your suture business perhaps is a good indication of what's going on from a surgical procedure volume perspective? So I was just wondering if you think your suture business this quarter provided any insight into what's going on I was just wondering if could just give us a sense as to how much that grew to this particular quarter? Right.
So we said I mentioned earlier we did see positive utilization trends two quarters in a row.
So we have you two dots we can connect.
I guess but these are very very modest very low single-digit utilization rate increases and our suture business also had modest low single-digit growth offset by a little bit of price but overall modest growth.
So I think that's consistent with utilization trends we have seen.
Yes.
The best estimate from our surgical care group is that the market was flat in the U.S.
and then as Dominic said there’s some negative price on it and then internationally sutures grew about 2% so on a worldwide basis we grew 1.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
You’re welcome.
Okay.
Next question please? Your next question is from a line of Matt Miksic with Piper Jaffray.
Good morning Matt.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the questions.
A couple I think most of the topics have been pretty well covered? But I did want to drill into a couple of comments on orthopedics? In particular you mentioned your estimates for market growth approximately 3% hips 4% knees and I realized that we are early about a third of the markets reported? But as you think about U.S.
versus Europe I guess one of the things in an OUS is a little bit surprising to us is the strength that we've seen overseas? If you can maybe comment on the seasonally slow quarter how we are seeing things like 6% operating growth for example in knees OUS if you could highlight a little bit of what you are seeing and then I have one follow-up? Well Matt one of things that we are benefiting from is the launch of ATTUNE our knee platform and it’s been very well as it continued to launch throughout the world and we are seeing significant growth from the ATTUNE launch in Europe in particular so that that's a major factor that’s specific to our business and not the overall market.
And then the other would be on sort of the share dynamic and I think about trauma and hips and knees coming together we’ve all been talking for a long time about the potential benefits of bundling? I am wondering whether you are growing a little bit faster than the market as you commented on but is any of that coming in the form of either share ahead of some of the strategic or hypothetical strategic actions in this space or just benefits of having a broader bigger trauma hip knee offering in orthopedics? Yes.
I do think that that we are seeing the benefit of having a broader offering in orthopedics.
So we had estimated some sales synergy from combining these businesses and we just got a report recently from the team and we are ahead of the sales synergies that we had expected.
So I think the overall combination is working well for us.
This is a marketplace as you know where share changes are not very dramatic and they are gradual overtime but we are seeing positive momentum in that regard.
Nothing on the share gains related to sort of dissynergies or reps jumping ship from some of these other competitors? Well I think a little too early to tell that but we do think that is an opportunity going forward.
There will be disruption as we experienced ourselves when we combined our two spine businesses.
So we think that will be an opportunity for us go -- on a go forward basis.
Great.
Thanks.
Welcome.
With respect to everyone’s time we will take two more questions.
Next question please? The next question is from line of Josh Jennings with Cowen &amp; Co.
Good morning Josh.
Hi Josh.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Thanks a lot.
Just wanted to follow-up on with an orthopedic question on the Ortho unit you’ve obviously established breadth and scale there.
But just wanted to see if you would comment on where some of the weakness in the portfolio is that’s serving on as an anchor to the overall growth of the franchise? And then also does J&amp;J need a robotics platform for the recon and/or spine business to compete effectively in the future? Well let me just say that with respect to the second question I don’t think we need a robotics platform of our own to effectively compete in the future.
We are in fact utilized in the robotic platform that exists today with our products at the end of factor – end of the robotic arm.
So we do participate in the robotic -- view it as a critical enabler of growth for us in particular.
And then secondly with respect to the overall orthopedics business I would say the only place we saw some softening is in trauma in the extremities portion of trauma.
So lower foot and ankle kind of trauma products that market seem to be growing more rapidly than the overall market and we have some new innovations coming to market but not yet there.
So we are not yet participated in that growth but we will be going forward.
Okay.
Okay.
Next question please? Next and last question and then we’ll turn it over to Dominic for some final remarks.
Your final question will be from the line of David Lewis Morgan Stanley.
Thanks guys for squeezing me in here.
Louise just related to ZYTIGA the U.S.
growth rates were actually relatively strong but the international growth rates slowed a little bit I know it was a very challenging comp outside the U.S.
Could you just update us on any dynamics outside the U.S.
for ZYTIGA? And then specifically in the U.S.
maybe any insight you can give us on competitive share and key patient indications and how you are trending? Thank you.
Certainly for the U.S.
about 90% of our shares are going through the oncologist and about 10% -- 10% 11% going through the urologist.
In the third quarters 60 plus percent was in the naïve versus the refractory.
And I think what you are seeing in outside the U.S.
is just continued new introductions into the market.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
Very welcome.
Some final remarks from Dominic.
Okay.
Well thank you everybody for your thoughtful questions and I hope you will agree that our continued investments and innovations and our strategic portfolio management are delivering very strong performance and positioning us well for growth moving forward.
Well we couldn’t do that without the great people who work at Johnson &amp; Johnson I would like to thank them for all they do every day and the contributions they make on behalf of the consumers and patients whose lives we touch around the world every day.
So thank you very much for joining us today and have a great day.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s Johnson &amp; Johnson’s third quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
And welcome to Johnson &amp; Johnson’s Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be able to listen-only until the question-and-answer session of the conference.
This call is being recorded.
If anyone has any objections you may disconnect at this time.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the conference call over to Johnson &amp; Johnson.
You may begin.
Good morning and welcome.
I’m Louise Mehrotra Vice President of Investor Relations for Johnson &amp; Johnson and it is my pleasure this morning to review our business results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2014.
Joining me on the call today are Alex Gorsky Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer and Dominic Caruso Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
A few logistics before we get into the details.
This review is being made available via a webcast accessible through the Investor Relations section of the Johnson &amp; Johnson Web site at investor.jnj.com.
I’ll begin by briefly reviewing fourth quarter and full year results for the corporation and for our three business segments.
Following my remarks Alex will comment on the 2014 results and provide a strategic outlook for the Company.
Then Dominic will provide some additional commentary on the business and review the income statement and provide guidance for 2015.
We will then open the call to your questions.
We expect the call to last approximately 90 minutes.
Included with the press release that was issued earlier this morning is the schedule of sales for key products and/or businesses to facilitate updating your models.
These schedules are available on the Johnson &amp; Johnson Web site as is the press release.
Please note we will be using a presentation to complement today’s commentary.
The presentation is also available on our Web site.
Before we begin let me remind you that some of the statements made during this review are or maybe considered forward-looking statements.
The 10-K for the fiscal year 2013 and the Company’s subsequent filings identify certain factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements made today.
The Company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.
Our SEC filings including the 10-K are available through the Company and on our Website.
During the review non-GAAP financial measures are used to provide information pertinent to ongoing business performance.
These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered replacements for and should be read together with GAAP results.
Tables reconciling these measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are available in the schedules accompanying the press release and on the Investor Relations section of the Johnson &amp; Johnson Web site.
A number of the products and compounds discussed today are being developed in collaboration with strategic partners or license from other companies this slide lists the acknowledgement of those relationships not otherwise referenced in today’s presentations.
Now I would like to review our results for the fourth quarter of 2014.
Worldwide sales to customers were $18.3 billion for the fourth quarter of 2014 down 0.6% versus the fourth quarter of 2013.
On an operational basis sales were up 3.9% and currency had a negative impact of 4.5%.
In the U.S.
sales were up 7.4%.
In regions outside the U.S.
our operational growth was 1.2% while the effect of currency exchange rates negatively impacted our reported results by 7.9%.
On an operational basis the Western Hemisphere excluding the U.S.
grew 3.9% while both the Asia-Pacific and Africa region and Europe grew 0.6%.
The success of new product launches and continued growth of key products in all regions was partially offset by divestitures the most significant one being Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics excluding the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures underlying operation of 0.7% worldwide 10.7% in the U.S.
and 3.6% outside the U.S.
Turning now to earnings net earnings were $2.5 billion and earnings per share were $0.89 versus the $1.23 a year-ago.
As referenced in the table reconciling non-GAAP measures 2014 fourth quarter net earnings were adjusted to exclude a charge of $1.1 billion for after-tax special items.
Fourth quarter 2013 net earnings were adjusted to exclude a net charge of $42 million for after-tax special items.
Dominic will discuss special items in his remarks.
Excluding special items for both periods net earnings for the current quarter were $3.6 billion and diluted earnings per share were $1.27 representing increases of 1.4% and 2.4% respectively as compared to the same period in 2013.
Now turning to the financial highlights for the full year of 2014 consolidated sales to customers for the year of 2014 were $74.3 billion an increase of 4.2% as compared to the same period a year ago.
On an annual basis sales grew 6.1% operationally and currency had a negative impact of 1.9%.
Excluding the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures underlying operational growth was approximately 8% worldwide 11.6% in the U.S.
and 5.1% outside the U.S.
Turning now to earnings 2014 annual net earnings were $16.3 billion and earnings per share were $5.70.
For the year 2014 adjusted net earnings were $17.1 billion and adjusted earnings per share were $5.97 up 7.7% and 8.2% respectively versus the 2013 results.
Free cash flow for the year was strong at $14.7 billion up $900 million versus 2013.
Turning now to business segment highlights.
Please note percentages quoted represent operational sales change in comparison to the fourth quarter of 2013 unless otherwise stated and therefore exclude the currency translation impact.
I’ll begin with the Consumer segment.
Worldwide Consumer segment sales of $3.6 billion increased 0.9% with U.S.
sales up 2.5% while outside the U.S.
sales grew 0.1%.
Excluding the net impact of acquisitions and divestiture underlying operational growth was 2.1% worldwide 4.9% in the U.S.
and 0.7% outside the U.S.
Growth was driven by OTC worldwide U.S.
Skin Care as well as Oral Care and Women’s Health outside the U.S.
This growth was partially offset by lower sales of Baby Care and Skin Care outside the U.S.
due to competitive pressures and prior-year inventory stocking.
OTC sales growth was driven by analgesics and upper respiratory products.
Upper respiratory grew 8% worldwide driven by sales growth outside the U.S.
Analgesic growth was 16% with growth in the U.S.
of 24% driven by share gains as well as trade inventory build related to the re-launch of products.
In the U.S.
adult analgesic market share was 11% up from approximately 9.5% a year ago while U.S.
pediatric share was nearly 42% up from 34% a year ago.
New product launches and successful marketing campaigns drove the results for NEUTROGENA and AVEENO in U.S.
Skin Care as well as LISTERINE in Oral Care and Women’s Health products outside the U.S.
Moving now to our Pharmaceutical segment worldwide sales of $8 billion increased 13.9% with U.S.
sales up 22.7% and sales outside the U.S.
up 5.8% driven by strong sales of new products as well as core growth products.
A major driver was our Hepatitis C product OLYSIO.
Excluding sales of Hepatitis C products OLYSIO and INCIVO underlying growth worldwide U.S.
and outside the U.S.
was approximately 11% 16% and 7% respectively.
Other significant contributors to growth were immunology products STELARA and SIMPONI SIMPONI ARIA as well as XARELTO INVOKANA ZYTIGA INVEGA SUSTENNA or XEPLION and recently launched IMBRUVICA.
Net revenue recorded from IMBRUVICA in the fourth quarter was $92 million worldwide with $64 million in the U.S.
On a full year basis net revenue was $200 million worldwide with $144 million in the U.S.
The results for immunology were driven by strong double-digit market growth complemented by increased market share for STELARA and combined SIMPONI SIMPONI ARIA.
U.S.
export sales of REMICADE were down due to timing of shipments to our distribution partners.
XARELTO sales were up 58% and total prescription share or TRx for the quarter in the U.S.
anticoagulant market grew to 15% up approximately 0.5 point from last quarter and up over 4.5 points from a year-ago.
Cardiology TRx estimated at 23.5% was up over 4.5 points from a year-ago.
INVOKANA/INVOKAMET sales were approximately $200 million in the quarter with over $190 million in the U.S.
contributing approximately 3.5% to the U.S.
pharmaceutical growth rate.
In U.S.
INVOKANA/INVOKAMET achieved 4.1% TRx within the defined market of Type 2 diabetes excluding insulin and metformin up from 3.3% in the third quarter of 2014.
TRx in endocrinologist grew to 10% for the quarter up approximately 1% sequentially.
INVOKANA/INVOKAMET was the category-leader in new-to-brand share with endocrinologists reaching over 19% at the end of the quarter.
Strong growth of the combined metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer market at over 15% drove the results for ZYTIGA in the U.S.
ZYTIGA’s share was approximately 31% of that market down approximately two points on a sequential basis due to increased competition.
Continued strong market uptake and additional country launches drove the strong results outside the U.S.
ZYTIGA is approved in more than 95 countries.
INVEGA SUSTENNA or XEPLION achieved strong result in all regions due primarily to increased market share.
I’ll now review the Medical Devices segment results.
Worldwide Medical Devices segment sales of $6.6 billion decreased 4.7%.
U.S.
sales declined 7.7% while sales outside the U.S declined 2.3%.
Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics was divested mid-year 2014.
Excluding the net impact of acquisitions and divestures underlying operational growth was 1.5% at worldwide with the U.S down 1% and growth of 3.5% outside the U.S.
Growth was driven by orthopedics and cardiovascular care products partially offset by lower sales in vision care.
Competitive pricing dynamics negatively impacted growth for vision care in the U.S.
This was partially offset by growth outside the U.S with strong results in emerging market.
Orthopedics sales growth was driven by Sports Medicine hips spine and knees.
The successful launch of MONOVISC coupled with the continued strong growth for ORTHOVISC drove results for Sports Medicine.
Hip growth of 5% worldwide was driven by strong volume growth partially offset by continued pricing pressure.
Primary stem platform sales were a major contributor to the results.
Spine grew 3% with solid market volume growth and new product launches partially offset by continued pricing pressure.
Knees worldwide increased 3% due to the successful launch of ATTUNE with pricing pressure offset by positive mix.
Cardiovascular growth was driven by a 16% worldwide increase in our BioSense Webster business due to strong growth of the ThermoCool SmartTouch Catheter.
That concludes the segment highlights for Johnson &amp; Johnson’s fourth quarter of 2014.
For your reference there were some notable developments in the fourth quarter which we have summarized on this slide to assist as you develop your models.
Lastly to assist you in updating your models for the full year 2014 on our Web site you will find annual sales highlights by-segment as well as adjusted earnings before tax by-segment.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Alex Gorsky.
Alex? Thank you Louise and good morning everyone who has joined the call today.
I am really pleased to be reviewing with you the highlights of our very strong 2014 results and a preview of '15 and beyond.
But before I get to that I’d like to start as I often do with just a word on Our Credo.
This remarkable document was written 71 years ago by the son of our founder and Johnson &amp; Johnson has long been guided by its principles.
And what I can tell you is that this philosophy this ethos is alive and well in our organization.
There is a fixated version of it etched in glass and positioned directly in front of my desk.
It’s something we pay a lot of attention to and it challenges our entire Company to ensure that we’re working with the interest of our key stakeholders in mind consumers care-givers and patients our employees the global communities in which we live and work and of course our shareholders.
And as we enter 2015 the business of Johnson &amp; Johnson is very strong and we’re well-position for the long-term.
We delivered 31 consecutive years of adjusted earnings increases and 52 consecutive years of dividend increases for our shareholders.
We’re one of just three companies to be Triple A rated by all three major credit agencies which continues to afford us many benefits in the financial markets.
Our products are industry and segment-leading with 70% of sales coming from the number one or number two market share position and 25% of our sales coming from products we’ve launched in the past five years.
And we reward the shareholders by returning about 70% of our free cash flow over the past decade which amounts to about $90 billion.
As most of you know Johnson &amp; Johnson is built around three core businesses and as the chart on the left of the slide shows our Pharmaceutical segment generated over 32 billion in sales last year followed by Medical Devices at 27.5 billion and 14.5 billion in Consumer to round it out.
We’re the largest pharmaceutical company in the United States and the fastest growing Company among the top-10 globally.
We’re also the market-leader in Medical Devices which includes surgery orthopedics and consumer medical devices like vision care and diabetes.
And we’re a market-leading consumer products healthcare company as well.
And so looking back on 2014 here is a slide I presented last January that delineated our commitments for the year and I’m proud to say that we’ve achieved our near-term priorities and exceeded our financial targets of full year operational sales growth of 6.1%.
We successfully restored a reliable supply of the over-the-counter medicines the shelf in the United States and saw strong growth in our pediatric analgesics.
And at DePuy Synthes which showed 3% operation growth over the prior-year led by the trauma hips and knee businesses we’ve begun to realize the benefits of the scale and breadth of the combined businesses which have contributed to strategic wins in key markets.
And by any measure we built on the already strong momentum in our Pharmaceuticals business driven by the strength of key products including OLYSIO XARELTO ZYTIGA INVOKANA and IMBRUVICA.
Later I’ll cover the progress we’ve made against our long-term growth drivers particularly in the area of innovation.
To set context for our businesses going forward there are a few points I’d like to make about the dynamics shaping the global healthcare environment.
First is the rising cost of healthcare which by 2020 is expected to account for 21% of the GDP in the United States nearly 11% in the European Union and 6% in China.
And as I travel around the world it's clear that providing sustainable high-quality healthcare is one of our society's greatest challenges.
It's at the forefront of many discussions I have with our associates government leaders physicians hospital administrators and executives at our peer companies.
As the world's largest healthcare company we're working to assume a leading role in the solutions which must be centered on the patient and improving outcomes.
Next expanding access is an important macro trend impacting how we and others think about the future of the business.
Healthcare reform efforts and improving economies are clearly helping more people access affordable quality care which will certainly help in the fight against cancer obesity and heart disease.
And here in the U.S we’ve seen healthcare utilization rates increase for the second quarter in a row both sequentially and versus the prior year.
And we estimate that we will continue seeing similar to slightly higher growth rates when all of the fourth quarter numbers are reported.
Managing those dynamics demand innovation and new models and are driving considerable health industry consolidation at the health system level as well as in the med tech pharmaceutical and biotech sectors where the M&amp;A activity is back to peak levels last observed before 2009.
The good news is the governments are increasingly recognizing the need to continue to address healthcare needs and are taking steps to reward innovation through FDA and EMEA designations that are helping to speed product review times.
And in thinking about all of these dynamics in the marketplace today I will cover three themes about Johnson &amp; Johnson that are driving our confidence in the future.
First the core businesses at Johnson &amp; Johnson are strong and positioned to continue expanding our market-leadership positions.
Next we have an exciting and deep product pipeline across the entire enterprise.
And we’re changing the way we interact with our customers and evolving our structure to be more effective and efficient to drive growth.
Now I am also a firm believer that in order to achieve our goals as a Company it's important to establish a clear set of priorities for the entire organization.
Three years ago when I first assumed this role we were very focused on excellence in execution and given the progress we’ve made today we're evolving our approach placing an even greater emphasis on innovation and accelerating growth with continued excellence in execution as a non-negotiable part of the process.
So without compromise we're focused on delivering on our financial and quality commitments.
In Pharmaceuticals we'll continue building on our launch excellence and robust pipeline.
In Medical Devices the emphasis is on growth acceleration from innovation and also by transforming our go-to-market models that better reflect the reality the purchasing decisions are increasingly being made at the healthcare system level as they look to improve the quality of care they provide patients while controlling cost.
And in Consumer we're expanding our market-leadership in key segments within the over-the-counter medicines oral care baby and beauty markets.
Let me take you through the thinking of how we will meet these priorities in each one of our businesses.
Let's start first with our Pharmaceutical business.
I've got to tell you I could not be proud of this organization.
About six years ago we lost $8.5 billion of sales to patent expiry and this was out of about a $24 billion portfolio in our Pharmaceutical business.
Now a lot of companies have chosen different strategies but what we said is first of all we want to be very focused on innovation and are developing differentiated products that will ultimately help fulfill unmet medical needs.
We focus on five therapeutic areas recognizing that we can't be everything to everybody.
And we've also said that we want to go where the best science is and have a mix of internal and external innovation while being completely agnostic about the source.
And the results really speak for themselves.
The 14 new products launched since 2009 driving cumulative sales of over $27 billion six of these products have already crossed the $1 billion threshold.
With this we are the industry-leader in terms of research and development productivity and that means per dollar spent compared to the benchmark.
And the story is not over in 2014 we had 20 new line extensions approved and we filed an additional 20.
We also started 23 Phase 3 trials and initiated 11 Phase 2 trials.
And as currently constituted our pipeline is poised to yield 10 potential new product filings between 2013 and 2017.
Next our Medical Devices business is in a very strong leadership position particularly in orthopedics electrophysiology surgery and vision care where there is a lot of innovation advancing the standard-of-care.
Many of our platforms are overwhelming market-leaders in their categories and 85% of our sales are from platforms with a number one or number two position.
We have 10 different platforms in this business that have exceeded $1 billion in sales which is quite remarkable when you think about it.
And we're growing very well in emerging markets and are capitalizing on the scale depth and breadth of the portfolio we can offer to governments large healthcare systems and large payors around the world to add value and help patients and we grew sales in China by nearly 15% on an operational basis last year.
We've launched over 50 major new products since 2012 and have more than 30 new filings pending as at the end of the year.
So again this is a very strong business that's well-positioned for the future.
In our Consumer brands these are the ones that most people know us by.
As you can see we're guided by inside driven innovation and have taken a very focused approach to meeting key consumer need space led by our 12 megabrands.
And while they are nearly U.S the OTC business continues to operate in their consent decree they are on-track with all of their commitments and the consistent supply of these products are returning to the market.
I am incredibly proud of the work that the team has done and based upon recent market-share trends that show consumption is growing at four times the market with particular strength behind children’s TYLENOL and children’s MOTRIN the new strategies we’ve implemented within the organization are really paying off.
Now the work that I just described is leveraging the full strength of our enterprise the product portfolios the expertise of our research medical and epidemiological teams and our commercial organizations.
Looking longer-term our strategy for driving growth should be very familiar to all of you by now and I’ll use the balance of my time taking you through some of the elements behind it.
So let's start with innovation because in the end without innovation we just can’t be successful that’s ultimately how we’re going to help more patients and consumers and we invested $8.5 billion in R&amp;D last year across our segments to keep us at the forefront.
Our approach can be viewed in these four ways.
As I’ve said earlier we want to ensure we have the right mix of internally and externally sourced science and products and we’ve built new innovation models.
We’re also focusing on greater cross-segment collaboration to innovate and focused operationally on building market-leading capabilities that enable us to achieve the highest quality and efficiency standards possible across the world.
And the good news is it’s working.
We’ve had about an 8% CAGR over the last 20 years and we’ve invested almost $200 billion in innovation over that span.
About 109 billion of that has been internal and about 85 billion has been external so a pretty fair mix.
With that external spend we’ve done over 120 deals and well over 100 of those are under $1 billion.
Of course the larger ones make up more of the value but what this graph shows is that you’ve got to have those singles doubles and triples as well as the larger home run type deals to be successful over the long-term.
And that’s helped us build a portfolio with 24 brands and platforms that generate over $1 billion and sell the piece.
As an example our team has done a great job at this in the oncology space.
The partnerships we’ve built since 2008 have helped us grow from a $1 billion franchise to over $4.5 billion today and we have around four breakthrough designations in this portfolio demonstrating our ability to identify and develop products that can revolutionize the care of cancer patients.
And we’re doubling down on our efforts to ensure we continue accessing new ideas and products at their earlier stages.
Building on the legacy of entrepreneurship that the Johnson &amp; Johnson Development Corporation established since its inception by investing over $1 billion in start-up companies the team made an additional 43 investments with nearly $200 million just last year.
Our new innovation centers which are in four innovation hubs across the world have made over 200 alliances in the past few years and at our four no-strings-attached incubators at Janssen Labs we’re giving small start-ups places to work and access the instrumentation.
I had an opportunity to visit our facility in South San Francisco just last week and that was one of our teams that we’re working with who says it could have taken them eight years and $300 million to do what we’re enabling them to do in just a couple of years for significantly less in an environment where they are building a foundation for strong partnerships for themselves and frankly with us as well.
As technologies are advancing we’re seeing more and more opportunities for cross-segment collaborations bringing together the scientific regulatory clinical and commercial expertise from across Johnson &amp; Johnson to improve care.
Examples include our EVARREST Fibrin Sealant Patch which has demonstrated an ability to control problematic surgical bleeding that goes well beyond the current standard of care.
Stem cell therapy for Adult Macular Degeneration is another area that we’re very excited about.
We think it offers a great complement to our existing vision care platform.
Also while I was in China for the APEC Economic Leaders Summit in November I announced plans to optimize our expertise on oncology to help the Chinese government fight lung cancer.
It's estimated that by 2025 there will be 1 million cases of lung cancer and while China has 20% of the world’s population they have got about 30% of the cases.
So we’re in the process of establishing a China Lung Cancer Center which will adopt an integrated medical approach to transforming the disease we help ultimately into a preventable and curable one by taking a unique local approach where we have R&amp;D medical device pharmaceutical and consumer experts all working together to bring forward new and very comprehensive solutions.
This is also a good illustration of the versatility of the types of enterprise-wide solutions we can uniquely offer as Johnson &amp; Johnson and we’re already in talks with governments and other nations to develop similar models to help them attack diseases that are rapidly spreading through their nations.
Now we realize that in order to implement programs like these on such a large scale we must change the way we work as a Company.
For many years Johnson &amp; Johnson has been extremely decentralized and we think that accountability and responsibility is something that we don’t want to lose or compromise.
But we also realize that operating a $75 billion global company is different than operating a much smaller one and then making sure we’ve got the right standards and systems in place in areas such as quality supply chain and finance is essential.
So we put in a very ambitious agenda to strike the right balance in our organization.
And as I stated last year we’re aiming to take $1 billion out of our P&amp;L over the next three years and believe that we’ll be an even stronger organization.
So all of our commitments to innovate have helped us establish a very strong pipeline for Johnson &amp; Johnson.
As you can see in our Pharmaceutical business we have a deep pipeline and as I said earlier we’re expecting the yield 10 major filings and 25 line extensions between 2013 and 2017.
One of them is esketamine a potential breakthrough medication for treatment resistant depression as well as daratumumab which is being developed for multiple myeloma.
They both have breakthrough designations from the FDA.
We’re also excited by ARN-509 a next-generation treatment for prostate cancer as well as guselkumabfor Psoriasis and sirukumab which is for Rheumatoid Arthritis.
And just yesterday we announced that the FDA has granted priority review of our NDA supporting the three month formulation of paliperidone palmitate for the treatment of adults with schizophrenia.
If approved it will be the first and only long-acting atypical antipsychotic that can be dosed just four times a year adding an unprecedented treatment option to help address the needs of these patients.
We’ll keep you apprised of these programs as their development progresses.
Innovation is also deep in Medical Devices where we expect 30 major filings between 2014 and 2016 including the ECHELON FLEX Powered Vascular Stapler and our TFN-ADVANCED Proximal Femoral Nailing System in trauma which we’ll launch this year.
We’re also innovating medical devices for consumers like the new Calibra 3-Day Wearable Insulin Patch as well as with our new brand of ACUVUE for use in the beauty and astigmatism and presbyopic segments.
And in our Consumer business we have 20 key product launches planned for this year including NEUTROGENA Hydro Boost and LISTERINE HEALTHY WHITE.
Innovation though is not just about new products it’s also about new ways of managing.
More and more of what I’m hearing from hospital CEOs and from healthcare administrators around the globe is they want to work with Johnson &amp; Johnson on a less fragmented basis so we’re implementing different approaches.
To take on healthcare in the future we’re going to take a much more holistic approach and build more holistic partnerships and we’re making it easier for health systems to do businesses with us through customer-focused team leaders that can represent an enterprise view.
Again when you think about the depth and the breadth that we have from orthopedics to surgery to the pharmaceutical group our ability not only to contract but to fundamentally partner price and work collaboratively in a different construct it offers us a unique and exciting opportunity to be part of the solution in healthcare as it continue to change around the globe.
We also have a very strong global footprint and 53% of our total sales last year were made outside the United States with about 21% in the fast moving emerging markets around the world where we see stronger growth rates than what we’re seeing in developed markets.
While these markets always represent a certain challenge or a certain risk we’ve been operating in them for many years and we believe that taking a long-term view is the right way for us not only in terms of expanding our presence but also in the way we conduct research and development and the way we embed elements of our supply chain in all the areas of our business which is an important strength for us overall and which is helping us to drive us to this level of success.
Now while we’ve talked a lot about ways in which we’re building our portfolio we also think it’s important to make sure that we’re being thoughtful about where we’re going to participate and where we’re not going to participate.
Again you’ve seen some decisions that we made around areas such as drug-eluting stents Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics selecting pharmaceutical and consumer brands.
Our approach is to focus on being number one or number two in a particular area as well as on those businesses or product areas that we feel have a path to achieving leadership where they will be directly complementary with one of our businesses.
Now if a business or product doesn’t meet at least one of those criteria for us it maybe that it’s better served in someone else’s hands.
To be clear these can be very good businesses with a lot of opportunity such as the U.S.
NUCYNTA pain brand we just announced plans to divest or Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics.
The point is that moves like these give us a chance to rejuvenate our portfolio and to focus on those programs that we know are ultimately going to help more patients and grow our business.
One other topic I’d like to talk about before I close regards our efforts around Ebola now in addition to the privilege of working in healthcare we have a real responsibility to lead with purpose and to help the global community in times of crisis.
Our work to expedite development of an Ebola vaccine is a great representation of our ability to mobilize and focus our resources in a really short period of time to help meet the needs of patients.
And because everyday counts we’ve committed to substantially accelerate the production of our vaccine regimen through unprecedented collaborations among the global health community.
Our goal is to bring this vaccine to families and frontline healthcare professionals as fast as possible.
We started our Phase 1 clinical trials and have produced more than 400 000 regimens for use in large scale clinical trials.
As I started this talk I showed you a slide for my presentation last January outlining what we expected to accomplish in 2014.
So we’ll remain focused on our near-term priorities and continue to advance our longer-term growth drivers.
And I look forward to reporting on our progress next January when we view our 2015 accomplishments.
As I close I just want to emphasize why I’m so confident in our business and our growth potential.
First our core businesses are strong and positioned to continue expanding their leadership positions.
We have an exciting and deep product pipeline across the entire enterprise.
And we’re changing the way we interact with our customers and evolving our structure to be more effective and efficient to drive growth.
Finally I’m privileged to work with some of the greatest people in the world and I believe that with the progress we’ve made a sheer commitment to Our Credo and resolve in pursuit of our aspiration to help billions of people live longer healthier happier lives we’re extremely well-positioned for the future.
Thank you and it’s now my pleasure to turn the call over to our CFO Dominic Caruso.
Thank you Alex and good morning everyone.
It’s a great pleasure to report on our excellent 2014 performance which was driven by the many successes that Alex previously discussed as well as to provide guidance for you to consider as you update your models for 2015.
Now let’s review some highlights of our full year and fourth quarter financial performance.
Turning to the next slide you can see our condensed consolidated statement of earnings for the full year of 2014.
At the beginning of 2014 we provided an outlook of our expected financial performance for the year and we saw continued improvement in our results throughout the year.
That growth was driven by strong sales results particularly in our Pharmaceutical business and also good expense management across the enterprise.
And so we ended 2014 with full year sales growth of 4.2% with operational sales growth of 6.1% which exceeded our initial guidance of 4% to 5%.
Excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures our operational sales growth was a strong 8% for the year.
While we did benefit from a significant level of sales of our Hepatitis C products excluding both of these factors our operational sales growth for 2014 was approximately 5%.
I am also pleased to report that our pre-tax operating margin for 2014 excluding the impact of special items improved by 190 basis points with more than half of that coming from sales of OLYSIO.
Finally our net income margin excluding special items improved to 23%.
Turning to the next slide you can see our condensed consolidated statement of earnings for the fourth quarter of 2014.
While our total sales change of negative 0.6% reflects a negative impact of currency movements we’re pleased to report operational sales growth of 3.9% which as Louise discussed earlier was driven impart by the continued uptake of our recently launched pharmaceutical products.
Excluding the impact of Hepatitis C products and acquisitions and divestitures operational sales growth was 5.6% for the quarter.
Now let’s take a few moments to talk about certain items on the statement of earnings for the quarter.
I am pleased to point out that we saw very good operating performance.
Cost of goods sold was 40 basis points lower than the same period last year primarily due to our product mix and cost improvement actions partly offset by currency impacts.
Selling marketing and administrative expenses were down as compared to the fourth quarter of 2013 as favorable mix of the business was partially offset by investments made in all areas of our business.
Our investment in research and development as a percent of sales was up compared to the prior year as we continue to make important investments for future growth and we closed a number of exciting licensing deals in the fourth quarter.
Overall our pre-tax operating margin excluding special items decreased 60 basis points in the fourth quarter as compared to the prior year due to the timing of these investments during the fourth quarter.
Interest expense net of interest income of approximately 122 million was slightly higher than the prior year.
Other income net of other expenses was $963 million of expense in the quarter compared to $868 million of expense in the same period last year.
Excluding the special items that are included in this line item other income net of other expenses showed a net gain of approximately 103 million for the quarter versus net expense of approximately 47 million in the prior year.
In the quarter the effective tax rate excluding special items was 8% compared to 8.9% in the fourth quarter of 2013 and for the year excluding special items tax rate was 19.3% compared to 17.2% for 2013.
This was primarily due to the geographic mix of the results in each of the periods.
This effective tax rate for the fourth quarter of 2014 includes the federal R&amp;D tax credit for all of 2014 which we had anticipated would be passed Congress and in fact was late in 2014.
This was included in our guidance but not yet in our reported results therefore the entire full year credit is now reflected in the results for the quarter.
Now turning to the boxed section at the bottom of the slide during the fourth quarter we recorded several special items that netted to an approximate $1.1 billion charge on an after-tax basis and consisted primarily of the following items; increased litigation accruals cost associated with the Synthes acquisition which is consistent with what we expected will be incurred as special items throughout 2014 and which we expect to continue through the middle of 2015 as that integration activity wraps-up and some charges for in-process research and development.
Together these special items negatively impacted our fourth quarter results by $0.38 per share.
Excluding these special items our adjusted earnings per share were a $1.27 for the fourth quarter which exceeded the mean of the analyst estimates as published by Firstcall despite the increased currency headwinds in the quarter which I will discuss later.
Now I will provide some guidance for you to consider as you refine your models for 2015.
I’d like to start by first providing some context which we believe is important to consider regarding our guidance for 2015.
First as a reminder as we discussed last year and although we took opportunity to invest in the business with the increase in profitability from OLYSIO sales our earnings in 2014 did benefit by approximately $0.20 per share even after those investments.
Also as we did throughout 2014 we will provide a view of our sales growth excluding the impact of Hepatitis C as well as acquisitions and divestitures which as you know are both important when considering the underlying base business performance.
Additionally currency headwinds have increased quite substantially since we last spoke with you in October of 2014 negatively impacting both sales and earnings and our guidance for 2015 to a greater extent that we had anticipated.
We know that that some of you have updated your models for currency but many of you had not yet and even though that have updated for currency have not yet reflected a negative impact that current rates could have if they were to remain at recent levels for all of 2015.
And finally we have decided to exclude amortization of intangibles from our adjusted earnings guidance consistent with the majority of our competitors and which I will discuss in more detail shortly.
Before I discuss sales and earnings I’ll give you some guidance on items we know are difficult for you to forecast beginning with cash and interest income and expense.
At the end of the year we had approximately $14.3 billion of net cash which consists of approximately $33.1 billion of cash and marketable securities and approximately $18.8 billion of debt.
For purposes of your models and assuming no major acquisitions or other major uses of cash I’d suggest you consider modeling net interest expense of between $450 million and $550 million.
Regarding other income and expense as a reminder this is the account where we record royalty income as well as gains and losses arising from such items as litigation investments by our development corporation divestitures asset sales and write-offs.
We would be comfortable with your models for 2015 reflecting net other income and expense excluding special items as a gain ranging from approximately $1.5 billion to $1.6 billion which includes the anticipated gain from the divestiture of our U.S.
rights to the NUCYNTA pain medicine.
As announced last week we anticipate this transaction to close in the second quarter.
This is a higher level of other income and some of you may have modeled and higher than the prior year level and we expect to use this increase in other income to compensate for lower level of income from OLYSIO which we expect in 2015 as compared to what we had in 2014 allowing for continued investments in our core business primarily in research and development.
Now a word on taxes our guidance for 2015 anticipates that the R&amp;D tax credit will also be renewed by Congress for 2015 although that has still not yet happened.
We would therefore be comfortable with your models reflecting an effective tax rate for 2015 excluding special items of approximately 20% to 21%.
If the R&amp;D tax credit is not approved it will negatively impact the tax rate by approximately 0.5% for 2015.
Now turning to sales and earnings our sales and earnings guidance for 2015 takes into account several assumptions and key factors that I would like to highlight which may not be fully reflected in your models.
For sales our assumption for PROCRIT is that there will not be biosimilar competition in 2015.
We also do not anticipate generic competition this year for RISPERDAL CONSTA or INVEGA SUSTENNA.
We are however expecting the generic entrant for INVEGA in the first half of 2015 as well as biosimilar competition for REMICADE in Europe in early 2015 and have included the expected impact in our sales guidance.
As we’ve done for several years our guidance will be based first on a constant currency basis reflecting our results from operations.
This is the way we manage our business and we believe this provides a good understanding of the underlying performance of our business.
We will also provide an estimate of our sales and EPS results for 2015 with the impact that current exchange rates could have on the translation of those results.
We would be comfortable with your models reflecting an operational sales increase on a constant currency basis of between 1% and 2% for the year.
This would result in sales for 2015 on a constant currency basis of approximately $75 billion to $76 billion.
Additionally by way of comparison to how we described our results in 2014 our operational sales growth for 2015 excluding the impact of all acquisitions and divestitures as well as the impact of Hepatitis C would be approximately 6% a higher level of growth than the comparable 5% for 2014 which we noted earlier.
Throughout the latter part of 2014 the euro like many other currencies weakened significantly versus the dollar and as of last week was lower by approximately 11% as compared to 2014 average levels.
As you know the dollar strengthened recently versus virtually all major currencies.
We are not predicting the impact of currency movements but to give you an idea of the potential impact on sales if currency exchange rates were to remain where they were as of last week for the balance of the year then our sales growth rate would decrease by nearly 5.5% reflecting the recent weakening of the euro and other major currencies against the U.S.
dollar.
Thus under this scenario we would expect reported sales to reflect the change in the range between negative 3.5% and negative 4.5% for a total expected level of reported sales between approximately $71 billion and $72 billion.
Now turning to earnings consistent with the reporting practices by the majority of our competitors beginning in 2015 we will exclude intangible amortization expense in addition to special items when providing our adjusted earnings guidance and actual results.
The impact of the amortization of intangible assets that we’re projecting is approximately $1.3 billion on a pre-tax basis representing approximately $0.32 per share on an after-tax basis for 2015 compared to $0.42 per share in 2014.
The amount for 2014 includes the acceleration of the amortization expense on certain intangible assets which we don’t anticipate for 2015 at this time.
To assist you in comparing our guidance to our models and to our prior year results I will first describe our adjusted earnings guidance excluding special items as we have done in the past.
Then I will update that guidance but also exclude the impact of amortization of intangibles.
A significant factor impacting our earnings guidance for 2015 is the impact of currency movements on transactions which although hedged is still somewhat negative incrementally versus the prior year.
We expect transaction currency impacts to be negative to our gross profit by approximately 50 to 70 basis points in 2015 as compared to 2014.
I will of course discuss the translation impact of currency on EPS in a few minutes.
Consistent with our prior year presentation of adjusted EPS excluding special items we would be comfortable with adjusted EPS excluding special items ranging between $6.22 and $6.37 per share on a constant currency basis up approximately 4.2% to 6.7% compared to a constant currency sales growth rate of 1% to 2%.
Now excluding the impact of amortization of intangibles in addition to excluding special items we would be comfortable with adjusted EPS guidance in the range between $6.54 and $6.69 per share on a constant currency basis reflecting an operational or constant currency growth rate of 2.3% to 4.7%.
Again we are not predicting the impact of currency movements but to give you an idea of the potential impact on EPS if currency exchange rates for all of 2015 were to remain where they were as of last week then our reported EPS excluding the intangible amortization expense of special items would be negatively impacted by approximately $0.42 per share a much higher negative impact that we provided back in October of $0.15 to $0.20 per share due to the significant strengthening of the U.S dollar during the past several months.
Therefore our reported adjusted EPS guidance excluding the impact of intangible amortization expense and special items would be in a range between $6.12 and $6.27 per share reflecting the significant headwind of currency on EPS if exchange rates were to stay where they are now for all of 2015.
At this early stage in the year we would comfortable with your models reflecting the mid-point of this range.
So in summary as you update your models for the guidance I just provided and reflecting on the context I shared with you earlier I would like to make a few key points; although operational sales growth is expected to range between 1% and 2% we are pleased to note that when excluding the impact of Hepatitis C and acquisitions and divestures our operational sales growth at the mid-point of our guidance would be 6% for 2015 as compared to 5% for 2014.
We expect that the higher level of other income in our guidance for 2015 will replace the lower level of income from OLYSIO in 2015 as compared to 2014 allowing for continued investment in the business particularly in research and development as we continue to build our pipeline.
The negative impact of currency exchange rates in 2015 as compared to 2014 will be much more significant to both sales and earnings that many of you have modeled.
And we expect that this additional negative currency impact to be more significant in the first half of the year as compared to the second half of the year.
On a constant currency basis our operational EPS growth and our guidance is expected to range between 2.3% and 4.7%.
And finally going forward as we noted today we will be reporting our adjusted earnings per share to exclude intangible amortization expense as well as special items consistent with the majority of our competitors.
So in closing we’re very pleased with our strong results for 2014 and we have the financial strength and breadth to execute on our near-term priority and to continue to deliver solid results while also continuing to invest for long-term growth and I look forward to updating you on our progress throughout the year.
Thank you and now I’d like to turn things back to Louise for the Q&amp;A portion of the program.
Louise? Thank you Dominic.
To assist you with updating your models with comparative 2014 adjusted EPS excluding intangible amortization and special items we have posted a reconciliation by-quarter to the Web site.
We will now open the call to your questions.
Lhea can you please give the instructions for the Q&amp;A session? (Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Lawrence Biegelsen Wells Fargo.
Let me ask two to Alex.
Alex let me just start off with the nearly 14 billion in net cash that you have that’s close to the largest for J&amp;J in recent years but you’ve been relatively you’ve done relatively small deals since taking over as the CEO.
Is there any color you can provide on your appetite to do a larger deal and your priorities for M&amp;A? And then I have one follow-up question for you.
Larry consistent with our strategy we’re always looking for opportunities frankly that help us better fulfill unmet medical need and so if we start with our pharmaceutical area I think over the past several years we’ve done a really nice job of identifying compounds early on in that development things like ZYTIGA things like ibrutinib bringing them in putting them through a very rapid and extensive clinical development program and then of course having successful launches.
And as we've experienced 14 new product launches since 2009.
So we think in the pharmaceutical area that kind of approach to sourcing new technology and new compounds is definitely a successful one.
If we look to our Medical Devices of course our big focus over the past in making sure that we're making the most of the significant investment that we made in Synthes.
And I think we made a lot of headways I outlined during my presentation and in fact I think we were one of the first companies to really look hard at spaces like orthopedics and recognize that consolidation was very likely to occur and so we were able to do that in a way where we feel we got a very good portfolio fit.
And as we’ve managed through that transition over the past several years we feel that we're in a very good position now particularly as many of our competitors are just starting to go through some of those consolidation initiatives.
But even in this space we continue to look for new options new innovations.
There is number of spaces we’ve identified areas such as orthopedics such as surgical such as vision care in particular to be significant priorities for us and we continue to look in those spaces.
If we look to consumer our top priority over the last several years frankly has been on remediating our over-the-counter brands particularly here in the United States.
And I really commend the team for the great work they have done.
The McNeil Group has basically completed the major steps the consent decree so they are on a very good path they are re-launching brands you see it in our results for the quarter.
But here too we continue to look for ways to innovate continue to look for ways to add scale and expand in the appropriate way.
And of course while we're doing that we're also making sure that we're being very disciplined and decisive about businesses that we're choosing not to participate in.
And I think we made a number of moves over the last several years that also has allowed us to continue to invest but has also been healthy for the shareholders at the same time.
And then Alex I know this may seem like an overly simplistic question but over the past 15 years J&amp;J’s pharma business has gone through three roughly five year cycles with the first five being strong followed by a deceleration due to patent expiration followed by another five strong years or so.
And when one looks at the pharma business one can't help but see increasing competition to key products like ZYTIGA and STELARA as well as the biosimilar competition that you highlighted on the call which will slow your overall pharma growth.
So my question is how confident are you that you can break those five year cycles we've seen over the past 15 years and why? Thanks.
And look I am very proud of our Pharmaceutical business and frankly the work that they have done over the past five or six years to address as you highlighted the significant patent expiry challenge that we experienced and that we successfully navigated our way through.
When you think about it we lost about $8.5 billion to patent expiration several years ago and we took a determined strategy that frankly was different than a lot of our competitors where we decided to focus on five major therapeutic areas where we had capabilities and frankly where we still felt there was a lot of unmet medical need.
We got very agnostic about the sourcing of our research.
At the end of the day we wanted the best molecule the best science where we felt we could make the biggest difference and then of course it was about how do you build robust clinical development programs and then ultimately have benchmark commercial and reimbursement teams to make sure that you are maximizing all of those compounds.
And if you look at the track record as I mentioned earlier 14 compounds since 2009 six of those have reached a $1 billion and again these are compounds that are really making a difference for patients.
But at the same time we have made a very strong commitment to make sure that while we were launching those we were also investing in the future.
And here I really want to commend our scientific team our business development team because if you look at our near-term pipeline I think it's quite encouraging.
We've got things like ARN-509 another approach in androgen receptor inhibitors that we think will be a great compliment with ZYTIGA in the not too distant future.
To complement an already very strong immunology franchise with REMICADE STELARA and SIMPONI we have got sirukumab an IL-6 in patients for RA and guselkumab an IL-23 that's an antibody for psoriasis both of those are progressing very well through development stages as well.
We have got a very interesting compound fulranumab an anti-NGF antibody for osteoarthritic pain.
We have been in pain for some time but we think this will be a definite new approach for patients and we've also got esketamine you have heard some of the data on that.
It’s the first NMDA antagonist and these are from patients with treatment-refractory depression a really difficult condition with high rates of suicidality.
And we see very good results again it's early we have more work to do but we're quite encouraged.
So if we add that to the very strong platforms and you’ve heard earlier in my presentation that we’ve had over 20 line extensions approved in 2014 of our existing compounds we’ve submitted at least that many more that we’ll see approved over the next several years.
And when you look at some of the areas where we’re currently participating be it prostate cancer be it Type 2 diabetes and some of the other areas such as thrombosis we’re seeing many of these areas growing at double-digits and areas like XARELTO I think we’ve penetrated perhaps a third of the warfarin market.
So we think there is strong growth opportunities in our core business we think we’ve got exciting line extensions and we think we’ve got a great coming pipeline of Phase 3 and Phase 2 compounds for the future.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from Derrick Sung of Sanford Bernstein.
Alex you spent a lot of time highlighting the successes that you’ve had in pharma which we would agree you’ve done a great job and seemingly finding kind of secret sauce there in terms of both external and internal innovation.
I am wondering if you have any thoughts on how translatable that formula is over to your medical device business which has continued to -- you struggled to grow above market and maybe could talk about if there are any learnings there that could be translated over to Medical Devices and what it will take either internally or externally for you to get that Medical Device business growing above market? And first of all clearly we acknowledge our Medical Device Group has faced challenges that many of the businesses have over the past several years and we’ve got some very promising and I think very strong stories in our Medical Device Group and when you think about our EP business BioSense Webster and the growth rate that this experienced I think we’d now -- we have about 19 consecutive quarters of double-digit growth for that business a continues and constant stream of innovation ultimately really helping patients in growing our business it's impressive by almost any measure.
I think we’ve also started to see some of our other core businesses come back and grow.
We think about the Medical Device market probably growing in the 3% to 5% range it's been consistent with our longer-term projections.
Of course our goal is to outpace that growth because we want to gain share vis-à-vis innovation the way we work with customers in our broader portfolio.
If I look across other areas we’re starting I think to see signs of a strengthening orthopedics performance by DePuy Synthes.
For example we saw hips up around 4% knees up 3% trauma growing at the high 4s almost 5% and we think our share performance has been very good in all of those different areas.
We saw energy also on a full year basis come back over 5% even our Suture business is growing over 3% on an annual basis.
So we think those are strong performers and can continue.
And then of course we have some businesses that we’re working hard on areas such as diabetes which as you know was challenged by the price setbacks our Vision Care business is facing challenges in the marketplace but they have done a lot of good changes recently and we think they are well-positioned for the future.
But as we look even longer-term clearly we’re trying to take pages from the innovation playbook that you might say our pharma group is built on and apply those in other areas.
So whether it's in our clinical development programs the way we monitor safety adverse event reporting those are areas we’re spending a lot of time.
We’re doing more and more through our innovation centers that we’re recently opening and utilizing JJDC on how do we better source early start-up innovation.
Again in the pharma as well as the device but even our Consumer businesses going forward and of course we’re looking at ways also to partner with customer in new unique ways.
So we remain confident in our Medical Device businesses we’ve got some very strong businesses we’ve got -- we realize there is others that we still have more work to do but we think long-term they offer a significant opportunity for patients for us and for our shareholders.
I was wondering Alex also if you could follow-up a bit on your comments on healthcare utilization.
You’d mentioned that now you're seeing a couple quarters of sequential uptick in healthcare utilization.
Can you perhaps break that down a bit by geography and give us your outlook and also what you're seeing in the U.S.
versus Europe versus the emerging markets and how you -- what you see the drivers are for utilization as we look out to 2015 and beyond? As you know because of our presence in pharmaceuticals as well as devices and even consumer it gives us a pretty good lens to understand what’s going on fundamentally in the market.
So let me start in the United States where you probably have the clearest and the most tangible data and here we’re encouraged we think we’ve got about three quarters now in the positive when I say in the positive I mean somewhere between 2% and 3% when we’re looking at hospital admissions surgical procedures physician office visits still appear to be negative.
So I think it's too early to declare complete victory yet but generally I would say we’re encouraged by some of the signs that we’re seeing and if we can see the fourth quarter the full results coming out for this year and have a third quarter then of increasing results that would be a positive.
I think one of the areas of challenge for us has been Europe.
There remain obviously a lot of concerns economically in Europe.
We have some businesses frankly that are doing quite well.
We have others that are challenged.
I think it’s a bit of a mixed bag.
We continue to see good growth in China on a full year basis.
We saw over 10% -- double-digit growth in China and close to that in the BRIC regions although obviously with Russia that’s been particularly challenged over the last year given some of the things that we faced.
South America a little bit more with Venezuela.
Brazil has been a little bit mixed.
We saw some challenges on our Consumer segment and some of the other areas.
We haven’t felt that as much but I think that’s a global sense that we give you.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from Mike Weinstein JPMorgan.
So Dominic let me start with you if you don’t mind so I just want to walk through the kind of approach to numbers this year so you have starting point for on a cash EPS basis of $6.39 for 2014 but then you lose $0.42 in FX let’s call it $0.20 from OLYSIO but then the other income step up from '14 to '15 adds extra $1 billion gains of about $0.30 is that how to think about it? And then and if that’s right it would still seem to imply relatively conservative underlying EPS growth outlook of about 1% to 3% so is there anything I’m missing there? I think the impact of the higher other income and expense line I mean you have to think about that as utilizing the tax rate that’s predominantly U.S.
versus our blended tax rate I would say that the impacts lower than $0.30 a share and closer to $0.20 to $0.22 a share.
Just think about a $1 billion at a 35% tax rate and 6.50 and do the math on that so I don’t think you get the 0.30 on that so I would adjust that a little bit.
And then I would just give you maybe another macro observation Mike and that is that if you -- I know that not everyone has updated their models for all of the moving parts here but I think if you -- when I look to consensus at about 6.14 and then I consider the fact that we should add back to that $0.32 of this amortization expense and then reduce it by what I’m using as about $0.24 which is the difference between $0.42 that I just discussed and the midpoint of what we provided as an estimate back in October between $0.15 and $0.20 so that call that 0.18 so an incremental $0.24.
So 6.14 plus 0.32 minus 0.24 gets you to in the 6.20 range.
And so we’re thinking that that’s about apart from the expectation on currency about where everyone had sort of expected us to come out.
But with the let me fast forward then into 2016 so we should assume that that level of other income benefit fade in 2016 so is that a bit of a headwind as we’re trying to update our model going from '15 but to '16? Well I think that as Alex has talked about and I’ve mentioned in other calls and you all have asked us about we’re continuing to review our portfolio.
We expect that we will continue to make choices of that areas we’re going to play in and areas we’re not going to play in.
Where we want to invest and where we think others certain assets maybe better in the hands of others.
And when we do that and we divest certain businesses as a result of that analysis we tend to use those divestiture gains to basically benefit shareholders.
So we either use it to invest in other more promising activities that we think will give us a better boost in long-term growth or in fact we deliver a higher level of earnings as a result and of course as we did with OCD if there’s any dilutive impact of that on a go-forward basis we would then adjust for that with share buybacks and alike.
So I would say that I wouldn’t take '15 as sort of an abnormal number and I wouldn’t just say would fade into '16 it all depends on what choices we make when we evaluate our portfolio going forward.
Let me ask one if I can sneak in one bigger picture question so if I pick up your noise from OLYSIO the underlying growth in the business is accelerating in your guidance for 2015 could you just comment on that so what businesses are you assuming get better between pharma and medical devices and consumer? Yes well overall I would say that the growth rate in pharma ex-OLYSIO will be slightly softer than it was the prior year as these products have now ramped up in the marketplace.
So the medical device business overall and the consumer business are expected to have better growth prospects in '15 than we saw in '14.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from Glenn Novarro RBC Capital Markets.
Two questions for Alex.
First Alex can you describe your commitment to your cardiovascular device business? And the reason I’m asking is that there was something written up a few months ago that J&amp;J maybe thinking about selling the interventional cardiology business but not the electrophysiology business so commitment to Cardiovascular.
And then as a follow-up what is your commitment to the Triple A rating in other words how sacred is the Triple A rating? And the reason I am asking that is because as your competitors are getting bigger and bigger is better according to some of your competitors if J&amp;J were to see a deal that was larger but it would sacrifice the Triple A rating would J&amp;J do such a deal? Thank you.
Look Glenn I think that if you ask me about cardiovascular my response is that we think cardiovascular is an important area.
We have done very well over the last several years in our EP business as I mentioned earlier.
And I think by any standard if you look at the way they have been able to advance the standard of care if you take a look at the new technology the innovation rollouts and frankly the execution of that business it has been superlative in just about every mark and we’re really proud of that.
We made decisions in other areas of the cardiovascular such as our decision on drug-eluting stents several years ago.
We’ve continued to look at emerging areas in cardiovascular but I think overall we want to participate in areas where we’ve got technology that we think can really make a difference for patients where we think the markets are promising for the future in terms of reaching more patients expanding share volume growth some pricing stability.
And so we’re going to continue to evaluate our portfolio to make sure that we’re consistent with our strategy and as it relates to cardiovascular.
If we talk about our Triple A look we’re proud of the fact that we’re only one of the handful of companies that still have Triple A rating.
It gives us a lot of financial flexibility.
As an organization when you realize that we literally have almost no covenants and the way that we’re able to manage our business for an enterprise of our size and frankly for the sustainability of our performance over a very long period of time we think that’s important.
However what we would also say if we came upon technology that we felt was truly transformational that opened up new patient segments for us new opportunities that is one factor that we would consider as we think as we would think about different acquisitions or different opportunities.
So it’s one among many factors it is very important to us but it’s not the only factor that we would judge a strategic option by the future.
Next question please? Our next question comes from Jeff Halford Jefferies.
So we are seeing quite of contracting pressure in some areas of pharma.
I just wanted to get a bit of color from you whether XARELTO is a product that you are potentially starting to get any more serious discussions with Eliquis becoming a much more penetrated within the U.S.
market? And then also just INVOKANA as well just what the situation is like there? Just from a contracting perspective.
And then second just give a bit more color on what kind of impacts you have expected within your guidance for REMICADE within Europe from biosimilars? And then just lastly if you can just give us a bit more color on the increase in the litigation accrual you described in your release? Thank you.
Let me start off with the first one and then I’ll ask Dominic to chime in on the other couple of questions.
And first of all we take a very broad look in the very early stages of our compound development on what potential impact or scenarios we could face regarding pricing and reimbursement and so it starts very early with the science.
And as I mentioned earlier in my commentary about our pharmaceutical strategy we think taking a very high innovation approach in pharma is the right approach and it certainly has been the one most successful for us.
And so part of it starts with selecting compounds that we feel have a strong probability of differentiation versus current standards of care and we think that’s certainly the case with XARELTO and INVOKANA.
Secondly it really gets in your clinical development programs.
And if you look at the XARELTO clinical development program that we had I believe we had more than 60 000 patients as part of our plan extensive studies as you know we have got more than five indications for that literally at launch or very soon thereafter once-a-day dosing.
And so as part of our development program and the labeling we had a very comprehensive approach.
And we think that that clearly played a strong role in its rapid launch uptake.
And I think the same for a drug like INVOKANA.
If you take a look at the comparative labeling that we have versus Januvia regarding HbA1c reduction regarding weight loss other parameters that’s enabled us to have a very differentiated and strong dasia to share with decision makers payors around the world.
So as a result what we think now not only have we seen strong acceptance but we have seen good formulary uptake.
XARELTO for example in the United State is available on I believe more than 90% of the commercial as well as Medicare and Medicaid programs.
We see the very strong uptake with INVOKANA I think it’s somewhere around 70% or 80% even in most cases.
And we’ve had good success outside of the United States as well.
And so we think it takes again a very good clinical development program strong labeling very strong reimbursement and commercial expertise.
And so that’s the way we think about those compounds.
We haven’t seen additional pressures as of late but we certainly see competitive pressures.
But we feel very good about our compounds that we’re frankly still in the launch stage of and their potential for future growth Dom? Yes Jeff with respect to REMICADE in Europe as you know we don’t provide specific product sales guidance on any product and particularly with REMICADE in Europe as you probably know Merck is our partner for distribution in Europe and the countries affected by biosimilar competition in the beginning of February 2015.
So I think the question is best posed to them.
One thing I would say though is that we have a view on how biosimilars are likely to unfold in the marketplace which is unlike how typical generic chemical compounds unfold in the marketplace.
And our best experience there was with PROCRIT and Eprex in Europe.
So using that as a guide we felt pretty comfortable updating our guidance to reflect our expectation of that but we won’t give very specific guidance on any product in particular.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from Kristen Stewart Deutsche Bank.
Dominic I just wanted to just go back and reconfirm the other income commentary.
So you are including the gain from NUCYNTA and going forward you said it would be likely that we would continue to see these gains on the sale of asset divestitures.
Is that correct? Right.
And so we did include that in this year’s guidance and in response to Mike’s question where he said would it fade off in 2016 I commented that consistent with our review of our portfolio and making decisions on where we’re going to invest and where we’re not if we decided to divest other assets as part of that review then we would have similar type transaction gains in the particular year.
And we would highlight them to you as we’re doing today.
And this year $0.20 to $0.22 just for that after-tax? I think if you look at the change in our guidance on other income and expense compared to what you all have modeled it’s about $1 billion after-tax of 35% gets you to about $0.20-$0.22 per share impact versus current models.
Okay.
And then just kind of I guess more business operational.
Can you just talk a little bit just about the surgery business you highlighted it has being a key area of focus within Medical Devices with some new products coming up.
Can you just refresh us on your stance on robotics and what products you have within the pipeline that you’re most excited about in 2015? Look we’re excited about the broad area of surgery and as you know we break it out both by specialty surgery as well as surgical care.
And what I would start within specialty surgery there is a number of areas that I think are great opportunities one is certainly energy.
We’ve had a number of new launches this year that I think have resulted in about over 5%-5.2% full year growth rate in that franchise.
We think there is a lot of opportunity going forward.
We also saw very good performance from our Mentor business this year it grew it almost 9% after a couple of years of a lot of challenges.
It came back strong and so we’re pleased with what we’ve seen there.
And finally our bio-surgery business which is the one that we also think can really revolutionize the way bleeding is controlled intraoperatively.
We saw over 8% growth in it for the quarter so by and large that segment of our surgical business is doing well.
There we’re continuing to address some issues at ASP but our team has made a lot of headway there so we’re confident about that platform as well going forward.
If I look more broadly in our other surgical business we saw suture grow over 3% which was nice year-on-year growth in that particular area.
We think that’s a good pre-cursor of what you see generally across all of surgery in the ENDOPATH area or ECHELONFLEX portfolio is also being introduced and is doing better.
Clearly in certain areas there we’re facing pricing pressure.
But overall we think that the surgical area both in specialty as well as more general surgery offers a significant opportunity for us.
And with respect to robotics? Regarding robotics look as Gary mentioned during last year’s review of our Medical Device space we think the areas of robotics visualization particularly if some of those components become more inherent to the instrumentation of themselves.
We do think that they can offer opportunities.
We’ve got several partnerships there as we speak.
And we’ll continue to look for ways to think about how that’s going to impact surgery going forward.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from David Lewis Morgan Stanley.
Alex more a kind of a high level question on international if we think about the last three years '13 growth rate’s a little slower than '12-'14 growth rates looks slower than '13.
Even the second half '14 was slower than first half '14.
Given you’re kind of focused on global reach can you just describe why international is decelerating is it emerging markets and what’s the strategy to turn that around? And then I have a quick follow-up? Look there is a lot of different moving parts so let me talk about it.
I think first of all let’s talk about Europe in Europe we saw contraction initially then Europe actually performed better.
As I mentioned earlier in the guidance going forward we’re watching it closely and even there you’ve got Southern Europe versus Northern Europe.
We continue to see Northern Europe performing slightly better than the rest of Europe it’s been impacted in the most recent quarter by Russia in a significant way.
So that’s a watch out although we have had some of our businesses such as our consumer group do relatively well in Russia.
But it’s something that we’re watching closely.
China we continue to see pretty solid growth for our businesses our Medical Device business is the most significant in that they may continue to see good growth there.
Our consumer group has had some other challenges that we don’t think necessarily are related to the macroeconomic environment and frankly they have to do with some of our own products and ingredients.
But we think that we’re on a better path there.
And then if I look to South America we’ve been most challenged there in Venezuela.
Brazil definitely we feel there was some slowdown in the back end of the year.
And we’re just going to have to watch it closely as we head into 2015.
David just one thing to remind you about when you said it slowed down further in the back of '14 compared to first half of '14 just a reminder that the divesture of the OCD business would have impacted that comparison as well.
Yes.
And maybe just a quick one for Dominic and then a strategic one for Alex if I can sneak that one in Dominic just I know it’s hard with all the moving pieces do you have any sense of what you consider the underlying operating margin expansion to be for the business in 2015? And then Alex just strategically just thinking to your comments in the slide deck this morning is it safe to interpret your comments that within pharmaceuticals oncology probably sees an increase relative investment over the next couple of years relatively to historical periods? Thank you I’ll jump back in queue.
Sure David just in terms of operating margin expansion in '15 just to set the stage for you remember we expanding our operating profit margin by 190 basis points in 2014.
So we’re already at a pretty high level and we wanted to continue the investment and we said we would use the divesture gain that’s included in our OI&amp;E number for NUCYNTA to offset the lost profitability on OLYSIO and by doing that we’re going to maintain the level of investment that we now have achieved.
So an incremental operating margin expansion in 2015 would be very modest.
And David I would say we are really focused on all five of our therapeutic categories.
Oncology is certainly an exciting one and when you look at the science and what’s happening there we think that there is a lot of opportunity to better address need for patients.
We think there is a lot of very interesting science but also when we look at immunology when we look at infectious disease when we look at neuroscience as well as broader spaces in cardiovascular and diabetes we think that all of those offer significant potential for us.
Thank you.
Next question please.
The next question comes from Rick Wise Stifel.
Alex maybe as a start a little more detail with diabetes if you would it’s been underperforming asset maybe just broadly what do you need to turn around and let me touch on a couple of points.
Remind us when you had received the price cuts Vibe approved and launching here we’ve heard great things about it in Europe.
Is that going to be a good product feed for what we expect to see in the U.S and maybe you had a picture of the caliber patch? Remind us when you hope to file and get that approved and launched in the United States? Diabetes is clearly one of those areas Rick where you know and we would add several conversations on this.
There are 350 million Type 2 diabetics around the world and so many of them not in control.
There is a lot of unmet need.
But we also realize it’s been a very challenging market particularly in the areas of the part of the market that we’ve been in for the last several years.
So Louise is going to get the exact date when we lapped it.
The price changes went into effect about a year ago June.
But you’re still seeing the impact of them and you saw them earlier in the year and you’re still seeing some of them.
And look for a very significant portion of our market we saw over a 70% price reduction and as you know whenever that happens in one of your businesses you frankly have got to reframe that entire business.
And I think all of the companies involved in SMBG have gone through that kind of transition over the last year and a half.
If we look at the underlying fundamentals things such as volume share we’ve actually done a very good job.
We’ve done a very good job in managed care contracting.
So as a result we’ve been able to keep our volumes up our costs under control.
But nonetheless that business is completely had to reshape itself and there are still in the process of I think getting it stabilized.
We are excited about the Vibe approval.
We think that’s going to represent a real nice breakthrough for patients over in Europe we’ve had strong results.
We’re putting together the launch literally as we speak so we’re excited about that.
We think Calibra could be a very nice opportunity very unobtrusive way to have insulin delivery.
And it looks right now by the year -- backend of the year 2016 we should have more on that.
So again overall diabetes is an area that we feel strongly about and by the way this is the same team that had a very significant role in the launch of INVOKANA as well.
And we think the relationships that they have built with the endocrinologists have been quite important for us in the long success of that brand as well.
So it's an area that we're interested in but clearly one that's changed and we still have more work to do to make sure we understand the best path forward.
And Dominic just one question for you the $1 billion cost reduction program it sounds like the new one -- newly incremental one if I understood you over three years.
Just help us briefly where did that come from what operating lines does it affect and is it incremental or you reinvested? Thanks.
We actually talked about it last year at this time as well so it's not a new program it's just the same program we discussed and we're confident that we will get about a $1 billion over the next three year period.
It's in the area of IT finance HR all the functions that support the businesses how we perform those services where we perform those services and as Alex mentioned earlier some more standardization and commonality across the businesses through shared service environment.
You’ll see it across the SG&amp;A line in particular but we would always look to see what the right balance is of investing versus delivering those cost savings of course we do expect pricing pressure to continue so this was a good hedge against that as well Rick.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from Vamil Divan Credit Suisse.
Just a follow-up to an earlier question I think from Jeff on INVOKANA and XARELTO some of the contracting issues.
Just curious about the specialty care markets so certainly the TNFs and you are going to see obviously a lot of discussion on pricing and primary care and have seen but are you seeing anything more in the specialty care areas specifically in autoimmune how has that changed kind of over the last six to 12 months from what you have seen before? Alex here we haven't seen any significant changes over the last six or 12 months.
And again we've got a lot of experience in those areas with REMICADE SIMPONI and STELARA.
And I think the team has done a nice job in managing the overall value of pricing and reimbursement issues but we haven't seen any noticeable changes in that environment.
Okay.
And then just one follow-up if I could is on the tax side.
We had the lower rate this time and you mentioned for '15.
How should we think about just longer-term tax planning I mean is the range you are giving now what would you kind of assume going forward are there other steps that can lower your longer-term rate? Well I think Vamil we're always doing prudent tax planning and I think the ultimate change in tax rates would come from hopefully corporate tax reform being implemented.
In which case if you project that I would then project a slightly higher effective tax rate and of course the utilization of all U.S cash et cetera without penalty is a great benefit that arises from that.
So I can't give you a long-term projection but you have seen that we've been sort of in the 20% range for quite some time and that I think it's a solid place if you just want to model it for now.
Thank you.
And we will take our final question from Danielle.
Your next question comes from Danielle Antalffy Leerink Partners.
As we -- so appreciating all the headwinds that are impacting growth in 2015 how do we think about sort of medium-term growth for '16-'17.
And what's in the pipeline to return the Company back to growth this is sort of following-up on Larry's question Alex on specifically the pharma company and going through a few years of strong growth and a few years of decelerating growth.
What's in the pipeline that gives you confidence that 2015 is sort of a one-off where you observe headwinds from OLYSIO specifically and then of course FX? Look I would say first of all we think that there is significant growth left in our core brands.
And as I mentioned earlier whether you look at the penetration that you have within a particular therapeutic category for Actavis the new novel mechanisms in against warfarin for example.
If you look at the penetration of the SGLT2 versus other options in diabetes and frankly the growth rates of the market in areas such as prostate cancer or some of the leukemias we think there is a lot of growth opportunities just from reaching more patients.
Number two it's about getting additional indications and line extensions.
And so I think our team has done also a very nice job there in continuing to reinforce introducing new data new information new approaches that whether it's combination therapies whether it's something like our three month version of Paliperidone that we just announced that we know in a condition such as schizophrenia could have a tremendous impact if you can keep compliance high on just four injections a year.
We think I in that core business it gives us a very solid opportunity with the line extensions.
And then of course if we look beyond that some of the compounds that I mentioned earlier we think ARN-509 will be a great complement with ZYTIGA and we’re learning more and more about that and we’re becoming increasingly confident as we gather more data.
In immunology our IL-6 and IL-23 with Sirukumab and Guselkumab will be great additions to a portfolio where we’ve already got three compounds and we know very well clinically we know very well commercially as well as from a reimbursement perspective.
And finally Esketamine while still early we’re very encouraged by the data we really are encouraged by the fact that we’ve seen whether we’ve received breakthrough therapy designation as well as Daratumumab in pain.
So we think those in addition to our line extensions and additional indications that we’ll be gathering remember we filed more than 20 different line extensions over the course of 2014.
We have 11 compounds in Phase 2 development I think we’ve got 50 compounds in early development more than 100 in discovery in addition to the ongoing licensing flow that we were able to build this year I think it gives us a lot of confidence in our portfolio going forward.
And then if I could just follow-up really quickly with the question on the device side of things so obviously we’re nearing a close of one of your competitors or two of your competitors emerging and a mega transaction here making a big bet on breadth and scale across the hospital and bundling et cetera.
So just wondering how you guys are planning to respond to that how you think the environment could change from a purchasing perspective at the hospital level with the Medtronic Covidien deal once it closes? Yes I guess what I would say Danielle is we wouldn’t respond to that necessarily I think we initiated probably some of it with our move several years ago when we started down this path ourselves.
And we’ve been pretty steadfast on our strategy one it's about innovation and that’s why we’re continuing to invest in innovation in all of our core Medical Device businesses.
We do think that having scale in the right areas is also important as payors and as hospital systems want to deal with you differently.
And then it's about having also a very good geographical presence so that you can expand globally.
And we’re always looking for opportunities to add the right new technology or the right business to ours and that’s the path that we’ll stay on.
Okay.
Alright everybody thank you again for joining today’s call and together with Dominic and Louise I look forward to keeping you apprised of our progress over the course of the year and I am sure we’ll be talking on several different occasions.
So please note that we’re going to be hosting a pharmaceutical business review for analysts on Wednesday May 20 2015 right here in New Brunswick and then it will include a review of our overall strategy for continuing to build on our launch excellence and robust pipeline much of which I talked about today.
So I look forward to seeing many of you there.
Enjoy the rest of your day everybody.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s Johnson &amp; Johnson’s fourth quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
And welcome to Johnson &amp; Johnson’s First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be able to listen-only until the question-and-answer session of the conference.
This call is being recorded.
If anyone has any objections you may disconnect at this time.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference call over to Johnson &amp; Johnson.
You may begin.
Good morning and welcome.
I’m Louise Mehrotra Vice President of Investor Relations for Johnson &amp; Johnson and it is my pleasure this morning to review our business results for first quarter of 2015.
Joining me on the call today is Dominic Caruso Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
A few logistics before we get into the details.
This review is being made available via webcast accessible through the Investor Relations section of the Johnson &amp; Johnson website at investor.jnj.com.
I’ll begin by briefly reviewing first quarter for the corporation and for our three business segments.
Then Dominic will provide some additional commentary on the business review the income statement and provide guidance for 2015.
We will then open the call to your questions.
We expect the call to last approximately one hour.
Included with the press release that was issued earlier this morning is the schedule of sales for key products and/or businesses to facilitate updating your models.
These schedules are available on the Johnson &amp; Johnson website as is the press release.
Please note we will be using a presentation to complement today’s commentary.
The presentation is also available on our website.
Before we begin let me remind you that some of the statements made during this review are or maybe considered forward-looking statements.
The 10-K for the fiscal year 2014 and the Company’s subsequent filings identify certain factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements made today.
The Company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.
Our SEC filings including the 10-K are available through the Company and on our website.
During the review non-GAAP financial measures are used to provide information pertinent to ongoing business performance.
These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered replacements for and should be read together with GAAP results.
Tables reconciling these measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are available in the schedules accompanying the press release and on the Investor Relations section of the Johnson &amp; Johnson website.
Please note our 2015 sales schedules breakout sales for both IMBRUVICA and INVOKANA/INVOKAMET to assist in updating your models we have also provided the quarterly split for 2014 for those products on the sales schedule by product.
Now I would like to review our results for the first quarter of 2015.
Worldwide sales to customers were $17.4 billion for the first quarter of 2015 down 4.1% versus the first quarter of 2014.
On an operational basis sales were up 3.1% and currency had a negative impact of 7.2%.
In the U.S.
sales were up 5.9%.
In regions outside the U.S.
our operational growth was 0.8% while the effect of currency exchange rates negatively impacted our reported results by 13.2%.
On an operational basis the Western Hemisphere excluding the U.S.
grew by 9.9% while Europe grew 0.3% and Asia Pacific Africa declined 3%.
Growth in the U.S.
and Japan was negatively impacted by hepatitis C completion or growth in all regions was impacted by divestitures the most significant one being Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics.
Excluding the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures underlying operational growth was 5.7% worldwide 9.1% in the U.S.
and 3% outside the U.S.
Turning now to earnings net earnings were $4.3 billion and earnings per share were $1.53 versus $1.64 a year-ago.
As referenced in the table reconciling non-GAAP measures 2015 first quarter net earnings were adjusted to exclude after-tax amortization expense of $226 million and a net gain of $128 million for after-tax special items.
Dominic will discuss special items in his remarks.
Excluding amortization expense and special items for both periods adjusted net earnings for the current quarter were $4.4 billion and diluted earnings per share were $1.56 representing decreases of 5.9% and 4.3% respectively as compared to the same period in 2014.
Currency translations significantly impacted net earnings.
On an operational basis adjusted net earnings grew 3.7%.
Turning now to business segment highlights.
Please note percentages quoted represent operational sales change in comparison to the first quarter of 2014 unless otherwise stated and therefore exclude the currency translation impact.
I’ll begin with the consumer segment.
Worldwide Consumer segment sales of $3.4 billion increased 3.4% with U.S.
sales up 3.8% while outside the U.S.
sales grew 3.1%.
Excluding the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures underlying operational growth was 4.7% worldwide 5.1% in the U.S.
and 4.5% outside the U.S.
Growth was driven by OTC worldwide Skin Care as well as Oral Care and Women’s Health outside the U.S.
OTC sales growth was driven by analgesics upper respiratory products outside the U.S.
as well as new products and re-launches in Digestive Health Anti-smoking aids and ROGAINE.
In the U.S.
adult analgesic market share was approximately 12% up from approximately 11% a year ago while U.S.
paediatric share was nearly 43% up from nearly 38% a year ago.
In Skin Care seasonal inventory build and strong market growth drove results for NEUTROGENA and AVEENO.
New product launches and successful marketing campaigns drove the results for LISTERINE in Oral Care and Women’s Health products outside the U.S.
Moving now to our Pharmaceutical segment worldwide sales of $7.7 billion increased 10.2% with U.S.
sales up 16.9% and sales outside the U.S.
up 3.7% driven by both strong sales of new products as well as core growth products.
New competitors in Hepatitis C significantly impacted sales this quarter.
Excluding sales of Hepatitis C products OLYSIO and INCIVO underlying pharmaceutical growth worldwide U.S.
and outside the U.S.
was approximately 13% 24% and 3% respectively.
U.S.
results include a positive adjustment for growth to net including managed Medicaid rebates.
Significant contributors to growth were immunology products STELARA and SIMPONI SIMPONI ARIA as well as INVOKANA/INVOKAMET XARELTO IMBRUVICA ZYTIGA CONCERTA and INVEGA SUSTENNA or XEPLION.
The results for immunology were driven by strong double-digit market growth complemented by increased market share for STELARA and combined SIMPONI SIMPONI ARIA.
Regarding REMICADE export and international sales as a reminder the company made certain supply changes resulting in sales to distributors previously recorded as U.S.
export sales being recorded as international sales.
Combined international and export sales for REMICADE in the first quarter of 2015 were down approximately 2%.
Strong growth in Canada was offset by lower sales to our distributors reflecting the weakening of the euro and the loss of exclusivity in Europe partially offset by an inventory build.
INVOKANA/INVOKAMET sales were up nearly 40% on a sequential basis.
In the U.S.
INVOKANA/INVOKAMET achieved 4.9% TRx within the defined market of Type 2 diabetes excluding insulin and Metformin up from 4.2% in the fourth quarter of 2014.
TRx with endocrinologist grew to 11.8% for the quarter and 4.3% in primary care up 1.5% and 0.7% respectively on a sequential basis.
INVOKANA/INVOKAMET remains the category-leader in new-to-brand share with endocrinologists at nearly 18% at the end of the quarter.
XARELTO sales were up 38% and total prescription share of TRx for the quarter in the U.S.
anti coagulant market grew to 15% up over 3 points from a year ago.
TRx and primary care reached 12% and in cardiology 23.8% up on a sequential basis.
XARELTO is broadly reimbursed with over 90% of Commercial and Medicare Part D patients covered at the lowest co-pay for a branded product.
Strong patient update with new indications approvals and demonstrated efficacy drove results for IMBRUVICA both in the U.S.
and outside the U.S.
primarily Europe with launches in Germany France and the U.K.
Strong growth of the combined metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer or mCRPC market at 12.5% drove the results for ZYTIGA in the U.S.
ZYTIGA’s share was approximately 30.3% of that market down approximately 1.2 points on a sequential basis due to increased competition.
During the quarter the FDA approved a label update for ZYTIGA plus prednisone noting significantly prolonged median overall survival compared to placebo plus prednisone in chemo-naïve men with mCRPC.
Continued strong market uptake and additional country launches drove the strong results outside the U.S.
ZYTIGA is approved in more than 95 countries.
CONCERTA growth was primarily due to a therapeutic equivalent reclassification of generic competitors.
INVEGA SUSTENNA or XEPLION achieved strong result in all regions due primarily to increased market share.
I’ll now review the Medical Devices segment results.
Worldwide Medical Devices segment sales of $6.3 billion decreased 4.6%.
U.S.
sales declined 6.1% while sales outside the U.S declined 3.3%.
Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics was divested mid-year 2014.
Excluding the net impact of acquisitions and divestures underlying operational growth was 1.3% worldwide with the U.S up 1.1% and growth of 1.5% outside the U.S.
Growth was driven by orthopaedics cardiovascular care surgical care and diabetes care partially offset by lower sales in vision care.
Competitive pricing dynamics and buying patterns negatively impacted growth for vision care.
Orthopaedics sales growth was driven by ORTHOVISC and MONOVISC in Sports Medicine as well as trauma hips and knees partially offset by competitive and pricing challenges in the U.S in spine.
Trauma growth of 3% Worldwide was driven by 7% growth outside the U.S.
due to strong volume growth including a tender.
Hips growth of 3% worldwide was driven by strong volume growth partially offset by continued pricing pressure.
Primary stem platform sales were a major contributor to the results.
Knees worldwide increased 1% with the U.S.
up 2% due to strong sales of ATTUNE partially offset by pricing pressure.
Outside the U.S.
knees were down 1% with growth in Asia Pacific and Latin America offset by lower sales in Europe.
Slowing elective procedure volume primarily in the U.K contributed to the soft sales in Europe.
Cardiovascular growth was driven by a 12% worldwide increase in Electrophysiology business due to strong sales of the ThermoCool SmartTouch Catheter.
Surgical care growth was driven by strong future growth and the success of new products in the ECHELON FLEX family partially offset by lower sales in Women’s Health.
Results for diabetes care were driven by ANIMAS strong double digit growth with the successful launch of VIBE in the U.S.
and expanded paediatric indications outside the U.S.
That concludes the segment highlights for Johnson &amp; Johnson’s first quarter of 2015.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Dominic Caruso.
Dominic? Thank you Louise and good morning everyone.
We are very pleased with our strong start to 2015 and I believe we are well positioned for continued growth in this dynamic healthcare environment.
At Johnson &amp; Johnson we continue to make very good progress on our near term priorities as well as our long term growth drivers which we discussed during our January call.
I’ll take the next few minutes to highlight some key developments we’ve made to advance our business as well as some key points regarding our results for the quarter and then I’ll provide some updates to our guidance for you to consider in refining your models for 2015.
During the quarter we had several key developments across our business.
We received new approvals for IMBRUVICA PREZCOBIX and VELCADE in our pharmaceutical business and also added a new anti-thrombin antibody to our early stage development pipeline through the acquisition of XO1 Limited which we announced last month.
We also continued expanding our efforts to combat major global public health challenges through collaborations with government organization and others in the industry to search for new solutions to stand the threats posed by dementia and Ebola.
In much more in-depth preview of the outstanding work our pharmaceutical business is doing will be provided at our upcoming pharmaceutical business review meeting on May 20th which will take place in New Brunswick New Jersey.
In Medical devices in line with our priority to accelerate growth through innovation we announced in March definitive agreement to collaborate with Google Life Sciences to advance development of a surgical robotics program which we see as an important step in our commitment to advancing surgical care around the world.
Finally we continued making disciplined decisions regarding the management of our enterprise portfolio and completed our divestiture of the U.S.
Licensing rights for NUCYNTA in April.
We announced the binding offer from Cardinal Health to acquire our Cordis business which we expect to close in the latter part of the year.
Please now turn to the consolidated statement of earnings.
We are very pleased with the strong start to the year as reflected in our first quarter results.
While overall sales results were impacted by currency headwinds our operational sales growth was 3.1% and our operational sales growth excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures was a strong 5.7%.
Competition in the Hepatitis C market negatively impacted that growth by a full percentage point.
You may recall that this same analysis for 2014 resulted in underlying operational growth of 5% so we are very pleased to see underlying operational growth accelerating and very healthy.
Now if you please direct your attention to the boxed section of the schedule you will see we have provided our earnings adjusted to exclude intangible amortization expense and special items.
In the quarter our adjusted earnings per share of $1.56 exceeded the mean of the analyst estimate as published by Firstcall.
The decline in adjusted EPS of 4.3% versus the prior year was entirely due to the negative impact of movements and currency rates in the translation of our results particularly the weakening of the euro compared to the prior year.
This resulted in a negative impact to EPS in the quarter of approximately $0.13 per share.
EPS on a constant currency basis was $1.69 or up 3.7% over the prior year.
This is slightly higher than our operational sales growth rate of 3.1%.
As referenced in the table of non-GAAP measures the 2015 first quarter net earnings were adjusted to exclude intangible asset amortization expense and special items which consisted primarily of the following.
Intangible asset amortization expense was approximately $200 million net litigation gains were approximately $250 million and we had an increase in the accrual for the DePuy ASR Hip program of approximately $100 million.
Now let’s take a few moments to talk about the other items on the statement of earnings.
Cost of goods sold increased 30 basis points; this is mostly due to currency impacts.
Selling marketing and administrative expenses were 27.9% of sales or 70 basis points lower as compared to the first quarter of 2014 due to good cost management.
Our investment in research and development as a percent of sales was 10.9% and it was higher than the prior year as we continue to make important investments for the future.
Overall our pre-tax operating margin when excluding special items and intangible amortization expense was 32.6% or 50 basis points lower than the prior year primarily due to such R&amp;D investments.
Interest expense net of interest income was similar to last year.
And other income and expense was a net gain of $348 million in the quarter compared to a net charge of $86 million in the same period last year.
Excluding special items that are reflected in this line item other income and expense was a net gain of $91 million compared to a net gain of $50 million in the prior year period.
Now excluding special items the effective tax rate was 21.5% compared to 20.8% in the same period last year.
This effective tax rate is higher than our previous guidance as it does not yet reflect the benefit of the R&amp;D tax credit as that legislation has not yet been passed.
Now I will provide some guidance for you to consider as you refine your models for 2015.
At the end of the quarter we had approximately $12 billion of net cash which consist of approximately $31 billion of cash and marketable securities and approximately $19 billion of debt.
I’m also pleased to report that we have made significant progress and nearly completed our share repurchase program which will offset the ongoing impact of the Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics divestiture we did last year.
For purposes of your model and assuming no major acquisitions or other major uses of cash I’d suggest you consider modelling net interest expense between $450 million and $550 million; this is unchanged from our prior guidance.
Regarding other income and expense as a reminder this is the account where we record royalty income as well as gains and losses arising from such items as litigation investments by our development corporation divestitures asset sales and write-offs.
We would be comfortable with your models for 2015 reflecting net other income and expense excluding special items as a gain ranging from approximately $2 billion to $2.1 billion which includes the gain from the divestiture of our U.S.
rights to the NUCYNTA pain medicine which we announced close in the early second quarter and we’ve updated our guidance now to reflect the anticipated gain on the pending divestiture of the Cordis business.
As we noted in January we expect to use the increase in other income to compensate for the anticipated decrease in income from OLYSIO in 2015 as compared to 2014 while continuing to invest in our core business and opportunities for future growth.
We firmly believe that continued portfolio decisions are an important process and enable us to focus our resources on the highest growth opportunities.
With the anticipated Cordis gain we will be able to mitigate some of the impact of strong foreign currency headwinds this year.
The increase in guidance for other income and expense will flow directly through to increase operational earnings versus our prior guidance.
And now a word on taxes.
Our guidance for 2015 anticipates that the R&amp;D tax credit will be renewed by Congress although that has not happened.
We therefore will be comfortable with your models reflecting an effective tax rate for 2015 excluding special items of approximately 20% to 21%.
This is higher than our previous guidance reflecting changes in the mix of our earnings.
If the R&amp;D tax credit is not approved it would negatively impact the tax rate by approximately 0.5% for 2015.
Now turning to sales and earnings our sales and earnings guidance for 2015 takes into account several assumptions and key factors that I would like to highlight which may not be fully reflected in your models.
Consistent with our previous guidance for sales our assumptions for PROCRIT is that there will not be biosimilar competition in 2015.
We also do not anticipate generic competition this year for RISPERDAL CONSTA or INVEGA SUSTENNA but we are expecting the generic entrant for INVEGA in 2015.
As expected we have seen additional biosimilar competition for REMICADE in Europe following the patent exploration in many countries in February.
As we’ve done for several years our guidance will be based first on a constant currency basis reflecting our results from operations.
This is the way we manage our business and we believe this provides a good understanding of the underlying performance of our business.
We will also provide an estimate of our sales and EPS results for 2015 with the impact that current exchange rates could have on the translation of those results.
Consistent with our previous guidance we would be comfortable with your models reflecting an operational sales increase on a constant currency basis of between 1% and 2% for the year.
This would result in sales for 2015 on a constant currency basis of approximately $75 billion to $76 billion.
Additionally by way of comparison to how we describe our sales results in 2014 our operational sales growth for 2015 excluding the impact of all acquisitions and divestitures as well as the impact of Hepatitis C would be approximately 6% a higher level of growth than the comparable 5% for 2014 which we noted earlier.
As of last week the euro was lower by approximately 17% as compared to 2014 average levels and the dollar has strengthened recently versus virtually all major currencies.
And though we are not predicting the impact of currency movements to give you an idea of the potential impact on sales if currency exchange rates were to remain where they were as of last week for the balance of the year our sales growth rate would decrease by nearly 7% reflecting the weakening of the euro and other major currencies against the U.S.
dollar.
Now turning to earnings a significant factor impacting our earnings guidance for 2015 is the impact of currency movements on transactions which although hedged is still somewhat negative incrementally versus the prior year.
We expect transaction currency impacts to be negative to our gross profit by approximately 60 to 70 basis points in 2015 as compared to 2014.
Consistent with the reporting practices by the majority of our competitors as we explained last quarter we now exclude intangible amortization expense in addition to special items when providing our adjusted earnings guidance and actual results.
Accordingly we would be comfortable with adjusted EPS guidance in a range between $6.64 to $6.79 per share on a constant currency basis reflecting an operational or constant currency growth rate of 4% to 6% this is higher than our previous guidance by $0.10 per share reflecting some operational improvements and the higher other income and expense I noted earlier partially offset by higher tax rate.
Again we are not impacting – we're not predicting the impact of currency movements but to give you an idea of the potential impact on EPS if currency exchange rates for all of 2015 were to remain where they were as of last week that our reported earnings per share would be negatively impacted by approximately $60 per share which is a higher negative impact of approximately $0.18 per share than we provided in our January guidance.
Therefore our reported adjusted EPS range will range from $6.04 to $6.19 per share primarily due to the increased headwind of currency on ESP of $0.18 per share which is partially offset by our improved operating performance of approximately $0.10 per share.
At this stage and year we would be comfortable with your models reflecting the midpoint of this range.
So in summary as update you models for the guidance that I just provided I would like to make a few key points.
Although operational sales growth is expected to range between 1% and 2% we are pleased to note that when excluding the impact of acquisition and divestitures and the impact of Hepatitis C products our operational sales growth at the midpoint of our guidance is approximately 6% for the full year 2015 as compared to 5% for all of 2014.
We expect that the higher level of other income in our guidance for 2015 will mitigate the lower level of income from OLYSIO into 2015 as compared to 2014 and allow for continued investment in the business particularly in research and development as we continue to build our pipeline and now with the inclusion of the gain from the Cordis divestiture we are able to offset some currency headwinds to earnings as well.
With regard to earnings on the constant currency basis our guidance on an operational EPS growth is strong and in the range between 4% and 6%.
In closing we are very pleased with our strong results for the first quarter of the year and we're pleased with what we see for the full year namely strong underlying sales growth solid operational earnings per share and the benefits of the decisive portfolio actions enabling us to fund investments in future growth opportunities and also help us mitigate some of the currency headwinds.
Now I'd like to turn things back to Louise for the Q&amp;A portion of the meeting.
Louise? Thank you Dominic.
And Andrea could you please provide the instructions for the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Good morning Mike.
Hi Mike.
Good morning.
Thanks guys taking my questions.
So Dominic the first question you'll probably going to have is the FX headwind obviously has gotten worse over the course of the last few months and you reflected that in the guidance.
You're helping manage through 2015 with the gains from NUCYNTA and Cordis but that won't help you for 2016.
So we're a long ways away from there but obviously the question is can you grow earnings in 2016 after the gains you'll be taking in 2015 assuming the dollar holds at least? Sure.
Mike it’s a good question and let assume the dollar holds and there isn't further currency headwinds.
Yes we did purposely offset some of the OLYSIO income we saw in 2014 with now this benefit from the divestitures that we talked about and are very transparent about in 2015.
I would say with a business of our size $70 billion to $75 billion in sales we actively manage our portfolio and we would expect that we would continue to do so and as we talked about before look at the businesses that we expect to not be in and make the right portfolio choices and take the size of actions and that will further enable us to refocus our resources in the right areas.
So I think although I can't predict the level of other income we would have in 2016 I wouldn't expect the drop off so dramatically.
And secondly as I mentioned our sales growth is accelerating our business has been managed well by all of our business leaders around the world.
So I'd expect continued sales growth and increase profitability from those sales as we move forward.
So more to come and we'll obviously keep you posted throughout the year.
Okay.
Let me ask two kind of balance sheet capital allocation questions and one you and I discussed this a few weeks ago in our call but I know lot of you like questions on the back of the press reports on Pharmacyclics and Abbey's acquisition there and JNJ's potential involvement.
So I won't ask you to comment on JNJ's involvement but can you talk about the companies thinking about larger M&amp;A particularly in the pharmaceutical space but really across portfolio the appetite for larger M&amp;A at this point.
And then second I'd be interested just in your comment on the back the GE activity on Friday.
As you're aware GE is part of its move to slim down to being more of a pure industrial company to offset some of that dilution announced that they were going to repatriate $36 billion in cash that was sitting outside the U.S.
to fund the stock buyback that doesn't help your discussions with the Washington about getting the holiday or more meaningful change in tax laws to allow you guys to access that cash.
So with GE being this very high profile and U.S.
multinational repatriating all this cash does it change your thinking at all about how you're managing your cash balance all of which sits outside the U.S? Thanks.
Okay.
Mike.
There's a lot there.
So let me start with the first half which was about I think the appetite for large acquisitions and I won't comment on rumours or speculation about our involvement in the Pharmacyclics.
I think just to take a step back our capital allocation policy remains the same and we have for a long time emphasize dividends as the first use of our capital and we believe that's the most enduring return to shareholders and we've demonstrated over now 52 consecutive years of increase in dividend.
And then it was up to me and others in our business we'd invest all of the remaining free cash flow and value creating acquisitions whether they were large or small.
I think the key point here is the transaction value creating regardless of its size so our appetite doesn't really change in terms of whether or not an acquisition is large or small our view of acquisition is being value creating has to do with the disciplined approach we take to evaluate an acquisition and whether its large or small we're not going to overpay for an asset.
Typically large acquisitions are difficult to generate value from because either over valued by the market or significant premiums required or the asset is already substantially mature enough where you can add much to it.
But I would not necessarily read into any of our discussions or actions as being necessarily adverse or favorable towards any size particular size or transaction.
And it's true that over the long period of time the majority of our transactions have been below $1 billion actually but we've done as you know with the transaction and important strategic moves that are significant on the $20 billion range.
So hopefully that provides you some insight there.
On the repatriation question we're still firm believers that the ultimate conclusion here is a much more competitive corporate tax system in the U.S.
I can't speak for what GE did but this not alter our view that its currently uneconomical to repatriate those earnings at such a high corporate tax burden and we'd much rather see our government move in the direction of lowering that tax burden for corporation getting that cash back to the U.S and invested more appropriate without the burden of this extra tax spike but I can't comment on why or whether we would do something similar as to what GE did.
Thanks Dominic.
It’s very helpful.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from Vamil Divan with Credit Suisse.
Yes.
Thanks so much for taking the questions just a couple on the pharma side here.
One you mentioned as we run guidance and how you're thinking about 2015 with PROCRIT and other products.
Just any thoughts by biosimilar REMICADE in the U.S.
and is that anyway factored into your thinking for the rest of this year? And then on the oncology side one area we hear a lot of focus on for lot of companies is immuno-oncology and I just wondering if you share any thoughts I know you have your pharma business everyday [ph] coming up little bit here but any thoughts you can share with that as you kind of ready for these big oncology meeting you're focus on getting more involved on the immuno-oncology side? Thanks.
Sure Vamil well our guidance for 2015 does not assume any biosimilar competition in the U.S.
We remained confident in the strength of our patents and obviously we're pursuing all available avenues to protect our intellectual property but we're not expecting biosimilar competition 2015 in the guidance that I provided.
In terms of oncology and immuno-oncology in particular our teams have done very very good work here in the next generation of immuno-oncology and I think it’s a best to save any further comment to the experts and you'll hear from them and see them in action on May 20.
And I encourage you all to hear what they have to say I think you'll find it very exciting.
Okay.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from the line of Larry Biegelsen with Wells Fargo.
Larry? Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
I hope you can hear me okay I'm on the cell phone.
Yes we can Larry.
Great.
Let me start off with first it was good to see the acceleration in the consumer segment I thinking it was about 4.7% organic growth.
Dominic can you talk about how sustainable that is? Sure Larry.
Well thanks for pointing it out.
We're very pleased with the consumer businesses progress over the last several years actually and now we're seeing that progress result in higher sales levels for couple of reasons.
I think overall the market is healthier in consumer spending is what we see.
We also have made important innovations in that consumer healthcare particular in skincare and we see skincare doing really well and we continue to invest behind it.
And then finally we made great progress in the OTC business in terms of resolving and remediating the issues around the consent decree.
We're complete with all of those particular actions although we still need to wait for final FDA certification but now that allows us to more freely ship product from those plans.
We can do so on a consistent basis.
We're happy to see that was those products hit the shelves they go quickly we're happy to see that we're able to replenish the shelves in a more consistent basis.
So we believe consumers are off to a great start in 2015 and we're expecting more continued positive results from the business going forward.
Thanks Dominic.
On the Q4 call you said you'd expected consumer and devices to both accelerate in 2015.
And as you noted we saw consumer accelerated in the first quarter but we didn't see devices accelerate.
So do you still expect devices to accelerate in 2015 and if so what drives that? Thanks for taking the questions.
Yes.
Thanks Larry.
Thanks for the question.
Well let's take a minute to just put the medical device results for the quarter in perspective of course negatively impacted by the divestitures and as we said about 1.3% growth without that.
But underlying that there's a few issues there that I think is important to point out.
One is we existed the women's health business recently.
We also have seen these the negative impact of the price reset in the Vision Care business so that's a drag quite frankly year-over-year and also the continue headwinds that we faced in our diabetes business as to pricing.
When you exclude those factors and you sort of normalize but what's really happening in the underlying business it's growing at approximate 3% or about equal to the market.
Now going forward the medical device business as we describe last year in the medical device day has a number of new product launches 30 new product that we're expecting the launch by 2016 some of them have already began the launch.
So we're very optimistic about the fact that the medical device business will return to grow especially ones we lap some of these comparisons and also we see the benefits of the new products that we're launching.
So we're very excited about the future.
Thanks for taking the questions.
You're welcome.
Next question please.
Jami Rubin with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning Jami.
Good morning.
Couple of questions for you Dominic just back on the REMICADE biosimilar potential can you just update us on what's happening with the patent because the last we saw the U.S.
PTO issued a rejection on your September 2018 composition of matter patent and just if you could remind us what the appeals process looks like could Celltrion launch at risk since you lost the patent the composition of matter.
How does that work? And then one probably do you have long-dated patents around REMICADE that you can assert using the 351(k) pathway.
And then my second question relates to utilization.
I think in the last quarter or two you talk about two straight quarters of improved U.S.
utilization.
Are you seeing that continue into the first quarter? And then last question and apologies for the nitpickiness of this but I'm just trying to understand my math.
You had talked about an additional $500 million in one-time gains from sales.
That to me looks like $0.14 but you talked about $0.10 combined with -- which was a combination of the one-time gain plus operational benefits so just curious what I'm missing.
Thanks very much.
Okay okay Jami.
Thanks for the questions.
So let me start with… I'm sorry they are too many but I had to get them all-in.
That's okay.
You got them all in.
I'll try my best to answer them all.
And we'll take them in the same order.
So the REMICADE Biosimilar patent situation is what you asked about.
So let me just give a perspective on that.
Yes it's true that the U.S.
Patent Office has issued what is referred to as a final rejection.
But under the process in the U.S.
Patent Office the word final is not exactly what Layman or I would consider as final.
So there are number of steps that can still occur after that final rejection and in fact one of those steps includes our response to that final rejection which we filed just yesterday.
Then that filing then is reviewed by the Patent Office and we would expect to hear back from them in the next 30 to 60 days and depending on that response we then have another avenue of appeal which if the current position of the Patent Offices remains the same we have another appeal process which could take another 12 months or so to prosecute with the Patent Office and then after that even if there is an adverse ruling after that there's another decision to the Court of Appeals in the federal circuit court that we could appeal for which would take another 12 to 18 months.
So first of all as I said earlier we're very confident in the strength of our patents and we intent to pursue all the available avenues for appeal and we're doing so including our response just yesterday to what was previously described by you as the final.
But it's not final as I've just described.
On whether Celltrion will launch at risk it’s a question for them.
I really can't comment what they might do.
And then in terms of utilization we have seen an uptake in utilization in this first quarter a continued trend although slight increases but nonetheless positive increases in overall hospital admissions surgical procedures doctor visits et cetera so that's encouraging.
We continue to see now trends of now three consecutive quarters of positive trends in healthcare utilization.
And then finally on your math as you were trying to do and let me try to help everyone that because I think it would be a common question.
So we talked about increase in other income and expense because of the tax rates applied to those particular items in that line item let's call that roughly about $0.12 of earnings and minus – sorry let's call that $0.12 on earnings on a pretax basis the tax rate going up is primarily due to the fact that those items have a higher U.S.
tax burden so our tax rate went up as a results let's call that $0.07 negative.
So now you're up $0.05.
And we said we increased our operational earnings by $0.10 so that $0.05 I just described and another $0.05 just as a continued good management and overall progress we're making in the business overall for the $0.10 that I've just described earlier so hopefully that's helpful.
Yes.
Thank you very much.
Next question please.
Glenn Novarro with RBC Capital Markets.
Good morning Glenn.
Hi good morning guys.
Wanted to start with a question on spine Louise in your prepared remarks you talked about I believe it was in the U.S.
competition and pricing challenge for the negative U.S.
spine number in the quarter.
Can you talk to us about what the challenges you're facing? Is it from the smaller players taking share? And can you describe to us the pricing pressure and how that compared to the fourth quarter? And then I had a follow-up on robotics.
Okay.
So going forward because we have some movement between price and mix when a new products goes up annualizes itself I'm going to start giving people only price and mix on the U.S.
price changes okay.
So in the first quarter we had a 5% decline price and mix in the U.S.
in spine and that compared to about 4% in the fourth quarter of 2014.
And regarding the competitive there is new products coming out with our competition and as Dominic mentioned we have a number of new products coming from ourselves as well.
So it's just more of timing and we expect it to pickup throughout the year.
And just as a follow-up the pricing little worse for you guys here in the first quarter do you have any commentary why that may have happened does it just more about your mix and your new product cadence? Its lot to do with the mix Glenn yes.
I think generally Glenn price has been negative in this marketplace in orthopedics now for several quarters and we're just seeing that trend continue.
We just saw it recently as well.
Okay and just on the competition side like I said.
You can look at two-thirds of the market and it's you and Medtronic.
So is the pressure really coming from that other third some of the younger upstart companies? I'm just going to take a look at the share data and then I will – if you have another question go ahead and ask that and I'll just take a look at the share and see where it's going then.
And then I just wanted to follow-up on your robotics commentary.
So you recently announced collaboration with Google.
Can you talk about the timing of when you may have a robot that could enter the market? Is this two or three years out longer or shorter? Any commentary on the time frame would be helpful? Yes.
Sure Glenn.
Well so one thing I would say this is a continuation of what we discussed at the MD&amp;D business review day a year ago.
So we had mentioned that we were working on our own robotics program internally.
We've now obviously partnered with Google to gain their expertise in technology and visualization and in robotics and I think that's going to provide us some acceleration to the plans we were already anticipating.
We're already in the market for robotics in terms of our particular – in terms of particular procedures where our Ethicon products are used at the end of the robot at the actually procedure end of the robot.
So we'll continue to do that.
We would expect this collaboration would take – I would say several years for us to come to the market with the new type of robotic surgery that we think we'll dramatically revolutionize surgery.
So I think it will take some time to do that but we're accelerating our efforts there and I'd say it’s a couple of years away.
Okay.
Glenn I just checked it is the smaller players that appeared to be taking share.
Okay.
Next question please.
Thanks Dominic.
You're welcome.
You're next question comes from David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning David.
Hi good morning.
Just Dominic one quick nit for you and then a couple pharmaceutical questions as well just as we see a step up in gross margins Dominic in the first quarter from the fourth quarter we didn't see that in this particular quarter.
Was anything driving that in particular? Yes David I mentioned in my prepared remarks that the main issue with gross margin this quarter versus last year and also versus the fourth quarter I should have said that has to do with currency impact.
So it's just – even though we hedge most of our manufacturing foreign currency commitments; they do roll over from year-over-year and quarter-to-quarter so this particular quarter I could sort of reflect on it and say it’s essentially all currency impacts.
Okay.
It’s very helpful and then two quick questions on pharma.
The first is on REMICADE outside the U.S.
there was a little bit of softness.
It wasn’t clear from prepared remarks whether that reflected inventory issues or some stocking element or increasing competition.
And then secondarily and INVOKANA a very strong number the two elements I wanted to get your views on.
The first is it does appear in some of the data INVOKANA is beginning to accelerate its year related to certain specific competitors.
And the second question was just given these increasing concerns on DPV IV [ph] drug class could we see a positive class effect? Are you expecting one for the SGL2s? Thank you.
Yes well with REMICADE OUS as Louise mentioned we saw these are shipments that we make to our partner Merck for their territories outside the U.S.
and as you know many of those territories we have seen the loss of exclusivity so biosimilars have entered those markets.
So the primary reason is basically lower shipments to our partner as they plan for the balance of the year anything else you could add to that Louise.
Yeah so if you will recall about a year ago we made some changes to our supply chain which caused the some of the export sales that we recorded in the U.S.
we actually recorded in the international.
So you really have to add those two together to get a clear picture of what’s going on there.
If you take a look at them together it’s down about 2%.
We had very strong sales in Canada and then that was offset by some the distributor sales being down due to the weakening of the euro and also market pressures because of the biosimilars and they did have an inventory build with our distributors.
So there’s a number of compounding factors that are going on there.
So you really need to take a look at it in total.
And then with INVOKANA we are very pleased obviously with the performance of INVOKANA and with INVOKAMET in particular because as you know you know many patients take these SGLT2s in combination with Metformin so that product is doing well.
Whether or not this is a class effect for SGLT2 I think we have a particular benefit and strong SGLT2 and the benefit that we have here is of course the lower HbA1c levels lower weight gain etcetera so the product is getting very very good acceptance and it’s now you know exceeding all the other SGLT2 that have recently come to the market by significant margins and gaining market share despite increased competition.
And so our commercial payers we have about 75% coverage at Tier 2 and the Part D we have about 85% coverage added here to which is the lowest tier for our brand.
And so we are doing very very well in the reimbursement front and we are gaining share in all the categories.
You know the end work share sequentially it’s a 11.8 in the first quarter and that’s up from 10.3 so nice growth there and even more impressive is the primary care going from 3.6 to 4.3 and primary care is about 60% of that market so it’s really impressive results.
Great.
Thank you very much.
You’re welcome.
Next question please? Thank you.
Your next question comes from Rick Wise with Stifel.
Good morning Rick.
Good morning Dominic and Louise how are you doing? Let me start off Dominic with surgical care and speciality surgeries specifically you know both business has been pretty flat for a few quarter here.
It’s not surprising in median surgical care but speciality surgery can you – you were saying volumes are picking up and that we have not seen it yet.
Is this lagging or it’s been accelerated competitive issues just give us some more color if you could.
Thank you.
So within the speciality surgery area we have a number of businesses put in there.
So if you but you could take a look at the core businesses of biologics and energy biologics is up 7% worldwide energy is up 4% worldwide and if you look at the OUS for biologics its up 11% and OUS is up 5%.
So a clearance in there which is causing some depression of the numbers Mentor is in there as well what Mentor is doing well.
So but if you really take a look at the two cores they are doing very well.
Yeah I think that’s well said Louise.
Biosurgicals in particular is doing very very well and Energy is with the launch of new products is gaining momentum.
I think we’ll see it in future quarters quite frankly as these products have just recently launched but there is some noise in the other segments but the overall core business is doing very well Rick.
Okay.
And turning to diabetes you highlighted that ANIMAS have strong double digit growth is this all VIBE and moving past the negative price cuts and just and may be talk – give a little more color again on VIBE the roll out where you are and you have highlighted the 3-Day Wearable Patch as a possibility where does that stand? Thanks.
Sure.
Well Rick it is primarily due to the VIBE business.
So VIBE was launched OUS last year and continue to pick up a lot of volume did extremely well OUS and was just launched in the U.S.
recently and we’re seeing some very very good uptick on VIBE and we’re very very pleased by that new insulin pump it’s doing very very well taking share and growing and with the with what we saw happening OUS certainly bodes well for the uptick of that product in the U.S.
In terms of the Wearable Patch Pump that’s probably a couple of years out still obviously we need to scale up manufacturing complete some additional work on that.
A few of us were just there recently visiting our diabetes business and all plans are in shape there they are moving forward with all the manufacturing that needs to be done so we are very excited that will come in the market but it’s probably you know by – but not before 2016 I would say.
Okay just a quick follow up on the VIBE.
Are you getting to taking you are sure are you converting your existing customers or is it taking competitive share? Yes from what we saw the data we saw shows us that we are taking competitive share you know from the major player in the marketplace.
Yes with the very strong growth rates we had we would have to be taking share.
Next question please? Thank you.
Your next question comes from Josh Jenning with Cowen &amp; Company.
Good morning Josh.
Good morning thanks so much for taking the question.
Just wanted to start Dominic if you would just on the strategy behind the quarters divestiture it seemed like it was an underperforming unit but just you know throughout last year some of your commentary now it’s a commentary seem that you were looking to get bigger in cardiology not smaller.
Can you give us just a little more color on that acquisition and also just your outlook for the cardiology spaces and your comfort level of having a relatively standalone BioSense Webster division? Yes well it’s a great question Josh.
We’ve been very consistent with our approach to divestitures and Alex has many times if we are not neither number one or number two in the market or we don’t see a pathway of being number one number two in the markets through technology and the appropriate amount of investment or for example if its not otherwise complementary to our business and it should be a candidate for divestiture.
So as you pointed out we obviously did not divest the BioSense Webster piece of the Cordis business that’s very very promising.
Business is doing extremely well; new innovations come in the market etcetera.
So we are pleased with being in the cardiovascular device space where innovation is rewarded and whether significant unmet need that we can actually address the main reason for exiting the Cordis business is it generally has become from our vantage point the commodity business and it will be in our view better managed in the hands of others and I think Cardinal is going to do just a great job with that business.
Thanks for that and then just the follow up on operating margins in the quarter.
You know only 50 basis point ahead year-over-year despite release your headwind and affects.
Can you help us think about sort of apples-to-apples ex-HCV [ph] in terms of the operating margin performance and then how we should think about operating margins year-over-year 2015 over 2014? Thanks a lot.
Yes well the first quarter there was some impact for OLYSIO but obviously OLYSIO grew throughout 2014 so we’ll see that operating margin decline more pronounced in future quarters obviously and that’s all in our guidance.
The guidance we provided shows that if I mean we didn’t give you a specific operating margin but you walk through the P&amp;L as you update your models you’ll see that the pre tax operating profit margin is probably going to go down about 150 basis points and that’s primarily 120 basis points due to the OLYSIO net OLYSIO because remember we invested some of those gains last year.
And that of course is what I referred to earlier that were offsetting with the decisions that we’ve made about the portfolio we think these are the right decisions to make at the right time they also come at a time when we can offset this decline in operating profit margin.
Hopefully that’s clear now Josh.
Thanks so much.
Yes.
Thank you.
And we’ll take one more question.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jayson Bedford with Raymond James.
Good morning Jason.
Good morning thanks for taking the questions just a couple of quick ones.
On consumer in terms of the consent decree third party has blessed the facilities.
You're now waiting for the FDA.
When it's officially lifted can you give us an idea as to the potential impact on the business if any and specifically as it relates to margins which still look like the down in the low double digit? Sure Jason well it is true that we’ve completed our work and we have outside party that sort of verifies what we completed and prepares their report and then the FDA has to come in and certify.
But even after the FDA certifies remember that we still will operate under the consent decree for a 5-year period that’s what the law requires.
Now during that 5-year period we’ll continue to make improvements etcetera but and I would say generally speaking the consumer business has done a very nice job mapping out the fact that gross margins and overall margins in that business should improve overtime while at the same time we’re investing behind the products that we are launching.
So I would say we’ll see continued improvements in margins I wouldn’t view them as dramatic in the short term but continued steady progress and improvements in that business which we are very pleased with.
Thank you very much.
So some final comments from Dominic.
Okay thanks everyone and thanks Louise.
So as I noted earlier we are very pleased with our strong start to 2015 and I would just like to take a moment and recognize and thank all of our associates around the world for their extraordinary achievements and dedication to the success of Johnson &amp; Johnson and thank you all for your time this morning.
I look forward to updating you on our progress throughout the year.
And finally just a reminder that we will be conducting a review for the investment community of our pharmaceutical business on May 20th in New Brunswick and I obviously look forward to seeing you all there.
So have a great day.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s Johnson &amp; Johnson’s first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Johnson &amp; Johnson’s Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be able to listen-only until the question-and-answer session of the conference.
This call is being recorded.
If anyone has any objections you may disconnect at this time.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference call over to Johnson &amp; Johnson.
You may begin.
Good morning and welcome.
I am Louise Mehrotra Vice President of Investor Relations for Johnson &amp; Johnson and it is my pleasure this morning to review our business results for the second quarter of 2015.
Joining me on the call today are Alex Gorsky Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer Sandi Peterson Group Worldwide Chairman and Dominic Caruso Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
A few logistics before we get into the details.
This review is being made available via webcast accessible through the Investor Relations section of the Johnson &amp; Johnson website at investor.jnj.com.
I will begin by briefly reviewing second quarter for the corporation and for our three business segments.
Alex will provide additional commentary on the business and our progress with regards to our near-term priorities.
Next Sandi will provide an update on our consumer and consumer medical device businesses.
Lastly Dominic will review the income statement and discuss guidance for 2015.
We will then open the call to your questions.
We expect the call to last approximately 90 minutes.
Included with the press release that was issued earlier this morning is the schedule of sales for key products and/or businesses to facilitate updating your models.
These schedules are available on the Johnson &amp; Johnson website as is the press release.
Please note we will be using a presentation to complement today’s commentary.
The presentation is also available on our website.
Before we begin let me remind you that some of the statements made during this review are or may be considered forward-looking statements.
The 10-K for the fiscal year 2014 and the company’s subsequent filings identify certain factors that could cause the company’s actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement made today.
The company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.
Our SEC filings including the 10-K are available through the company and on our website.
During the review non-GAAP financial measures are used to provide information pertinent to ongoing business performance.
These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered replacements for and should be read together with GAAP results.
Tables reconciling these measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are available in the schedules accompanying the press release and on the Investor Relations section of the Johnson &amp; Johnson website.
Now I would like to review results for the second quarter of 2015.
Worldwide sales to customers were $17.8 billion for the second quarter of 2015 down 8.8% versus second quarter 2014.
On an operational basis sales were down 0.9% and currency had a negative impact of 7.9%.
In the U.S.
sales were down 2.4%.
In regions outside the U.S.
our operational growth was 0.5% while the effective currency exchange rates negatively impacted our reported results by 14.8%.
On an operational basis the Asia Pacific Africa region grew by 2.2% while Europe grew 1% and the Western Hemisphere excluding the U.S.
declined 4%.
Growth in the U.S.
and Japan was negatively impacted by hepatitis C competition.
Growth in all regions was impacted by divestitures the most significant one being Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics.
Excluding the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures underlying operational growth was 1.7% worldwide 0.6% in the U.S.
and 2.7% outside the U.S.
Additionally excluding hepatitis C sales underlying operational growth was 5%.
Turning now to earnings net earnings were $4.5 billion and earnings per share were $1.61 versus $1.51 a year ago.
As referenced in the table reconciling non-GAAP measures 2015 second quarter net earnings were adjusted to exclude after-tax amortization expense of $230 million and a charge of $66 million for after-tax special items.
2014 second quarter net earnings were adjusted to exclude a charge of $807 million.
Dominic will discuss special items in his remarks.
Excluding amortization expense and special items for both periods adjusted net earnings for the current quarter were $4.8 billion and adjusted diluted earnings per share were $1.71 representing decreases of 6.3% and 3.9% respectively as compared to the same period in 2014.
Currency translation significantly impacted net earnings.
On an operational basis adjusted diluted earnings per share grew 6.7%.
Turning now to business segment highlights please note percentages quoted represent operational sales change in comparison to the second quarter of 2014 unless otherwise stated and therefore exclude the impact of currency translation.
I will begin with the consumer segment.
Worldwide consumer segment sales of $3.5 billion increased 2.3% with U.S.
sales up 2.7% while outside the U.S.
sales grew 2.1%.
Excluding the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures underlying operational growth was 3.1% worldwide 2.9% in the U.S.
and 3.2% outside the U.S.
Growth was driven by OTC worldwide Women’s Health outside the U.S.
and Oral Care.
OTC sales growth was driven by worldwide analgesics ZYRTEC in the U.S.
and other upper respiratory products outside the U.S.
Upper respiratory including ZYRTEC sales included a seasonal inventory build.
In the U.S.
adult analgesic market share was approximately 12% up from approximately 11% a year ago while U.S.
pediatric share was nearly 44% up from 39% a year ago.
New product launches and successful marketing campaigns drove the results for LISTERINE in Oral Care and Women’s Health products outside the U.S.
Moving now to our Pharmaceutical segment worldwide sales of $7.9 billion increased 1% with U.S.
sales down 1.5% and sales outside the U.S.
up 3.8%.
New competitors in hepatitis C significantly impacted sales results.
Excluding sales of our hepatitis C products OLYSIO and INCIVO as well as the impact of acquisitions and divestitures underlying growth worldwide U.S.
and outside the U.S.
was approximately 9.7% 16.5% and 2.5% respectively.
U.S.
results included a positive adjustment to sales reserves for managed Medicaid rebates reflecting final data received.
U.S.
comparisons to second quarter 2014 were positively impacted by approximately 2% and worldwide by approximately 1%.
The most significant impact from the managed Medicaid adjustment was through hormonal contraceptives.
Significant contributors to growth were INVOKANA/INVOKAMET IMBRUVICA XARELTO ZYTIGA INVEGA SUSTENNA or XEPLION CONCERTA and immunology products STELARA and SIMPONI.
Strong momentum in market share increases drove results for INVOKANA/INVOKAMET.
In the U.S.
INVOKANA/INVOKAMET achieved 5.9% TRx within the defined market of type 2 diabetes excluding insulin and metformin up from 5.1% in the first quarter of 2015.
TRx with endocrinologists grew to 13.2% for the quarter and 5.2% in primary care up 1.2% and 0.8% respectively on a sequential basis.
INVOKANA/INVOKAMET remains the category leader in new to brand share with endocrinologists and has greater than 80% preferred access across commercial and Part D plans.
Strong patient uptake with new indications approvals and demonstrated efficacy drove results for IMBRUVICA in the U.S.
IMBRUVICA is the leader in both new and total patient regimen share in the second line CLL and MCL.
Outside the U.S.
results were driven primarily by Europe with strong patient uptake particularly in Germany France and the UK.
XARELTO sales were up nearly 31% and total prescription share or TRx for the quarter in the U.S.
anticoagulant market grew to 15.4% up over 2 points from a year ago.
TRx in primary care reached 12.4% and in cardiology 23.7%.
XARELTO is broadly reimbursed with over 90% of commercial and Medicare Part D patients covered at the lowest branded product co-pay.
Strong growth of the combined metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer market at nearly 12.5% drove the results for ZYTIGA in the U.S.
ZYTIGA’s share was approximately 28.6% of that market down approximately 1.7 points on a sequential basis due to increased competition.
As an update during the quarter we received several Paragraph IV notifications from generic manufacturers advising that they filed Abbreviated New Drug Applications with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of ZYTIGA in the U.S.
before the expiration of the relevant patents listed in the orange book.
The composition of matter patent is owned by our partner BTG and expires in December 2016 and the method of treatment patent is owned by Janssen Oncology Inc.
and expires in August 2027.
We are currently evaluating the notices.
Outside the U.S.
ZYTIGA achieved very strong growth in Asia and Latin America which was partly offset by lower sales in Europe due to increased competition.
INVEGA SUSTENNA or XEPLION achieved strong results due primarily to increased market share while CONCERTA growth was primarily due to therapeutic equivalence reclassification of generic competitors.
The results for immunology were driven by strong double digit market growth complemented by increased market share for STELARA and combined SIMPONI SIMPONI ARIA.
Growth was partially offset by lower REMICADE sales to our distributors reflecting the weakening of the euro and the loss of exclusivity in Europe as well as the reduction in inventory levels.
I will now review the Medical Devices segment results.
Worldwide Medical Devices segment sales of $6.4 billion decreased 4.7%.
U.S.
sales declined 5.8% while sales outside the U.S.
declined 3.9%.
Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics was divested mid-year 2014.
Excluding the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures underlying operational growth was 1.4% worldwide with the U.S.
up 1.6% and growth of 1.4% outside the U.S.
Growth was driven by Specialty Surgery Cardiovascular Care and Orthopaedics.
Specialty Surgery growth was driven by bio-surgery growth of over 8% and energy growth of approximately 6% due to market growth share gains in certain segments and new product introductions.
Cardiovascular growth was driven by 10% worldwide increase in electrophysiology due to strong sales of ThermoCool SmartTouch Catheter.
Orthopaedics sales growth was driven by knees and hips as well as ORTHOVISC and MONOVISC in sports medicine.
The growth was partially offset by lower sales in trauma and spine due to pricing pressure coupled with the timing of tender business and competitive challenges in spine.
Knees worldwide increased 4% with the U.S.
up 5% and sales outside the U.S.
up 2% driven by strong sales of ATTUNE partially offset by pricing pressure.
Hips growth of 2% worldwide was driven by 4% growth in the U.S.
with strong volume growth partially offset by continued pricing pressure.
Primary stem platform sales were a major contributor to the results.
Outside the U.S.
sales were flat with strong growth in China and India offset by lower sales in the Middle East due to the timing of tender business.
For your reference there were some notable developments in the second quarter which we have summarized on this slide to assist you as you develop your models.
That concludes the segment highlights for Johnson &amp; Johnson’s second quarter of 2015.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Alex Gorsky.
Alex? Thank you Louise and good morning everyone.
I really appreciate you taking the time to join our call today.
And since we are at the midpoint of the year I am excited to share the progress we have made against our near-term priorities.
I will also use the time today to give some perspective on the environment that we are operating in and some of the macro level issues we are seeing and also discuss why we believe with our innovation model and breadth and scale of our business the Johnson &amp; Johnson is strongly positioned to drive continued growth and shareholder value.
So I will start the discussion though where I always do with Our Credo.
Our Credo serves as the moral compass for our company and expresses a set of values that bond our associates worldwide with a shared commitment to meet and really exceed the expectations of the more than 1 billion people a day that rely on our products as well as to support our fellow colleagues the communities in which we live and work and generate solid return to our shareholders.
Now back in January I laid out our near-term priorities for the business and I am pleased with our progress towards them.
Across the enterprise we are very focused on delivering our financial and quality commitments.
First our commitment to ensuring our products meet the highest quality standards is of course non-negotiable.
And as to our financial commitments thus far in the year we generated sales of $35.2 billion reflecting the strong underlying operational growth across the enterprise of about 6% when we adjust for the impact of Hepatitis C sales and acquisitions and divestitures.
And for the first six months we delivered adjusted net earnings of $9.2 billion and adjusted EPS of $3.27.
On an operational basis we delivered adjusted EPS of $3.59 growing at 5.3%.
As we have highlighted previously we knew there are year-over-year comparisons to our current results would be challenging because of the tremendous contributions of OLYSIO last year as well as the impact of divestitures we made and also the significant devaluation of major foreign currencies against the U.S.
dollar.
Now despite these headwinds our broad base of innovative offerings scale and global footprint are driving our strong core performance.
In pharmaceuticals we reported sales of $15.7 billion reflecting strong underlying operational growth when excluding the impact of Hepatitis C and divestitures of over 11% for the first half of 2015 led by our new and core products including INVOKANA IMBRUVICA XARELTO and STELARA and ZYTIGA.
Our focused R&amp;D strategy and commitment to driving launch excellence to ensure broad access and reimbursement has really come together to make a difference for patients and have this well-positioned to continue to drive above industry compound annual growth rate over the next several years.
Fueled by seven of our recently launched products that we expect will each exceed $1 billion in sales this year and the more than 10 new products we plan to file by 2019 that each have $1 billion plus potential of their own based on their transformational potential to treat significant unmet medical needs worldwide.
And just last week our partner Genmab announced that we have completed the FDA submission for daratumumab a promising new breakthrough treatment option for people with multiple myeloma.
This organization has collectively done great work to generate strong clinical evidence in the development process which is enabling our reimbursement teams to gain the right coverage levels in order to create broad access and drive the strong performance of our products despite the pricing pressure that exist in the marketplace.
Now I also want to make a comment here on our position regarding biosimilar competition for REMICADE which I know many of you are thinking about.
Remember biosimilars are not generics and we expect the biosimilar market to behave quite differently than the market typically has toward the introduction of a generic.
Also more than 2.2 million people have been treated with REMICADE and about 70% of the current patients are receiving sustained and effective treatment so we believe their doctors are very unlikely to switch them off with that level of success.
And we also have a patent for the REMICADE antibody that doesn’t expire until September 2018 that you can be sure we will continue to vigorously defend.
Look we know competition in the immunology space is fierce and to ensure we maintain the leadership position we built an established portfolio of $1 billion plus medicines that include STELARA and SIMPONI and have potential $1 billion plus products in our late stage development like sirukumab for rheumatoid arthritis and guselkumab for psoriasis that we expect to introduce in the near-term.
And we are also making very significant investments in disruptive research areas like the microbiome which holds the potential to intercept the disease and prevent it entirely that will have applications in immunology and really across all our disease areas.
Now turning to Medical Devices you know we are number one or number two in the majority of the categories in which we compete and have ten $1 billion plus platforms.
Year-to-date we reported global medical device sales of $12.6 billion which is an operational decline of 4.6% due to the impact of the sale of Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics which we completed a year ago.
When we adjust for that our underlying operational growth in medical devices is up 1.4%.
I have been particularly pleased with the performance in several areas of this business where new innovations are driving growth including our Biosense Webster business which has grown nearly 11% operationally for the first six months of the year.
Our Endocutter business has grown 15.5% and our Biosurgery business with continued strong growth of 7.5%.
In diabetes our products and strong in-market execution are helping to revitalize that business while our Vision Care business is on track to return to growth later in the year when we will anniversary the impact of the 2014 price reset.
In Orthopaedics the business grew 1.5% operationally this year with good growth in the reconstruction and sports medicine segment.
Particularly in the second quarter here in the U.S.
where despite the pricing dynamics in the market we saw over 5% growth in knees and approximately 4% in hips.
Our spine and trauma businesses however have lagged market growth today and we are absolutely committed to turning them around.
And we have new products launching this year that will help us do just that.
Now as we look at this market the ongoing consolidation among health systems and within the insurance industry is continuing to create pressure on pricing.
We have been encouraged though by data showing that healthcare utilization trends in the U.S.
have continued to improve for the fourth consecutive quarter with growth in both hospital admissions and hospital surgical procedures.
And we remain optimistic about increased global healthcare utilization as well.
So we are absolutely committed to accelerating our growth in medical devices through innovation and through our research and development which has been productive as the teams have already submitted more than half of the 30 major filings we previously announced we plan to file by the end of 2016.
And the work we are doing with Google illustrates how we are aiming to pioneer the operating room of the future with robotic surgery tools that will increase the surgeon’s precision and minimize trauma for their patients while also reducing cost for the systems.
We are also transforming our go-to-market models to fully leverage the breadth and scale of our capabilities but we have taken significant measures to strengthen our core businesses and effectively position ourselves to lead over the long-term.
We just recently integrated our Global Orthopaedics and Global Surgery businesses under the leadership of Gary Pruden which will enable us to have a much more holistic approach to the way we do business.
And the goal here is very straightforward.
Let’s enhance our partnerships with the hospital systems and identify ways to improve outcomes by leveraging our comprehensive portfolio.
We already have numerous examples of co-promotions broad contracting agreements and service and solution offerings in place that we can look to expand and by better working in this new alignment model we will be better positioned to great more of them to drive future growth.
Gary will be on the third quarter call in October to tell you more about this approach.
And now in the Consumer business Sandi Peterson and her team which includes our new Worldwide Chairman for the consumer companies Jorge Mesquita a seasoned leader who has been with us since the end of last year are doing tremendous work in building and executing a strategy that has effectively addressed the past challenges in our supply chain and reprioritized our approach in the category.
And we are positioned to expand our market leadership in key segments moving forward.
Year-to-date we generated $6.9 billion in sales and reported operational growth of nearly 4% excluding acquisitions and divestitures driven by our market leading OTC and Oral Care businesses.
And our strategy to focus the portfolio around the key consumer need states in brands that are backed with strong clinical science and professional endorsements is having a strong impact.
The United States OTC medicines are sharply up 13% for the year led by the strong campaigns who are leading in support and the re-launch of key brands like TYLENOL MOTRIN and ZYRTEC.
And our momentum here could not have been achieved without the efforts of our colleagues to complete the complex work required around the consent decree.
Globally we see strong operational growth in emerging markets particularly in Argentina Brazil India Russia and Venezuela.
We are however experiencing market pressures in China where our volumes have slowed due to lower demand that is being compounded by shifts in consumer behaviors and the emergence of new retail channels in the country.
In a few minutes Sandi will take you through the strategy and approach for how our consumer-facing businesses are leveraging our unique consumer insights and integrating science and different forms of technology to better meet the needs of consumers and drive growth.
But before we do that I want to reiterate how we are navigating the environmental changes before us and how we strongly positioned Johnson &amp; Johnson to deliver continued growth.
As you well know everything starts with innovation.
And at Johnson &amp; Johnson we are doing that on multiple fronts and we are committed to working with researchers around the world to ensure we continue to operate the leading edge of science medicine and technology.
And that approach drives our enterprise R&amp;D and the significant investments we are making to benefit patients and stakeholders.
We have a good balance of internal and externally sourced innovations and acquisitions have accounted for just under half of our sales growth over the last decade and we are always actively looking for new value-creating acquisitions and deals to continue that success.
We also invested about 11.5% of our net trade sales or $8.5 billion in R&amp;D last year across the enterprise to discover in-license and develop innovative new products and you can see the impact reflected in our portfolio and robust development pipeline which includes 25 active late-stage development programs 160-plus early-stage programs in over 70 venture investments.
And in just two years there is already 90 start-ups working in our J-Labs which creates tremendous access to new ideas and potential downstream partnerships for the future.
Now when it comes to making significant R&amp;D investments we must also focus on managing through the inherent complexities in the global regulatory environment in order to ensure our products are ultimately able to reach consumers.
We are encouraged by the steps governments are taking to increase access to quality healthcare for their people and to also create and support a more innovation-friendly environment through designations and speed to review and approval of transformational products.
We benefited from that with IMBRUVICA and today we have two other candidates in our pharma pipeline already designated as breakthrough therapies by the FDA.
At the same time we can all agree that governments around the world must do more to protect intellectual property and ensure fair transparent and consistent enforcement of regulations governing the trade of innovative products and we will continue to watch and engage in these issues into more than 65 countries in which we do business.
Globally about half our total year-to-date sales come from countries outside the United States with strong national and regional models like those we have installed in China and Southeast Asia we are better able to maximize the breadth of our portfolio interact more effectively with governments and develop contracting strategies and gain consumer insights that are shaping our international portfolios and informing R&amp;D and ultimately driving growth.
And by executing with excellence in all that we do we have introduced a strong cadence of new product launches over the past five years that today account for about 25% of our overall sales and we are taking steps to ensure we are even more effective and efficient across the enterprise by investing in greater uses of technology and streamlining our back office processes which we expect will help to free up about $1 billion that we can invest back into the business by 2018.
We are also continuing to make strategic decisions about the areas we are going to participate in or move on from.
As we stated before our focus is on areas where we are or we can be number one or number two in a particular area as well as on those products or businesses that will be directly complementary.
And if we have an asset or a business that doesn’t meet those criteria we have demonstrated that we will divest it and redirect our resources to accelerate existing programs or to acquire new ones that we think are ultimately going to help more patients and also add more value to our enterprise.
We also see that our broad base across the healthcare spectrum is a competitive advantage when the strategies we create consider and where appropriate incorporate insights and innovations from every aspect of our operations to attack disease and improve health outcomes.
The work we are doing with IBM and Apple does this by cutting across the enterprise and leveraging our science technology and consumer insights to empower patients and caregivers to help speed the post-surgical recovery process.
Executing our strategy ultimately comes down to people and by focusing on them and emphasizing our Credo-based purpose we developed a deep bench of extraordinary talent we are accountable for driving their businesses and we will also ensure we are taking leading roles within the industry and world medical community to combat global public health issues like Ebola and HIV.
Now just to summarize Johnson &amp; Johnson is a company that’s built a remarkable legacy and has a very exciting future.
Healthcare though remains one of every society’s greatest challenges and nothing affects people more personally or affects communities and nations more directly.
Our business is strong and you can see that we are continuing to make considerable investments in innovation and have a robust pipeline of truly transformative products to ultimately benefit patients and that we are taking actions to strengthen our leadership positions in areas in which we compete.
With our transparent and consistent capital allocation strategy we extended our track record of dividend increases to 53 consecutive years in April when we declared a 7.1% increase taking our quarterly payout up to $0.75 per share and have returned about 70% of our free cash flow over the past decade to investors outpacing the S&amp;P 500 in 2014 as well as over the last 3 10 and 20 years.
With that it’s now my distinct pleasure to turn the call over to Sandi Peterson.
Sandi joined Johnson &amp; Johnson just over 2.5 years ago and is leading a significant transformation across major components of our enterprise including our consumer-facing businesses enterprise supply chain quality and IT and she has been a tremendous leader here since day 1.
I want to thank her and her team for what they have already accomplished for our business and more importantly for what they will continue to do to help patients and consumers worldwide.
With that I am pleased to turn the meeting now over to Sandi and we will rejoin you a bit later to take your questions.
Good morning.
I am happy to have the opportunity to talk about our progress in our consumer-facing businesses consumer diabetes solutions and vision care.
I will also discuss the evolution in our approach to technology across the enterprise.
Increasingly as we lead through the disruptions and opportunities in global healthcare we are fusing the power of technology with the power of science to deliver improved outcomes for patients consumers and customers.
First our three consumer-facing businesses as Alex said earlier the future of these businesses looks promising.
While they are at different stages of transformation we believe that they are all well-positioned in attractive growing global markets and we are driving scale and growth in each.
Let me start with consumer.
Our iconic consumer brands are J&amp;J’s face to the world.
They are how we are known by millions around the globe.
They are a first point of entry into emerging markets so they really are very important to the overall enterprise.
They are and will increasingly be important contributors to J&amp;J’s financial performance.
Demographic trends and changes in the way consumers make healthcare decisions are creating new opportunities for our consumer business.
Our consumer expertise and insight are highly valuable to payers and providers which differentiates us from our competitors.
We view a healthy consumer business as a growth annuity for J&amp;J with less volatility than other markets.
As many of you know we launched our new consumer strategy in 2013.
We focused on stabilizing and revitalizing the business re-mediating quality issues in U.S.
OTC and being clear about where and how to compete and win around the world.
We are executing successfully against that strategy.
We are pleased to say that we have re-mediated and re-launched our U.S.
OTC business.
Over 80% of our brands have returned to the market.
TYLENOL Arthritis will launch soon.
We have made significant progress in meeting consent decree requirements.
The FDA has certified our manufacturing facilities in Las Piedras Puerto Rico and Lancaster Pennsylvania.
We recently had a successful FDA inspection in Fort Washington and are awaiting final notification.
Our OTC brands continue to be loved by consumers and we have regained the trust of our customers.
Most of our OTC products are endorsed as number one in their categories by healthcare professionals.
TYLENOL remains the number one doctor recommended brand for pain relief and the brand most used by hospitals.
ZYRTEC Children’s TYLENOL and Children’s MOTRIN are also number one recommended brands.
Last year our OTC portfolio grew four times the category in the U.S.
That strength has continued this year with 13% growth in the first half and 16% in the latest quarter.
More broadly across the consumer business we have made significant progress in creating a world class brand building and marketing organization.
We have globalized the management of 12 mega brands and are focused on 11 consumer need states.
We have expanded these brands into new markets and are seeing strong share gains in Oral Care Beauty and OTC.
We are growing 11% year-to-date and gaining share in feminine protection for example in places like India Germany South Africa and Poland.
And we have revitalized our iconic BAND-AID Brand.
In the U.S.
Band-Aid consumption grew 6.3% and we gained 2 share points.
Thanks to decorated BAND-AID and commercial innovation.
As we invest in our global brands and our top regional brands and in our priority markets we are building new marketing capabilities such as digital.
We doubled our digital media investments and digital channels with emphasis on social and mobile.
Today 40% of our digital ad spending is via mobile and more than 90% of our Facebook ads are served up on either smartphones or tablets.
This global centralized marketing approach is bringing our beloved brands to their full potential.
You may have seen the results of the new model Come to Life in the Johnson’s Baby So Much More campaign the first global campaign for our iconic baby equity.
The campaign launched in 7 lead markets in February and is rolled out to more than 20 markets.
By the third quarter of this year all major markets will launch.
Early results show sequential consumption growth and share improvement.
In the U.S.
alone through May Johnson’s has grown 2.4 share points since the launch.
Our product pipeline in consumer is also quite robust.
We are focused on developing science-based clinically validated products grounded in deep consumer insights and most importantly endorsed by professionals.
We have 20 key product launches this year for example NEUTROGENA Hydro Boost MOTRIN Liquid Gels and the launch of the new LISTERINE whitening formula in Europe the Middle East Africa and Latin America.
Improving our supply chain has also been another critical focus in the consumer business with a strong emphasis on the U.S.
OTC consent decree.
Across the enterprise we have made remarkable progress in transforming our supply chain to ensure we deliver quality customer reliability and benchmark profitability.
We continue to see the benefits of reintegrating our supply chain organization to drive performance improvements in every J&amp;J segment.
As we look ahead in consumer we will continue to rebuild our competitive edge.
The underlying environmental drivers demographics the developing middle-class in emerging markets and lifestyle shifts suggest growing consumer need for our products and increased opportunity to help more people live healthier more vibrant lives.
Across the business we are focused on delivering above-market growth and benchmark profitability.
Consumer IBT margin before special items and intangible amortization expense has increased from 14.1% in 2013 to 15.4% in 2014 and we will continue to improve profitability until we achieve benchmark levels.
Our organic sales adjusted for currency and excluding acquisitions and divestitures grew approximately 4% in the first half.
Since mid 2013 we have grown organic sales steadily.
Last year we grew share for the first time in a number of years and we are committed to continuing that trend.
We manage our consumer brand portfolio actively with an eye towards targeted expansion in key geographies and need states through focused acquisitions and licensing agreements.
A recent example includes the acquisition in India of ORSL.
The intersection of changes in the healthcare landscape disruptions in the retail environment and changes in consumer expectations and behaviors creates an opportunity J&amp;J’s consumer business is well-suited to capitalize on.
Now let me turn to our Diabetes Solutions business.
Diabetes is the fourth largest healthcare category in the world.
Globally the therapies and devices market is growing at 5%.
50% of patients with diabetes are unfortunately undiagnosed or not controlled which creates an opportunity for us to grow and an important opportunity to impact patient’s lives.
Given the power of our OneTouch brand a highly innovative pipeline strong commercial execution and operational efficiency we are well-positioned to deliver profitable growth in diabetes despite negative industry pricing dynamics.
In blood glucose monitoring we hold the number one value and volume position in our 9 top markets.
This year’s OneTouch Verio platform launch is our most successful launch in the last two decades.
In the U.S.
alone volume share grew 3 points.
We have strong penetration in emerging markets where type 2 diabetes is growing and we have simplified our portfolio dramatically reducing the number of strip platforms from 5 to 2 and module mere offerings from 14 to 3.
We have reduced our facility footprint slashed the number of SKUs by more than 55% and taken significant cost out of the business.
In insulin delivery we are growing at market-leading rates up operationally 32% year-to-date worldwide driven by Animas Vibe.
In 2015 we took over the number two share position.
In addition we are making excellent progress in preparing for the launch of Calibra a new product which will create an entirely new category.
Calibra is a wearable disposable insulin delivery patch that meets type 2 patients’ needs for discretion convenience and control.
We are beginning the clinical outcome study and anticipate entering the market next year.
Looking forward we are developing insight-driven market-appropriate innovations across the BGM and insulin delivery platforms in areas such as digital solutions continuous glucose monitoring and automated insulin delivery.
We will continue to leverage enterprise capabilities and expand targeted strategic partnerships.
Great examples of this include our collaboration with Nova Biomedical and Hospital Systems and Dexcom with continuous glucose monitoring pumps.
We are particularly enthusiastic about the potential to improve engagement and health outcomes with digital solutions that motivate patients to better self manage while creating value for healthcare providers and healthcare systems.
Now let me turn to Vision Care.
Eye health remains one of the largest fastest growing and most underserved segments in healthcare.
Vision correction represents more than half of that market with contact lenses representing a $7 billion segment the presbyopia and astigmatism markets are especially underserved.
Johnson &amp; Johnson’s Vision Care has a long history as the global market leader in contact lenses.
Our success was built on category leading innovation strong relationships with the eye care professional and the most recognized brand equity in the category.
It’s no secret however that we faced capacity and portfolio issues in Vision Care in 2012 and 2013.
At the same time competition intensified and consumer preferences shifted.
The market structure has evolved in response driving increased emphasis on e-commerce and increased price competition between channels.
These developments have reduced engagement for eye care professionals who are an important ingredient in strong category health.
Despite this we continued to lead the category globally by 11 points.
We continue to grow at double-digits in our lead emerging markets.
BRIC market operational sales are up double digits driven by continued strong performance of Russia Brazil and China.
Last year we instituted a one-time price reset to bring more value to consumers in close partnership with eye care professionals in the trade in the U.S.
and Japan.
We will anniversary this event in Q3 as Alex said earlier and should see revenue momentum in the second half.
Share has stabilized in the U.S.
for five consecutive months.
We are outperforming the market in volume in our top two strategic brands ACUVUE OASYS and 1-Day ACUVUE MOIST and our equity measures with eye care professionals have improved.
In Q2 alone we grew 15% operationally in Japan driven by strong performance of our leading 1-DAY ACUVUE TruEye and the recent launch of 1-Day ACUVUE DEFINE as well as favorable comps.
Our R&amp;D strategy leverages consumer expertise and science based clinically supported manufacturing enabled innovation and we have built a robust multi-generational pipeline.
We are launching our first major innovations in 5 years with 1-Day ACUVUE DEFINE 1-Day ACUVUE Multifocal and ACUVUE OASYS overnight.
You will see us accelerate innovation in high growth specialty segments such as beauty presbyopia and astigmatism.
We will sustain innovation in our largest core platforms spherical reusable and sphere daily disposable.
We anticipate at least one major product launch in each of the next 3 years including innovations with the potential to disrupt the category.
Vision Care used the new marketing process developed in consumer to re-launch the iconic ACUVUE brand.
The new global ACUVUE campaign which went live last week is designed to drive consumer engagement and category growth and ensure the differentiated position with eye care professionals.
Our world class supply chain is a competitive advantage in Vision Care.
Our manufacturing team produced approximately 4 billion lenses in 2014.
We are continuing to invest in capacity expansion while operating with 99.6% customer service levels.
Though we are still in the throes of rejuvenating our eye care business we have made considerable progress which will continue this year and into the next.
As we bring our core contact lens business back to market leading growth we will also pursue our aspirations in the broader eye health market.
Alex started this morning by talking about the power of Johnson &amp; Johnson’s broad base in healthcare.
Our consumer facing businesses are a critical contributor to that broad base.
While Consumer Diabetes Solutions and Vision Care are different stages in their transformations and represent unique opportunities we are driving scale and growth in all of them.
Before I turn it over to Dominic I would like to share some perspective on how Johnson &amp; Johnson is capitalizing on the way technology is reshaping the entire healthcare landscape.
The consumerization of healthcare wearables and mobile apps are giving patients unprecedented access to health information.
Physicians regulators and payers are leveraging big data analytics and real world evidence to personalized care understand product safety and efficacy and drive improved outcome.
Artificial intelligence machine learning and advanced centers are creating new opportunities to take advantage of the best clinical and wellness expertise.
We are at the tipping point where technology is becoming the medium through which healthcare can become a more effective and efficient system.
The opportunities this creates for Johnson &amp; Johnson to become a healthcare technology innovator are immense.
We have identified key technology areas that will accelerate growth and are actively pursuing programs and partnerships in those areas.
The relationships with Google and with IBM and Apple that Alex mentioned are great examples.
There are others in the works and more to come.
We are working with and talking to nearly every major technology company and many early stage companies.
We are collaborating with retailers like Walgreens and CVS where care is increasingly delivered health plans like Aetna and Kaiser Permanente and health systems such as Jefferson Health and Premier to leverage technology digital tools and our health and wellness expertise.
We find that Johnson &amp; Johnson is most often the partner of choice for technology providers.
We have the patient and consumer insights the clinical and behavior modification expertise and the regulatory experience that can combine with technology to transform the continuum of care.
This is particularly exciting when you think about the work that we are doing with payers and providers as in our work with IBM and Apple.
We are creating an ecosystem embedded in hospital networks which gives us the ability to integrate the right patient data with the right record and the right clinical outcome in the healthcare IT infrastructure.
I have been in healthcare long enough to have heard over and over again that technology was going to disrupt the industry beyond recognition.
But today maturing technology scientific advances and global healthcare reform are combining to make disruption a reality.
Today technology is intrinsic to the business.
As the world’s most broadly based healthcare company we are uniquely positioned to be the company that connects the fragmented world of healthcare.
Now let me summarize.
Our consumer facing businesses are executing well against focused strategies.
They are demonstrating results improving profitability and growing.
They have strong presence in the world’s fastest growing markets and are building insight-led innovation pipelines.
Each business is strengthening its brand building capabilities actively managing its portfolio and leveraging technologies in ways that increase efficiency and create competitive advantage.
Across J&amp;J we are using technology to unlock the power of the enterprise to improve patient and financial outcomes in ways that will create value for our customers and ultimately for our shareholders.
And we are building what I firmly believe is the best team of leaders in the industry.
With that I will turn it over to Dominic and I look forward to answering your questions.
Thanks Sandi and good morning everyone.
As you have heard on the call we are certainly pleased with the progress we continue to make in the execution against our priorities which is reflected in the solid underlying financial results we have achieved thus far in 2015.
And as Alex and Sandi discussed we are well-positioned for continued growth in this dynamic healthcare environment.
I will take the next few minutes to review our financial performance in the second quarter and we will also then provide guidance for you to consider in refining your models for the balance of the year.
Turning to the next slide you can see our condensed consolidated statement of earnings for the second quarter of 2015.
As we expected and as many of you on the sell side also reflected in your updated models direct comparisons to our second quarter of 2014 are challenging due to the exceptional uptake of OLYSIO that we recorded last year as well as currency headwinds and the impact of not having Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics in our results for 2015.
Our sales results for the second quarter 2015 were essentially in line with analyst estimates as reflected in First Call.
On an operational basis excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures and excluding the impact of hep C products sales were up 5% for the quarter.
Please now direct your attention to the boxed section of the schedule where we have provided earnings adjusted to exclude special items and intangible amortization expense.
Adjusted net earnings of $4.8 billion in the quarter are down 6% compared to Q2 2014 and adjusted earnings per share of $1.71 versus $1.78 a year ago are down approximately 4%.
However the adjusted EPS results exceeded the mean of the analyst estimates as published by First Call.
And excluding the net impact of currency translation our operational earnings per share was $1.90 or up 6.7%.
There were no significant non-GAAP adjustments in the 2015 second quarter other than the exclusion of the expense for amortization of intangible assets.
Now let’s take a few moments to talk about the other items on the statement of earnings.
As we have said before we would use any gain from divestitures in 2015 to offset the lower earnings impact of not having the OLYSIO sales uptake we had in 2014 and to provide some offset to currency headwinds while also allowing continued investment for future growth.
This quarter’s results reflect just that.
Cost of goods sold was 90 basis points lower than the same period last year mainly due to favorable product mix somewhat offset by currency impacts.
Selling marketing and administrative expenses were 30.3% of sales or 220 basis points higher as compared to the second quarter of 2014.
We are investing in a responsible manner and the absolute spending level is comparable to the prior year mainly due to the impact of currency as we continue investment spending behind our key brands on a global basis.
The prior year percent to sales level was artificially lower since there was very little spending in relation to OLYSIO sales.
Our investment in research and development as a percent of sales was 12% and 170 basis points higher than the prior year as we continue to make important investments in our pipeline for future growth.
Interest expense net of interest income was similar to last year.
Other income and expense was a net gain of $900 million in the quarter compared to a net charge of $200 million in the same period last year.
Excluding special items that are reflected in this line item other income and expense was a net gain of approximately $1.1 billion compared to a net gain of $300 million in the prior year period.
This quarter we recorded the gain on the previously announced divestiture of the NUCYNTA product.
Excluding special items and intangible amortization expense the effective tax rate for the 6-month period was 22.3% compared to 21.1% in the same period last year.
As I noted during our call in April the effective tax rate this quarter is again higher than our guidance for the year as it does not yet reflect the benefit of the R&amp;D tax credit as that legislation has not yet been passed although we expect that it will be.
The effective tax rate is higher in 2015 as compared to 2014 as a result of the mix of earnings being higher in the United States this year.
Now I will provide some guidance for you to consider as you refine your models for 2015.
Before I discuss sales and earnings I will first give some guidance on items we know are difficult for you to forecast beginning with cash and interest income and expense.
At the end of the quarter we had approximately $15 billion of net cash which consist of approximately $34 billion of cash and marketable securities and approximately $19 billion of debt.
I am pleased to report that we completed our share repurchase program to help offset the ongoing impact of the OCD divestiture.
For purposes of your models and assuming no major acquisitions or other major uses of cash I suggest you consider modeling net interest expense of between $450 million and $550 million.
This is unchanged from our prior guidance.
Regarding other income and expense as a reminder this is the account where we record royalty income as well as gains and losses arising from such items as litigation investments by our development corporation as well as divestitures asset sales and write-offs.
We would be comfortable with your models for 2015 reflecting net other income and expense excluding special items as a gain ranging from approximately $2.2 billion to $2.3 billion.
This is slightly higher than our previous guidance.
As a reminder this includes the gain from the divestiture of the U.S.
rights to NUCYNTA pain medicine as well as the anticipated gain on the pending divestiture of the Cordis business to Cardinal Health which we expect will close towards the end of 2015 subject to regulatory clearances and other customary closing conditions.
We have also refined our estimates for the items in this account now that we are halfway through the year.
As I also noted in April the guidance for other income and expense will flow through to increase operational earnings as we expect to use this other income to compensate for the decreased income from OLYSIO in 2015 as compared to 2014 as well as to help mitigate some of the impact of strong foreign currency headwinds this year while we also continue to invest in our core business and opportunities for future growth.
And now a word on taxes our guidance for 2015 anticipates that the R&amp;D tax credit will be renewed by Congress although that has not yet occurred.
We would therefore be comfortable with your models reflecting an effective tax rate for 2015 excluding special items of approximately 21% to 22% consistent with our previous guidance.
If the R&amp;D tax credit is not approved that would negatively impact the tax rate by approximately 0.5% for 2015.
Now turning to guidance on sales and earnings consistent with our previous guidance for sales our assumption for PROCRIT is that there will not be biosimilar competition in 2015.
We also do not anticipate generic competition this year for RISPERDAL CONSTA or INVEGA SUSTENNA but we are expecting a generic entrant for INVEGA in 2015.
As expected we have seen additional biosimilar competition for REMICADE in Europe following the patent expiration in many countries in February of this year.
As we have done for several years our guidance will be based first on a constant currency basis reflecting our results from operations.
It’s the way we manage our business and we believe this provides a good understanding of the underlying performance of our business.
We will also provide an estimate of our sales and adjusted EPS results for 2015 with the impact that current exchange rates could have on the translation of those results.
Consistent with our previous guidance we would be comfortable with your models reflecting an operational sales increase on a constant currency basis of between 1% and 2% for the year.
This would result in sales for 2015 on a constant currency basis of approximately $75 billion to $76 billion.
Additionally by way of comparison to how we described our sales results in 2014 our operational sales growth for 2015 excluding the impact of all acquisitions and divestitures as well as the impact of hepatitis C products would be approximately 6% a higher level of growth than the comparable 5% for 2014.
And just to note we are monitoring the situation in Greece as the country considers its path forward economically.
We do not anticipate any significant negative impact to our sales results for 2015 nor to our earnings for 2015 unless there is a significant change in the current expected resolution.
As of last week the euro was lower by approximately 17% as compared to 2014 average levels and the dollar has strengthened recently versus virtually all major currencies.
And though we are not predicting the impact of currency movements to give you an idea of the potential impact on sales if currency exchange rates were to remain where they were as of last week for the balance of the year our sales growth rate would decrease by nearly 7% reflecting the weakening of the euro and other major currencies against the U.S.
dollar.
Thus under this scenario we would expect reported sales to reflect a change in the range between negative 5% and negative 6% for a total expected level of reported sales of between approximately $70 billion to $71 billion.
This is consistent with our previous guidance.
And now turning to earnings a significant factor impacting our earnings guidance for 2015 is the impact of currency movements on transactions.
And although they are hedged it is still somewhat negatively incremental versus the prior year.
We expect transaction currency impacts to be negative to our gross profit by approximately 60 basis points in 2015 as compared to 2014.
We would be comfortable with adjusted EPS guidance in the range between $6.70 to $6.80 per share on a constant currency basis reflecting an operational or constant currency growth rate of 5% to 6%.
This is higher than our previous guidance as we have increased the lower end of the range reflecting some operational improvements in the business and our confidence at this point in the year.
Again we are not predicting the impact of currency movements but to give you an idea of the potential impact on earnings per share if currency exchange rates for all of 2015 were to remain where they were as of last week then our reported adjusted EPS would be negatively impacted by approximately $0.60 per share which is consistent with our previous guidance.
Therefore our reported adjusted EPS would range between $6.10 to $6.20 per share.
At this stage in the year we would be comfortable with your models reflecting the midpoint of this range which is higher than our previous guidance.
So in summary as you update your models for the guidance that I just provided I would like to make a few key points.
Although operational sales growth is expected to range between 1% and 2% we are pleased to note that when excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures and hepatitis C products our operational sales growth at the midpoint of our guidance is a solid 6% for the full year 2015 as compared to 5% for 2014.
And with regard to earnings on a constant currency basis our guidance on operational EPS growth is strong and in the range of between 5% and 6%.
And finally as we execute on our growth plans we are continuing to make portfolio choices and investments in our business particularly in research and development as we continue to build our pipelines across the enterprise which will position us for sustained future growth.
And now I would like to turn things back to Louise for the Q&amp;A portion of the meeting.
Louise? Thank you Dominic.
And Holly can you please give the instructions for the Q&amp;A session? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Glenn Novarro with RBC Capital Markets.
Good morning Glenn.
Good morning.
Question for Alex in your first couple of years Alex you’ve spent a lot of time with divestitures divesting cardio devices diagnostics pharmaceuticals and consumer brands.
As you look at the enterprise now do you think we are finished with the divestitures? Question one.
And question two do we now enter a period where the company is more focused on acquisitions? Thank you.
Hey good morning Glenn Alex here and thank you very much for your question.
Glenn 3 years ago when we started looking at our strategies going forward we tried to outline a very clear path ahead that would really consist of multiple components.
One is obviously continuing to invest in our organic businesses both in sales and marketing and research and development and I think we demonstrated that in spite of a lot of different puts and takes that we have continued to do that in a responsible way as Dominic outlined earlier when he was taking you through the P&amp;L.
An area where we did have a lot of focus was on making sure that our businesses were competitive then of course we tried to be very clear in that criteria there that look we want to be number one and number two in the marketplace.
We want to have a clear innovation or technology path to really help patients or consumers or very importantly we wanted the business to be complementary to something else that we are doing in another area of the enterprise and of course just fundamentally be a strong business.
And if they didn’t meet those criteria then of course we consider other options where they maybe better served in someone else’s hands.
And as you noted we have demonstrated that we are willing to do that as well.
We think that’s an ongoing process in the business.
We would expect there business our size is in excess of $70 billion involved in the numerous platforms.
That’s something that you will see as part of our natural cadence and flow going forward.
But clearly we are always also interested in growth opportunities.
And when we see strong innovations that really make a difference for patients that also where we feel it offers a great complement to one of our existing franchises or frankly a platform for significant growth into the future we have got the balance sheet we have got the wherewithal to make those investments and that’s always the priority for us and will remain so into the future.
And just as a follow-up to that if you look at the pipeline of M&amp;A potential number one would you call the pipeline meaningful in other words there are a lot of rich targets out there.
And then as you look at these targets what do you see in terms of the valuation of these targets are these targets getting stretched and is that maybe one of the reasons why you haven’t done as much M&amp;A here in the last few years? Thank you.
No Glenn thank you.
Look we do feel that there are several significant opportunities really across each one of our segments that offer potential for growth and that are consistent with the strategic outline that I mentioned earlier.
At the same time I think we demonstrated that we want to be thoughtful and disciplined about our approach.
And we intend to continue that path going forward.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from the line of Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning Kristen.
Hi good morning everybody.
I was just wondering Dominic if you can maybe just walk us through just again with the disposition of Cordis just kind of what you are assuming in terms of timing of the sale of the business and then the dilution how we should think about that should we think about that similar with the OCD business in terms of the use of the proceeds perhaps with another round of repurchase to offset dilution again or kind of how we are thinking still about cardiovascular? Sure Kristen.
Well we expect that the Cordis divestiture will close in the latter part of the year.
We still have some regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions.
So we would expect that towards the end of the year that’s been consistent with our previous discussion nothing has changed there.
The dilution of not having Cordis as part of the business is not that significant quite frankly not as much as it was for OCD.
As you know that business after we exited the drug-eluting stent business is a relatively small portion of our business.
And then with respect to use of proceeds as we do typically when we do divestitures we wait after the transactions are complete look at other opportunities we have for the use of cash and then make our decisions then as we prepare our plans for the coming year.
So as of now I really can’t comment on what we might do with any of the proceeds.
Hi Kristen this is Alex.
I just might also add that cardiovascular remains an area of strategic importance for us.
We have a very strong Biosense Webster business.
In fact if you look at the quarterly performance for the second quarter which is once again double-digit.
I think this reflects almost 3 years or 4 years now of consecutive improvements in that performance at a very similar level a great flow of new technologies that’s really making a difference for patients.
We also think cardiovascular so look it still remains a global healthcare issue with a lot of innovation.
So it’s an area where we remain interested and we still feel we have very solid footing with our Biosense Webster EP business.
Got it.
And then just maybe can you give us a little more color just on REMICADE I know that that’s obviously been a key concern of investors just what you are seeing in the quarter and kind of expectations ahead just with respect to the business over in Europe with biosimilars? So in the quarter Kristen we had in the export sales we actually had an inventory change that negatively impacted the reported results there for the pharmaceutical group by about 2% what we are seeing in Europe is as expected so for the countries that went off patent in February 2015 we are seeing about market share for the biosimilars in the mid single-digits so as expected.
Okay perfect.
Thank you.
Okay.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Good morning Mike.
Hi good morning.
Let me turn to the pharma side for a minute I think two products that people focused on in the first half of the year for impact of the competition were STELARA and INVOKANA INVOKANA looks like the momentum has continued and continues to look fantastic STELARA looks like it slowed this quarter so could you just comment on both? Yes Mike Alex.
Look we still see STELARA growth at over 15% strong growth in the U.S.
and particularly strong growth outside of the United States at almost 27%.
There was a slight sequential decrease in share we are projecting but overall if we look at the competitive profile of the product how we are doing combined frankly with our overall franchise presence that we see in this area we remain really confident in it.
And any comments on INVOKANA? INVOKANA is the same I think look we continue to highlight the profile.
We have a got great reimbursement well in excess of 50% to 60% in both commercial as well as the Medicare side of the business.
We have continued to see strong TRx trends both in primary care well as endocrinology.
So overall we are seeing strong uptake and we think it’s a big opportunity Mike.
Okay.
Alex while I have got you here it’s been 3 years since you guys closed the Synthes acquisition and I am sure as you commented you are not thrilled by the first half performance in trauma and spine so can you just talk a little bit about how you are feeling about that deal and what it will take to get it back on track? Thanks.
Sure Mike.
Thanks for the question.
Look overall we absolutely believe it was the right move when to bring Synthes in and create the largest and most diversified Orthopaedics company.
And when we reflect back there there have been changes that have taken place in the market.
One is just the market growth across all these segments.
If you remember back in 2008 2009 2010 we saw high single-digit growth really for our hips knees trauma as well as spine.
That has changed significantly.
We are now seeing that in the 3% to 4% range.
I am pleased with the performance overall that we have seen through the integration.
Whenever you bring two large organizations together there is always a lot of moving pieces.
But I think over the last 3 years if you take a look at the overall disruption and the way that we have been able to manage it I think the team has done a very good job.
And now we are really focused on what do we do to ensure that we are best positioned for the future.
And frankly we are doing it at a time when a lot of our competitors are just getting ready to go through a significant amount of integration and transition.
And this is where we are excited.
And I think it starts with innovation.
We have had a nice cadence of innovation.
In fact we are in the midst – we just launched the TFNA the transfemoral nail in trauma that we are excited about.
We think will be an important addition to the bag – to the portfolio that part of the business.
In the U.S.
we were encouraged by the performance that we saw in knees and hips at 5% and 4% growth respectively for the quarter.
And also going forward I think we are also quite excited about the opportunity to work with customers in new unique and different ways across that portfolio.
And I also think it’s fair to say that in all those areas we are going to continue to look for ways to drive that business through innovation but also through increasing our effectiveness and efficiencies across all areas as well.
So I think we are pleased we are not satisfied there is more work that we need to do and that’s where we are focused right now.
Thanks Alex.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from the line of Larry Biegelsen with Wells Fargo.
Good morning Larry.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Two clarifications on the utilization comments about the fourth consecutive quarter of improving utilization is that through Q1 or Q2.
And then second on REMICADE outside the U.S.
by our math we had total international and export sales growth in Q2 down about 18% constant currency Louise you talked about that 2% impact from the inventory reduction was that to that 18 or so percent was that just the REMICADE outside the U.S.
could you help clarify those two points that would be great? And I have just one follow-up for Alex after that.
So Larry that 2% is on total pharmaceutical sales.
So it’s a large reduction in the inventory.
Total worldwide pharma? Yes yes.
Okay.
And then on the utilization was that through Q1 or Q2? Yes Larry Alex here.
That was through Q2.
And again you know this data as well as we do and we are trying to triangulate from multiple different sources but what we see is for example around 4% growth in hospital admissions.
If you take a look at hospital surgical procedures we are thinking probably between 2.5% and 3% and if we look at overall outpatient procedure growth probably around 3%.
So it’s still positive.
In some cases it’s flat perhaps a slight decrease versus what we saw in Q1 but we think overall the trends are relatively constant what we have seen thus far.
Good good.
That’s helpful.
And I appreciate your comments earlier on M&amp;A and the M&amp;A environment but you have $15 billion in net cash which is obviously not earning much.
I know your first priority for cash is the dividend and then M&amp;A.
But at what point do you consider using your cash to repurchase shares Alex? Thanks for taking the questions.
Sure Larry.
I think look overall ultimately we want to create more value for shareholders.
And as we look at our capital allocation strategy you just iterated we have a strong commitment to dividends.
We have done that for a long time.
You know our statistics and our track record there.
Regarding M&amp;A it’s also another area obviously that we keep our eye on.
I mentioned earlier in the discussion that we are always looking for the right opportunity and we try to do that in a balanced approach.
Of course we want innovation.
Of course we want complementary things to add to our portfolio of growth opportunities but we also want to ensure that we maintain the discipline and the perspective of our approach that I think has served us well over a lot of years.
And even if you look at the internal versus external investment in the company I think if you look over a 20 a 10 or even the near-term period about 45% of our growth comes from what I call organic investment in our research and development versus slightly over half through M&amp;A.
And so that will continue to be our approach.
Also Larry I would say that if you look at it over long periods of time I think we are very proud of the fact that over a decade we have returned about 70% of our free cash flow to shareholders.
So I think it’s important to keep that in mind although we may be evaluating opportunities all the time we are always mindful of the fact of appropriate return to shareholders consistently over long periods of time.
Yes.
And I think even recently through some of the announcements that we have made about share repurchases we have demonstrated that that’s part of our mix and we will continue to be so going forward.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from the line of Jami Rubin with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning Jami.
Good morning.
Good morning everyone.
Just a couple of follow-up questions on sort of the major themes of the earnings call Alex and I appreciate your taking the time to be on the call.
Just if you look at the MD&amp;D business the MD&amp;D business has underperformed its peers for at least the last 4 to 5 years and maybe longer I am not sure but I can’t imagine you are pleased with that performance.
And I am just wondering what is your interest level in moving up the technology curve out of what you are in which are mostly commodity businesses? When I look across where the major growth opportunities are in MedTech you guys aren’t there robotics transcatheter heart valves et cetera.
So I appreciate valuations are high and you want to be disciplined but at the same time J&amp;J’s MD&amp;D business continues to under perform.
So if you could comment on that please? And then secondly to you Dominic you are looking about $2 billion in non-operating income in 2015 largely related to divestitures how do you repeat that performance in 2016 without creating again a very difficult comparison? Thanks very much.
Hey Jamie thank you for the questions.
Look first of all as I said regarding our medical device businesses we think this is an important business and remains a very solid growth opportunity going forward.
And look as you look across that entire business we have a number of very exciting areas frankly that are doing quite well.
We highlighted some of them earlier whether it’s Biosense Webster whether it’s what we are seeing in areas like biosurgicals energy our Endocutter business we are starting to see the turnaround in areas such as vision care and we don’t think those are commodity businesses.
We think those are driven by innovation technology and they have been a steady strain.
Now are there other areas where we are interested? Well you know that we have made an investment in the robotics space.
We have announced an exciting opportunity with Google.
It’s still early days.
We recognized that but we think that there is a lot of opportunity there given our expertise in general surgery overall and combining it with some of the expertise that those new technology partners can add.
And we are also interested in other areas beyond that.
We have demonstrated the ability in the past that when we see them we will participate and acquire them.
And I think we have also demonstrated over the past few years that in areas where we don’t see that path forward that we will be active on the divestiture front as well.
So we think that there is room for improvement.
We know that we have got businesses like diabetes care for example that had a significant impact from pricing a few years ago vision care that’s still in the midst of a turnaround but we think that we have got the strategies the innovation in place to turn those around and these can be very solid and strong performance going forward.
And Jami with respect to the other income and expenses $2 billion roughly that you quoted I think we were very clear early in the year that we were going to use those divestiture gains to offset some pretty significant headwinds and in particular the major headwind of currency this year.
Going forward I don’t believe we will have the same level of divestiture income but we will still have some.
As Alex have mentioned earlier we are continuously reviewing our portfolio and making decisions of where we want to participate and where we think the assets would be better off in someone else’s hands and where we could get value for our shareholders by selling the assets.
So I think for ‘16 we would still see some level of divestiture income but again in ‘16 versus ‘15 we won’t have – we don’t believe we will have the significant headwinds of currency that we just experienced in ‘15 nor will we have the tough comparisons of not having OLYSIO.
So I think you will continue to see it as part of our strategy to reevaluate our portfolio and deploy those gains against higher growth opportunities.
Thank you.
And I just want to clarify something on the inventory for the pharmaceuticals.
The 2% negative impact includes also some inventory reductions for OLYSIO.
So if you just look at the REMICADE export total U.S.
impact would be about 1% about half of that okay? Thank you.
Next question please.
Your next question will come from the line of Josh Jennings with Cowen &amp; Company.
Good morning Josh.
Good morning.
Thanks so much for taking the questions.
I would like to have first one for Dominic just as we look into 2016 and beyond and the annualization of OLYSIO and other headwinds experienced in ‘15 how should we be thinking about leveraging the P&amp;L driving a higher level of EPS growth relative to revenue growth? Should we be anticipating consistent constant currency EPS growth in 100 200 basis points range or could that spread improve as you experience operating improvements in consumer and the device franchises and the continued strength in the pharma unit? Yes thanks Josh.
Well as we have said many times we always plan our business to grow our top line at a rate faster than the competitive set and then grow the bottom line at a rate of growth that’s slightly faster than the top line growth.
That depends each year on what investments we want to make to continue the growth trajectory of the business.
So I can’t give you a formula to think about but I think you have seen us be very consistent in our ability to continue to grow earnings at a rate that’s appropriately at a level faster than sales again depending on what the market is doing and then depending on what particular investments we have.
We do see increased profitability in the consumer business but as you mentioned it in your comments and Sandi had referred to it earlier now that we are through many of the issues in the consent decree we saw the increase in the profitability last year and we expect that business will continue to contribute more profitability in the future.
Thanks.
And just a follow-up on the pharma product specific question there is some recent ANDA filers for ZYTIGA can you just talk about any inherent risk of a generic coming to the U.S.
market prior to ‘16 and just an update on your patent positioning for that asset? Thanks a lot.
Okay.
So just to repeat what I said in the prepared remarks the composition of matter patent expires in December 2016 and the method of treatment patent expires in August 2027.
We would not speculate on any ANDA approval timing or outcome of any litigation.
However if we decide to file a lawsuit the 30-month stay would begin April 2016 at the earliest and the length of which will be of course subject to any outcome of any litigation.
Thank you and next question.
Your next question will come from the line of Vamil Divan with Credit Suisse.
Good morning Vamil.
Hi good morning.
Thanks so much for taking the question.
So just two here if I could.
One you talked a little bit about INVOKANA earlier I know Mike asked about this as well but just about halfway through the quarter we did have the FDA comment around ketoacidosis and just curious I mean obviously performance was fine this quarter but any on a qualitative basis it gives sense from any sort of questions or changes in prescribing habits as a result of what the FDA has stated at this point.
And then second I appreciate your comments on Greece I was just curious also regarding Puerto Rico just some of that kind of macro issues that are going on there I know you guys have some manufacturing down there do you sense any sort of risk or concerns there depending how that sort of plays out over the next few weeks or months? We will take first the questions on the DKA it’s early on but our Phase 3 trial is actually included about 10 000 patients and we saw very few cases of it.
Right.
And with respect to Puerto Rico you are right we have a significant manufacturing presence there and significant employment on the island of course as a result.
But I don’t see that as a major factor in our ability to continue progressing with our plans.
So it's not on our radar screen as a major issue to contend with.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from the line of Jayson Bedford with Raymond James.
Good morning and thanks for taking the questions.
I think I heard Alex mention $1 billion in cost savings by 2018 I just wanted a little clarity is that a new program or is that a program that I thought you introduced a couple of years ago? This is Dominic Jayson.
It’s the program that we introduced a couple of years ago.
We are a couple of years into it now and so we are already seeing some of those cost benefits.
And Alex is describing the same program where we the looked that by 2018 if you compared it to base year of 2013 the overall cost reduction would be in the aggregate of $1 billion.
And how far along are you are you at 50% 60%? We kicked it off in ‘13.
We did a lot of planning of course in ‘14.
So we are just starting to ramp it up this year into the next couple of years.
Okay.
And then maybe a question for Sandi on the consumer side you have added investment over the last few years to support the are-launch of the OTC products but margin seem to improve nicely over the last few quarters does the added investment wind down to generate better margins or just the growth pick up to improve margins? Thanks for the question.
The way in which we are looking at this is the – as we are sun-setting the consent decree it enables us to improve the productivity of our manufacturing footprint.
So a large part of where you will see continued improvement in the profitability of the business is by improving our COGS and our gross margins for the business.
So that’s one aspect of it.
The other aspect of it is we are – we have undertaken over the last couple of years an approach to globalize our brands and to globalize how we manage them which drives increased efficiency in every single marketing dollar.
So our perspective on this is we need to continue to invest behind these brands both the U.S.
OTC portfolio as well as the global portfolio.
So you will not see us reduce our investments behind our brand building of all of our core brands but what you will see is improved leverage in our manufacturing footprint and actually how we are spending those dollars to drive improved profitability across the sector.
Jason this is Alex.
If I can just add I really want to commend Sandi and Jorge and their teams for the job that they are doing on these re-launches.
I think when we were having these calls several years ago there was probably a fair amount of skepticism on our ability to re-launch against private label making sure that we can work our way through the consent decree requirements.
And if you look at the progress that’s been made over the past few years obviously it starts with great products.
I think now we have over 80% of our brands return to the shelf a lot of new recent launches particularly along the TYLENOL line.
If you combine that with the way that we have achieved all the consent decree requirements I think we worked closely with the agency.
We have done that.
In fact I think we will be the – if not the one of the only large over-the-counter companies to ever be able to do that successfully.
And really good news is that when you look – as we re-launch these brands the share uptake is strong.
I think we are back up to now about 60% of the share that we achieved in areas like pain.
So we are building our way back up.
And when you combine that with some of the new innovations that we have we definitely see a nice growth opportunity in that part of the business.
So with respect to everyone’s time we will take two more questions.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from the line of David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning David.
Good morning.
Thanks Louise for squeezing me in maybe just a question for Alex and Sandi and a quick follow-up for Dominic but the Consumer business is clearly recovering that’s the big message I think of this call and I think the commentary I think you have made publicly these last few months seems to be that for M&amp;A in Consumer it’s going to center more on brands and not company so you see more willing in consumer at least from our estimation to rule out large M&amp;A am I reading that right and why is that the case? So our first – the way in which we are thinking about acquisitions in consumer is a combination of things.
We are going to clearly stay focused on our priority consumer need states and geographies.
So the way we look at it is a combination are there brands that are appropriate to tuck into our infrastructure to drive growth in certain markets or in certain areas at the consumer need state.
But we also will look at technologies that we can license in like we have done in other parts of J&amp;J.
And lastly we do look at companies to acquire whether they are mid-size companies or whether they are larger companies.
And we are highly disciplined about looking at those and understanding the benefit of doing those kinds of larger acquisitions versus mid-size or smaller acquisitions.
So we haven’t ruled out any particular part of the marketplace.
We are looking at a variety of different opportunities given that the business is now stabilizing growing again.
We believe we are sort of in a position where we can look at these things a little bit more on an ongoing basis.
Yes.
And David I would just add onto that that the Consumer area remains one of strong strategic importance for Johnson &amp; Johnson.
When you think about the role of consumers and healthcare utilization going forward when you think about the way that you are able to drive innovation and frankly when you think about the reach that it gives you particularly in the emerging markets and the fast growing markets.
And by the way for Johnson &amp; Johnson it not only operates that way to drive growth in consumer but it acts also as a way to increase our uptake in our other businesses particularly in those growth markets.
We think there are a lot of opportunities.
And I think mission one over the past few years has been getting it on the right track.
As you mentioned yourself we think we made a lot of progress there.
We are feeling much much better.
And now we are obviously looking for ways how do we expand that how do we take it to the next level.
Okay very helpful.
Thank you for that color.
And then Dominic just a quick question I am just thinking about international growth this quarter was a little slower I am just wondering if you can give us an update on what you are seeing macro in emerging markets maybe specifically China just given the events the last month have you seen any acute slowdown or is it relatively stable? Thank you.
So we have seen in China some slowdown.
I wouldn’t call it acute.
There are some dynamics of course of generic competition in China and an overall slower growth in economic growth.
So we are seeing that but I think we are well positioned.
We have been in China for many many years.
We have a good footprint there.
We obviously manufacture there as well and our brands continue to get good uptick there.
And of course we are not in the generic part of the pharmaceutical business in China because we are focused more on innovation in that market.
So I wouldn’t call it acute but I would say we have seen some slowdown in the overall market growth in China.
Thank you very much.
Last question please.
And your next question will come from the line of Rick Wise with Stifel.
Thanks so much for taking the question.
Good morning everybody.
Alex maybe just a question for you and then one for Sandi you talked again and you highlighted your focus on the OR the future and talking about the Google JV and robotics can you maybe give us a little more concrete color I mean is there a grand plan does it require acquisitions are we going to see some tangible products or launches that are going to impact sales and earnings over the next 6 months to 12 months how do you want us to think about it? Rick when you think about this as a really strategic investment in the future for robotic surgery and we – as we see the surgical suite continue to develop in today’s environment I would say there is a pretty clear line of demarcation between what you would say as standard surgery and robotic surgery.
And we think as technology develops in the future whether it’s real-time data collection whether it’s visualization whether it’s incorporating some of the new technologies in areas such as energy and hemostats combining these in very new and unique approaches we think offers a real significant opportunity to improve patient outcomes ultimately to grow our business.
We also think there was some inherent limitations to today’s robotic surgery environment when you frankly look at the size and the scale of some of the existing innovation.
And if you look at what’s happened with other technology platforms as they have become smaller more flexible more mobile and frankly have a better ability to integrate various activities around the OR that’s where we think we can really make a difference.
We realize of course that we bring certain capabilities to the table but we are also thinking – working with partners like Google and others.
It expands our capabilities significantly.
And so look we see this as really not something to have an impact where I would say over the next 6 to 12 months this is likely more over a 2-year to 3-year plus timeframe but we – this is something that we are quite committed to that our partners are committed to and that we see as a real opportunity to fundamentally change the way we think about surgery and robotics in the future.
I really appreciate that.
And just last quickly Sandi I mean it seems clear that VIBE is off to a strong start I think you launched it in the U.S.
late last year maybe just talk if you could give us a little more color on the rollout where are you are you fully rolled out are you converting your own patients to VIBE or are you gaining new accounts just – and maybe what’s next beyond VIBE? Thanks so much.
Thanks.
So as you – in insulin delivery in total what we have done is as you know we have launched the product in Europe and also in Canada over the last couple of years.
And both in Europe and in Canada it also has a pediatric indication which clearly gives it some unique differentiation in the marketplace.
We effectively launched it in the United States really at the beginning of this year.
So we have seen significant positive growth in uptake of the product in the U.S.
which is a combination of existing patients upgrading to the new product as well as gaining new – basically new to therapy insulin pumpers as well as there we have seen a lot of conversion from other pump platforms to our platform.
We in the second quarter also filed for the pediatric indication for the U.S.
product.
And so obviously the FDA will go through its review process but we are hopeful that before the end of this year we should have the pediatric indication which will be a further uptick in the business in the U.S.
and be very helpful to us in the U.S.
As I also mentioned earlier there is two other things in insulin delivery that we are very focused on actually three but two of them are working in partnership with Dexcom on a next-generation pump that really brings the best of what we have learned of how to make this much more user-friendly and effective with a patient as well as ensuring that we have got the right algorithm in the pump for insulin delivery.
Combining that with the next generation of sensor our current pump has that with Dexcom.
And then we are also and have done a lot of work not just in the insulin side but also in the BGM side of really creating a much better ecosystem for the patient to have information and data that helps them manage their condition much more effectively.
And so we are using information technology in a smarter way going forward and we are seeing very positive impact of that not just in the insulin delivery side but in our core BGM business.
So that’s another place that we will see a number of different things that we are going to be doing in this business.
And last but not least I mentioned that the Calibra patch pump is another great growth platform we believe for us because it’s really a unique to the marketplace way to help type 2 diabetics who are insulin-dependent have a new way of getting their insulin delivered to them in a much more discreet way.
So there are lot of things in the works there is a lot of things in our pipeline in insulin delivery.
Appreciate it.
Thanks.
Thank you.
We will have some closing remarks by Alex.
Okay.
Well thank you everyone.
And look in closing I want to again extend our appreciation to all of you for joining today’s meeting.
We are pleased with the solid results we reported this morning which as we discussed today really do reflect the strong underlying growth we are seeing across the enterprise.
And when you combine this with the actions we have taken to even further strengthen our core businesses and advance our pipeline Johnson &amp; Johnson is well-positioned to continue to drive growth over the long-term.
So I wish everyone a great day and thank you very much.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s Johnson &amp; Johnson second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Johnson &amp; Johnson's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session of the conference.
This call is being recorded.
If anyone has any objections you may disconnect at this time.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference call over to Johnson &amp; Johnson.
You may begin.
Good morning and welcome.
I am Louise Mehrotra Vice President of Investor Relations for Johnson &amp; Johnson and it is my pleasure this morning to review our business results for the third quarter of 2015.
Joining me on the call today are Dominic Caruso Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer and Gary Pruden Worldwide Chairman Medical Devices.
A few logistics before we get into the details.
This review is being made available via webcast accessible through the Investor Relations section of the Johnson &amp; Johnson website at investor.jnj.com.
I will begin by briefly reviewing the third quarter for the corporation and our three business segments.
Next Gary will discuss our Medical Device business and the strategy for growth.
Lastly Dominic will provide some additional commentary on the results review the income statement and discuss guidance for 2015.
We will then open the call to your questions.
We expect the call to last approximately 90 minutes.
Included with the press release that was issued earlier this morning is the schedule of sales for key products and/or businesses to facilitate updating your models.
These schedules are available on the Johnson &amp; Johnson website as is the press release.
Please note we will be using a presentation to complement today's commentary.
The presentation is also available on our website.
Before we begin let me remind you that some of the statements made during this review are or may be considered forward-looking statements.
The 10-K for the fiscal year 2014 and the company's subsequent filings identify certain factors that could cause the company’s actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement made today.
The company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.
Our SEC filings including the 10-K are available through the company and on our website.
During the review non-GAAP financial measures are used to provide information pertinent to ongoing business performance.
These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered replacements for and should be read together with GAAP results.
Tables reconciling these measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are available in the schedules accompanying the press release and on the Investor Relations section of the Johnson &amp; Johnson website.
Now I would like to review our results for the third quarter of 2015.
Worldwide sales to customers were $17.1 billion for the third quarter of 2015 down 7.4% versus third quarter 2014.
On an operational basis sales were up 0.8% and currency had a negative impact of 8.2%.
In the U.S.
sales were down 0.6%.
In regions outside the U.S.
our operational growth was 2.1% while the effective currency exchange rates negatively impacted our reported results by 15.8%.
On an operational basis both Europe and Western Hemisphere excluding the U.S.
grew 2.7% while the Asia Pacific Africa region grew by 1.2%.
Growth in all regions was negatively impacted by hepatitis C competition.
Excluding the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures and hepatitis C sales underlying operational growth was 5.6% worldwide 7.7% in the U.S.
and 3.8% outside the U.S.
Turning now to earnings net earnings were $3.4 billion and earnings per share were $1.20 versus $1.66 a year ago.
As referenced in the table reconciling non-GAAP measures 2015 third quarter net earnings were adjusted to exclude after-tax amortization expense of $437 million and a charge of $377 million for after-tax special items.
2014 third quarter net earnings were adjusted to exclude a net gain of $144 million.
Dominic will discuss special items in his remarks.
Excluding amortization expense and special items for both periods adjusted net earnings for the current quarter were $4.2 billion and adjusted diluted earnings per share were $1.49 representing decreases of 9.4% and 7.5% respectively as compared to the same period in 2014.
Currency translation significantly impacted net earnings.
On an operational basis adjusted diluted earnings per share grew 1.2%.
Turning now to business segment highlights please note percentages quoted represent operational sales change in comparison to the third quarter of 2014 unless otherwise stated and therefore exclude the impact of currency translation.
I will begin with the consumer segment.
Worldwide consumer segment sales of $3.3 billion increased 3.1% with the U.S.
sales up 8.9% while outside the U.S.
sales grew 0.4%.
Excluding the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures underlying growth was 4% worldwide 8.9% in the U.S.
and 1.5% outside the U.S.
Growth was driven by U.S.
OTC and Skin Care Women's Health outside the U.S.
and Oral Care worldwide.
OTC sales results were driven by strong U.S.
growth of 22.4% with analgesics in the U.S.
up nearly 29% due to increased share complemented by the reintroduction of Tylenol Arthritis including initial launch inventory.
In the U.S.
adult analgesic market share was approximately 12.5% up from approximately 11% a year ago while U.S.
pediatric share was 44.5% up from 41% a year ago.
Additional contributors to growth in the U.S.
were seasonal inventory build for ZYRTEC and in the initial stocking for re-launched digestive health products.
Results outside the U.S.
were negatively impacted by the timing of the seasonal inventory build for upper respiratory products.
As we noted last quarter the build occurred in the second quarter this year versus the third quarter last year.
In U.S.
Skin Care market share increases and a seasonal inventory build drove strong growth for AVEENO and NEUTROGENA.
New product launches and successful marketing campaigns drove the results for LISTERINE in Oral Care and Women's Health products outside the U.S.
Moving now to our Pharmaceutical segment worldwide sales of $7.7 billion decreased 0.3% with U.S.
sales down 4.5% and sales outside the U.S.
up 5.5%.
New competitors in Hepatitis C significantly impacted sales results.
Excluding sales of Hepatitis C products OLYSIO and INCIVO as well as the impact of acquisitions and divestitures underlying growth worldwide U.S.
and outside the U.S.
was approximately 10.1% 11.5% and 8.5% respectively.
Important contributors to growth were INVOKANA/INVOKAMET IMBRUVICA SIMPONI STELARA INVEGA SUSTENNA or XEPLION PREZISTA and PREZCOBIX CONCERTA XARELTO and ZYTIGA partially offset by lower export sales of REMICADE.
Strong momentum in market share increases drove results for INVOKANA/INVOKAMET.
In the U.S.
INVOKANA/INVOKAMET achieved 6.3% total prescription share or TRx within the defined market of type-2 diabetes excluding insulin and metformin up from 6% in the second quarter of 2015.
TRx with endocrinologists was over 13% for the quarter and over 5.5% in primary care.
INVOKANA has greater than 80% preferred access across commercial and greater than 90% for Part D plans.
Strong patient uptake with new indications approvals and demonstrated efficacy drove results for IMBRUVICA in the U.S.
IMBRUVICA is the leader in both new and total patient regimen share in second line CLL and MCL.
Outside the U.S.
results were driven primarily by Europe with strong patient uptake particularly in Germany France and the U.K.
IMBRUVICA is now approved in 60 countries.
STERALA and combine SIMPONI SIMPONI ARIA achieved strong growth across all the major regions due to robust market growth combined with increased penetration of SIMPONI ARIA.
INVEGA SUSTENNA or XEPLION achieved strong results due primarily to increased market share where CONCERTA growth was primarily due to a therapeutic equivalence reclassification of generics by the FDA last November.
As expected during the quarter we saw generic entries for INVEGA tablets in the U.S.
We have launched an authorized generic of INVEGA.
Strong results for PREZISTA were driven by the launch earlier this year of PREZCOBIX.
Continued share growth drove results for XARELTO sales with TRx for the quarter in the U.S.
anticoagulant market of 15.8% up 1.5 points from a year ago.
XARELTO is broadly reimbursed with over 90% of commercial and Medicare Part D patients covered at the lowest branded product co-pay.
As an update during the quarter we received several Paragraph IV notifications from generic manufacturers advising that they filed abbreviated new drug applications with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of XARELTO in the U.S.
before the expiration of the relevant patents listed in the orange book.
The composition of matter patent owned by our partner Bayer is expected to expire in December 2020.
However a patent term extension has been filed which if fully granted with extend the patent to mid-2024.
Further if we are granted pediatric exclusivity this will provide an additional six months to the existing marketing exclusivity or patent term.
We together with Bayer will vigorously defend the patents and have filed suit against the generic applicants.
Strong growth of the combined metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer market at over 12.5% drove the results for ZYTIGA in the U.S.
ZYTIGA’s share was 27.1% of that market down approximately one point on a sequential basis due to increased competition.
Outside the U.S.
ZYTIGA achieved strong growth in Asia and Latin America which was partially offset by lower sales in Europe due to increased competition.
REMICADE export sales were down over 40% with two-thirds of that decline attributed to sales to our partners in Japan due to an inventory draw down in preparation for our label expansion for a new indication.
Additionally the weakening of the euro and the loss of exclusivity in Europe has negatively impacted results.
I will now review the Medical Devices segment results.
Worldwide Medical Devices segment sales of $6.1 billion increased 0.9%.
U.S.
sales increased 2% while sales outside the U.S.
increased 0.1%.
Excluding the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures underlying growth was 1.3% worldwide with the U.S.
up 2% and growth of 0.8% outside the U.S.
Growth was driven by Vision Care Specialty Surgery and Cardiovascular Care partially offset by lower sales in Orthopaedics and price declines in the diabetes care.
Vision Care results was strong across the major regions driven by the introduction of new products.
Market growth share gains in certain segments and new product introduction drove the results for specialty surgery growth with worldwide bio-surgery growth of over 9% energy growth outside the U.S.
of approximately 6% and worldwide Mentor growth of nearly 13%.
Cardiovascular care growth was driven by 9% worldwide increase in our electrophysiology business due to strong sales of the THERMOCOOL SMARTTOUCH Catheter.
Solid growth in the U.S.
for orthopaedics was offset by lower sales outside the U.S.
Sales outside the U.S.
were negatively impacted by softer demand and a reduction in inventory levels primarily in China.
The introduction earlier this year of the TFNA nail drove U.S.
trauma growth of approximately 5%.
Additional contributors to the U.S.
growth were strong double-digit sales of ORTHOVISC and MONOVISC 3% growth in hips due to our primary stem platform and 2% growth in knees due to the success of the ATTUNE platform.
In the U.S.
positive mix from new product introductions partially offset negative price in the major categories.
That concludes the segment highlights for Johnson &amp; Johnson's third quarter of 2015.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Gary Pruden.
Gary? Thanks Louise.
I'm pleased to be here today to share with you the terrific work that's taking place at our Johnson &amp; Johnson Medical Device Group and why we’re excited for the future.
As you recall Sandi Peterson provided an update on our consumer facing Medical Devices in the second quarter so my discussion today is focused on our surgery orthopaedics and cardiovascular businesses.
I will provide our perspective on the market which we’re operating our unique advantages our performance through the third quarter and most important our strategy to win.
Before we begin I thought it will be helpful to provide some framing around the business and the quarter performance overall.
Our medical device business excluding the consumer facing medical device business and OCD has grown 1.8% on a year-to-date operational basis.
When we adjust for the women's health and Cordis business in addition to several non-recurring impacts on our business the underlying year-to-date operational growth was 2.8%.
Our stated goal is to lead in the categories in which we compete.
Today across our portfolio we have strong platforms such as Endocutters and Biosurgery that are outperforming market growth.
We have substantial platforms which we see growing solely such as wound closure where we have roughly an 80% share and we've identified areas that require further attention and infusion of innovation.
We believe we have sound strategies to achieve our leadership goals.
Our driving growth through enhanced innovation and excellence in execution design to get us two or above market growth in the next 12 to 24 months.
In Medical Devices we’ve been on the leading edge of industry consolidation.
And our conviction has grown even stronger that our breadth depth and scale can be leveraged to make it difference to those reserve.
Throughout my remarks this morning I will share examples of how the medical device businesses of Johnson &amp; Johnson are stronger together and how together we will accelerate growth and innovation.
We're competing in attractive global market growing at roughly 4% where we hold leadership positions in surgery orthopaedics and cardiovascular electrophysiology.
Demographics favored continued market growth as population's age the incidence of chronic diseases grow and more people gain access to care globally.
As both customers and providers seek to improve efficiency effectiveness and manage escalating cost consolidation has accelerated both within our global customer base and the industry.
As one Medical Device Group we enjoy unique market advantages today starting with the broad portfolio of medical offerings surgery orthopaedics and cardiovascular.
And we have the financial and industry strength of Johnson &amp; Johnson behind us that enables us to invest in growth platforms and bring comprehensive solutions to bear on global healthcare issues.
In emerging markets we have a substantial presence which delivered roughly 20% of our revenue through the third quarter of this year.
Our annualized sales in China alone continue to expand and currently exceed $1 billion year-to- date.
We have a strong leadership position in categories such as trauma minimally invasive surgery and sutures that help us facilitate a tip-of-the- sword strategy to establish leadership scale in emerging markets where we can then expand our key growth platforms.
And finally we compete from a position of strength.
The number one or two market positions in virtually every category in which we do business.
As one Johnson &amp; Johnson Medical Device Group aligned to a common strategy we will accelerate the benefits of these advantages going forward Our sales year-to-date were driven by the strong performances our electrophysiology endocutter bio-surgery and international energy businesses complemented by our solid results in joint reconstruction and sports medicine business.
Partially offsetting this growth were lower sales of spine and women's health problems.
Our 2015 results continue to be impacted by the relatively soft global market conditions.
We are seeing the market in the U.S.
improve but EMEA growth remains challenged and the emerging markets have slowed this year.
We expect the soft market conditions and pricing challenges across the Board to continue.
While we have strong category leaders across surgery cardiovascular and Orthopaedics we also have some opportunities to address platform challenges and reallocate resources to high growth opportunities in some of our platforms like trauma.
In trauma we have seen mixed results in our performance.
This has been an important area of focus since acquisition.
However we have seen a lower level of innovation though due to a number of factors including the significant remediation effort to bring some of these up to Johnson &amp; Johnson quality standards and the overall integration efforts during the last few years.
Going forward we are shifting more of our focus and resources to deliver new innovative products and target faster growing categories within the market such as elective foot and ankle.
The recent success of our new Femoral Nail System TFN advanced demonstrates receptivity in this category to new and meaningful innovation.
We also continue to strengthen the trauma franchise capabilities and high growth market such as U.S.
and China.
Additionally in trauma as across the entire portfolio we recognize the value of strategic partnerships and helping us to achieve our aspirations.
Through a new five year cooperation agreement between DePuy Synthes and the AO Foundation we will continue to develop innovative products and solutions train more surgeons to improve standards of care and treat more patients globally.
With respect to the broader portfolio management earlier this month we completed the divestiture of the Cordis business.
Through portfolio of discipline we will continue to exit categories that do not fit our strategy and evaluate our portfolio to identify those growth categories or heavier R&amp;D investment external partnerships and L&amp;A.
In summary we are sharpening our focus and investment on priority platforms that we believe will drive the majority of our growth.
As I noted earlier roughly 20% of our growth came from emerging markets and more than 50% of our revenue year-to-date has come from outside the U.S.
In line with what you’re hearing broadly about the economic slowdown of emerging markets we see that too.
But we are maintaining nice growth across our business in these markets.
Consistent with that over the next five years we continue to expect emerging markets to drive this proportional growth opportunities as access to quality health care continues to expand.
The World Health Organization estimates that nearly a third of the world's global disease burden could be addressed through surgery.
Yet nearly 5 billion people continue to lack access to safe timely and affordable surgical care.
Our goal is to reach more patients and restore more lives.
We aim to achieve this through meaningful innovation and efforts to expand access to care including continued physician training.
We are confident that the results will be improved standards of care for patients around the world and sales growth above industry rates or maintaining industry leading competitive margins.
We have a clear strategy to achieve this - accelerate growth in priority platforms through innovation and launch excellence sustain growth in our core platforms leverage our breadth and scale through novel commercial models and invest in areas of significant unmet needs.
This is a strategy we believe will deliver more value for customers and patients and for our company and shareholders.
Our strategy starts with our three industry categories of surgery orthopaedics and cardiovascular.
Across the portfolio we have identified six priority growth platforms in which we disproportionately invest to accelerate growth.
These are the areas where the medical need continues to be significant and our capabilities are strong.
In surgery our priority platforms are endocutters and energy.
Not only are we getting good response from our customers on these platforms which you are seeing in the numbers but we're winning top awards for the design of innovative solutions that benefit the user the environment and the business.
You can see that we flag robotics as one of our key growth platforms here in surgery and I'll provide a little more on that later.
In orthopaedics we are prioritizing our knees and trauma platforms.
Knee replacement is the single largest selective procedure in orthopaedics.
Over the next six years worldwide knee market is expected to grow at 3.8% CAGR to around $9 billion.
We believe we're well placed for growth with products and instruments from our ATTUNE platform and in cardiovascular electrophysiology continue to deliver strong growth and is a priority platform for us through our Biosense Webster business.
Additionally across these broad categories we're targeting four core platforms in which we'll sustain growth and continue to divest in innovation.
You can see here that in surgery the foundation platforms in the space are bio-surgery and wound closure.
In orthopaedics our hip business is a key platform and finally sterilization and disinfection a core capability that addresses the still significant unmet need for preventing infection which drives successive cost and extends healing time for patients.
Let me be clear this focused strategy is not to say that we will not invest in other platforms where we compete.
There remain important areas for our future.
We expect the combination of our priority and sustained growth platforms to deliver a significant portion of our growth over the next five years.
These platforms will be a major contributor to our ability to grow above market in the coming years.
We're focusing on the nine key geographies where we believe we can drive the majority of our growth.
These markets are being targeted based on strong healthcare utilization outlook large unmet need within medical devices and a strong Johnson &amp; Johnson presence footprint within these markets.
Last year at our Medical Device Investor Business Review we discussed 30 significant filings that were planned by the end of 2016.
We're well on the way to achieving that goal which provides a consistent means of product introductions all contributing to growth.
Those new product innovations combined with our aggressive reallocation of resources I just discussed complemented by our novel commercial models positions us well to grow faster than the market.
We've identified five disease states five areas of unmet needs where we think we can make the greatest difference through innovation internally or externally sourced.
They include surgical oncology obesity select cardiovascular disease osteoarthritis and osteoporosis.
We're exploring what will take a combination of products and end to end solutions to make the critical difference for physicians and patients addressing these needs and we'll take advantage of our strong balance sheet to invest in innovation that can make a difference in these areas as well as our priority technology platforms.
We're taking a comprehensive approach to innovation and we're looking at this across a number of fronts including our go-to-market strategy.
We're building novel commercial models that are adapting to market conditions and developing new strategic partnerships with our customers around the world.
I'll expand on that area shortly.
Our strategies are enhanced by the opportunity to leverage our scale and breadth.
That begins with the core selling opportunities like the inclusion of DERMABOND PRINEO our newest wound closure device designed for joint procedure now in the bag of our joint reconstruction sales consultants.
Needing time to closure in knee and hip replacement procedures we're also implementing cross portfolio procedural development like the new OsteoView device which leverages the harmonic technology from Ethicon to provide a soft tissue dissector exclusively designed for spine procedures and to be sold by the DePuy Spine business.
It extends further to our enterprise customer group which works on key relationships with major hospital systems who look to leverage unique Johnson &amp; Johnson capabilities and our medical device agreements.
Some great examples are a new relationship established with one of Germany's largest private hospital networks where we have a sole source contract for implants.
Here in the U.S.
we signed a five-year contract with the globally ranked academic medical center at Johns Hopkins.
We're also executing an exclusive partnership with a large multinational hospital system to share risk and great value.
These are just some of the most recent examples on how our clinical strength and organizational flexibility and scope provide an excellent roadmap for how we're engaging in a new way with customers today.
Johnson &amp; Johnson's substantial global footprint provides a foothold in key emerging markets and enables us to expand access to training to more surgeons and care for more patients.
We are using that advantage to drive innovations that address unmet medical needs.
Working with our partners in the pharmaceutical business we recently announced that China lung center project which will work to bring our medicines technologies and resources to bear to address one of that country's leading cause of death and ultimately advance the scientific knowledge and practice of lung surgery around the world.
Earlier this year we first shared with you the news about our collaboration with Google Life Sciences and surgical robotics.
We continue to make progress on our goal of bringing to market a transformative surgical robotics platform.
Our shared vision is to give surgeons advanced analytics and surgical access properly with an improved and flexible work flow dynamics in the OR and ultimately a reduced cost to serve.
Through our Ethicon franchise we are contributing surgical know-how and developing advanced tools and instruments for superior minimally invasive surgical technology.
I'm pleased to share that we are in the development phase of the platform now and are working with respected global experts in the field of robotics to advance the effort.
Additional information regarding our progress will be communicated in just the next few weeks.
The global robotics market is roughly $2 billion and we expect procedures to grow at a double-digit growth rate.
That said today's robotics options are limited and requiring substantial financial and infrastructure investment and we believe that through technology advancements and agile application our path in surgically assisted robotics is one that will best deliver what surgeons need.
Our solution not only aims to give surgeons a better procedural experience by improving comfort and patient proximity but delivers a superior surgical experience through greater access and precision with the ability to make more informed decisions through the entire procedure.
We can see a future in which the surgeon is no longer isolated in the OR but through our system we'll be able to connect to critical data imaging and diagnostic information.
Information that will help a surgeon make the best most accurate decisions as and when they are needed.
The system is being developed with both the healthcare provider and the economic buyer in mind.
As one Johnson &amp; Johnson medical device group we are well positioned in our largest businesses to build on leadership position as these categories grow in response to changing demographics evolving unmet medical needs and expanding access to care.
Across our portfolio we are focused on the categories where we will grow and lead.
We have exciting pipelines and a renewed focus on launch excellence that will deliver steady cadence of meaningful and differentiated innovation.
At the same time we seek to advocate for patients by advancing the standard of care through strategic partnerships and educational access and pushing the boundaries of medical device product innovation.
We are deploying the comprehensive resources of Johnson &amp; Johnson across the group which gives us unique leverage.
And we're getting a positive response from customers.
It is these strategic customer wins combined with our more than 30 significant product launches that positions us to grow faster than our market and deliver value for the company and our shareholders.
We look forward to telling you more about how our strategy is gaining traction at the medical device business review next May.
Now I'll turn it back to Dominic.
Thanks Gary and good morning everyone.
Let me just say that I really enjoy working alongside Gary in the management committee.
He has clear strategies for accelerating growth through innovation and leveraging the breadth and scale of medical devices through novel commercial models.
We are confident that we will see steady progress as the business under Gary's leadership implements very sound strategies for growth.
Just this morning we announced a $10 billion share repurchase program.
We are very well positioned to drive continued growth in shareholder value with our exceptional financial strength including our strong balance sheet and cash flow.
We have a proven track record of returning capital to shareholders through our regular quarterly dividend complemented by share repurchases.
At the same time we continue to invest in internal growth drivers and strengthen our robust pipeline and we continue to be active in accessing external opportunities to deploy our financial strength to further drive long-term value creating growth.
We anticipate commencing the share repurchase program in the near term and intend to finance it through the issuance of debt.
Repurchase of stock through the program will be made at our discretion from time-to-time and the repurchase program has no time limit and may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
Moving on to a review of the quarter since Gary has just covered our medical device business I would like to highlight several additional developments from this quarter in our pharmaceutical consumer and the consumer medical device businesses.
Our pharmaceutical business continues to deliver strong underlying growth and as we discussed at our pharmaceutical Analyst Day earlier this year our future cadence of new product filings is very robust.
This quarter we filed for marketing authorization in Europe for daratumumab a treatment for patients with relapsed refractory multiple myeloma which received accelerated assessment from the CHMP.
Daratumumab was also granted priority review in the US.
We are also – we've also submitted a Supplemental New Drug Application to the US FDA for IMBRUVICA for treatment of naive chronic lymphocytic leukemia and marketing authorization in Europe for once every three month formulation of paliperidone palmitate.
In our consumer business we are back to a consistent cadence of new products as we continue to reintroduce products back through shelves as well as innovate across our beloved brands that you all know and use every day.
In particular the re-launch of TYLENOL Arthritis is doing very well.
In our vision care business we have anniversary pricing adjustments that have impacted growth rates and have also introduced new products such as 1-Day ACUVUE MOIST Multifocal 1-Day ACUVUE DEFINE LACREON and ACUVUE OASYS or one week overnight and in the fourth quarter we are launching ACUVUE OASYS 1-Day HydraLuxe an important advancement in comfort for contact lens wearers.
I'll take the next few minutes to review our financial performance in the third quarter and we'll also then provide guidance for you to consider in refining your models for the balance of the year.
We continue to execute well on our portfolio management strategy consistent with the plans we laid out for the year and we're pleased with the solid underlying sales results and continued solid earnings per share performance thus far in 2015.
We are well positioned for continued growth in today's dynamic healthcare environment.
Turning to the next slide.
You can see our condensed consolidated statement of earnings for the third quarter of 2015.
As we expected direct comparisons to our third quarter of 2014 are challenging due to the exceptional uptake of OLYSIO that we benefited from last year as well as currency heads winds.
Our sales results for the third quarter of 2015 on an operational basis excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures and excluding the impact of Hep C products were robust up 5.6% for the quarter.
This is in line with the annual guidance we set for 2015 and stronger than 2014 on a comparable basis.
Please now direct your attention to the box section of the schedule where we have provided earnings adjusted to exclude special items and intangible asset amortization expense.
Adjusted net earnings were $4.2 billion in the quarter which are down 9.4% compared to the third quarter of 2014 and adjusted earnings per share of $1.49 versus $1.61 a year ago are down 7.5% having been significantly impacted by currency movements as you may have expected.
I am pleased to say that the adjusted EPS results exceeded the mean of the analyst estimates as published by FirstCall.
Excluding the net impact of translation currency our operational earnings per share was $1.63 or up 1.2%.
In the quarter we incurred after tax special charges of $377 million which included litigation expenses associated with previously disclosed matters as outlined in our 10-Q filing as well as intangible amortization expense of some $437 million on an after tax basis which in this quarter also included the write-down of an intangible asset related to a small acquisition we made several years ago.
Now let's take a few moments to talk about the other items on the statement of earnings.
This quarter's results reflect both the gain from our divestiture of the SPLENDA brand to Heartland Food Products Group which we closed at the end of the third quarter and additional investments we made in the business.
As we said before we would use any gains from divestitures in 2015 to offset the lower earnings impact of not having the OLYSIO sales uptake we had in 2014 to provide some offset to currency headwinds while also allowing continued investments for future growth.
Cost of goods sold was 130 basis points higher than the same period last year impacted by both lower net sale prices as well as changes in product mix.
Selling marketing and administrative expenses were [20.7%] [ph] of sales.
As a reminder this line in the prior year period included the additional year of the branded prescription drug fee which we treated as a special item last year.
Adjusting for that this line item was 28.4% of sales last year.
So this year’s amount is 130 basis points higher as compared to the adjusted third quarter of 2014.
As we have previously noted we're continuing to invest the drive growth in our key brands.
Prior year percent of sales was artificially low as well since very little spending occurred in relation to OLYSIO sales.
Our investment in research and development as a percent of sales was 12.6% in the quarter and 160 basis points higher than the prior year as we continue to make important investments in our pipeline for future growth.
Interest expense net of interest income was a little lower reflecting higher earnings on our investment.
Other income and expense was a net charge of $420 million in the quarter compared to a net gain of $1.3 billion in the same period last year.
Of course this line item includes several special items of both years.
Excluding those special items other income and expense was a net gain of approximately $400 million compared to a net gain of approximately $40 million in the prior year period.
This year's third quarter reflects the gain on the previously announced divestiture of SPLENDA.
Excluding special items and intangible amortization expense the effective tax rate for the nine months period was 21.6% compared to 22.1% in the same nine-month period last year.
As I noted during our call in July the effective tax rate for this quarter and for the nine-months this year does not yet reflect the benefit of the R&amp;D tax credit as that legislation has not yet been passed although we expect that it will be.
The effective tax rate is lower in 2015 as compared to 2014 primarily as a result of the mix of foreign earnings to lower tax jurisdictions this year as compared to last year.
Now I will provide some guidance for you to consider as you refine your models for 2015.
Before I discuss sales and earnings I will first give some guidance on items we know are difficult for you to forecast beginning with cash and interest income and expense.
At the end of the quarter we had approximately $17 billion of net cash which consist of approximately $37 billion of cash and marketable securities and approximately $20 billion of debt.
This is a higher level of cash than we typically hold and we are actively looking for the right opportunities to use that capital to create greater value for our shareholders.
As we have discussed before we have a well known and disciplined capital allocation strategy that starts with paying dividends followed by value creating M&amp;A and then we consider other ways to return value to shareholders such as through a share repurchase program.
To that end as you know this morning we announced a $10 billion share repurchase program and we believe the Company shares on attractive investment opportunity and repurchasing our shares is an important part of our capital allocation strategy.
Although we are continuing to evaluate external growth opportunities in line with this strategy for purposes of your models assuming no major acquisitions or other major uses of cash other than the share repurchase program we just announced.
We suggest you consider modeling net interest expense of between $450 million and $500 million just a slight tightening of the range from prior guidance.
Regarding other income and expense as a reminder this is the account where we record royalty income as well as gains and losses arising from such items as litigation investments by our development corporation as well as divestitures asset sales and write-offs.
We would be comfortable with your models for 2015 reflecting net other income and expense excluding any special items as a net gain ranging from approximately $2.3 billion to $2.4 billion.
This is slightly higher than our previous guidance.
As a reminder this now includes the gain sort of divestiture of the U.S.
rights to the NUCYNTA pain medicine earlier this year the SPLENDA brand this quarter and the Cordis business which we closed just after the quarter and will be recorded in the fourth quarter.
As I mentioned in previous quarters a portion of other income and expense will flow through to increase operational earnings as we expect to use some of these gains in other income to compensate for the decreased income from OLYSIO in 2015 as compared to 2014 as well as to help us mitigate some of the impact of strong foreign currency headwinds this year for we also will continue to invest in our core business and opportunities for future growth.
And now a word on taxes.
Our guidance for 2015 anticipates that the R&amp;D tax credit will be renewed by Congress although that has not yet occurred.
We will therefore be comfortable with your models reflecting an effective tax rate for 2015 excluding special items of approximately 21% to 22% and this is consistent with our previous guidance.
If the R&amp;D tax credit is not approved it would negatively impact the tax rate by approximately half percentage point.
Turning to guidance on sales and earnings.
As we’ve done for several years our guidance will be based first on a constant currency basis reflecting our results from operations.
This is the way we manage our business and we believe this provides a good understanding of the underlying performance of our business.
We will also provide an estimate of our sales and adjusted EPS results for 2015 with the impact that current foreign exchange rates could have on the translation of those results.
We would be comfortable with your models reflecting an operational sales increase on a constant currency basis of between 1% and 2% for the year.
This would result in sales for 2015 on a constant currency basis of approximately $75 billion to $76 billion.
This is consistent with our previous guidance and now reflects the impact of the divestiture of the Cordis business offset by stronger performance in other businesses.
Additionally by way of comparison to how we described our sales results in 2014 our operational sales growth for 2015 excluding the impact of all acquisitions and divestitures as well as the impact of hepatitis C products would be approximately 6% a higher level of growth than the comparable 5% for 2014.
As of last week the Euro was lower by approximately 16% as compared to 2014 average levels and the dollar strengthened versus virtually all major currencies.
Although we’re not predicting the impact of currency movements to give you an idea of the potential impact on sales if currency exchange rates were to remain where they were as of last week for the balance of this year our sales growth rate would decrease by nearly 7% reflecting the weakening of the Euro and other major currencies against the U.S.
dollar.
Thus under this scenario we would expect reported sales to reflect the change in the range between negative 5% and negative 6% for total expected level of reported sales of between approximately $70 billion and $71 billion.
And now turning to earnings a significant factor impacting our earnings guidance for 2015 is the impact of currency movements on transactions which although hedged is still somewhat negative incrementally versus the prior year.
We expect transaction currency impacts to be negative to our gross profit by approximately 50 basis points in 2015 as compared to 2014.
We would be comfortable with adjusted EPS guidance in a range of $6.75 to $6.80 per share on a constant currency basis reflecting an operational or constant currency growth rate of between roughly 5.5% and 6.5%.
The midpoint is higher than our previous guidance as we’ve increased the lower end of the range reflecting some operational improvements in the business and our confidence at this point in the year.
Again we're not predicting the impact of currency movements but to give you an idea of the potential impact on earnings per share if currency exchange rates for all 2015 were to remain where they were as of last week then our reported adjusted EPS would be negatively impacted by approximately $0.60 per share which is consistent with the estimate we provided in our previous guidance.
Therefore our reported adjusted EPS would range from $6.15 to $6.20 per share.
At this stage in the year we are comfortable raising the lower end and tightening the range.
So in summary as you update your models for the guidance that I just provided I would like to make a few key points.
Although operational sales growth is expected to range between 1% and 2% we are pleased to note that when excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures and Hep C product competition our operational sales growth at the midpoint of our guidance is a solid 6% for the full year of 2015 as compared to 5% for 2014.
And with regard to earnings on a constant currency basis our guidance on operational EPS growth is strong in the range between 5.5% and 6.5% which was higher than our previous guidance.
And as we execute on our growth platforms we're continuing to make investments in our business and we're prioritizing our portfolios.
We remain focused on building our priority pipelines across the enterprise to position our company future growth and expanded leadership in markets around the world.
Also I would like to thank the employees of Johnson &amp; Johnson for what they do every day to make a difference to patients and consumers and for their continued significant contributions to growing our business.
And now I would like to turn things back to turn things back to Louise for the Q&amp;A portion of the meeting.
Louise? Thank you Dominic.
Manny could you please provide the instructions for the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] With that your first question comes from Larry Biegelsen of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for taking the questions.
I'll start with the buyback.
Maybe Dominic you could talk about the timing.
In the past you've done these pretty quickly.
And it doesn't sound like based on your comments that it's a signal that the M&amp;A targets out there aren't as attractive as you may have thought.
Is that fair? Just from an EPS standpoint by our math it's about $0.20.
Then I had one follow-up.
Sure Larry let me try to address each of those questions.
So as far as the timeframe it's an open-ended share repurchase program as we said.
So there is no real particular timeframe but just by way of reference the most recent share repurchase program that we implemented which was $5 billion in 2014 took about nine months to complete.
So we continuously try to buy our stock at the appropriate prices throughout any trading period and just as a reminder we're also simultaneously continuing to buy any stock that's issued in connection with our employee stock programs and that's about another $3 billion of cash utilized for that purpose.
With respect to any read through on M&amp;A activity this in no way has any negative impact on our outlook for M&amp;A and our pursuit of value creating acquisitions to drive shareholder value.
So we have the financial strength and flexibility to do both and we're very pleased to be able to continue to do that.
As far as the EPS impact again as you know this is always a tricky calculation because on a weighted average share calculation but if it was fully implemented then a full year impact of a fully implemented $10 billion share buyback would be about two to three percentage points of incremental EPS growth.
Now of course we won't see very much of that in '15 because we're just beginning and we'll see some of that show up in the 2016 earnings.
We'll give you a better sense of that in January but certainly by 2017 when it's fully implemented we would see that total percentage positive impact that I just mentioned.
That's very helpful.
And then I feel compelled to ask one about the rhetoric coming out of Washington Dominic on pharmaceutical pricing and price controls which has gotten a lot of media attention recently.
Where do you see that ultimately going? What's J&amp;J's perspective? And just lastly in the early 1990s I think a lot of pharmaceutical companies when Hillary Clinton was trying to reform healthcare pledged not to raise drug prices by more than inflation.
Is that something that J&amp;J would reconsider? Thanks.
Sure Larry.
Let's see well you're right.
There has been a lot of rhetoric about pharmaceutical drug pricing and despite significant media attention on drug pricing there really isn’t a consensus on policy solutions that would lower prices without negatively impacting innovation that's the key point.
I think every time we talk about drug pricing we unfortunately miss the balance of the other side of the coin which is of course the innovation that comes from the pharmaceutical industry and the improvement in the health and well being lives of many people around the world.
The pharmaceutical industry has and continues to be a constructive partner in any of these policy debates and we look for solutions to the issue along with policy makers.
Just as a reminder as part of the Affordable Care Act industry agreed to increased rebates in Medicaid and many other additional fees that I know you're all very familiar with and as the U.S.
healthcare system evolves I think we'll have more of a focus on outcomes and value and we're working with both public and private payors to develop innovative outcome based contracts.
We think the real answer to this dilemma is to monitor and provide outcome based metrics and not simply focus only on price.
As far as a pledge Larry I think we're very responsible in our drug pricing and we tend to support the price for our drugs with strong economic data.
So rather than pledge to a particular number I think it's important that we continue to develop robust data that provides a solid foundation for the value that our products provide to healthcare systems.
So we'll continue to do that.
Thank you for taking the questions.
Next question please.
Thank you.
The next question is from David Lewis of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
Gary I thought I would turn the question back to devices here for a second.
Two areas I wanted to focus in on.
The first is on your innovation sectors Gary you talked about four or five of those areas are within or adjunctive to your dominant franchises in ortho and surgical.
Then you have this commentary on select cardio areas.
So my question is Gary first why even focus on cardio an area where you have less dominant breadth? Is it just because there's innovation there and you're going to be selective? Then I had a quick follow-up.
Thank you David and good morning.
Yes it's a great question.
Listen we have I think been pretty consistent and when I had this conversation before that we see in cardiovascular there are interesting areas where there is a lot of growth opportunities and also unmet needs.
I think we've talked about them before and said areas like CHF heart failure structural heart are fast growing categories where there is a lot of unmet need and where we think we can add to our breadth that we have with the EP business currently.
So as always we will be opportunistic in looking at opportunities both internally and externally to add to our portfolio.
We think cardiovascular is a large category.
Agreed we don't have the same scale as we do in surgery and orthopaedics but we will look for opportunities to add to that scale with the appropriate types of investments that will create shareholder value in spaces where we think there is a lot of growth and opportunity.
So we continue to look at that space.
We've highlighted as we've done today remains an area where we've made some investments right because we do investments in small companies and technologies through our Johnson &amp; Johnson Development Corp and we'll continue to evaluate the M&amp;A field as well.
Okay.
And then Gary the other interesting commentary this morning obviously was on robotics.
I know it's very early days here but I wonder if you could just give us some high-level strategic thoughts.
And two areas of focus.
One would be should we expect very significant capital systems to be sold from J&amp;J through this partnership or should we see more less expensive capital systems than perhaps are out there today? And a related question is how do you think about cost effectiveness? How do you think about the cost effectiveness of any disposables that you sell versus robotics relative to existing robotic disposables? Thank you very much.
Thank you David and listen really good questions.
Let me take the last one first.
I think you saw in my presentation cost to serve we see as an opportunity right.
If you look at the robotics installed base as it is today it's very much focused on the developed markets versus the emerging markets and that's because cost to serve is disproportionately out of balance.
And we think that there are opportunities to have a much smaller footprint in terms of a technology a lower cost to serve in terms of disposables as well as capital that we think can play across a broader range of surgical procedures in a cost effective way that improves the capability of the surgeon provides real time data and analytics at their fingertips greater OR flexibility and as mentioned there has an overall cost effectiveness which allows it to penetrate more procedures than what you see today.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Your next question is from Kristen Stewart of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the call.
I was just wondering if Dominic you could go into a little bit further detail on some of the businesses that are contributing to basically give you confidence to increase the underlying guidance for sales.
Sure Kristen.
Well the pharmaceutical business continues to do very well.
The growth as you saw in the quarter we exclude the impacts of OLYSIO was over 10%.
So it's very solid growth.
The consumer business is launching new products and getting those products back on the shelf and the cadence of new product introductions as well as the uptake gives us encouragement that we're seeing very very good results there.
And some of Gary's businesses although some are challenged as he pointed out some continue to do very well electrophysiology and others.
So I think we're confident that despite losing a quarter of the sales from the Cordis business the rest of the businesses are performing well enough to pick up that difference and we're comfortable maintaining our sales guidance for the year.
Okay.
Then how should we just think about looking ahead in terms of Cordis being out is there enough momentum to offset any dilution there or does the stock repurchase help offset some of that as we look ahead? Not giving guidance for 2016 but should we think of the share repurchase similar to what you did for the Ortho Clinical Diagnostics? Well there is two things going on here.
I think one is of course the share repurchase will add incremental EPS growth that helps offset some dilution.
But I think the real difference is we're not going to have the kind of headwind comparison that we had '15 versus '14 as we get into '16 and we feel that the momentum is strong going into '16.
So I wouldn't characterize the share repurchase as solely related to offset the delusion of Cordis.
I think it will be incremental to our EPS growth.
Okay.
That’s all I have.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Mike Weinstein of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you guys.
Dominic with most of the cash almost all of the cash outside the US and the incremental $10 million of US debt for the share repurchase are you assuming that you'll be able to use at least a portion of that O-US cash for any meaningful M&amp;A in the near term? Mike thanks for the question.
We as you know always look for tax efficient utilization of the OUS cash.
As you know we did that in the Synthes transaction a couple of years ago.
So we'll do our best to structure any M&amp;A activity in a way that can optimize the effective use of the OUS cash in a tax efficient manner.
So we continuously work on that and our team is very good at developing strategies to do that and - but more to come on that at a later time.
Understood.
And is the $10 billion number the right number? Because it doesn't stress your ratings with the agencies.
Mike I don't think $10 billion is necessarily related to stressing any credit rating.
I think it - as we've said many many times we have a disciplined capital allocation strategy and share repurchases just happen to be third in line after M&amp;A and dividends being first.
So I think we're comfortable that doing $10 billion now while we're still actively pursuing M&amp;A activity is the right level to do now then we'll reassess that as that program begins to wind down.
So I wouldn't necessarily think that this is a limit to what we can do at any time.
Okay.
Then just one question for Gary then I'll drop.
Gary one thing that stood out to me just this quarter the pluses and minuses on the minus side the O-US performance within the orthopaedic business the spine business ex-currency was down 12% trauma was down 6%.
Can you shed any light on that? Yeah Mike.
As mentioned we had some one-time items that were occurring outside the US in our orthopaedics business.
One as Louise had mentioned in our in China where we had a distributor inventory issue with some slowing of the markets there.
We had some - make some corrections to distributor inventories which predominantly hit the trauma business but all of them.
And then also in Brazil we saw some registration issues happen as part of the integration and that also had an impact in slowing the business as well.
So those two predominant items had a disproportional impact in the quarter.
We don't see those as ongoing issues.
We are still excited about the opportunities for the business specifically trauma in emerging markets we see as an opportunity and we will continue to focus our efforts there.
So yes we were disappointed in that but we do see them as one-time items and we are working through that as we speak.
But we still see a lot of opportunity for the business outside the United States.
Perfect.
Thank you Gary.
Thank you.
Next question please? Thank you.
Your next question is from Vamil Divan of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Hi good morning guys.
Thanks so much for taking my questions.
So just a couple if I could on the pharma side.
So one you mentioned on your diabetes with INVOKANA some of the market share information.
I was just curious obviously the positive data from Lilly on their SGLT2 inhibitor outcomes data.
Have you seen any initial impact or do you expect to see much of an impact within through the INVOKANA given that you guys are obviously the market leader there in that class.
And then just second on the long-acting injectables again you shared some insights.
Just curious if you can share some thoughts with the new competition a couple new players now in that space how you think that might impact your growth looking forward? Thanks.
Let me take the question on INVOKANA first.
We do think that the positive benefits seen by the Lilly compound is most likely a class effect for SGLT2.
It's too early to comment on any effect that we've seen.
And we're also studying our compound regarding cardiovascular impacts.
But that data is just a couple years away.
But we do think there's a positive effect to the overall class as a result of the cardiovascular data that Lilly shared.
With respect to long-acting injectables Louise any comments on market dynamics there have you see I haven't seen much already.
We are still seeing strong growth in that market and we've also just introduced Trinza which is the three month formulation.
So we think we're in a very very good competitive position there.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Glenn Novarro of RBC Capital Markets.
Please go you ahead.
Good morning guys.
Gary two questions for you.
First if I look at the device business in terms of what you've done over the last few years you've been divesting assets cardio assets the diagnostics business.
As you go forward as you look forward are there still businesses within your device portfolio that you think need to be divested because they are underperforming or do you see yourselves more as a net buyer of assets going forward? That's question one.
And then question two.
Gary you highlighted you're going to be launching 30 new device products over the next year or so.
When I look at the portfolio of products that you'll be launching a lot of these I see as kind of singles maybe double? And so I was wondering if you can look at that portfolio for us today are there any products that actually could be bigger what would be the products you think actually have the upside to get you back to market growth? Thanks.
Thanks Glenn.
Good questions.
So first in terms of divestitures as you know and how Dominic talked about it which is we have a companywide premise that we should be number one or number two in the categories where we're committed and have a clear technology path to getting through either a number one or number two position.
And if we don't we're going to consider our options.
So we have a very formalized process that we go through with the management committee and looking at our opportunities and we take on divestitures opportunities carefully as we've done in both the OCD and the Cordis situation.
We will continue to do that portfolio analysis on an ongoing basis.
So I can't really say what's going to happen.
But certainly we will continue to look at our portfolio in terms of opportunities.
We will also though continue to look at Glenn opportunities to acquire new businesses that we think are accretive that will add to our business growth and create shareholder value.
So I think in a disciplined focused approach where we divest we will also look at opportunities to acquire.
I think certainly accelerating our pace of tuck-in deals would be a good opportunity for medical device we seek considering our scale in the market especially in surgery and orthopaedics is large and we anticipate accelerating that pace over the next 12 to 18 months.
In terms of the second question which was around opportunities as you look at our portfolio you’re right we have a lot of – I’ll call it – we call it singles and doubles I would say we have a couple triples in there especially in the EP space that we think that will be some really game-changers.
The big one that I would highlight for you which would be very different than anything else will be robotics.
Now the category as mentioned in my talk is $2 billion growing at double digit we see disruptive opportunity happening in the next couple of years here for us to take a substantial share of the market going forward with a very different technology that’s integrated and delivers value for our customers.
So putting a lot of focus and efforts there which we think will be important and we are also looking at other opportunities for us from a L&amp;A and M&amp;A perspective to bring in exciting technology into our platform to accelerate growth as well.
So we have a couple of areas that I would say where I think we got some really interesting things.
Also I would say in the next MD&amp;D day coming up in May you will see a little bit of the pipeline where in some of the areas that I am excited about but probably too early to disclose right now.
And we will give you a little bit more detail at that point in time.
Okay.
Thank you Next question please Thank you.
Your next question is from Danielle Antalffy of Leerink Partners.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks so much for taking the question.
Just to touch on the M&amp;A topic for a second Gary you did touch on it a little bit mentioned tuck-in acquisitions.
But if we take a step back two questions for you guys here.
Number one given the $10 billion share buyback announced today and the fact that that's priority number three at least how you play it out does that signal that your appetite for a large acquisition is maybe off the table and you will be focused more on the smaller tuck-in type deals within pharma partnerships or in licensing deals? And then number two if you look across your businesses where are the holes that you'd like to fill as you look at the markets that are higher growth that you don't currently play in? Danielle it’s Dominic here thanks for the question.
I wouldn't interpret the $10 billion share buyback as impacting our appetite for scale of any size at M&amp;A at all.
Our appetite for M&amp;A of any scale has entirely to do with whether or not the acquisition is going to create value for shareholders.
And as you know we are disciplined about that.
It is true that over our history we have done many-many acquisitions and the largest ones are a few and far between but that has to do with what Gary mentioned with business of our scale we can bring in lots of tuck-ins or licenses for example in the pharma business where we can get the most value for our shareholders in the most capital efficient manner.
But it doesn’t preclude us from that also looking for large scale acquisitions.
As far as where we would look in pharma we are focused on five therapeutic areas.
I think we’ll remain focused there.
In consumer as you know we have our core platforms of Skin Care Oral Care OTC in particular as well as emerging market and for medical devices Gary why don’t I ask you to just comment on the areas of focus.
Absolutely.
I think if you look at one of the slides in our strategy to win our innovation focus areas we are really focused on five key unmet needs.
So one is in we see in surgical oncology which the space is really evolving as we speak.
Where we see more targeted interventions that using our combinations of approaches in terms of technologies may provide more minimum invasive outcomes for the patients in the long term.
Second is really in the area of obesity and that is still a fast growing segment where we see a lot of opportunity.
Especially as you start to think about more minimally invasive surgical procedures that produce outcomes similar or close to the surgical interventions today.
I mentioned a select cardiovascular disease areas that we highlighted previously and then obviously osteoarthritis and osteoporosis which offer many opportunities if you think about in terms of joints trauma and spine where we see interesting opportunities to get tuck-in deals that would help accelerate our growth.
So those are some areas that we’re very focused staying on right now.
When you say spaces that we’re not in today if you look at it we are the largest most comprehensive medical device business with the footprint in surgery orthopaedics and cardiovascular.
We would obviously like to expand our cardiovascular footprint but we will do that in a strategic way where we can create some values.
So there are very - lot of places that are nice adjacencies as I’ve outlined that we think we can create some value through tuck-in deals more larger acquisition as well.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Next question please.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Jami Rubin of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Dominic I'm surprised that you're putting a buyback as a third priority ahead of M&amp;A.
If you look at your PE multiple today it's about 14 15 times well below your pharma peers as well as your med tech peers.
You have a massively under leveraged balance sheet one of the few AAA-rated balance sheets out there.
Investors clearly have been frustrated by the operating performance and the stock performance.
And I'm just curious to know if you're so excited about the growth outlook of the business what could be a better investment than you buying back your stock? But not $10 billion.
What I'm talking about is something much more substantial that would really make an impact on your growth rate like a leveraged buyback up to $50 billion or even higher.
If you could talk about that a bit.
And also just back to the M&amp;A discussion I think there's a lot of focus on getting your MD&amp;D business back to growth.
Can you talk about your thoughts on most of the med device growth assets out there are trading at multiples well ahead of yours and how you think about generating value by potentially acquiring some of those? Thanks very much.
Sure.
Well Jami as you know we’ve been very consistent with our capital allocation strategy and that's based on extensive research over many years.
As you know share buybacks have some incremental benefit but the data as you know is mixed on the overall outcome.
And just because we did a $10 billion share buyback doesn’t mean that we won’t do another one another one and another one.
So I wouldn’t necessarily limit it to just one that was announced today.
Of course the big difference between M&amp;A and share buybacks is the one thing that share buybacks don’t do of course is they don’t provide any incremental capability of the company any incremental ability to innovate and be competitive in healthcare and that we places a priority over reducing the share count.
It doesn’t mean that we can’t do both I think we have the financial flexibility to do both and I think you will see us do both.
As far as being under-levered I think these go hand-in-hand.
We want to maintain financial flexibility to do the kinds of transactions that we think are going to be value creating to shareholders when those opportunities arise.
So we always maintain financial flexibility just as a simple way of the way we conduct our business.
As far as getting back to growth in MD&amp;D through M&amp;A and I'll obviously have Gary comment as well when you talk about assets that seem to be highly valued I think what's very important to realize is that none of the assets that are - that you may be referring is to highly valued has the scale and breadth of the kind of MD&amp;D business that we have here at Johnson &amp; Johnson.
So our ability to leverage our scale and breadth our scientific knowhow our engineering knowhow the overall presence in the hospital setting with contracting and the like is probably unparalleled and very few companies despite their current valuations have that built into their valuations and we think in our hands we can possibly create more value than the business on a standalone basis.
Gary anything else do you want to add to that? No listen I think Jami that is a challenge we’re taking on in medical device right which is as many companies with really large portfolio we have a mix of platform performance versus the market right.
We’ve got strong performance leaders in segments in surgery cardio and ortho but also have some opportunities where we need to accelerate our growth right in platforms like spine trauma energy and infection prevention.
I think we understand how to drive that growth in those areas in energy and infection prevention.
We have a pipeline of new innovations which we think will accelerate our growth.
In Spine and trauma we need to accelerate that pace of innovation through internal innovation and externally sourced innovations as well.
So I think we will look at opportunities both organic and inorganic to accelerate our growth rate to drive that performance because I think that will be critical and important to the long time growth of the business.
As Dominic mentioned with the scale of the business at $22 billion right accelerating our growth rate by one or two points is a very large acquisition which any of those acquisition of that nature we would want to do that very carefully and ensure that we are creating shareholder value.
Dominic just if I can push back for a second clearly the track record in buybacks just given where stock price has been over the last 10 years have been mixed but the track record with M&amp;A has also been mixed such as the Synthes deal which Gary talked about during his remarks.
I'm just curious to know how you think about that.
But thanks very much.
You're right.
Not every M&amp;A deal works out exactly the way you would predicted it would.
I think we were very clear that we thought enhancing scale in orthopaedics was important and we did so at a time quite frankly was ahead of where you now see the competitive set doing.
So I think we are very pleased having done that acquisition.
We think of acquisitions as creating value over the long term and despite some market slow down we are still very confident in the growth of our overall orthopaedics business along with the trauma business that we acquired from Synthes just having the broader scale to create value.
M&amp;A can be tricky we work very hard to do so and do the deals in a disciplined way and to gain value from these transactions over the long term.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome.
Next question please.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Damien Conover of Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
Two drug related questions.
One question on XARELTO Still some pretty strong growth there but it seems like a little bit of a deceleration.
I wasn't sure if some new indications are really needed to reaccelerate that growth.
I know there's a couple coming up in heart failure and stroke over the next couple years.
And then the second question was just on REMICADE.
It looked like some declines there internationally partly due to Japan.
But I was also wondering if you could give any insights on what you're seeing in the European area with biosimilars.
Thank you.
Sure let me just say a few words on XARELTO.
You may be referring to a little bit of slow down sequentially with XARELTO.
I think that dynamic has to do with the donut hole that’s part of the affordable care act in terms of Part D reimbursement.
So as it turns out when people with Part D coverage reach the donut hole amount they have more out of pocket cost to incur.
We believe that's had a bit of an impact in the third quarter compared to the second quarter and that wouldn’t be necessarily just for our product.
It would be seen across other products as well.
Louise anything else to add? Yes.
And in addition so over half of our sales are in Medicare Part D and as you enter the donut hole the manufacturers out there actually pickup the portion number of the pricing by 50%.
So we are seeing that impact.
Regarding REMICADE in Europe we are going to leave that Merck's to cover.
I do think that although we won’t comment on Merck's territory we do have REMICADE in Canada and we have seen a very little biosimilar impact there.
We still are retaining about 90% of the business and again as we have said before these are biosimilar and not generics and there is a lot that goes into physician's decision to switch a patient and as we have said many times before also about 70% of the patients with REMICADE seem to be well controlled with their disease.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Jayson Bedford of Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks for squeezing me in.
Just wanted to ask you about emerging markets.
Your comments were a little bit more temper than your prior comments.
So I am wondering first if you could give us growth in emerging markets in the quarter? The emerging markets grew by 4% in the third quarter and on a year-to-date basis they grew by 5%.
Because there is some fluctuations between some of the tender business et cetera in the emerging markets particularly Brazil and Russia.
You're probably better to use the year-to-date numbers it’s about 5% year-to-date operationally.
Okay.
And I realized you mentioned the lower inventory in China on the ortho side but are you seeing the softness in emerging markets more in devices or consumers? I think it’s very different dynamics in the emerging markets for consumers.
So for example the OTC businesses just as an example in Russia we’re doing extremely well in emerging markets in that emerging markets with our consumer business.
Whereas in China as you know we’ve had some issues there so we’ve seen some slower growth in the China emerging markets.
In Medical Devices as Gary pointed out that’s typically a robust market for us in Medical Devices.
It’s our largest of the three businesses in emerging markets and in China in particular as Medical Devices and just particularly this quarter we had the inventory contraction that we saw from our distributors as the market has slowed down in China.
So we think that’s sort of a one-time adjustment that we’ve just experienced this quarter.
Thank you.
Gary you take that.
I look by splits the business from our surgical business to orthopaedics business I look at China as a surrogate marker.
Surgical business you still see good double-digit growth rates coming into the business.
The realignment of issues in orthopaedics certainly offset that same in Brazil we still see strong high single-digit double-digit growth coming out of the surgery business but not so much in the ortho business due to the registration issues.
So as in my comments in medical device it is slowed without question we’ve seen that but again access to care growth is still growing raising the standard in the market in terms of the medical unmet needs is still an opportunity and we still see good growth coming there albeit tempered from what it was maybe over the last 18 months.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Jeff Holford of Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks very much.
I've got two questions.
The first one is around INVOKANA where IMS volumes seem to have really flattened off since the FDA notice on ketoacidosis in May.
Can you just talk about the product's recent performance in the US and what is driving this and when you hope to see an improvement or address any of those concerns that might be out there? And then the second question is really just going back to some the M&amp;A discussion that's been on the call.
I think in the past Dominic you said a few times that large-scale M&amp;A in pharma or biopharma is in the opposite direction from what you've always thought about.
Is that still the case going forward so we can probably take from that the way you talk about the ability to still do larger deals that's most likely to be in the MD&amp;D - Yes.
Jason you broke up but I – Jeff you broke up but I think I understand where you were going.
Let me just take the M&amp;A question first and then Louise you could actually provide some color on INVOKANA.
So Jeff I don’t think you should read into the fact that we’re adverse to doing large M&amp;A in any of the businesses it just has to be value creating as I have said many many times.
When I say it is in the opposite direction of our pharma strategies you know our pharma strategy which has been very successful has not been driven by large M&amp;A in comparison to what you’ve seen in the industry and so we’re very clear that growing the business through searching for the best compound the best innovation regardless of where it comes from and then incorporating that into our development engine and using the scientific expertise that we have in house is what has been a success story of pharma that doesn't mean it can also happen with the large M&amp;A deal but it has been consistently very very capital efficient and very successful in the way we’ve been doing it for the last couple of years.
In terms of INVOKANA for ketoacidosis you're right there was an FDA notice and it wasn’t solely related to INVOKANA and our clinical trials for INVOKANA ketoacidosis rate was very very low.
But Louise any other comments on that? So Jeff I would like to point out that INVOKNANA did grow 91% in the quarter in U.S.
I think that's pretty good.
The markets consistently are growing about 7% I just looked at the trends and it’s very consistent for second and third quarter.
As far as TRx's we’re at 6.3% up from 6% in the second quarter primary care is at 5.6% up from 5.3% and the endo at 13.1% is about the same as it was in the second quarter.
So I think it’s doing very well.
Just as a follow-up what I'm really referring to when you look at the IMS data over the last two quarters or six months there is a clear flattening off.
Are you getting any feedback as to why that may be? I'm not talking about the year-on-year growth which is obviously very strong because the product's had a very strong ramp but very much just the recent performance and what you're seeing there.
To give you sequential TRxs so I think that's the most recent that we would have and I'm also looking at the market growth for that is at 7%.
So I think we're doing fine.
And as Dominic said it's a very low incident.
It's 0.01 or 0.1 in our Phase III trials.
So it’s very low.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Next question? And your next question is from Bob Hopkins of Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thanks and good morning.
Can you hear me okay? Yes.
Hi Bob.
Good morning Thanks and good morning.
Gary since we have you on the call I just have two quick questions for you.
The first is a follow-up on the robotics side.
I was just wondering if you can give us an indication of what announcement we're going to hear over the next couple of weeks.
And then if you could also just give us a sense as to where you are with this collaboration with Google.
You said it's in the development stage.
Could you just give us some rough parameters of how you're thinking about commercialization? Is this one to two years? Two to three? Three to five? Just some rough sense there would be helpful.
Thanks.
Thanks Bob.
So in terms of robotics listen I will leave the announcement to the new co of the company.
They have some announcements that will be coming out in the next few weeks so I'd like to leave the leader there to do it.
As mentioned this is a partnership between ourselves and my partner Andy Conrad at Google Life Sciences so new company will make that announcement.
In terms of the development stage yes we were in the phase where we are integrating right our technology with the Google technology right in terms of from a systems engineering perspective integrating informatics into the design of our robot.
So we are looking I would say you're on the earlier side of your range right.
I would say it's the next couple years.
We'd obviously like to accelerate that but we want to make sure that we stay true to our value proposition which is we think what's available today is really the model that's more like the mainframe computer 50 years ago.
We intend to go to the iPad version and that's what we want to launch.
With a more integrated informatics diagnostics right that are available for the surgeon around the world as a lower cost to serve.
So we think that it's better to do it right.
There will be a lot of follow-on competitors that come in the next couple years that I think will be more big box players.
That is clearly not our strategy.
And we think this is an opportunity to be disruptive in a very unique partnership to create value for our customers patients and also for the Johnson &amp; Johnson shareholders.
Last and final question and then we'll have some final remarks by Dominic.
Thank you.
Your final question is from Tony Butler of Guggenheim Partners.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Thanks very much.
I just wanted to Gary echo one of Bob's questions and that is simply around robotics.
I'm very respectful of the reduced cost to serve.
But the real question becomes in the end game outside of the intellectual capital the two companies put together and come up with a fix.
The question really becomes is there enough capacity for capital expense from the customers in the future as you alluded to earlier most of the big boxes are really in developed markets.
But if you think about this globally which I'm sure you are then the question becomes is there sufficient capital at institutions today especially in China et cetera that can actually deploy a robotics technology in the future? And my last question really Dominic is back to M&amp;A again sorry.
But it – I actually - you alluded to pharma and the partnerships you've created have been great.
I think I actually would have assumed that the speed which those partnerships would occur would actually escalate in part because of your capital that you currently have and because the landscape is changing certainly especially true in oncology? Any commentary would be great? Thanks very much.
Robotics? Yes.
So thank you for the question.
And listen I think that question is an age old question that goes on which is will there be enough capital to support innovation? I think the end of the day the answer is always yes.
The other thing that I'll point out is we don't believe that capital play here for our innovation is going to be $2 million per hospital.
So we're going to provide a lot more flexibility in terms of that and also quite frankly depends on our go-to-market model right in terms of how we bring that to market.
So I think you might find some unique ways in order to do that.
We haven't quite decided on that at this point.
But as mentioned we have decided in terms of our value proposition which will be a lower cost to serve a smaller footprint and we do believe that if you produced innovation right that delivers meaningful outcomes and improvement for patients there will be enough capital out there globally to support that.
Tony with respect to M&amp;A and pharma and your comment about the speed at which we can do partnerships and maybe you thought we would accelerate them we're always actively involved in this space not only in oncology but in all the therapeutic areas that we operate in.
And as you know we already have a pretty robust pipeline where we're going to be filing 10 new NMEs between now and 2015 some of those of course come from the various partnerships and licenses that we've done.
So you'll continue to see us do that.
I think accelerating those is something we always love to do but we want to do the right deal with the right partner at the right value and getting the deal done right is probably more important.
Okay.
Thanks Dominic.
Thanks Gary.
Sure.
You're welcome Tony.
Well thanks everyone for tuning in today.
Thanks Louise and thanks Gary for giving us an update on our medical device business and strategies to accelerate growth.
I'd just like to reiterate we're very pleased that we're able to announce a $10 billion share buyback program while we continue to actively look to put our financial strength to use to further accelerate our growth.
So thanks again for tuning in today and have a very nice day.
Bye-bye.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's Johnson &amp; Johnson's third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
And have a wonderful day.
Good morning.
And welcome to Johnson &amp; Johnson's fourth quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session of the conference.
This call is being recorded.
If anyone has any objections you may disconnect at this time.
If you experience technical difficulties during the conference you may press star zero to reach the operator.
I would now like to turn conference call over to Johnson &amp; Johnson.
You may begin.
Good morning and welcome.
I'm Louise Mehrotra Vice President of Investor Relations for Johnson &amp; Johnson.
And it is my pleasure this morning to review our business results for the fourth quarter of 2015.
Joining me on the call today are Alex Gorsky Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer and Dominic Caruso Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
A few logistics before we get into the details.
This review is being made available via webcast accessible through the Investor Relations section of the Johnson &amp; Johnson website at investor.jnj.com.
I'll begin by briefly reviewing results for the corporation and for our three business segments.
Following my remarks Alex will comment on 2015 results and provide a strategic outlook for the company.
Then Dominic will provide some additional commentary on the business review the income statement and provide guidance for 2016.
We will then open the call to your questions.
We expect the call to last approximately 90 minutes.
Included with the press release that was issued earlier this morning is the schedule of sales for key products and/or businesses to facilitate updating your models.
These schedules are available on the Johnson &amp; Johnson website as is the press release.
Please note we will be using a presentation to complement today's commentary.
The presentation is also available on our website.
Before we begin let me remind you that some of the statements made during this review are or may be considered forward-looking statements.
The 10-K for the fiscal year 2014 and the company's subsequent filings identify certain factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements made today.
The company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.
Our SEC filings including the 10-K are available through the company and on our website.
During the review non-GAAP financial measures are used to provide information pertinent to ongoing business performance.
These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered replacements for and should be read together with GAAP results.
Tables reconciling these measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are available in the schedules accompanying the press release and on the Investor Relations section of the Johnson &amp; Johnson website.
A number of the products and compounds discussed today are being developed in collaboration with strategic partners or license from other companies.
This slide lists the acknowledgment of those relationships not otherwise referenced in today's presentations.
Now I would like to review our results for the fourth quarter of 2015.
Worldwide sales to customers were $17.8 billion for the fourth quarter of 2015 down 2.4% versus fourth quarter of 2014.
On an operational basis sales were up 4.4% and currency had a negative impact of 6.8%.
In the U.S.
sales were up 8%.
In regions outside the U.S.
our operational growth was 1.2% while the effective currency exchange rates negatively impacted our reported results by 12.9%.
On an operational basis the western hemisphere excluding the U.S.
grew 2.8% while the Asia-Pacific Africa region grew 0.9% and Europe grew 0.8%.
Growth in all regions was negatively impacted by the divestiture of the Cordis business with Europe Latin America and Canada also negatively impacted by hepatitis C competition.
Excluding the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures and hepatitis C sales underlying operational growth was 7.8% worldwide 13.4% in the U.S.
and 2.9% outside the U.S.
I'd like to point out that our 2015 fiscal year included an additional week.
Since this week occurred during a holiday period we did not achieve a full week of sales.
However we did have a few more shipping days.
These additional shipping days added approximately 4 points to the quarterly sales growth rate and 1 point to the annual growth rate.
The additional sales were more heavily skewed to the U.S.
While these few shipping days added to sales we also had a full week's worth of operating costs.
Therefore the bottom line impact was negligible.
Turning now to earnings.
Net earnings were $3.2 billion and diluted earnings per share were $1.15 versus $0.89 a year ago.
As referenced in the tables reconciling non-GAAP measures 2015 fourth quarter net earnings were adjusted to exclude after tax amortization expense of $220 million and a net charge of $608 million for after tax special items.
2014 fourth quarter net earnings were adjusted to exclude after tax amortization expense of $275 million and a charge of approximately $1.1 billion for after tax special items.
Dominic will discuss special items in his remarks.
Excluding amortization expense and special items for both periods adjusted net earnings for the current quarter were $4 billion and adjusted earnings per share were $1.44 representing increases of 4% and 5.1% respectively as compared to the same period in 2014.
Currency translation significantly impacted net earnings.
On an operational basis adjusted diluted earnings per share grew 12.4%.
Now turning to the financial highlights for the full year of 2015.
Consolidated sales to customers for the year of 2015 were $70.1 billion a decrease of 5.7% as compared to the same period a year ago.
On an annual basis sales grew 1.8% operationally and currency had a negative impact of 7.5%.
Excluding the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures and hepatitis C sales underlying operational growth was approximately 6.5% worldwide 10.6% in the U.S.
and 3% outside the U.S.
Turning now to earnings.
2015 annual net earnings were $15.4 billion and diluted earnings per share were $5.48.
For the year 2015 adjusted net earnings were $17.4 billion and adjusted earnings per share were $6.20 down 4.8% and 3% respectively versus the 2014 results.
On an operational basis adjusted diluted earnings per share grew 5.8%.
Estimated free cash flow for the year was strong at $15.9 billion up $1.1 billion versus 2014.
Turning now to quarterly business segment highlights.
Please note percentages quoted represent operational sales changes in comparison to the fourth quarter of 2014 unless otherwise stated and therefore exclude the impact of currency translation.
I'll begin with the Consumer segment.
Worldwide Consumer segment sales of $3.3 billion increased 1.8% with U.S.
sales down 4.9% while outside the U.S.
sales grew 5.5%.
Excluding the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures underlying growth was approximately 4.7% worldwide 1.7% in the U.S.
and 6.3% outside the U.S.
Growth was driven by worldwide OTC and oral care as well as women's health outside the U.S.
OTC sales results in the U.S.
were driven by Zyrtec and product relaunches for digestive health products.
Strong growth for analgesics was partially offset by timing of inventory builds as noted in the third quarter and a slower start to the flu season.
In the U.S.
adult analgesic market share was approximately 13.5% up from approximately 11.5% a year ago.
While U.S.
pediatric share was approximately 45.5% up from approximately 42% a year ago.
Results outside the U.S.
were driven by strong sales of upper respiratory products and the relaunch of anti-smoking products.
Strong sales momentum driven by successful marketing campaigns and geographic expansion for new products drove results for LISTERINE in oral care and in women's health products outside the U.S.
Moving now to our Pharmaceutical segment.
Worldwide sales of $8.1 billion increased 6.5% with U.S.
sales up 12.7% and sales outside the U.S.
down 0.9%.
Competitors in hepatitis C significantly impacted sales results.
Excluding sales of our hepatitis C products OLYSIO and INCIVO as well as the impact of acquisitions and divestitures underlying growth was approximately 11.1% worldwide and 21% in the U.S.
Sales outside the U.S.
declined approximately 0.2% with strong growth of new and core products offset primarily by lower sales of REMICADE and SIMPONI to our distribution partner.
Important contributors to growth were STELARA INVOKANA and VOCAMET IMBRUVICA INVEGA SUSTENNA and XEPLION XARELTO and U.S.
sales of REMICADE.
STELARA achieved strong growth across all the major regions driven by robust market growth and increased penetration with the psoriatic arthritis indication.
Strong momentum in market share drove results for INVOKANA and VOCAMET.
In the U.S.
INVOKANA and VOCAMET achieved 6.5% total prescription share or TRx within the defined market of type II diabetes excluding insulin and Metformin up from 4.2% last year.
TRx with endocrinologists was 12.8% for the quarter and 5.8% in primary care.
Strong patient uptake with demonstrated efficacy drove results for IMBRUVICA in the U.S.
IMBRUVICA is the leader in both new and total patient regiment share in second line CLL and MCL.
Outside the U.S.
results were driven primarily by Europe with strong patient uptake and shared momentum.
IMBRUVICA is now approved in over 60 countries.
As an update on our oncology pipeline we received FDA approval for DARZALEX in November.
DARZALEX is off to a robust start with strong underlying market demand.
INVEGA SUSTENNA or XEPLION achieved strong results in all major regions primarily due to increased market share and the launch earlier this year of INVEGA TRINZA.
Continued share growth drove XARELTO sales results with TRx for the quarter in the U.S.
anticoagulant market of 16.1% up nearly 1.5 points from a year ago.
XARELTO is broadly reimbursed with approximately 95% of commercial and Medicare part D patients covered at the lowest branded product co-pay.
REMICADE in the U.S.
benefited from strong market growth partially offset by lower market share.
REMICADE U.S.
export sales and international sales were negatively impacted by lower distribution partner sales due to the weakening of the Euro and the loss of exclusivity in Europe partially offset by a higher inventory reduction last year.
Strong results were achieved in the western hemisphere excluding the U.S.
I'll now review the Medical Devices segment results.
As a reminder we announced last week that we will use a new format for the reporting of sales in the Medical Devices segment.
And we provided historical sales results in the new format at that time.
The historical sales are available on our website.
Worldwide Medical Devices segment sales of $6.4 billion increased 3.4%.
U.S.
sales increased 6.7% while sales outside the U.S.
increased 0.6%.
Excluding the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures underlying growth was approximately 5.8% worldwide with the U.S.
up 8% and growth of 3.9% outside the U.S.
Growth was driven by surgery orthopedics electrophysiology and vision care partially offset by the divestiture of the Cordis business.
Growth in our surgery business was driven by strong results for the advanced products with endocutters growth of 15% biosurgicals growth of 9% and energy growth of 5%.
In addition ASP and Mentor products in our specialty products made significant contributions to sales in the quarter.
Market growth additional selling days and new products drove strong results for the U.S.
orthopedics business.
Pricing pressure continued across the major categories partially offset by positive mix for trauma and spine products.
The successful introduction in early 2015 of the TFNA nailing system in trauma the success of the ATTUNE platform in knees our primary stem platform in hips and ORTHOVISC/MONOVISC in spine or other made important contributions to the results.
Orthopedic sales outside the U.S.
were negatively impacted by results in China due to softer demand and a reduction in inventory.
Spine other and trauma were the categories most impacted.
Our electrophysiology business grew 19% worldwide due to strong market growth complemented by the success of the THERMOCOOL SMARTTOUCH catheter.
Vision care results were driven by very strong growth in the U.S.
due to the introduction of new products as well as the trade inventory build.
That concludes the segment highlights for Johnson &amp; Johnson's fourth quarter of 2015.
For your reference there were some notable developments in the fourth quarter which we have summarized on this slide to assist as you develop your models.
Lastly to assist you in updating your models for the full year 2015 on our website you will find annual sales highlights by segment.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Alex Gorsky.
Alex? Thank you Louise.
Let me start by saying how optimistic and confident I am as we enter 2016.
We had a strong finish to 2015.
And with our healthy balance sheet we are well positioned to continue to invest for future growth.
Our core business is very strong.
And we expect a number of additional new products and line extensions in the coming year.
Now as we enter 2016 we look forward to first continued growth of core products across our segments.
Next a rich near-term pipeline in our Pharmaceutical segment.
Positive momentum in our Consumer segment with a full portfolio of OTCs back on the market.
Setting a strong foundation for sustainable growth with the bold actions we are taking in our Medical Devices segment.
And continued financial strength and strong free cash flows to return capital to shareholders and take disciplined and decisive actions regarding M&amp;A that contribute to sustainable growth and long-term value creation.
Now I'll share more specifics in my discussion with you today about the healthcare environment our 2015 results and why we're so optimistic and confident about the future for the enterprise in each of our business segments.
But with that as a backdrop I'd like to begin where I always do by talking about our credo.
Our credo is the beginning of everything at Johnson &amp; Johnson.
It guides all of our decisions.
And I believe it sets us apart.
This year is Johnson &amp; Johnson's 130th year.
Think of that for a moment.
130 years of working to balance our mission of helping people everywhere live longer healthier and happier lives.
And I'm proud to see the employees of Johnson &amp; Johnson around the world continuing to uphold the imperatives of our credo every day through both our philanthropy initiatives as recent commitment to supporting the immediate and ongoing needs of Syrian refugees in partnership with Save the Children as well as through our commitments to the healthcare community with investments that will accelerate how we address global health crises like Ebola AIDS and mental health.
You've undoubtedly heard me say that I believe healthcare is one of society's greatest challenges.
And this global challenge grows with aging populations rising costs in developed world and growing middle classes in emerging economies who have increasing expectations for access to quality care.
Now as the world's largest and most broadly based healthcare company it's not just an opportunity for us to help manage this transformation it is our responsibility to help lead the way to a better future.
Now in this environment ensuring access to important medicines and medical procedures remains a key objective for us.
As government officials politicians and other stakeholders debate significant issues around the world we're pleased to see that healthcare is such a focus in the dialogue.
And we believe that our goals and those of public policy makers are aligned to find the best ways to ensure the delivery of quality healthcare and the best patient outcomes in a high-quality and sustainable manner.
Now in this discussion it's the responsibility of all stakeholders to consider the economic and financial implications of healthcare.
We got to look at the whole picture drugs devices insurers hospitals and governments put the patient in the center and reward innovations that drive better outcomes.
Here in the United States prescription drugs represent approximately 12% of total healthcare costs and medical devices represent around 6%.
These cures and treatments not only improve quality of life for many patients extend life for others and contribute to the productivity of our society but they can also help to reduce caregiver burden disability and healthcare spending overall.
The promise of innovation in healthcare is great and will remain great if we can take a holistic approach to reforming the healthcare system.
At Johnson &amp; Johnson we believe in this holistic approach to healthcare solutions.
It's vital to developing the best innovations to meeting the needs of our stakeholders and to sustaining our legacy of strong and consistent business performance.
Our Consumer Medical Devices and Pharmaceutical segments are increasingly interconnected businesses.
And we believe that being broadly based in healthcare has been and will continue to be a significant factor in Johnson &amp; Johnson's success as it positions us well to lead and grow our business with the evolving healthcare landscape.
Our broad global footprint enables us to reach more patients and consumers in fast-developing and changing markets.
In fact Johnson &amp; Johnson is operating in 60 countries today.
And we are continuing to invest in implementing new operating models forging strong relationships with local governments and health systems and further accelerating growth through strategic acquisitions and partnerships with local companies.
Because of our broad base across healthcare we are uniquely positioned to be a partner of choice.
Now let me just go over a few examples.
With large health systems we are taking more of a business-to-business model to help them with innovative contracting strategies integrated services and solutions and with dedicated customer-focused teams.
We're working with technology companies like Google IBM and Apple who are advancing medical innovation through an infusion of technology that can benefit from deep healthcare expertise Johnson &amp; Johnson can uniquely provide.
We're continuing to support biotech and med tech start-ups who appreciate the value we placed on innovation and the reach and breadth of our footprint in the healthcare market.
And with public health organizations we have a tremendous opportunity to address the gaps that remain in innovation access and delivery of effective prevention and treatment.
We're collaborating more than ever before to meet the world's most pressing public health challenges.
Our scale financial flexibility and business and healthcare expertise make Johnson &amp; Johnson a key partner for a number of our stakeholders.
And our relationships with these partners will help Johnson &amp; Johnson continue to be a leader in the future.
Applying our expertise in design thinking strategic innovation models and a commitment to collaborating with all stakeholders we've developed a number of cross-segment innovations.
For example we've created the China Lung Cancer Center which is developing a holistic approach to treat lung cancer in China where the disease is particularly prevalent.
We're pioneering cell therapy for age-related macular degeneration combining technologies from Pharma and from our vision business to find a way to address this condition.
And we're leveraging capabilities from our Medical Devices Pharma and Consumer businesses to treat obesity and diabetes in new ways.
In fact almost every one of our programs can benefit from the advantages of our broad base.
Over the past several years we've also been leveraging our scale by developing enterprise efficiencies and capabilities across all of our sectors targeting as much as $1 billion in operational savings by 2018 to support our growth.
And we believe innovation that is taking place within our supply chain and quality systems is actually creating a competitive advantage for Johnson &amp; Johnson.
But the bottom line – well it's the bottom line.
And this broad-based structure has helped us deliver strong consistent and sustainable financial performance.
Let's consider some of the numbers.
First 53 consecutive years of dividend increases at Johnson &amp; Johnson.
That means we have provided steady dividend increases since we first put a man in space.
And 32 years of consecutive adjusted operational earnings growth more than three decades.
Over the past 10 years we have returned approximately 70% of our free cash flow to our shareholders.
And today 70% of our revenues come from brands that are number one or number two in their markets.
We have 24 brands that represent $1 billion platforms.
If you think about that in 1999 the entire corporation had revenues of $24 billion.
And about 25% of our sales come from brands launched in the last 5 years.
That's a result of constant learning collaboration and innovation.
Our corporate structure our broad base is a strategic choice and one that is grounded on performance not just our heritage.
We know it has been a significant driver in the past and expect it will be more important in the future.
As we've said we see global healthcare growing at 3% to 5% over the next 5 years.
And we have a clear objective: that Johnson &amp; Johnson should grow sales organically at a faster rate than the market.
We also intend to grow our earnings faster than sales.
In addition we will continue to create value through strategic acquisitions and partnerships that generate additional growth.
All of this coupled with our strong dividend yield and you are looking at a very compelling long-term total shareholder return.
As part of our performance-driven strategy we regularly review the structure and portfolio of our businesses to evaluate how they're delivering on our responsibilities to the stakeholders outlined in our credo meeting evolving healthcare needs and achieving performance expectations.
Johnson &amp; Johnson has a rigorous and disciplined portfolio review program focused on creating long-term shareholder value.
And this applies to all our businesses.
We have a track record of evolving our business and taking decisive actions when necessary to meet changing industry and consumer dynamics.
And we'll continue to do so in the future.
We're actively looking for the right opportunities to create greater value for our shareholders.
We are seeking companies with a mutual desire to partner.
But we're also patient.
We will only act when we see the right value-creating deal at the right price and with the right partners.
Now historically about half of our growth has come from M&amp;A and half from internal development which we fully expect to continue.
And with our strong balance sheet we've got the resources to do just that.
Now let me take a few minutes to review the priorities we laid out for you last year.
One we will continue to be focused on delivering on our financial and quality commitments.
Two in Pharmaceuticals our objective as always is constant innovation.
We're building on our launch excellence and continuing to develop a robust pipeline of transformational medicines.
In our Consumer business we positioned our entire portfolio to focus on key geographies need states and mega brands.
We are prioritizing and investing to expand our market leadership in key Consumer segments in OTC oral care baby and beauty.
And as you heard through our announcement last week our priority in Medical Devices is accelerating growth through the strategic investments in innovation and by transforming our go-to-market models.
We're confident that these priorities will deliver the results that you expect from us and just as importantly the results that we expect from ourselves.
As we said we are pleased with our 2015 performance.
In 2015 we generated sales of $70.1 billion reflecting strong underlying operational growth across our enterprise.
Our in-market portfolio in Pharmaceuticals delivered strong growth.
We built positive momentum in our Consumer segment.
And we just announced bold actions to accelerate growth in our Medical Devices segment.
Throughout the year you've heard from each of our business segment leaders about the strategies we put in place to meet our commitments.
So I'll touch on just a few of the recent actions we've taken to advance those strategies.
As Joaquin Duato laid out for you at our Pharmaceuticals business review in May our Pharmaceuticals business has a clear strategy focused on five therapeutic areas of high unmet medical need a robust innovation engine and proven commercial capabilities.
Joaquin talked to you about how we're investing in our future with 10 new products we plan to file by 2019 each with the potential to exceed $1 billion in annual sales.
And in fact we are already delivering one of those promising medicines to the market 4 months ahead of schedule with the U.S.
approval for DARZALEX the first human monoclonal antibody to be approved anywhere in the world for patients with multiple myeloma which is off to a very good start.
In the near term I know many of you are keeping an eye on potential biosimilar competition in the United States.
As you've heard us say biosimilars are not generics.
With more than 2.4 million people having been treated with REMICADE and about 70% of the current patients receiving sustained and effective treatment we believe doctors will be reluctant to switch them off with that level of success.
And we've seen this play out in many markets where biosimilars have already been introduced.
And we also have a patent for REMICADE that expires in September 2018 that we'll obviously continue to vigorously defend.
We consider our immunology products part of an important and robust portfolio for patients physicians and payers.
So when you consider our continued expectations for REMICADE as well as the future potential of products like STELARA and SIMPONI and the pending submissions of Guselkumab and Sirukumab we are confident in our ability to continue driving strong growth from our immunology portfolio.
When you combine these advances with additional line extension approvals expected in 2016 like those for IMBRUVICA STELARA and INVOKANA and DARZALEX approval in the EU our near-term pipeline is incredibly robust and may not be fully appreciated in the market.
With the combined strength of our in-market portfolio and deep late-stage pipeline we expect to deliver above industry compound average growth through 2019.
Our consumer expertise insight and access are becoming increasingly valuable to payers and providers as demographic and technology trends in healthcare are moving the system toward more consumer-driven decision-making and in some cases self-care alternatives.
We see this as a key differentiator for our company.
And we are investing in technologies that help us exploit this expertise across our broad base.
Jorge Mesquita and our other Consumer business leaders will share more details at our Consumer business review this May.
For 2015 our U.S.
OTC business continued to grow faster than the market.
And we're happy to report that nearly all of our OTC products have returned to shelves.
And we are proud the quality system improvements we have put into place.
Our Consumer Medical Device businesses the Johnson &amp; Johnson diabetes solutions companies and Johnson &amp; Johnson vision care made progress in 2015 to improve our competitiveness.
Both businesses which command global leadership positions in their respective categories focused their 2015 turnarounds on launching new products solidifying their base businesses and accelerating growth.
And both businesses have regained or stabilized market share and market leadership and introduced important new products such as Animas Vibe and ACUVUE OASYS 1-DAY with HydraLuxe in the U.S.
In our broader Medical Device businesses last week we announced a strategic restructuring initiative designed to directly support and accelerate the strategy Gary Pruden laid out for you on our third quarter earnings call.
We are reallocating resources to priority platforms like endocutters knees trauma and EP.
And recent history shows that when we double down in an area we are able to accelerate meaningful innovation and outcomes as we saw with our endocutters portfolio which is now the fastest growing platform in our Medical Devices segment.
Additionally we are making progress on transforming our go-to-market models like our cross-selling efforts between Ethicon and DePuy Synthes Joint Reconstruction and Spine which resulted in over 600 leads through 2015.
We are now co-selling in over 1 200 accounts.
And all sales teams will be trained covering all markets by the end of the first quarter.
And finally our recent acquisition of Coherex Medical in the area of atrial fibrillation and the surgical robotics collaboration with Verily formerly Google Life Sciences are examples of the type of focused and strategic investments that you will see us make more of in the future.
Our goal is to reach more patients outperform the markets in which we compete and consistently identify build and acquire new platforms for growth.
Moving forward into 2016 we will continue to take bold but appropriate steps to put our Medical Device business in the best position to deliver more value for customers and for our company and for our shareholders.
In summary we believe that improved universal access to quality healthcare rewarding innovation and a more vital culture of health wellness and prevention are the keys to a future where people are healthier and businesses and economies are stronger.
Our broad-based experience and scale uniquely positions Johnson &amp; Johnson as a leader and partner of choice in the movement towards outcomes and episodes of care-based approaches and ultimately a healthier society.
We're optimistic about the future opportunities in healthcare and confident in the strength of our business.
In 2016 we will remain focused on our near term priorities and continue to advance our longer term growth drivers enabling us to continue delivering shareholder value year after year.
With the guidance of our credo we'll continue to meet our responsibilities to all stakeholders.
That's been true for 129 years of breakthrough life-saving innovation.
And we are confident Johnson &amp; Johnson is well positioned to continue meeting those responsibilities for the next 130 years.
Thank you.
I look forward to further dialogue during the Q&amp;A session.
But first I'll turn it over to Dominic Caruso who will talk more about our results and expectations for 2016.
Dominic? Finance and Chief Financial Officer</strong> Thanks Alex and good morning everyone.
As you've heard from Alex we're very pleased with our 2015 performance.
We believe we managed our business well and have provided you insights during the year in a transparent manner that allowed all of you to understand our plans and expectations.
We finished the year strong and we're carrying that momentum into 2016.
We ended the year at the top end of our operational guidance range for both sales and earnings and exceeded estimates for earnings as published by [Thomson] First Call.
Turning to the next slide you can see our condensed consolidated statement of earnings for the full year 2015.
I'd first like to remind you about some of the key assumptions in our guidance for 2015.
At the beginning of the year we discussed that while we reinvested some of the profitability from OLYSIO sales our earnings in 2014 did benefit by approximately $0.20 per share even after those investments making 2015 comparisons to 2014 results more challenging.
Additionally currency headwinds increased quite substantially in 2015 negatively impacting both sales and earnings for 2015 by approximately 8%.
Given those expected headwinds last January we guided that we would deliver operational sales growth in the range of 1% to 2%.
As you can see while reported sales results show a decrease of 5.7% on an operational basis we ended up at the high end of our guidance with operational sales growth at 1.8%.
We also provided you with an estimate of our underlying operational sales growth for 2015 which excluded the impact of all acquisitions and divestitures as well as the impact of hepatitis C sales.
We expected that underlying operational growth would be approximately 6%.
And we exceeded that estimate delivering 6.5%.
On earnings our adjusted operational EPS growth in our original 2015 guidance was expected to range between 2.3% and 4.7%.
As reported this morning our EPS of $6.20 reflects operational growth of 5.8% and is at the top of the updated EPS guidance range we gave in October.
And finally our adjusted net income margin improved to 24.9%.
Now let's take a few moments to talk about certain items on the statement of earnings for the quarter.
Turning to the next slide you can see our condensed consolidated statement of earnings for the fourth quarter of 2015.
As we expected direct comparisons to our fourth quarter of 2014 would be challenging due to stronger OLYSIO sales that we benefited from last year as well as divestitures and currency headwinds in 2015.
Our results on an operational basis excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures and excluding the impact of hep-C sales were up 7.8% for the quarter.
As Louise noted sales did benefit from additional shipping days in the fourth quarter of 2015.
Please now direct your attention to the box section of the schedule where we have provided earnings adjusted to exclude special items and intangible asset amortization expense.
Adjusted net earnings were $4 billion in the quarter up 4% compared to the fourth quarter of 2014.
And adjusted earnings per share of $1.44 versus $1.37 a year ago are up 5.1%.
And the adjusted EPS result exceeded the mean of the analyst estimates as published by First Call.
Excluding the impact of translational currency our operational adjusted EPS was $1.54 or up 12.4% for the fourth quarter.
In the quarter we incurred intangible amortization expense of $200 million on an after tax basis as well as after tax special charges of $600 million which included an expense of $400 million related to the restructuring of our Medical Device business which we announced last week and in-process research and development charge of $200 million.
Now let's take a few moments to talk about the other items on the statement of earnings.
Cost of goods sold was 30 basis points lower than the same period last year impacted by changes in our business and product mix.
Selling marketing and administrative expenses were 33.1% of sales.
This is 120 basis points higher than last year as we continued to invest to drive growth in our key brands.
Our investment in research and development as a percent of sales was 16.1% in the quarter and 170 basis points higher than the prior year as we continue to make important investments in our pipeline for future growth.
In fact in the fourth quarter we entered into important new licensing agreements made milestone payments and increased spending to advance our R&amp;D portfolio which are all positive developments as we continue to strengthen our pipeline.
Interest expense net of interest income was slightly lower reflecting higher earnings on our investments.
Other income and expense was a net gain of $1.2 billion in the quarter compared to a net charge of approximately $1 billion in the same period last year.
Of course this line item includes several special items in both years.
Excluding those special items other income and expense was a net gain of approximately $1.3 billion compared to a net gain of approximately $130 million in the prior year period.
This year's fourth quarter reflects the gain on the previously announced divestiture of Cordis.
As a reminder we indicated that any gains from divestitures which are reflected in the other income and expense line would largely be reinvested in the business as well as used to mitigate the negative impact of currency and a lower level of income in 2015 from reduced OLYSIO sales.
And therefore our pre-tax operating margin would be expected to be lower in 2015 versus 2014.
And our 2015 results reflect just that.
We funded important investments with a higher level of other income that will benefit us going forward.
The adjusted fourth quarter effective tax rate for 2015 was 17.7%.
This was lower than the rate in the previous 9 months due to the passing of legislation which renewed the R&amp;D tax credit and look-through provisions.
The R&amp;D tax credit and look-through provisions were always included in our annual guidance.
The adjusted full year effective tax rate for 2015 was 20.7% slightly below guidance due to the mix of income from higher to lower tax jurisdictions.
Turning to the next slide.
I will now review adjusted income before tax by segment.
Adjusted income before tax for the entire enterprise improved from 30.7% of sales in 2014 to 31.4% of sales in 2015.
Looking at the adjusted pre-tax income by segment.
Medical Devices expanded 360 basis points due primarily to the gain associated with the Cordis divestiture.
While Pharmaceutical margins contracted 50 basis points due to the lower OLYSIO sales and increased investments in research and development partially offset by the gain earlier in the year of divestiture of NUCYNTA.
Consumer margins contracted 110 basis points due to lower divestiture gains in 2015 versus 2014 as well as important investments for future growth as we returned our iconic Consumer brands to the market.
Now I will provide some guidance for you to consider as you refine your models for 2016.
Before I discuss sales and earnings I'll first give you some guidance on items we know may be difficult to forecast.
I would first like to address our cash position and remind you about our capital allocation approach.
At the end of the quarter we had approximately $18.5 billion of net cash which consists of approximately $38.5 billion of cash and marketable securities and approximately $20 billion of debt.
This is a higher level of cash than we typically hold.
And as Alex said earlier we are actively looking for the right opportunities to deploy that capital to create greater value for our shareholders.
But we are patient.
We are seeking companies with a mutual desire to partner.
And we'll only act when we see the right value creating deal at the right price with the right partners.
We have a transparent and disciplined capital allocation strategy that starts with dividends to our shareholders followed by value-creating M&amp;A.
And then we consider other prudent ways to return value to shareholders such as share repurchase programs.
And due to our strong balance sheet we have the financial strength and flexibility to execute on all three of these capital allocation priorities simultaneously.
During Q4 2015 we used approximately $1 billion to repurchase shares of our stock in connection with our $10 billion share repurchase program that we announced in October.
Although we are continuing to evaluate external value-creating opportunities in line with this strategy for purposes of your models assuming no major acquisitions or other major uses of cash we suggest you consider modeling 2016 net interest expense of between $450 million and $550 million.
Regarding other income and expense.
As a reminder this is the account where we record royalty income as well as gains and losses arising from such items as litigation investments by our development corporation as well as divestitures asset sales and write-offs.
We would be comfortable with your models for 2016 reflecting other income and expense excluding special items as a net gain ranging from approximately $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion.
Although we expect to have a significantly lower level of other income in 2016 versus 2015 our pre-tax operating margin in 2016 is expected to expand by more than 200 basis points.
As we've discussed several times during the year we continue to evaluate our portfolio.
And we expected that any gains from divestitures would be lower than the level we saw in 2015.
However we also discussed that we would nonetheless improve on earnings as we see the benefits of good expense management and meaningful investments we made in 2015.
And now a word on taxes.
We're very pleased that the R&amp;D tax credit was made permanent and approved by Congress this last year.
We would be comfortable with your models reflecting an effective tax rate for 2016 excluding special items of approximately 19.5% to 20.5%.
Turning to sales and earnings guidance.
Our sales guidance for 2016 assumes no biosimilar entrants for PROCRIT or REMICADE in the U.S.
We also do not anticipate generic competition this year for ZYTIGA RISPERDAL CONSTA and INVEGA SUSTENNA.
But as expected there are generic entrants for INVEGA and ORTHO TRI-CYCLEN LO.
As we've done for several years our guidance will be based first on a constant currency basis reflecting our results from operations.
This is the way we manage our business.
And we believe this provides a good understanding of the underlying performance of our business.
And we'll also provide an estimate of our sales and earnings and EPS results for 2016 with the impact that exchange rates could have on the translation of those results.
For the full year 2016 we would be comfortable with your models reflecting an operational sales increase of between 2.5% and 3.5% for the year.
This would result in sales for 2016 on a constant currency basis of approximately $71.9 billion to $72.6 billion.
Additionally by way of comparison to how we described our sales results in 2015 our 2015 operator sales growth excluding the impact of all acquisitions and divestitures and hep-C sales was approximately 6.5%.
After adjusting for extra shipping days in 2015 that underlying growth rate was approximately 5.5% in 2015.
Our sales guidance for 2016 on the same basis is expected to continue at a similar growth rate of around 5.5%.
While the euro has been fairly stable over the last few months many of the other currencies have been volatile.
Although we're not predicting the impact of currency movements using the euro at $1.09 our guidance for sales growth would decrease by approximately 1.5%.
We are watching the other currencies closely as it is uncertain as to how they will settle out for the year.
Of course we will update the assessment as we progress throughout the year.
Thus under this scenario we would expect reported sales to reflect the change in the range of 1% to 2% for a total expected level of reported sales of approximately $70.8 billion to $71.5 billion.
Now turning to earnings.
A continuing factor impacting earnings guidance for 2016 is the impact of currency movements on transactions which although hedged is still somewhat negative.
We expect transaction currency impacts to negatively impact our gross margin by approximately 60 basis points to 80 basis points in 2016 as compared to 2015.
We would be comfortable with adjusted EPS guidance in the range of $6.53 to $6.68 per share on a constant currency basis reflecting operational or constant currency growth rates of 5% to 8%.
Again we're not predicting the impact of currency movements but to give you an idea of the potential impact on EPS with the euro at $1.09 our reported adjusted EPS would be negatively impacted by approximately $0.10 per share.
Therefore our reported adjusted EPS would range from $6.43 to $6.58 per share.
At this early stage in the year we would be comfortable with your models reflecting the midpoint of this range which at approximately 5% is higher than current consensus estimates.
So in summary as you update your models for the guidance I just provided I'd like to make a few points.
Although operational sales growth is expected to range between 2.5% and 3.5% we're pleased to note when excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures and hep C sales our operational sales growth is expected to be around 5.5% for the full year 2016.
With regards to expected EPS growth on an operational basis our adjusted EPS growth guidance is strong in the range of 5% to 8%.
Also for 2016 pre-tax operating margins are expected to expand by more than 200 basis points based on the guidance I just provided.
Margin expansion is driven by a combination of investments we made in 2015 coupled with the benefit of disciplined expense management across the enterprise.
Moving into 2016 we are confident in the strength of our business.
As we execute on our growth plans and near term priorities that Alex laid out for you this morning we're well positioned with a strong balance sheet to deliver solid results while continuing to invest in innovation which will ensure our future growth and success.
Our goal remains to grow our sales organically at a rate faster than the markets in which we compete grow our earnings faster than sales and create value through strategic acquisitions and partnerships that generate additional growth.
All this coupled with our strong dividend yield provides a very compelling long-term shareholder return.
Finally before I turn it over to Louise for Q&amp;A just a reminder to please save the date for our Consumer and Medical Devices business review on Wednesday May 18.
Thank you.
Now back to Louise.
Thank you Dominic.
Manny could you please give the instructions for the Q&amp;A session? Thank you.
Okay.
And your first question comes from Mike Weinstein of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Morning Mike.
Good morning everybody and thanks for taking the question.
So let me start with the margin expansion piece of the guidance.
And this kind of fits in with the announcement last week on the MD&amp;D business.
And there's really like – there's two parts to the question.
So if I look at MD&amp;D and where you ended up with pre-tax margins in 2015 they were at 35.6%.
And which to every observer would say those are very high margins.
And for the overall company you're guiding to 200 basis points plus of pre-tax margin improvement which would make 2016 the biggest year of margin expansion in the last 15 years.
So talk about the decision to be as aggressive as you're being in 2016 on operating costs.
And for the MD&amp;D business in particular why is the consolidation that you're pursuing and let's call it the cost transformation imperative at this point in time? And why are you being as aggressive as you're being? Thanks.
Finance and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Sure Mike thanks for your question.
Well couple things.
One is the – 2015 as you saw was a heavy investment year because we benefited from the divestitures.
And I think we were very transparent that we would make important investments going into 2015.
And we did just that.
So in 2016 we have a lower level of those investments consistent with a lower level of the other income that we just guided to.
Also it's important to point out that those investments we made in 2015 we're seeing the benefits of those already in 2016.
So we think they were wise investments.
And finally we've talked a lot about our various programs of reducing our cost structure.
And Alex today mentioned the program that we embarked on several years ago that will reduce cost by $1 billion by 2018.
Well we're well on our way in implementing that program after several years of investment.
In 2016 we'll see a year where the actual benefits associated with that program outweigh any incremental investments.
And maybe – Alex maybe a comment on the MD&amp;D restructuring and why that's appropriate for us to do today.
Yeah Mike.
We do think that this is the right time to be making the moves.
But really I think it's important to kind of step back and put it into larger perspective.
If you think about what we've been doing in Medical Devices over the last several years we've had a range of activities ranging from some of the divestitures with OCD as well as Cordis underway.
At the same time we've been making changes internally with the way that our organizations are innovating as well as in the way that they're going to market.
And so we see this as the next logical step in that overall process.
Our Medical Devices business is one that we remain very committed to.
We believe that it's got an exciting future a lot of new innovation coming new ways of dealing with our customers.
And so we think this is the right time to make sure that we're set up for growth not only in 2016 but actually for the next 5 years and 10 years.
Dominic can you share any commentary about how you're thinking about the respective businesses in 2016 versus your 2015 performance? And then maybe just on the MD&amp;D topic it's hard to piece out what the kind of underlying growth is with the extra selling days.
But MD&amp;D did grow 5.8% this quarter.
That's obviously inflated by that.
Do you have any thoughts just in terms of where you are in the turn of the performance in the MD&amp;D business? Thanks.
Finance and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Well sure Michael.
Let me comment overall.
As you know our growth in 2015 primarily driven by Pharmaceuticals.
And we expect healthy growth in 2016 from Pharma but probably at a slightly lower rate of growth than what we saw in 2015 as those products that we launched are beginning to mature in their growth trajectory but still a lot of growth ahead of them.
So we're not going to give guidance by sector.
But overall a little bit lower growth in 2016 versus 2015 for Pharma.
Better growth in Consumer good momentum in 2015 carrying on into 2016.
And we expect higher growth rates in 2016 versus 2015 for the Medical Devices business as well.
And as you saw we ended the year with good strong momentum in that business as well.
Perfect.
I'll let some others jump in.
Okay.
Next question please.
Thank you.
The next question is from Glenn Novarro of RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Glenn.
Hi good morning guys.
Question for Alex.
Alex given the strong balance sheet I'm somewhat surprised you were not more aggressive with the balance sheet in 2015 especially on the M&amp;A front.
And you made some comments about the balance sheet going forward.
But I'm just curious.
As you evaluate your options particularly on the M&amp;A front is the fact that we haven't seen deals year to date or so far is it because the targets still have very high valuation expectations? Or is it that most of your cash is trapped outside the U.S.
limiting your ability to do acquisitions? Or is it a little bit of both? Thanks.
Hey Glenn thank you very much for your question.
Look we are and we have been and will continue to be very active in the M&amp;A category.
As we mentioned during the earlier comments if you look at us historically really over about any timeframe 20 years 10 years what you see is about half of our growth being generated from organic innovation platforms and about 50% being generated vis-a-vis M&amp;A.
As we reflect back on 2015 we realize that the market was premium priced.
We remained very active in a number of different areas.
And while we didn't necessarily close on a larger deal I would not assume that we were not engaged and involved.
But at the same time we think it's really important for you our shareholders as you think about long-term returns that we stay at the appropriate level of discipline and decisiveness as we go through that process.
As we look at the environment today we see a number of opportunities across the Consumer the Medical Devices and the Pharmaceutical groups.
We're going to remain very active.
I think that our financial team has done a great job of using our offshore assets in a very compliant but also tax-effective way.
And we'll continue to look for opportunities that ultimately we believe are going to help us continue to get into growing markets to improve our share position to provide complementary products and services to platforms that we already have that ultimately are going to lead to long-term sustainable growth for J&amp;J.
So if I hear you correctly you're saying valuations were elevated for the targets in 2015.
But I sense from you that the valuations of your targets valuations are coming down.
And it sounds like the cash sitting outside the U.S.
will not inhibit deal flow.
So is that a fair assumption? And then is there any one business versus the other that you would be more likely inclined to do an acquisition to help accelerate growth? Thanks.
Yeah Glenn look we're fortunate in that because of our strong performance our strong cash flows that our balance sheet is actually quite strong.
I also believe that if you look at our track record of how we've utilized that cash to make the right capital investments in companies that we've been successful with that.
And look we think that there's opportunities across all three of our different sectors.
And it's not an algorithm per se as we decide which and where to invest but rather it really depends on the opportunity.
And many of the factors that Dominic described earlier as far as what are the specific platforms that we're looking at? Where is the partner in terms of their decision making what they want to do with the business? And frankly what the competitive environment is like? So we think that there are opportunities.
We intend to be quite active as we look at 2016 and beyond in a manner that's been consistent with our track record in that area.
Okay.
Thanks Alex.
Thank you.
Next question please? Next question please? Yes.
The next question is from Matt Miksic of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Morning Matt.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking our question.
So one kind of broader question on the sort of changes in the health economy in the U.S.
And then I have one follow-up on some of the extra day commentary that you made.
So looking forward to the MD&amp;D day and the update on sort of the restructuring there.
But stepping back you've been one of the leaders here in sort of broader contracting strategies and developments some of these value added services like CareSense and Outpatient Solutions.
Alex it would be just helpful to get your thoughts on what you're seeing in the marketplace in terms of uptake of those kinds of strategies.
And maybe talk about whether we're in the early innings here? And how you think about some of the benefits you're seeing or hope to see with those approaches to the business? And then I have one follow-up.
Sure Matt.
Thank you very much.
Look overall we feel that we're still in the very early innings of what I'd call is the market evolution that we clearly expect to see over the next 3 years 5 years and even 10 years.
And for all the reasons that we've discussed around increasing demands based on demographics certainly here in the U.S.
and a rising middle class in demographics outside the United States and the pressure that that's likely going to put on payers and governments and others in between.
We realize that there is an opportunity for us to participate not only in bringing great innovation that's going to help patients but also doing it in a value-added way.
And clearly the consumer the patient is weighing in much heavier in these decisions as they take on higher co-pays as they can get more information that's available online.
And frankly they just have higher expectations about their ability to participate in that healthcare decision-making process.
So what we see is a range of customers.
Look we see some customers who are still very innovation focused.
And to be clear we remain very innovation focused.
We think at the end of the day what we do best is bring new products new solutions to our customers that are going to ultimately have better outcomes for patients.
And so that's an area where we are very focused on and will continue to be focused on.
We are though starting to also see hospital systems.
And I think one important point here is it's certainly taking place in the United States.
But it's also definitely taking place in places like Europe and even some of the developing and emerging markets that frankly don't have the history and the legacy of some of the infrastructure that you see in the more developed markets.
And there it – what we see is an evolution more towards a business-to-business relationship where yes customers want to see innovation.
But they also want to see how are you going to interact? How can you assist in working with our supply chain to make it more efficient? How can we work together as part of a broader partnership that ultimately is focusing not just on a product sell but actually on an outcome on an episode of care for the patient.
And it creates a much broader partnership.
We are seeing those organizations becoming more and more interested.
And that's why we're adapting to make sure that we're part of that.
So I think overall it's a – it's important that we continue to innovate we continue to operate with a lot of excellence in the current environment.
At the same time it's important that we set the stage for this evolution that's taking place out there to make sure that we can not only be successful but we'll actually be a leader as that market evolves as well.
Very very helpful.
And then the clarification on the extra shipping days as you talked about.
It was a holiday week.
And maybe OR surgery days were not as much of a factor as shipping days from what I could tell in your commentary.
But you were strong in vision care obviously a shipping type of business.
Strong in Pharma.
Just wondering Dominic if – or if you have any color on some of your consignment businesses where we think about orthopedics spine and trauma where the inventory is in the field it's not on your balance sheet.
Is it – was there any difference in the way those businesses were impacted versus businesses where you're actually shipping and billing for things in the last couple days of the quarter? Finance and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Sure Matt.
Well just overarching comment on this.
Of course these extra shipping days were already included in our guidance for the year.
And I think you've all modeled for them.
And as you know our sales came in pretty much in line with expectations.
About 1% for the year we think is the impact overall for the enterprise and about 4% in the quarter.
You're right.
It does vary slightly by different businesses within the U.S.
in particular.
So this is largely a U.S.
phenomenon as opposed to a global phenomenon.
And with respect to the orthopedics business line which I think you're referring to specifically I think Louise you might have the details on the impact there.
Yeah.
So the additional days in the U.S.
in orthopedics was about 2.5 days and outside the U.S.
about 1.5-day average.
Finance and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> So not really much different from the overall total because that 2.5 days gets you to this 4% and 1% that I talked about earlier.
Got you.
It was interesting also when you look at the underlying growth in the orthopedics third quarter fourth quarter taking out the additional shipping days we saw sequential improvement across hips knees spine and trauma.
Finance and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> That's right.
Yeah.
On a worldwide basis.
Okay? Terrific.
Thanks.
Next question please? Thank you.
The next question is from Larry Biegelsen of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Morning Larry.
Hi.
Good morning thanks for taking the questions.
Let me just start with med tech and then I had a follow-up on Pharma.
So Alex can you talk about the health of the med tech end markets in the U.S.
and emerging markets? And what drives the acceleration for your business specifically in 2016? When I look at the general surgery business it looked like adjusting for the extra days in the U.S.
that was – or worldwide that was slightly weaker in Q4.
So just the health of the end markets in the U.S.
and emerging markets.
And I had a follow-up.
Thanks.
Sure.
Thanks a lot for the question Larry.
Look I think what we would say overall is we continue to see let's say a slightly increasing positive trend.
So we saw hospital admissions I believe up around 2%.
We saw surgical procedures up a little over 1% in the U.S.
That's the most recent data that we have.
If we go outside the U.S.
we think rates in Europe have been pretty steady.
And even in the markets in which we compete most significantly in the developing markets we haven't seen a major impact from secular shifts.
Perhaps in China some but not dramatic.
And then putting that into the context and what that represents overall on our business we don't see it as a major indicator.
As I look toward 2016 look there's a few things that cause us to be optimistic about our Medical Device business.
And it really starts with innovation.
And we've got about 30 products that we'll be launching by the end of 2016.
Over half of those have either been launched or are well on their way as we speak.
And what we're seeing is when we're bringing new technology to the market like our new contact lenses like our new insulin pump like our new energy instrumentation like the ATTUNE knee we're seeing very good uptake.
And in fact in those categories we're seeing share gains.
And certainly in areas like electrophysiology endocutters the same thing.
And so we believe that the market does still reward significant innovation when we're introducing it.
So that's one aspect.
The second aspect frankly is one just improved execution.
And I think if you look across all of our device businesses you think about diabetes care the major price reset that we had there a couple of years ago.
And as all of you know when you take that kind of a reduction resizing your business going back into each and every line and setting it for the new marketplace causes a tremendous amount of change.
If you look at our vision care business last year we went in and we really increased the cadence out of our innovation pipeline launching five new products.
We did a price reset there to make us more competitive with the ECPs.
We made a lot of other internal adjustments to improve our selling and marketing.
We are definitely seeing the impact of that now not only on the sales results of up 8% but as and maybe even more importantly if you look at the leading indicators as far as new share that's being generated and new patient starts in the offices those things are positive.
Louise mentioned earlier the improvement that we're seeing across our orthopedics business.
And look this is one where we know that when you bring large organizations together when you standardize quality systems manufacturing systems we think that we've made a lot of progress there.
And frankly when you compound that with the innovation rollout that we've seen in orthopedics of the ATTUNE knee the CORAIL hip the TFNA nail we're starting to see that come back.
As well as some of the – frankly the new approaches that we're taking that Gary will be talking about more in May where our Ethicon and our DePuy Synthes teams are actually co-selling co-contracting in a number of very innovative ways.
Compounded with the fact that look we think some of the performance issues related to China in our orthopedics are more of a one-time event.
That's getting normalized.
So as we burn our way through those and head into 2016 overall we think that innovation we think changes in our commercial model we think improved execution all those things are – make us more optimistic about the growth prospects as we head into 2016.
That's very helpful Alex.
And I just had one follow-up on a biosimilar REMICADE.
So obviously there's a panel scheduled – rescheduled next month.
So wondering if you can talk about what issues you think we should be listening for? What your expectations are? And what you're seeing in Europe where biosimilar REMICADE is on the market? And why or why not that might be a proxy for the U.S.? Thanks a lot.
Certainly.
Well obviously we'll also be watching the advisory committee and participating in it as well coming up.
And we think there's a few things to keep in consideration about this.
And first and foremost is that as Dominic stated earlier biosimilars are very different from generics.
And particularly in this category keeping the patient in the center of all these.
We've got a tremendous amount of experience in the biologics category going back to PROCRIT REMICADE (1:09:51).
And we think that the differences between molecules can have – manifest themselves in significant ways with patients.
So making sure.
And I think things that we'll be watching for at the AC are what kind of data do the biosimilars actually have? What kinds of indications? What will be the guidance around substitutability? All those frankly sitting here today are unknowns.
We're going to need more clarification.
But we think each of those means that the expected uptake even when a biosimilar does launch will lead to a significantly different curve than what you see with generics.
We think secondly it's very important to actually think about it from our patient perspective.
And we know for example there's about 2.5 million patients with REMICADE.
And about 70% of those are either continuing therapy and have a pretty high satisfaction rate.
So if you look at the available population who's likely to be switched we think it's in the 30% range.
And last but certainly not least there's the whole issue of the business model and the way that we actually work with customers in this setting.
And this is an area where we've got a lot of experience in contracting.
We've got some great relationships with providers in this area right now.
We also have a very broad portfolio.
If you think about what REMICADE does but you look more broadly at the performance recently of a product like STELARA a multi-billion-dollar compound growing at 20%-plus rate.
If you look at SIMPONI same thing.
SIMPONI ARIA in particular the great dosing convenience that it provides.
That's another multi-billion-dollar addition that we have to that portfolio.
Then you augment that with the submissions that we have in 2016 planned for Guselkumab Sirukumab an IL-23 and an IL-6 we think that that positions us very well with our portfolio and from a contracting point of view with large providers and payers in – certainly in the U.S.
but also abroad.
What we're seeing outside the United States is in most of the markets where they're introduced is a relatively minor impact.
We're seeing that we're holding onto about 90% plus or minus.
It varies by market.
You have to look at each one individually.
And it's difficult to project exactly what that impact will be going forward.
But I think when we think of it broadly across all those different areas what's the clinical data show what ultimately is the labeling the regulatory aspects what about our contracting the business aspects and we think all those are very important will result in a different impact from biosimilars.
And ultimately we'll continue to defend our intellectual property as well through what we believe is the right patent in September of 2018.
Thanks for taking the question guys.
And just to add to that we have REMICADE in Canada as a Johnson &amp; Johnson product.
And we've seen fairly – it's actually still growing in Canada even with the biosimilar there.
Now the biosimilar has a limited indication there but it's still growing.
And we'll be listening to Merck's call as well to see of the latest in Europe.
Thank you very much guys.
Next question please? Thank you.
The next question is from Jami Rubin of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Morning Jami.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Just a – it's noisy.
Anyway just a question for you Dominic and then I have a question for Alex.
Just trying to understand the difference between consensus estimates for 2016 and your guidance.
Do you have a sense for what the Street was assuming for non-operating income? When I go back historically that's been in the $500 million to $600 million range.
Clearly it was $2 billion last year.
But just curious to know what consensus models had assumed for that? Secondly did your guidance assume that the medical device tax would be suspended as I think we've seen with other device companies? Just curious to know if that savings is reinvested in the business? Or if that is part of the guidance? And then for you Alex just curious to know your thoughts on pricing? I mean we heard Bernie [Sanders] and Hillary [Clinton] last night go after drug pricing again.
And I don't think – I think that's also something we're going to hear from the Republican candidates.
What are your expectations in terms of pricing in 2016 and 2017? Do you expect that there will be a change in terms of list prices going forward? Thanks very much.
Finance and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Jami let me try to take the first two and then have Alex – maybe you'll comment on the drug pricing.
You're referring to our non-operating let's call it the other income and expense line for 2016 what was assumed in analysts' models versus what we have provided in guidance.
When we looked at the analysts' consensus models overall it looked like that number averaged in the high $900s million so nearly $1 billion.
And our guidance of course is somewhere $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion.
So our guidance is slightly higher than the analysts' models.
But just as a reminder we always take the opportunity to – since these are portfolio choices to use any of those gains to offset some other expenses we'd like to invest in.
And then with respect to the medical device tax the – we have assumed that it would be a benefit in 2016.
But I must say the benefit for us is very very minor.
Remember when the medical device tax is incurred it's incurred upon the first manufacture of a product.
And therefore it can be for for example orthopedic companies hung up in inventory for quite some time.
So the overall impact of not having a medical device tax in 2016 is not significant for Johnson &amp; Johnson.
It may be significant for certain other companies that maybe are pure orthopedic players but not overall significant for us.
And secondly I would say that whatever benefit we see there we've already assumed would be reinvested in innovation because of course during the time that the medical device tax was a drag on earnings obviously decisions had to be made on where to invest.
Now we're happy that with that easement of the device tax for a couple years we'll be able to actually invest more in innovation in the medical device space.
Yeah.
Jami thanks for the question on pricing.
Look we realize and understand the pricing in pharmaceuticals let alone in all of healthcare is certainly a very important issue.
And we believe that it's important to consider it just in that way.
As we think about pharmaceuticals for example they currently make up about 12% of healthcare spending in the United States slightly higher in Europe.
If you think about medical devices they represent about 6%.
And if you go beyond those areas of course there's a lot of other costs built into that system ranging from hospital patient care insurance companies many other people.
And particularly in an environment today where frankly we're seeing such transformational outcomes and moving more and more towards cures disease prevention interception than we ever have because of some of the great science that's being produced.
So we understand and would certainly expect there to be a continued spotlight in this area.
Obviously we're working with a lot of stakeholders to try and make sure that we look at it in a very holistic way.
And it's very I think difficult at this point in time to try to project what's going to happen in 2016 or 2017.
All of us know that the healthcare system not only here in the United States but frankly around the world is complex.
There's a lot of other – a lot of issues that are intertwined.
And – but it's obviously a conversation that we'll be participating in.
And ultimately where we want to be part of the solution.
Thank you.
Next question please? Thank you.
The next question is from Vamil Divan of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Morning.
Hi good morning everyone.
Thanks so much for taking the question.
So just a couple on the Pharma side.
I guess one on the Pharma side and then one other one for Dominic.
You mentioned STELARA and you mentioned the strong quarter and 20% growth it's showing.
I'm just wondering if you can share a little bit as you thought about 2016 and maybe beyond your expectation of that product going forward just given the competition it's going to face from the IL-17s both in psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis.
So is this sort of 20% range still sustainable? Or do you think you'll see more of a decline? And then second for Dominic just on the guidance.
And I apologize if I missed this.
But in terms of your EPS guidance can you comment on what share count you're using to get to that guidance? Or just give some sense of the buybacks against the year that you've sort of incorporated into the way you think about the year? Finance and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Why don't I take that part first? So Vamil we obviously – we announced the share buyback in October.
And I said we already through the fourth quarter spent about $1 billion dollars of that $10 billion.
In our plans for 2016 we have not assumed that it's totally complete.
But certainly more than a majority of the share buyback will be completed by the end of 2016 maybe three-quarters of it sort of around that range.
And that's what we've assumed in our models for 2016 the guidance I just gave.
Yeah.
Vamil thanks for the question.
Look if we look at STELARA one it just starts with a great compound.
It's had very nice uptake very good growth.
And we've certainly seen that in psoriatic arthritis.
But we're also excited about the planned indications in areas like UC and axial spondylitis.
So when you take the profile the momentum that we're seeing in the current marketplace and the share that continues to grow you combine it with some additional indications as we go forward particularly as part of our broader immunology portfolio we think that there's – and the other important issue I believe this category is only about 22% or 23% penetrated.
So in terms of new patients that are coming in all of that represents a nice growth opportunity for this important product.
Thank you.
Next question please? Thank you.
The next question is from Kristen Stewart of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Morning Kristen.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
Two questions the first for Dominic.
I believe a couple years ago you talked about the opportunities for margin expansion within Consumer.
We really haven't seen that just yet.
With most of the products (1:20:59) in the OTC business do we expect to see Consumer really starting to reach an inflection point? And would the goal – I believe Sandi [Peterson] had talked about 2 years ago at the last kind of Consumer update really getting back into that kind of 20% range – still really achievable in the next couple years? Finance and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Kristen we do expect that the Consumer business now that the products have been launched and the cost remediations associated with the consent decree are largely behind us – although we still comply with the consent decree for another 5 years.
We did want to launch those products with the right support.
But it is true that we do expect and we'll see it in 2016 and we'll report on it later in the year throughout the quarters an improvement in the operating margins of the Consumer business going forward.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Then for Alex I guess just following that will M&amp;A be a key driver to improving the margins or any sort of portfolio management? And then more broadly – I know I've always asked Dominic this question every now and again.
I guess you guys have always talked about the fourth leg.
And we've seen some of your competitors go to more solutions-based approach and wraparound programs.
I know you have some of those as well particularly within the orthopedics business.
Is that something that you think of when you're thinking about M&amp;A moving more towards a holistic healthcare model and maybe perhaps rolling in some more lifestyle disease management programs or something more on the service side? Thanks.
Sure.
Look I'd just pick up with what Dominic had just said about our Consumer business is that I'm really proud of the work they've done on the consent decree and the great strides that they have taken around quality.
In fact I think in working closely and partnering with the FDA we likely have a benchmark organization now.
And we're really proud of having done that.
At the same time I think it is – as they begin to ship from only remediation to remediation and relaunch across a number of these areas while certainly keeping a very high eye on quality as we increase our volumes as we are able to deepen our relationships with a lot of the major trade partners that's where we see a great growth opportunity as well.
And obviously that's going to have an impact on our margins as we go forward.
I also think that the other thing that that team is doing is as we're transitioning more and more to online marketing versus just traditional marketing the way we're partnering with some of the large customers I think that there's a lot of opportunities not only to drive share and volume but actually to improve efficiencies on our back end as well.
As I step back and look more broadly we think the three areas that we're in Consumer Medical Devices and Pharmaceuticals are all great platforms and great businesses.
Of course we would look first for areas that – what is the next ZYTIGA? What's the next vision care platform? What's the next NEUTROGENA? That would certainly be our focus.
Another would be are there chances to grow in perhaps some of the faster-growing developing markets? With the right kind of opportunity those are things that we would be interested in.
And then what are ways to complement our existing businesses? I think the way that you pointed out as the markets evolve we are looking not only at M&amp;A but also broader partnerships that we've done for example with companies like Google and Verily where we see a big opportunity to really help transform the robotic surgery space in a pretty significant way longer term.
And then I guess the final option there would be for us to actually acquire something outside the current three.
And again if it's something where we thought there was a lot of unmet patient or consumer need if we feel that it's consistent with the capabilities that we can bring to bear to actually have it be a successful business if the financials work then we would take that step.
Thank you.
Next question please? Thank you.
The next question is from Bob Hopkins of Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
So two things and I'll just rattle them off.
First I was wondering if you guys could comment a little bit on emerging market growth in Q4 relative to trends earlier in the year? And then more importantly just talk about the current operating environment in China.
And when do you think we could see a reacceleration of emerging market growth for J&amp;J? That's question number one.
And then question number two is just back to the original question on the 200 basis points of pre-tax operating margin improvement in 2016.
I was wondering if you could give us just a little more detail on exactly where that comes from? Maybe mention how much extra spend was there in 2015 that won't materialize in 2016? Just looking for a little bit more color there.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
So on the emerging markets growth excluding the impact of course of Cordis and OCD it was about 6.5% in the fourth quarter and a year-to-date basis it was about 5.5%.
Those are both operational numbers.
Finance and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> And on China just a couple comments.
That China we did see a slowdown in China primarily in the Consumer business because both Medical Devices and Pharma businesses still had high single digit growth in China.
And we're optimistic about China going into 2016.
Our plans are for improved growth in China in 2016.
But I just want to put China in perspective.
It's less than 5% of our sales.
It's an important market for us longer term with 1.3 billion people and lots of healthcare needs et cetera.
But any short-term changes in their economy is unlikely to have any significant impact on our results.
And then on the 200 basis point improvement Bob it's actually across all three lines of the P&amp;L COGS selling marketing as well as R&amp;D.
So in the case of COGS where we have a long-term program that we've been executing on to reduce footprint we're accelerating some of those programs.
That'll benefit us on the COGS line.
On the selling marketing and administrative line I talked earlier about the fact that we had a program in place for a couple years shooting for $1 billion of cost savings by 2018.
We're well on our way.
We'll see cost reductions in that line.
And R&amp;D that depends on the individual licensing deals that we have and the timing of when we would spend those milestone payments or enter into new licensing agreements.
But as it looks today the advancement in the portfolio in 2015 from the milestone payments et cetera are not expected to be at the same level in 2016 that they were in 2015.
So it's across all three lines in the P&amp;L.
And I can't give you an exact number on the amount of extra investment we made in 2015 but just to say that we had $2.8 billion of other income in 2015 well above the years past.
And we still improved overall income before tax by not quite that amount.
Right? So most of it was reinvested in the business.
Great.
Very helpful.
Thank you Dominic.
Thank you.
We'll take two more questions.
Next question please? Thank you.
The next question is from Josh Jennings of Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning and thanks for taking the questions.
Just have one for Alex.
And you have a formal plan in place to accelerate growth in the Medical Device unit that's reasonable.
And I believe your target of returning in it to 4% to 5% or 4% to 6% growth.
I just wanted to ask how patient you'll be before you look externally in a transformational way? And is this a 12- to 24-month initiative or longer time period that you'll put in place? Thanks a lot.
Yeah.
Josh thanks a lot for the question.
What I would say is this is something that has been underway for the last several months.
But clearly we're accelerating it.
And whenever you make this kind of a decision we certainly think about the impact that it has on employees.
But we also see it as our responsibility to make sure that this business is positioned for the next 5 years the next 10 years.
And with that note we have a high sense of urgency about increasing our rate of innovation about making the business model changes and ultimately about making sure that we're more competitive and delivering in the markets.
We try to be very clear where our goal is to grow faster than the markets.
Even given our size and given our scale we think we've got over 10 platforms that are $1 billion.
The majority of those are number one or number two.
But we realize there's still a lot of opportunity.
So while we're pleased with what we've seen we're far from satisfied.
And I know Gary and the rest of his team as well as all of us are completely committed to accelerating the performance of this group to be frankly benchmark in the industry.
Thank you.
And we'll take the last question.
And Alex will provide some brief closing remarks.
Next question please? Thank you.
Our final...
Yeah.
Yes.
Our final question comes from David Lewis of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Just two quick ones.
I'll start with a strategic one for Alex and then a quick Pharma question for Dominic or others.
Alex just thinking about M&amp;A for a second.
I know it's been a theme for this call.
But how does segment performance influence your willingness to deploy capital in those segments? So are you more inclined to deploy capital in outperforming segments or not? And I guess related does it make sense to deploy material capital in devices through M&amp;A until the restructuring has been digested and growth is back to market rates in those franchises? And then I have a quick question for Dominic.
Yeah.
David thanks for the question.
Look it depends on a number of different factors.
And obviously as we think about it for example in our Pharmaceutical group we think that the model that we pull together where we try to find the next INVOKANA the next DARZALEX very early compounds where frankly we've got solid scientific insight.
We bring it inside.
And because of our clinical development and our regulatory capabilities we can launch.
And then very strong sales marketing and reimbursement practices around that.
Frankly that's what's helped us create the number of $1 billion blockbusters that we've been able to launch since 2009.
And I think 16 new products and seven of which are like right at $1 billion or shortly will be.
And so we think that's a good model.
In Medical Devices we've done tuck-ins as well as large.
And look I think in both cases whether it's Pharma or Medical Devices the smaller tuck-ins are frankly more straightforward to get done.
We haven't shied – we won't shy away from large where we think it makes for a significant opportunity.
And it's something that we'll continue to look at in Consumer.
As far as the question if it's underperforming or not I think it depends on why it's underperforming.
If it's an exogenous market shift or something else then obviously that would not necessarily have us shy away from that particular area.
On the other hand if it's an internal more executional issue absolutely we'd want to make sure that we've got the knitting where we need it before we add onto that particular opportunity.
So that's the way we tend to look at it.
But again it's part of a broader strategic question really on how we're managing the portfolio across the enterprise.
Okay.
Very helpful.
And then to Dominic just a quick one for you or the team.
Just on INVOKANA it hasn't come up yet on the call.
I wonder if you can just give us a sense of what's happening in the market (1:33:24) as it relates to class expansion or your market share? And can you give us any update on the CANVAS trial? I'm looking at data in 2017.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
So I'll give you the market share third quarter versus fourth quarter which will give you some nice trend information.
So and this is U.S.
For the total we went from 6.3% in the third quarter to 6.5% in the fourth quarter.
Primary care we went from 5.6% to 5.8%.
And endo is at flat at about 13% quarter-to-quarter.
Finance and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> And the reading that we're getting from the field is that most physicians – and in fact some guidelines were recently published that the cardiovascular benefit that we saw with the other SGLT2 is most likely a class effect.
And that's the way physicians treat it.
And in fact the guidelines were just recently issued that called it a class effect.
Our data won't be until sometime mid-2017 I believe...
2017.
Finance and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> ...on those results where we'll actually then be able to put those results in our label.
But until then I think the market recognizes it as a beneficial effect on cardiovascular.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And so final remarks? Yeah.
So thank you very much everybody.
Look and in closing I'd like to thank you again for joining today's call.
We're pleased with the results we delivered in 2015.
And we think our strong underlying operational growth across the enterprise combined with a very high sense of urgency gives us a lot of confidence as we head in 2016.
And we're optimistic about the opportunities in healthcare and frankly about the underlying strength of our core business.
So thank you very much.
And I hope everyone has a great day.
Thank you.
This concludes today's Johnson &amp; Johnson's fourth quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
And have a wonderful day.