Good morning my name is James and I will be your conference facilitator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to the Janus Capital Group First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Before the company begins I would like to reference their standard legal disclaimer which also accompanies the full slide presentation located in the Investors Relations area of janus.com.
Statements made in the presentation today may contain forward-looking information about management's plans projections expectations strategic objectives business prospects anticipated financial results anticipated results of litigation and regulatory proceedings and other similar matters.
A variety of factors many of which are beyond the company's control affect the operations performance business strategy and the results of Janus and could cause actual results and experiences to differ materially from the expectations and objectives expressed in their statements.
These factors include but are not limited to the factors described in Janus' reports filed with the SEC which are available on their website www.janus.com and on the SEC's website www.sec.gov.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
Janus does not undertake to update such statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date these statements were made.
Investors should however consult any further disclosures Janus may make in its reports filed with the SEC.
Thank you.
Now it is my pleasure to introduce Dick Weil Chief Executive Officer of Janus Capital Group.
Mr.
Weil you may begin your conference.
Thank you operator.
Hello everyone and welcome to our first quarter 2011 earnings presentation.
Thanks very much for joining us.
You have me Dick Weil here with you; and also Greg Frost our CFO.
In the first quarter of 2011 Janus Capital Group generated an earnings per share of $0.21 compared with $0.17 in the first quarter of last year and $0.36 in the fourth quarter of 2010.
We achieved an operating margin above our 30% target at 32.1% compared to a 34.7% operating margin in the fourth quarter of 2010 and 27.3% in the first quarter of 2010.
AUM increased a little bit up 2.4% versus December 31.
Long-term flows were negative at $2.7 billion in the first quarter compared to negative $4.7 billion in the prior quarter that's fourth quarter of 2010.
Importantly we announced that as a result of the strengthening that we've been able to achieve to our balance sheet the board of directors declared a regularly -- a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 a share at a $0.20 per annum rate.
That's obviously a very significant increase from the prior $0.04 per annum rate.
We're pleased to be able to do that after having paid down the debt and strengthened our balance sheet.
We took a look at what we needed for safe business operation what we needed for our investments and for seed capital.
And then we focused on the need to return capital to our investors as we've talked about on prior calls.
In that effort we take a look at paying down debt.
We look at dividends and we look at share repurchase as opportunities to effectively return value to our shareholders.
In this case after looking at the opportunities the board of directors elected to create the dividend that I discussed.
Turning the page in our presentation and to give you a sense of where I see our business now.
I think we continue to develop along the lines of the strategy I've outlined before for our non-U.S.
business.
Augie Cheh [Augustus Cheh] has been a terrific addition as a new leader.
And I think we continue to strengthen our business outside the United States.
We continue to strengthen our fixed income.
We're focused on supporting our U.S.
distribution and relationships inside the U.S.
We have some areas of significant strength that we're building.
Our gross equity sales increased 8% quarter-over-quarter.
Fixed income flows were positive for the ninth consecutive quarter.
INTECH continues to show in our mathematical strategies 1-year relative performance that continues to be good and that's very important to us.
And we've launched -- or we are in the process of launching right now as we speak some significant new products in the U.S.
And as you know we've launched global products last year and we have new Asian products coming on line with our new portfolio manager Hiroshi Yoh.
Those are all exciting new developments for us.
On the challenges side performance in several of our largest fundamental equity funds continues to be challenged.
That's led to an acceleration in net outflows.
And if it does not improve it will increase outflows and it will also affect us through lower performance fees in 2012 and Greg will mention that.
Also a second challenge I'll highlight is despite the stronger performance in mathematical equities it hasn't yet translated into significantly better inflows.
And the net flow number in our mathematical strategies really reflects a leveling of the outflows but not a dramatic increase in inflows yet.
And that's an important challenge for us to resolve going forward.
With that I'll turn it over to Greg to give you some more detail on the results.
Thank you Dick.
Good morning everybody.
Turning to Page 5.
Total company outflows as Dick mentioned totaled $2.7 billion out.
And if you factor out the large mandate loss that we talked about last quarter the $2.6 billion loss sales and redemptions in the quarter were effectively flat with the fourth quarter.
On the fundamental equity side net outflows totaled $0.5 billion.
Perkins in here the Perkins value strategies continued to post positive flows of $0.3 billion.
This is a lower number than previous quarter certainly but still an annualized organic growth rate ahead of the industry for value strategies.
On the Janus managed side they had roughly $0.8 billion of outflows.
And that story is split really between those funds that we see with strong returns which are showing solidly positive flows more than offset by some of the underperforming larger funds that Dick mentioned for which we are starting to see an increase in net outflows.
At INTECH the story continues to be the lack of meaningful activity on the sales side which unfortunately is very much in line with what the quant [quantitative] industry is experiencing.
It is clear to us that investors haven't yet started thinking hard about quantitative managers in their portfolios even those with good performance like INTECH.
And on the fixed income side we continue to post positive flows a little slower than previous quarters as the graph on the lower right shows but certainly in line again with what the industry saw during the same time frame.
On the performance side although our longer-term performance remains strong and we're proud of that Dick has already mentioned the short-term challenges for some of our larger U.S.
equity funds.
These clearly have impacted the 1-year asset weighted Lipper numbers and in some cases have started to influence the 3-year numbers as well.
Performance will clearly start impacting our revenue yield as more of our funds move to performance fee schedules and we've talked about this before.
But by the first quarter of 2012 we'll have approximately 43% of our total company assets on a performance fee schedule which is up from 18% today.
Remember that the structure is a base management fee which has not changed plus or minus 15 basis points which adjusts up and down based on each fund's performance relative to a proved benchmark.
Although it's obviously difficult to predict future performance if our recent underperformance doesn't improve it will have a significant impact in our revenue yields really beginning in 2012.
On a positive side the fixed income group has a strong quarter and has delivered a very strong track record over the 1- 3- and 5-year time periods as the chart shows.
And INTECH's performance as Dick mentioned continues to markedly improve with 88% of the strategies beating their relative benchmarks compared to 50% 1 year ago.
Turning to Slide 7 and the numbers.
First quarter earnings totaled $0.21 down from $0.36 last quarter but up significantly from $0.17 a year ago.
As we talked about last quarter the first quarter of '11 included a $0.03 charge related to the early retirement of the 2012 senior notes.
That was disclosed.
And recall the fourth quarter included roughly $0.12 benefit from a number of unusual items that we won't go through again today.
On the operating side the first quarter was a clean quarter and was marked by higher average assets and investment management fees.
And really our continued focus on managing operating expenses this all leading to margins of 32%.
You'll notice LTI expense decreased roughly $5 million from the fourth quarter.
This reflects some older grants that have moved through the pipe and lower expense from the Perkins senior profits interest plans which we've talked about before.
This plan at Perkins is tied to revenue and investment performance and given their big run up in '10 we recorded a healthy number of $18 million in 2010.
We would expect to see that number come down in 2011 somewhere between the $7 million to $9 million range.
And lastly below the line we started to see the impact from the mark-to-market effect of the economic hedging of our mutual fund long-term incentive awards.
This is consistent with what we talked about last quarter.
With the change in our accounting model for these awards we will start to see some mark-to-market effect running through below the line.
And with that I will turn it back over to Dick.
Thanks Greg.
Two last things to cover and then we'll take some questions.
First as you will have seen from our public statement earlier today Greg informed me very recently that it's his decision to leave the firm sometime around August 1.
Greg has put in 14 years at Janus.
He's delivered a lot of value and done a fine job.
And he leaves with our respect and our friendship.
And that's the sad note.
On a positive note we welcome Bruce Koepfgen to Janus.
He's an experienced leader in the asset management and financial services business.
He'll be joining us and very shortly he'll work arm in arm with Greg over the summer to make sure that we have a professional and high-quality transition.
And then upon Greg's departure on or about August 1 Bruce will become our new CFO.
And we're very excited to welcome somebody with his great experience to the team.
So that was the first thing.
I mentioned 2.
The second one is I just want to go back and touch on performance briefly.
We still have 21 funds on Schwab's Select List consistent with fourth quarter last year.
46% of the complex has 4 or 5 Morningstars which I think is a very competitive mark in this business.
78% of our fundamental equity assets have -- are outperforming over 5 years.
We have a strong and deep investment process and we have very good people.
Our large-cap U.S.
equity funds are undergoing a shorter-term challenge right now and that's something that we have to endure in this business.
Even the best investors go through it.
But we have a lot of confidence in our process and our people and I just wanted to lay that out before taking questions.
Operator James at this point we'll take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Michael Kim from Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.</strong> First question.
Dick I know you've touched on this briefly but maybe just in terms of dealing with some of the recent underperformance.
Do you feel like maybe making some incremental changes in terms of repositioning some of the portfolios or making changes to some of the investment professional team? Do you feel like that's under consideration at this point? Or is it really just a matter of time in terms of getting a bit more help from the markets? Thanks.
Good question.
First and foremost our Chief Investment Officer who leads our investment process on the equity side Jonathan Coleman is the primary decision maker in all such decisions.
And we understand that.
We are accountable for poor performance and none of us have a tenured position.
And we have to deliver otherwise we have to make changes.
And that's the basic framework of our industry.
And we're accountable to our investors both our owners and our fund shareholders to do that.
That said we think we have a strong process that's still delivering excellent results across a wide variety of funds and so we have confidence in our process and in our people.
But every fund is a specific situation.
We watch it carefully and we have to continue to be accountable.
And if bad performance doesn't get better at some point you have to make a call and Jonathan will make that.
At the moment I think we still feel good about our people and our process and we're not ready to make such a call.
But none of us have an infinite time horizon certainly not our clients.
L.P.</strong> Okay.
And then second question.
Can you just maybe go into a bit more detail as it relates to your decision-making process in terms of opting to raise the dividend versus maybe buying back stock and just kind of any incremental color there? Thanks.
Sure.
When we looked at buying back stock versus a dividend for ways to return capital to our shareholders we are of course aware that a lot of companies have an imperfect track record of picking the right time to buy back their own stock.
And so I think the framework under which you buy back stock is a little more challenging than the framework around a dividend.
It seemed to our board that at this time the dividend level that they selected $0.05 a quarter run rate of $0.20 a year is one that is very sustainable for us in all reasonable scenarios.
And it seemed like that was the most efficient way to deliver a constant flow and predictable flow of income back to our owners.
And we think they value that very highly.
We wouldn't rule out share repurchases in the future.
We'll continue to study that but given our confidence that we can maintain this on a consistent basis a dividend seemed to be the right way to proceed to our board.
And our next question comes from Ken Worthington from JPMorgan.
In terms of the performance fees with the new funds rolling on are  there offsets to mitigate an earnings hit if performance in new funds stays at current levels? Ken it's Greg.
The 1 mitigation you have is obviously that compensation which is very much in line with revenue and profits of the firm will also scale.
Certainly fixed expenses don't but to the extent that we have variable costs tied to that that will scale down.
It will not all offset the impact of a top line revenue hit.
And the reason I ask is the funds are already performing.
Some of the funds are performing poorly so I assume that's already in kind of that compensation run rate.
So does it mean you can adjust the compensation down further when those performance fees are implemented in the future? Well as you know a lot of it is formulaic and tied to the results and the revenue of the business.
And so that -- it will automatically adjust down as the revenue comes down.
We don't have any plans to ratchet down further from that.
Our next question comes from Bill Katz from Citigroup.
Thank you.
Just as you look through and the think about the businesses it seems like a lot of cross currents as you pointed out.
Over the next 12 or 24 months where do you guys think the best organic growth is going to come from? That's my first question.
Organic growth is a result of a combination of factors some of which we control and a lot of which we don't.
The external market demands will have a lot to do with the answer to your question.
We are best positioned in our fixed income business and some of our small- and mid-cap strategies.
Brent Lynn continues to be over the medium and long term one of the absolutely outstanding performers in this industry.
You can see I think quite plainly where we have exceptional strength.
The outcome of where the growth comes from is partly that and it's partly where the demand goes.
And we all read 100 articles a day on where we think demand is going.
In general I think we align with a lot of consensus thinking that some of the best values in investing have moved to large-cap U.S.
equities.
There's some wonderful opportunities in other sectors as well but broadly speaking that's an area of great opportunity for investors.
And we hope that translates in to some good flows for us in some of our products.
But I don't think I can reliably integrate those 2 sides and give you a growth forecast for different segments of our business.
Okay.
And if I could ask a follow-up just unrelated.
As you think about the PM and analyst level could you sort of comment where you might be in terms of turnover relative to the industry? Any actions you might be taking to stem any kind of attrition? Yes.
I don't have the numbers in front of me.
We have not had significant attrition.
It has to be better is my guess than the industry but I don't have any numbers sitting right in front of me.
We have a stable and good team.
I think a modest amount of turnover is desired and healthy.
Some of it is people making their own choices about maybe they don't want to work quite as hard or they want to work in a different format.
And some of it is us making choices around "Maybe they're not quite in the right fit." So I think a healthy company wants a modest level of turnover.
I think our turnover has been very modest and I think we're a stable shop that will continue to make improvements.
But I can't give you industry comparisons on a statistical basis.
Your next question comes from Roger Freeman from Barclays Capital.
It's Steven Truong here for Roger.
Can you talk about the margin this quarter? It seems like there was some pretty good expense management.
And as we think about the investment priorities: fixed income institutional international -- how might you rank those? And what might be -- the expense trend be going forward as we think about the margin and these spending initiatives? Thank you.
I'll take -- let me start that one and then if Dick wants to add anything he can.
I think -- as I mentioned in the remarks margins of 32% really reflects higher revenue and a fairly good control on expenses.
The LTI line is 1 thing that has come down from previous quarters and we talked about that.
As we've talked about in the past at these asset levels we should be able to maintain 30% margins for 2011.
And we think that's important.
As Dick talked about last time our spending -- our reinvestment spending in the business in 2011 is at a level that was effectively flat to last year.
We are obviously looking at that closely as we move throughout the year and can adjust that and will adjust that as needed depending on what happens with the business.
From a business strategy side I think we're going to be investing a little more in brand.
I think we're going to be investing a little more in international.
And we'll be modestly scaling up the fixed income team.
I think those things align with what we previously talked about.
But in orders of magnitude whenever I say "investment " I know that some folks imagine very large dollars.
We recognize that we have to be very efficient with our use of capital and we will not be making investments that are sort of in a different order of magnitude from our prior run rate.
So I think it's largely consistent with what we did last year and it will probably stay in that order of magnitude.
Thanks.
And my follow-up question has to do with INTECH.
Can you discuss the sort of pipeline that you're seeing perhaps discussions with institutions for flows coming back as performance has been pretty good here? Thank you.
I think I missed a little bit of that question.
It was...
Just the outlook in terms of the flows in terms of INTECH.
Yes.
That's a -- we've talked about this before.
That's just a very hard thing to predict.
I think INTECH's investment process has proven and continues to prove that it's a very valuable process.
We're also aware that in the industry there have been very few searches for mathematical and quantitative equity approaches.
And that's been challenging.
We feel an increase in interest in the marketplace but I don't think that converted successfully in these numbers into significant inflows.
And so the question is "When does the pendulum start swinging the other way as an industry matter and particularly for INTECH?" And the exact when point is -- it's just very hard to predict.
I continue to believe that better investment performance ultimately wins the day and they have a very strong long-term numbers and short-term numbers.
And so that will ultimately be a winning hand.
But the moment on when that turns is very hard for me to predict.
And our next question comes from Jeff Hopson from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thanks a lot.
In terms of the performance issues at Janus can you perhaps describe kind of where the bets were made that went wrong to help us understand that? It seems like maybe last year was -- some of your U.S.
portfolios had non-U.S.
investments that maybe hurt but anything to help us in that regard.
And any feedback from distributors and platforms at this point about performance? Or is it still within a time frame where there's not significant concern being expressed? In terms of the sources of performance it's hard to talk in the aggregate about different portfolios because obviously they're all -- they all have an individual story that their portfolio managers are best positioned to tell.
But broadly speaking we've been overweight large-cap stocks as opposed to smaller-cap stocks because we've seen better growth opportunities and value opportunities in those stocks.
The market has not rewarded that.
Small-cap and mid-cap stocks have soundly beaten large-cap stocks over the last 12 months.
We have also seen more opportunities in some of the more modestly priced in terms of P/E stocks and that also has not been rewarded.
We continue to see a lot of value in some of the less-loved lower-multiple stocks but again the trends over the last 12 months have not been in favor of that investment decision.
And then on top of that we've made some specific picks in financial and technology and healthcare sectors that hurt us.
And so I think that is at a high level across multiple portfolios the best explanation I can give in terms of where the underperformance has come from.
The first 2 elements I think are investment conviction sorts of ideas that we're not necessarily looking to change.
The third one it's going to happen to you.
And you need to look individually at why you made that stock selection and learn from that and do better.
And Jonathan and the team are seriously engaged in addressing those issues.
In terms of the level of concern in the marketplace our partners are concerned.
We talk to them multiple times a week and we have an ongoing dialogue about performance in good times and bad.
And when they're concerned about performance we hear about it through the regular channels and often and clearly people are expressing some concern.
That said we have delivered a lot of value over a long period of time for these clients.
We have good relationships and a strong brand and they will have to make their decisions as they see fit.
But I think we're still in a good position with most of these clients so long as we do our jobs and improve performance from here.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Marc Irizarry from Goldman Sachs.
Great thanks.
Dick I know some of the investments you're making in the business aren't dramatic if you will in terms of raising the fixed cost structure expense structure.
But when you think about the compensation your comp plans kind of structurally do you need to move more toward a model of profit -- sort of a profit-based comp versus revenue-based comp particularly given that it appear that maybe your fees are becoming more variable? Can you maybe just speak to that? Yes thank you.
Good question.
Yes we are in fact pursuing that exact path.
At Janus historically the comp formulas have typically been more focused on revenue than on profits.
And working with the investment team we're evolving the firm towards much more of a profit-based approach than a revenue-based approach.
I think that it strongly aligns the employees with our owners and I think that's a very positive thing.
And it ensures that we're accountable in a way that I think our owners should like.
And so with the support and cooperation of the investment side we've been working on moving that direction and we'll continue to do so.
Okay.
Great.
And our next question comes from Cynthia Mayer from Bank of America.
Thank you.
Can you give us some color on how performance fees for INTECH are structured? Because it looks like actually the performance there slipped a bit since last fall with only 36% of the strategies beating benchmarks versus over 1/2 last fall.
Is it possible those could go down as well? And it looks like they were maybe $1.8 million this quarter.
If the performance is actually very good what's the uppermost limit for those? Because it would be just interesting to get a better sense of how those could perhaps outweigh some of the negative performance fees from the fund side.
Let's see the -- INTECH does have some accounts certainly in the institutional side with a more traditional performance fee structure with a lower fee and then the opportunity to earn up in performance fees which obviously is very different than the structure that we have on the Janus mutual funds which is a base fee that is unchanged from the past than a fulcrum of plus-or-minus 15.
I think the INTECH people would tell you that over time institutions come out and say "We want performance fees." And they come out and they work away from performance fees.
We're probably somewhere in the middle right now with INTECH's -- some of INTECH's historical performance they've had us a chunk of assets on fees but it has never been really significant.
And so the opportunity -- I guess to answer your question the opportunity for INTECH's performance to outweigh some of what we would anticipate on the Janus side should the underperformance not continue -- I'm sorry should the underperformance not get better it's probably not.
The magnitude isn't there to offset it.
Got it.
Okay.
And then just on the expense side you were saying it's a clean quarter.
So should we assume that the G&amp;A that you had is actually a good run rate number? I don't see anything -- I wouldn't see anything in the future that would significantly move the G&amp;A number no.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
And our next question comes from Jonathan Casteleyn from Susquehanna Bank.
LLLP</strong> Thanks.
It seems there's a little bit of a short-term trends on underappreciated operating leverage in your business.
Can you just remind us of your peak-to-trough operating margins? And although your revenues are going to move around quarter-to-quarter what normalized percentage of revenues comp and non-comp could be at? The peak-to-trough question is obviously hard especially given the last several years of what we've all been through as an industry and as a company.
So I think margins were down in the lower 20s and have been as high as the mid-30s I think over my career here.
Our normalized basis I think we've talked about these asset levels.
In 2011 we should be able to put up plus-30% margins as we've talked about.
The performance fee issue especially that would come in '12.
With some of our larger funds coming on it may impact that but there's so much time between now and then that it's hard to predict toward where that would be.
LLLP</strong> Okay.
And then BlackRock this morning spoke about some better quantitative trends in some regional and international products seeing some improvement.
Would there be any correlation to the INTECH product suite there going forward? We're not expert on BlackRock's products and marketing of them so I think it's hard for us to answer that question.
Our next question comes from Robert Lee from KBW [Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods].
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> A quick question on distribution.
I mean understanding it's 1 of the performance challenges of fundamental equity but in those places where you do have a competitive performance whether it's the overseas products or Perkins products -- understanding they've had some modest inflows do you feel that you have the right distribution infrastructure to support those flows? Do you feel like you're actually getting your fair share of flows of where you do have performance so that there's maybe additional investment you need to make there but maybe it's not the priority right now? It's in a more global.
But how should we think of your distribution footprint and your comfort level with it? I think our U.S.
retail distribution is strong.
And it is -- we get more than our fair share so to speak where we have strong track records and in an area where there is a lot of consumer demand.
I think we're not at that level of exceptional strength where we are able to sell things that have much weaker track records or in areas where there isn't much industry demand.
So I would say there are probably 1 or 2 firms out there that are able to sell in the face of pretty mediocre track records or more successfully when there isn't so much pull in the marketplace.
We're not at that level.
Of course we'd like to be.
We'll continue to work to strengthen our distribution team and footprint.
I think some of it is also the work we're doing in branding.
That will help.
We're working on thought leadership and refocusing on strengthening client relationships and making sure that in addition to performance we deliver nonperformance elements in an excellent way to our clients.
And I think that will help.
But I think we have a very very good U.S.
retail distribution team.
We have a very strong footprint in DC space.
There are a lot of strengths there but it can always get better.
And we'll continue to work on it because obviously that's the heart and core of our franchise.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> That was my only question.
Thank you.
And with that this does conclude our question-and-answer period for today.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Dick Weil for any closing comments.
I'd like to thank everybody for being with us today.
I'll give Greg the opportunity given his news today to make the closing comment here.
Thanks Dick.
I guess just a couple thoughts.
It's been a wonderful 14 years at Janus.
I've been extremely fortunate to have been able to serve in various capacities in obviously very different versions of Janus over the years from the firm that I started with in 1997 to where it is today.
This was a very personal decision as Dick said.
It was an exceptionally difficult decision to come to but I take unbelievably great comfort in Dick.
He has been -- he is a good leader for this firm.
He has been a good friend to me and I take great comfort in the management team here.
I take great comfort that this firm is financially in a much better place than it has been over the last couple of years and will only get stronger.
And I have great good confidence in the team in the finance and accounting group that I have helped build over the years.
And it felt like it was time to broaden my professional career and see something different and -- but I will always root for this firm's success.
It has been obviously a very big part of my life.
So thank you.
Thanks everybody.
That's it operator.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
We thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a great day.
Good morning my name is Michael and I will be your conference facilitator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to the Janus Capital Group Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Before the company begins I would like to reference their standard legal disclaimer which also accompanies the full slide presentation located in the Investors Relations area of janus.com.
Statements made in the presentation today may contain forward-looking information about management's plans projections expectations strategic objective business prospects anticipated financial results anticipated results of litigation and regulatory proceedings and other similar matters.
A variety of factors many of which are beyond the company's control affect the operations performance business strategy and results of Janus and could cause actual results and experiences to differ materially from the expectation and objective expressed in their statements.
These factors include but are not limited to the factors described in Janus' reports filed with the SEC which are available on their website www.janus.com and on the SEC's website www.sec.gov.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
Janus does not undertake to update such statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date these statements were made.
Investors should however consult any further disclosures Janus may make in its reports filed with the SEC.
Thank you.
Now it is my pleasure to introduce Dick Weil Chief Executive Officer of Janus Capital Group.
Mr.
Weil you may begin your conference.
Thank you operator.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Janus Capital Group Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
In the second quarter of 2011 we delivered earnings per share of $0.23 up $0.21 from the prior quarter up from $0.21 in the prior quarter and from $0.17 a year ago.
Our margin remained above our long-term target of 30% at 31%.
And assets under management declined 2.1% versus a quarter ago.
Long-term net flows for the company were $3.1 billion compared to $2.7 billion out in first quarter 2011.
I think I misstated that.
We're negative $3.1 billion compared to negative $2.7 billion out a quarter ago.
The big issue for us in the quarter was the mix in those flows and we'll talk to you a little bit about that later.
But obviously we saw a shift in favor of strengthening at INTECH and we saw some performance-related challenges in the Janus fundamental equity flows.
Further on that subject on Page 2.
We note That 8% 58% and 79% of our fundamental equity mutual flows are outperforming on a 1- 3- and 5-year basis respectively.
As a result of this shorter-term underperformance we are seeing accelerated outflows.
And based on current performance we'll feel some pain in performance fees going forward.
Let me take a minute because I think this is an issue of concern to all of our owners to talk a bit more about our performance.
In 5 key funds performance has been very disappointing for us in the last 12 to 18 months.
The time period depends a little on which fund you're talking about.
We've obviously taken a very careful look at this underperformance.
Some of it has been driven by an unfortunate run in our large-cap stock picking which has not been up to our historic standards.
It's atypical versus our history and it's driven some of this disappointment.
Some this has been driven by the fact that our you could say our alarm clocks have gone off early or we were too pessimistic about the strength of the global recovery which drove positioning in the larger cap stocks versus mid-caps which hurt us.
It drove sector choices to a certain extent which hurt us and that's damaged performance.
It's also worth pointing out I think that we as a high conviction and sometimes in some of our portfolios concentrated equity manager.
When we make those mistakes even over a reasonably short period of time they can be quite painful in their effect on your track record and we've seen that.
That said this is a shorter-term investment challenge.
It does not reflect the true strength of our process or the 40-year history of Janus or the shorter history of the individuals involved.
We've seen this sort of underperformance before both as a firm and our individuals involved are very experienced portfolio managers who have been through periods of underperformance and we remain confident that we'll come back.
That said we are not doing nothing.
What are we doing? I guess I want to emphasize the biggest mistake you can make in this business is to overreact to shorter-term data.
We are not changing our process in any fundamental way.
We continue to believe that the process is strong and that our talent is excellent.
However we have been studying each individual element of our investment process looking at how we're doing our research how those ideas are translating into our portfolios and all the elements in our process to make sure that we have made every improvement that is merited based on the lessons learned through this underperformance.
Visible to you we've changed some PM assignments.
We've reallocated some of our analyst time.
And we changed some of the meeting processes and other information flow that support the system.
In many of our investment positions I should point out though we're not changing.
We're standing our ground.
And in a number of cases they have been increasing the bet.
In this business you have to be willing to be early in some of your most important calls and we are.
We strongly believe our portfolios are well-positioned for the future and we're looking to a much improved performance going forward.
I think that's enough on the investment performance for now and if you have additional questions we'll cover those in the investment section.
It's also important to note one other thing which is as we turn the page to Page 4 in the presentation the Janus of today is not the Janus of 10 years ago.
We're a much stronger and more diversified company.
Right now while we are facing these challenges on the shorter-term fundamental equity investment performance we have an outstanding fixed income franchise that is gaining momentum.
We have INTECH whose taken the recent period when there hasn't been so much interest in mathematical strategies and used that time to deliver excellent investment returns and we believe they stand in the front of the line as interest will be returning into that sector.
Perkins continues to deliver on its promise to its clients and it remains a very strong franchise.
And there are number of other things I'll get to later perhaps in the summary that I'd like to call your attention to.
But in the full balance story of Janus it's important to keep in mind these other elements as well.
With that I'll turn it over to Mr.
Frost.
Thank you Dick and good morning.
Turning to Page 6.
Total company outflows as Dick mentioned were $3.1 million out.
This is fairly consistent with the prior quarter but obviously the mix was quite different between investment disciplines.
While fixed income continued to post solidly positive flows we saw a significant improvement in the INTECH flow story which was more than offset by the acceleration of fundamental equity outflows.
The primary force impacting our fundamental equity business is clearly the underperformance in our large-cap growth strategies although we also saw our sales activity slow from the first quarter consistent with the industry as investors moved away from actively managed equities.
At INTECH we are pleased to see that improving performance is moderating redemptions while sales although the still slow in the U.S.
are starting to show showed signs of life especially outside the U.S.
as evidenced by the second quarter funding of a $1.3 billion sub-advised mandate from a large non-U.S.
client.
Turning to Page 7 on the performance side.
I think Dick has covered a lot of these points although longer-term performance remain strong.
Albeit the short-term challenge remains for some of our large U.S.
equity funds.
On the positive side of the ledger fixed income continues to put up very strong performance numbers over the short and long-term.
And INTECH continues their positive performance story with 94% of their strategies beating their respective benchmarks on a 1-year basis compared to only 35% one year ago.
Turning to the earnings story on Page 8.
Second quarter EPS of $0.23 up from $0.21 last quarter.
Remember that last quarter included a $0.03 charge related to the early retirement of our 2012 senior notes which we completed in January.
On the operating front the second quarter was marked by slightly lower average assets and revenues and a 1% uptick in expenses primarily from certain payments to distributors related to prior periods that are flowing to the distribution line as well as higher marketing and sponsorship costs.
It's important to note that we don't expect the higher distribution costs to repeat in future quarters.
And effectively offsetting these nonrecurring costs from at least from an EPS perspective as a lower effective tax rate that we had in Q2 which was driven primarily from an unexpected state income tax refund.
With respect to revenue we have discussed in prior calls the effective mutual fund performance fees on our revenue yield as more and more of our funds moved to performance fee schedules.
Recall that the schedule is an unchanged base management fee plus or minus 15 basis points which is just up or down based on each fund's performance relative to an improved benchmark.
Over the next 2 quarters performance fees and an additional $30 billion of assets will be reflected in our financial numbers.
Because of the relative underperformance of those assets coming online today if we were recording fees on those funds today the pro forma impact of these additional funds would mean a further revenue reduction in the second quarter of around $14.5 million or $16.4 million in total if you add that to the $1.8 million negative performance fees that we did record.
For the sake of transparency and to help our owners we have updated our appendix slides to reflect the new funds coming online in this pro forma calculation which we will continue to do over the next couple of quarters.
Obviously the ultimate numbers that is recorded is highly volatile and will depend on assets and performance which obviously can be quite different than these pro forma numbers.
And it goes without saying that if our performance doesn't improve but we'll have a significant impact on our revenue yields and our profitability in 2012.
And with that I'll turn it back to Dick to wrap up.
Janus today on Page 9.
Obviously our #1 priority at the firm is improving performance and our underperforming fundamental equity strategies.
That's the single most important challenge and we're very focused on it.
We'll also note that we have a number of other things that are working well and large parts of our strategy are succeeding and we're proud of that.
INTECH we were very encouraged by their large mandate win this quarter.
We're starting to see a greater interest in mathematical equity strategies particularly outside of the United States.
Now admittedly inflows are going to be lumpy and hard to predict.
But I think their better performances has produced a sustainable moderation in their redemptions reflecting their really good performance.
Our Fixed Income business remains strong across the board with 100% of AUM in the top 2 Lipper quartiles over 1 3 and 5 years.
They're seeing strong net inflows great interest from clients and consultants and that business continues to gain a very positive momentum and we're very proud of that team.
In retail intermediary distribution.
During the first half of '11 you may be interested to know that placements were up 31% on platforms from the end of 2010.
The increase primarily driven by some of our good high-yield Triton our research and our balance funds.
John Eisinger one of our portfolio managers was named Investment Week's U.S.
2011 Fund Manager of the Year for the Janus All Cap Growth Fund which was excellent news and we congratulate him.
Perkins continues to be a very strong and valuable franchise as I mentioned earlier.
They are keeping their promises to their clients and doing what they've done for their multi-decade history and they're a very strong franchise.
In our global distribution under the leadership of Augie Cheh who's recently joined us we're seeing meaningful and progress there.
It's early days but we're very optimistic about the opportunities in that business.
We have successfully launched some important new products our Protected Series Growth fund our Real Return Fund long-duration fixed income among them.
We think that these products will be meaningful contributors for us in the medium-term.
And last so let me just turn to the balance sheet.
As you all know we spent some time over the last couple of years significantly strengthening the balance sheet including a buyback of debt early this year.
As a result we're in good financial position.
We generated approximately $100 million of free cash flow year-to-date this year.
And we continue to see opportunities to add to free cash flow growth going forward.
At the end of the second quarter of 2011 our leverage and coverage ratios were 2x and 6.8x respectively.
Our total cash and marketable securities is about to exceed the total debt.
It's just under and going forward and that should grow to exceed the amount of total debt.
As a consequence I think we're in a very strong financial position as a company to withstand some of the challenges we face.
And that is something that the last few years of work have provided for us.
We're quite happy with that.
I think with that summary we'll stop and turn it over to all of you for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question today comes from Michael Carrier from Deutsche Bank.
First just on the performance fees and maybe just looking forward given that some of the color that you provided.
How should we think of it just in terms of what you can manage on the cost base? And particularly as it relates to compensation just how much can that pull back and obviously as these new funds that have a shorter timeframe or performance history that can fluctuate when before performance starts to pick up in a quarter or 2 quarters and so looking at it from now 2 or 3 quarters ahead things can change.
But I just want to try to gauge like any color around that on how that can be managed? I think the performance fees are driven primarily by our larger funds with longer track records.
So I would just amend slightly what I think you said in your question.
In terms of how much we can balance the negative effect that we may experience going forward from performance fees we have recently strengthened the alignment between our profits and our compensation.
And as a consequence as performance fees might negatively affect the profits we should see a reflection of that through the compensation line.
Outside of that we'll obviously try and act with a very strict financial discipline.
That said that we'll continue to work to grow our fixed income business our non-U.S.
businesses and make the key investments that provide for future growth and we won't starve those.
As a consequence we can moderate a meaningful percentage of any negative effects through the compensation line.
But beyond that the opportunities are more limited.
And follow-up would be on the capital levels the cash levels.
You mentioned the net debt position you're nearing 0 it's been a while since you guys have been there.
And so when you think about it you guys have increased the dividend obviously you've got some pressures on the P&amp;L right now.
But over the next couple of quarters if the cash continues to build is there a certain level where you can be thinking of buybacks or is it -- you still want these pressures to kind of at least moderate before you go down that path? Yes Michael.
This is Bruce Koepfgen.
I think the answer is that we'll continue to look for opportunities to buy back the stock.
But in the order of things we would be looking to invest in our business in ways that would create outsized return to our shareholders.
Dick has already outlined a few of those.
And that strategic math for us is one that we're all very enthusiastic about.
High on that last will be fixed income our international platform and then seeding new products that we think will be important for our clients.
In the second quarter I think we put $95 million into new products and we're very enthusiastic about the potential for those.
And then lastly of course as Dick mentioned we'll look for other ways to provide returns to shareholders.
We bought back debt last quarter.
You mentioned the dividend which will put $40 million I think back to shareholders on an annual basis.
And after that we would continue to look at share buybacks.
At this particular time given the investments that we have in front of us in the business and the headwinds that Dick has described we don't think it's the right time to be buying back stock.
It will be something that we continue to consider as we go forward.
And our next question comes from Roger Freeman from Barclays Capital.
It's Steven Truong here for Roger.
I'm just wondering if you can talk a bit more about the investment process? It sounds like you're still very much committed and what do it take to close the gap if you will against these benchmarks so that the performance fee headwind will abate going forward? I'll be happy to arrange some time with you with our CIO to talk about this in more detail.
Jonathan Coleman is obviously the man in charge of the process and can give you a more detailed view.
From my perspective I think we're doing what we need to do which is make sure we have the right people in the right seats.
We need to make sure that we have taken a hard look at what we're doing on the analysts and the portfolio management and the risk management side and that we're comfortable with our buy disciplines and our sell disciplines and we need to earn it back one stock at a time.
I'm quite optimistic because I know the strength of our team and I know the strength of our process I know the 40-year history of our performance of Janus and I also know that these individuals involved in these portfolios have individually made great contributions to their clients over the years.
And so we remain confident in all those things.
And it's not going to turn on a dime it doesn't and it can't but we're confident that we'll be producing much better returns going forward based on the steps we've taken.
And my follow-up is I want to hear a bit more about the sort of sales pipeline the level of consultants perhaps going through the organization and perhaps some of the success recently with INTECH and is that going to be lumpy in nature? Or can we see a positive trend from here? I'm not sure I heard that whole question I'm sorry.
I was just wondering about the sales levels and the trend going on currently and consultants going through the organization perhaps and perhaps some of the positive momentum we're seeing here in INTECH? Obviously INTECH's gone through an industry challenge.
The industry challenge is around mathematical or quantitative equity and the entire industry had a rough go of following 2008 and the investor demand for that sort of service fell off significantly.
During that period of time INTECH continued to do its excellent job.
It continued to maintain its long-term and very successful process.
It returned its track records to significant health it built on its relationships with consultants and with its existing client base.
And I think that's what you'd expect it to do and that's what they've done.
On each of these quarterly earnings calls in one way or another we are called to forecast or look forward for the rate of return of demand to mathematical or quantitative equity strategies and I consistently tell you and will again today I can't predict that.
I don't know.
We are seeing increased interest but it's up from a low level.
We saw a terrific success in Australia this past quarter and we're very proud of that.
But those sorts of wins will of course be lumpy and I think INTECH continues to do a very good job.
It's an extremely it's an excellent and valuable franchise and they're going to win in the medium and long term.
But the short-term predictions I just can't give you.
Our next question comes from Ken Worthington from JPMorgan.
I wanted a little more flavor on the new compensation policy and the thought here is in the say on pay I think shareholders rejected the board proposals.
Does new compensation structure impact just the investor and professionals or is it more broadly based? And if it's more broadly-based can we see anything in the second quarter numbers? Because it seems like sales are down performance is down and excluding payroll taxes it seemed comp still seems high or not high but at the same level as it was in the first quarter? No the new program is being implemented beginning after the second quarter.
And it encompasses all the employees not just the investment folks but you can't see it yet.
And it is designed to align our employees with each other and with our owners in their alignment with profits and you should see that effect going forward as profits change.
And then just for Greg.
On the hedges on the investment portfolio are those hedges still in place? Are they being allowed the roll off? Has anything changed there? Ken nothing's changed specifically.
I think we'll find as some of these new products come online they are either more difficult to hedge or too costly to hedge but we continued the program that we started a number of years ago.
And for the most part it's been effective.
You are seeing an investment loss in the quarter which really relates more to our mutual fund awards and the economic hedge we have on those as we talked about I think last January.
But the hedge and the C capital are still here and largely effective.
And our next question comes from Bill Katz from Citigroup.
Could you talk a little bit about the profit dynamics between the business won and the business loss? And specifically interested in some of this the shift in impact and some of the sub-advisory mandates versus some of the fundamental equity outflows.
Is there any kind of overcharge here if you will between the fee rate and/or margins based on the full dynamics? I think it's -- we don't disclose the individual fee arrangements around those elements.
But I think it's fair to say that in general fixed income and some of the mathematical strategies come on at a lower fee rate than the fundamental equity strategies and that's true.
I was really more concerned on the profit side.
Bill we just -- we've never disclosed that level of detail.
And given the different cost structures in the business I think it's safe to say there's certainly a revenue impact as Dick said but the expenses I think will be pretty uniform.
So I don't know that you're going to see a huge difference there.
Okay that's helpful.
And the second question is just as you talked with -- I mean you may have addressed this before I apologize I was just wondering maybe one more time as you talked to both the institutional consultants as well as the retail gatekeepers how comfortable are they with some of the changes or fine-tuning you're doing here relative to the performance issues and has there been any sort of structural shift in terms of platform being on platforms if you will? We talk to those folks every day pretty much.
And their concern is aligned with our concern and of course that's not by accident.
We are all focused on improving the performance in these important fundamental equity strategies.
That said the relationships are much bigger than individual products.
And it encompass multiple products multiple platforms and their multi-decade long relationships.
And so it's important to think about those 2 things I think on different levels.
The relationships remain good.
The take-up of our new products is good.
We're delivering good performance.
We're seeing good reactions and take up from clients and from distributors.
So I think that maybe as close to answering to your question as I can get I hope that's helpful Our next question comes from Cynthia Mayer from Bank of America.
Since you gave the pro forma impact of the performances for 2Q and you said that the --- that would unless the performance improves it would impact the comp I'm just wondering if you could keep the pro forma impact on what comp would have been in 2Q? I'm afraid we can't do that.
I'm sorry Cynthia.
Okay.
And also fixed income and INTECH continued to outperform would that in some ways offset the comp savings on the fundamental growth side due to the performance fees or is or when you talk about an impact you're talking about net? Obviously we believe in performance and those folks who are performing should see significantly better pay results.
But overall the net needs to be more aligned with the profits.
Okay.
And given the pro forma performance fees do you think you could still make the 30% margin goal? To me Cynthia that's always been our long-term goal I suspect that there's going to be some short-term pressure on that number.
And our question comes from Marc Irizarry from Goldman Sachs.
Just following up on the question on the operating margin.
You talked a little bit about I guess about expenses and being able to control them in the future performance fees come in light.
Is the operating margin here becoming more volatile? And can you talk maybe about what sort of expenses where the controllables are should we be thinking the operating margin volatility increasing given the lower performance fees? I think it's a mathematical outcome of the role and size the performance fees that we'll see some volatility in operating margin.
We can't compensate for that as fast as it might change.
And I also think compared to other variable costs that we have in the business which vary with assets because this is a performance fee account which impacts only revenue that you're not going to see the same variable impact in other cost that we do and things like distribution costs.
And so the effect is going to a little bit harder for us to mitigate as we go forward.
But as Dick has said as Bruce has said we're going to do our best to manage expenses tightly and try to offset that but you're not going be able to get all the way there.
And then just in terms of your global distribution can you give a little bit of perspective on where you see some success and then also you know what sort of the path of investment in that look like i.e.
what's the sort of expense structure and investment sort of supporting the growth overseas? Obviously this win in Australia was a significant win for our non-U.S.
team and we're seeing some smaller successes in other countries.
In terms of the size of the investment at the moment I think we're in the marketplace for about 9 new sales people.
But a lot of that is reallocation of existing resources from management heads that we leaned out in order to make to reallocate towards being in the field.
And so that shouldn't be a big net investment.
Going forward we're going to work with our leadership team in our non-U.S.
business to assess the opportunities.
And it's pretty hard at this point to give you a more specific picture of how that investment might look.
Entry into some new markets might require some more significant investment at this point we just don't know.
I think what we do know is we have a philosophy that we want to be very responsible with our shareholders' money.
We have very long-term target of 30% plus margin and we're going to work really hard to deliver those things.
But I can't be more specific about build-out in non-U.S.
It's a complicated question and Augie has only been here 3 months or so.
So we've got a little more work to do before we can get specific on those plans.
And we've also -- we've talked about in the past that the 2011 kind of investment in the business budget was fairly very consistent to '10.
Any further investments like Dick was talking about would be included in that number.
It wouldn't be incremental to that.
And our next question comes from Jeff Hopson from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Could you update us on the potential level of INTECH performance fees especially if the performance improvement continues? And then perhaps you can address kind of the marketing and promotional and distribution costs moving forward in a more challenging environment? In the second quarter we show an overall negative performance fee of 0.2 on the P&amp;L in the appendix side.
That's comprised of $1.8 million of negative fees on the fund side as we talked about which obviously has the pro forma effect much larger and a positive performance story primarily at INTECH of about $1.6 million.
So there is opportunity at INTECH especially with their better performance to gather in performance fees.
Whether or not that can offset what we may face on the Janus side it's too early to tell.
There is opportunity for them to earn better performance fees but likely not at the level that we may see the negative side on the Janus side.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And historically I believe in the fourth quarter there was higher performance fee historically did that come from INTECH? That was a onetime kind of an annual payment that was made and that was a Janus account.
But we do not expect that to repeat.
And then on your distribution question there were some onetime as I mentioned there were some onetime costs kind of running through the distribution line this quarter.
We don't expect those to repeat.
As I mentioned the EPS impact of that was effectively mitigated by the lower effective tax rate.
And the marketing side I think we saw some seasonal sponsorships and things pick up in Q2.
As Dick mentioned there's a lot of good things going on in the firm and we need to be out there talking about it.
So we would expect those that level of cost to continue.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And I'm sorry I know you said this but the win in Australia was or was not in this quarter? It was.
And our next question comes from Robert Lee from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Real quickly is it possible to get a little bit of color you've been as you suggested in the second quarter and I think over the past year or so you kind of have been on an accelerated pace and new product new products fixed income global products is how should we get any sense or color on if we look at kind of fixed income sales and maybe global sales how the -- what proportion are you starting to see a significant increase in the mix in terms of these new products coming at larger proportion of sales and kind of sales really accelerating any kind of color you could provide around the momentum of the newer products would be helpful.
That's a hard one for us to answer.
As you know we don't give forward-looking projections or guidance.
I think it's safe to say that in our fixed income business we are experiencing accelerating momentum.
And we're seeing it broadly and we're seeing it inside the United States and outside the United States.
The fixed income story is part of I think the increasing momentum in our international.
It's a very important part of the increase in momentum in our international franchise.
And I don't think I could give you more color than that.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay.
I think you've mentioned that you invested -- used about $90 million to seed I think it 2 new products in the quarter.
Now I guess over time we've seen across the industry that the amount of capital needed to seed new projects has gone up but are those more traditional products? Will you discontinue that level of capital just to get them on the platform or are there some thing that may be some color what this new products are and are they some type of quasi-alternative strategy? Just I'd like to get a better feel for that.
Sure.
that was an unusual amount of investment for us obviously that's not a run rate or anything close to it.
We have a pretty healthy investment right now in seed capital and we don't expect it to be going up in large amounts based on what we're currently planning.
That was driven by our new real return product it's is a multi-sleeved product where the relationship between each sleeve is -- -- needs to be the right percentage.
And therefore the aggregate is driven by the needs of the most thirsty sleeve and the multiplication on that was Greg you'll remember there's $40 million in that individual product.
So $40 million of that $95 million was one product.
But in essence we sit down with portfolio managers of each of these products and try and determine what's the reasonable amount that they need to reliably deliver investment excellence.
And then on occasion for some of these products we talk to distributors who have minimums that they would like to see in order to let it in their system and we can occasionally be persuaded to put to in a little extra seed money to make it more palatable to some of our distribution partners.
The 5 or 6 products that comprise the seed capital budget are the real return one that I just mentioned which was a joint venture with our partners at Armored Wolf.
We have our Protective Series Growth fund which is very important new product for us our long-duration products Asian Equity managed by our new portfolio manager Hiroshi Yoh.
I think that maybe it for the quarter.
And our next question comes from Jonathan Casteleyn from Susquehanna.
LLLP</strong> I'm just wondering how far back on average does the measurement period go for the new funds that would create the negative performance fees.
And then with the assumption be that on a go forward basis you would need outperformance of at least that length of time to kind of wash out what would be performance fees? The 3 or 4 new products that are coming on board some of our larger funds as Dick mentioned earlier the performance clocks started to tick on those on July 1 2010.
So they only have a 12-month record.
And so I think when I made the point that they can be highly volatile some of these new funds coming online can be because the performance periods is quite short.
LLLP</strong> Okay.
So on a go-forward basis they could effectively unwash some of that negative performance with short-term positive performance correct? Yes I think.
Some of those funds can move and move quickly yes.
LLLP</strong> Okay.
And then just on the core growth products the outflows can you characterize the outflows meaning were they widespread versus a couple of large redemptions and any sort of incremental color there would be helpful? I think they were broad redemptions based on performance would be my impression.
I mean clearly there were some larger pieces and smaller pieces in the mix but there were significant redemptions.
They were focused on the funds that were underperforming.
They went relationship-wide they were product-specific by and large and they really reflected the performance challenge.
LLLP</strong> And then Greg real quick while have you the tax rate going forward I know this is your last quarter.
Just going forward are you going to normalize to sort of the prior levels or...
Yes you should see it move back from the statute rate 37.25%.
Yes we disclosed in our Q we will have some more reserves to the thin 48 line coming off likely coming off over the next 12 months which will obviously impact the rate.
But I think you should see the 37 2 5 be pretty consistent.
And our next question comes from James Shanahan from Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> As a follow-up to Jonathan's question based on Lipper data there is some evidence here in June of improved performance for several of the funds for which performance fees were recently or will soon be implemented this includes Janus 20 Janus 40 where they were year-to-date 10th decile performers but that improved to 6 decile.
And Janus Fund eighth to fourth.
And I'm curious would you attribute this recent performance improvement to market weakness and sort of relative outperformance for some of these early conviction bets that you've kept on? I think I'd be getting on very thin ice to try and characterized the short-term investment results.
As you know this gain is more of a medium and long-term investment performance gain and those are the records that matter.
And I couldn't aggregate what's happening across a number of funds in the short term and give you a very coherent response.
LLC</strong> Okay.
I would like to ask of another follow-up question on the Quant equity can you tell us what the average fee rate was on that new mandate and/or how would that compares to the fee rates for similar mandates during a stronger period for Quant flows? We just don't we've never and would never disclose that level of detail in individual mandates.
So I'm sorry we probably can't answer that question.
Our next question comes from Michael Kim from Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.</strong> Just a couple of questions here.
First I know you mentioned earlier platform placements aren't actually up this year but do you have a sense of the percentage of your retail intermediary assets that are maybe sourced from model portfolios on the broker platforms? I have a sense of the size of the relationship with the broker platforms but the composition in terms of how many model portfolios are underneath that I don't have a great sense of that.
So I can tell you that our largest relationships approach 5 percent-ish of our assets is a firm.
But beyond that I can't tell you how many model portfolios and what concentration there might be underneath that.
L.P.</strong> Okay.
And then just second in terms of the recent INTECH win any sense of the factors that may have contributed to that win? Was it a function of the performance more recently maybe more of the marketing push overseas versus maybe more demand for mathematical strategies more broadly across the industry? Any color there would be helpful.
I guess I think the answer is all of the above.
I think we have fine people building the relationships there in Australia.
I think the performance was very strong and there was actually some customization around what the client wanted in the mandate.
I think it was just an excellent team effort that delivered that result.
And ladies and gentlemen it does look like we're coming up to the allotted time for this conference and only have time for one additional question.
And that question comes from Jason Weyeneth from Sterne Agee.
I'm just trying to get a sense of where you stand versus benchmarks with the performance fees.
On an overall or fund level basis.
Is the right way to be thinking about how far you are from those just looking at the 15 basis points times the assets as sort of the maximum impact you could have.
And I guess similarly is it completely linear as you look at the performance versus the benchmark? I think the answer to your question is yes on both counts.
It is a -- you can get to the maximum end by simply taking 15 basis points times asset and it is linear.
Before I let everybody go I'd like to just express my thanks to Greg Frost for his many years of terrific service.
He's been a wonderful partner for me in the last year and a half.
He is an excellent CFO as a professional and just a fine human being.
And I personally and speaking on behalf of all of his colleagues at Janus we wish him the best in his future.
And of course we welcome on other hand the guy Janus is always looking forward and back the forward look is welcoming Bruce Koepfgen is our CFO and you'll be hearing from him on future calls.
Thank you everybody.
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today teleconference.
We thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect your phone lines at this time and have a good day.
Good morning.
My name is Michael and I will be your conference facilitator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to the Janus Capital Group Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Before the company begins I would like to reference their standard legal disclaimer which also accompanies the full slide presentation located in the Investor Relations area of janus.com.
Statements made in the presentation today may contain forward-looking information about management's plans projections expectations strategic objectives business prospects anticipated financial results anticipated results of litigation and regulatory proceedings and other similar matters.
A variety of factors many of which are beyond the company's control affect the operations performance business strategy and results of Janus and could cause actual results and experiences to differ materially from the expectations and objectives expressed in their statements.
These factors include but are not limited to the factors described in Janus' reports filed with the SEC which are available on their website www.janus.com and on the SEC's website www.sec.gov.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
Janus does not undertake to update such statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date these statements were made.
Investors should however consult any further disclosures Janus may make in its reports filed with the SEC.
Thank you.
Now it is my pleasure to introduce Dick Weil Chief Executive Officer of Janus Capital Group.
Mr.
Weil you may begin your conference.
Good morning everybody.
Thank you for joining us for the third quarter 2011 earnings presentation of the Janus Capital Group.
Starting with the headlines.
In the third quarter of 2011 EPS was $0.15 compared to a $0.18 in the third quarter and $0.23 in the second quarter.
Third quarter EPS included importantly $0.06 per share of investment losses nonoperating investment losses primarily related to awards of mutual funds we make to our employees as part of their LTI compensation packages.
Bruce Koepfgen will tell you some more about that a little later in the call.
Assets under management at September 30 were $141 billion a decline of 17% versus June 30.
Most of that substantial -- the vast majority of that was a $26.5 billion negative market impact.
Janus' total company long-term flows were down $2.4 billion in the third quarter which compares to $3.1 billion out in the second quarter.
And finally operating margin in the third quarter was 31.3% a little better than the 31% in the second quarter and obviously significantly better than 23.4% in the third quarter a year ago.
Turning the page in the presentation to Page 3.
The obvious truth is the underperformance of some of our largest mutual funds continues to be our #1 challenge.
As a result of that performance and also very difficult market conditions especially for active equity managers and particularly for growth managers we continue to experience net outflows.
Fundamental equity net outflows were $3.8 billion in the third quarter as compared to $4.6 billion in the second quarter.
Based on current performance we're facing headwinds in performance fees as our mutual funds have significant performance fee structures.
In the third quarter we had $4.2 million of mutual fund performance fees negative versus negative $1.8 million in the second quarter.
Flipping the page to Page 4.
While we face up to that central challenge of investment performance in some of our larger funds some things are also going very well for us.
Performance and flows in our fixed-income franchise are very strong and we're seeing increasing momentum in the institutional channel.
100% of our fixed-income assets are outperforming in 3 and 5 years at September 30 and on a risk adjusted basis this franchise really continues to keep the promise to our clients.
In the third quarter of 2011 we had positive net flows of $2.1 billion in our fixed-income franchise compared to net flows of $1 billion in the second quarter and we're seeing our pipeline and consultant momentum continue to build.
The majority of our mathematical strategies managed by our subsidiary INTECH have delivered positive relative performance in the last year.
As a result we're seeing a moderation in redemptions increased interest from consultants and clients albeit moderate increase still at this point.
Primarily I think Europe is leading a little bit in front in terms of the return of interest; non-US markets in terms of return of interest to mathematical strategies compared to the U.S.
Our Perkins subsidiary is continuing to deliver on its promises to its clients.
They are a conservative value manager which tends to outperform in difficult markets and underperform in red-hot markets.
They've kept that promise with their clients and they continue to have a very strong successful franchise.
With that I'll turn it over to Bruce Koepfgen our CFO for some more detailed comments on the results.
Thanks Dick.
Good morning everyone and thank you all for attending.
We made a few modest changes to the presentation to provide as much clarity as possible around the factors that most impacted this quarter's results.
I hope you find them helpful.
Also I'm joined this morning by Jennifer McPeek our Treasurer; and Brennan Hughes Controller who will participate during the Q&amp;A as necessary to completely address your questions.
Going forward we of course welcome any comments you may have to improve the content or quality of these quarterly discussions.
This morning we'd like to focus on 4 items that'll help to explain our quarterly results.
I believe these are the items that most likely caught your attention as you reviewed the materials.
Those 4 items are: first the change in the assets under management and the resulting change in revenue; second the response of the expense structure and the drivers behind those changes; third nonoperating items; and then lastly the balance sheet.
I'll generally follow the order in the deck  starting on Page 6.
So let's start with the punchline some of which Dick has already touched upon and then I'll walk through the details.
Earnings for the quarter were $0.15 compared to $0.23 in the second quarter and $0.18 a year ago.
Third quarter earnings included a nonoperating loss of $0.06 a share primarily as a result of mark-to-market impacts on our pre-funded mutual fund award portfolio and seed capital investments.
Average AUM of $156 billion declined 9% primarily as a result of Beta [ph].
The market impact alone this quarter was $26.5 billion.
Revenue of $237 million declined 10% mainly due to this decline in AUM.
Operating expenses declined 11% as a result of the variable expense response and other cost reductions.
Operating margins improved slightly to 31.3% versus 31%.
As a result of negative markets during the third quarter net investment losses of $23.4 million were significantly up quarter-over-quarter primarily as a result of these mark-to-market losses on our prepaid mutual fund awards and the seed portfolio.
So let's take a look at each of these factors in order.
Recent underperformance in several of our larger fundamental equity products continues to weigh on our short-term performance numbers.
And as you can see on Page 7 long-term performance continues to be strong across all strategies.
In addition on a complex-wide basis 55% of our funds had 4 or 5-star overall Morningstar ratings on September 30 compared to the industry average of 32.5%.
Total company net outflows of $2.4 billion improved quarter-over-quarter primarily as a result of an increase in net flows in our fixed income strategies and a relative improvement in outflows in our fundamental equity business.
During the third quarter we had a $1.3 billion mandate win in our balanced fund which is a tremendous win for both of  our fixed-income and equity business and of course our distribution team.
However it is important to keep in mind that large wins like these are by their nature unpredictable.
Because of the manner in which we book AUM the flows for our balanced fund this win is split 50-50 between fundamental equity and fixed income.
Inclusive of 50% of the balanced fund win fundamental equity posted third quarter net outflows of $3.8 billion versus net outflows of $4.6 billion in the second quarter.
The relative improvement was driven by a 9% decrease in redemptions and a relatively flat gross sales number.
INTECH's net outflows of $700 million in the third quarter down from a $500 million inflow in the second quarter.
But it's important to note that this swing is primarily the result of a $1.3 billion mandate win that took place in the second quarter.
With the continued strength performance we are seeing a moderation in outflows.
INTECH's annualized redemption rate declined to 15% compared to 29% a year ago.
INTECH's strategies are delivering strong investment results and we are seeing increased interest among clients prospects and consultants particularly in non-US regions.
In our fixed income business net sales were up over 100% quarter-over-quarter driven by the large mandate win in our balance fund as well as continued momentum in the institutional channel.
We entered the fourth quarter with strong performance a healthy pipeline and we remain optimistic around opportunities going forward.
Average AUM during the third quarter was down 9% primarily as a result of significant market depreciation and to a lesser but still meaningful extent net outflows.
We saw our revenue decline by 10% quarter-over-quarter as a result of market declines and negative performance fees.
As you will recall we have performance fees on both our mutual funds and separate accounts.
In the third quarter we saw the negative performance fees on our mutual funds increased to $4.2 million from $1.8 million last quarter.
Third quarter private account performance fees were positive $1.1 million versus $1.6 million in the second quarter.
As previously discussed during the fourth quarter we will be bringing a number of our larger funds under this performance fees structure which amounts to an additional $20 billion in AUM.
To assist you in modeling these fees we have updated our Appendix slide to reflect the third quarter pro forma impact to performance fees.
You will see on the schedule that based on current performance if we were recording performance fees on all mutual funds during the third quarter the pro forma impact would have been an additional $11.8 million or $16 million in total.
Partially offsetting the decline in revenue third quarter operating expenses decreased 11% as the result of a decline in variable expenses and other explicit cost reductions.
Dissecting operating expenses a bit further our variable expense items compensation and distribution both declined 11% in line with revenue as we would expect.
Marketing expense declined 24% and G&amp;A declined 11% primarily as a result of management decisions that constrained discretionary spend in light of current market conditions.
As you know in July we began implementing a new compensation plan that ties aggregate variable compensation to profitability which we believe creates better alignment between our employees and our shareholders.
In the third quarter we saw the impact of this plan as market declines and negative performance fees pressure profits.
Before I move on a comment on expense management is probably in order.
As we respond to the current difficult operating environment our leadership team is committed to balancing the need to control expenses while prudently investing for the long-term growth of the firm.
As market conditions and conditions at Janus evolve we will continue to reduce expenses where we can.
But it is not our intention to reduce spend to the point where it will jeopardize our global strategy.
Turning now to nonoperating income items.
During the third quarter we incurred a $23.4 million mark-to-market loss on investment securities which primarily included a pre-funded mutual fund awards and seed capital.
The mark-to-market impact on the mutual fund awards drove the majority of this increase.
So to summarize the impact of all these items on earnings per share the top line impact that we experienced as a result of declining markets outflows and to a lesser extent negative performance fees represented about $0.10 a share.
The decline in operating expense as a result of the expected variable response from our compensation and distribution as well as other cost reductions offset about 70% of the revenue decline.
Finally the nonoperating items which were driven primarily by mark-to-market impact on our mutual fund awards accounted for the rest of the quarterly change.
Lastly a look at Slide 12 highlights the continued improvement in the credit quality of the company.
Over the last 2 years we have significantly reduced our leverage further strengthening our balance sheet.
A strong balance sheet as we have mentioned before continues to be important to management and our clients.
A few weeks ago we retired the remainder of our 2011 senior notes and following the retirement our leverage ratio declined below 2x for the first time since the second quarter of 2006.
In addition our balance sheet is now net cash positive.
Our cash position continues to be strong with approximately $600 million of cash and marketable securities.
Finally last Friday we announced we had replaced our previous $100 million one-year credit facility with a new $250 million 3-year unsecured credit facility which provides the firm with greater financial flexibility going forward.
That's all I have and I'll turn it back to Dick for closing comments.
Thank you.
Thank you Bruce.
I'll make a couple of closing comments and then we'll take your questions.
In closing Janus continues to advance our strategy.
As I have said before it's our intention to strengthen and diversify the company across fixed income better institutional results international and we're taking important steps forward in each of those areas.
We are continuing to focus on our #1 challenge and taking steps to improve our investment performance.
And despite underperformance in our large cap growth funds we're still delivering some very strong results across an array of other fronts.
Notably our Triton fund recently won an S&amp;P award for mutual fund excellence for the second year in a row.
INTECH is delivering positive relative performance across the majority of its strategies and is applying its process to new areas to develop important new products that we think will be significant positive contributors in the medium term.
Perkins is delivering strong long-term performance.
It's keeping its promises and remains a very important and strong franchise as part of our family.
As Bruce said we're continuing to balance the needs for costs control in difficult market circumstances with our desire to continue to build out our strategy.
In that regard we've recently hired Susan Oh from JPMorgan to oversee our centralized U.S.
institutional sales and marketing teams.
We've added about 8 new heads important heads to our sales muscles outside the United States.
We've taken significant steps to strengthen our balance sheet over the last 2 years and we remain committed as I think you see in the margin line this quarter to strong cost controls while still investing to the extent necessary to build a bright future for our company.
With that I'll close.
And operator we're ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question today comes from Michael Carrier from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> First question maybe on expenses.
So in the quarter if like you guys mentioned good cost control I think the question or the concern is that if we look at those pro forma negative performance fees and just assuming that nothing changes going forward on the performance side then can we assume that same type of flexibility on the expense side meaning in terms of the comp line? So if we do ramp up to that it's $16 million in quarterly [ph] performance fees can we see the same type of a reduction like we saw this quarter in comp or was there something special this quarter that could potentially not continue going forward? Fair enough.
Good question Michael.
I think the answer is that these performance fees as we've modeled them out for you are a meaningful consideration for us.
We can offset that to a certain extent by the types of cost control efforts that we've implemented in this quarter but I think that it's safe to say that we cannot respond completely from compensation response fairly significantly to changes in profits.
But if the current market conditions continue then I think the expectation should be that we'll see some kind of market or some margin compression.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just as a follow-up.
It seems like relative to the industry your sales held up relatively well during the quarter.
And even in some of the core equity [indiscernible] and fixed income.
And then the redemptions also you saw -- more of a decline there.
So I guess when you're looking through the channels and maybe if you -- I know you guys mentioned on the fixed income side it's mostly on the institutional part of the business but even in equities like where are you seeing some of that improvement versus what we saw over like the past 2 quarters? And it could be either products or channels.
That's a good question.
It's a complicated answer.
Fixed income is clearly strong and that's a big part of the counterbalancing positive flows.
And then we also have some very strong individual products -- I mentioned Triton earlier and some others that are driving positive flows.
We have seen this year an increase in the number of platform placements across the firm and so that gives us some opportunities in new places to have some counterbalancing flows.
But it's fair to say that our underperforming large cap growth and international products continue to weigh on us and those assets and relationships are strained given the current challenging performance.
And so it's a balance of those 2 forces that's giving us our net.
And our next question comes from Ken Worthington from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> In terms of compensation was any of the drop due to reversal of accruals from the first half of the year given the new compensation structure? Or is this like really a new true run rate given the level of profitability for the firm? Yes Ken.
As the year progresses and the market conditions change we monitor these accruals.
And in the third quarter we did have some insignificant adjustments.
But future adjustments would depend largely on market conditions.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So this is the good run rate then? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on G&amp;A it fell a fair amount during the quarter as well.
Can you just discuss what the components were for the decline? There's some I guess some legal factors as well that probably impacted it.
And then to what extent is this a good run rate for G&amp;A? Let me take it in reverse order.
And the most importantly is this at a good run rate number? And the answer there is I think it is if these market conditions continue.
I mean if you look down the G&amp;A line there was a reduction almost in every category.
I don't want to say all of that was explicit to expense management but to a great extent when it comes to discretionary spend we have worked hard to constrain that while we work through these markets.
Research Division</strong> Is legal an issue there like given lawsuits? No.
And our next question comes from Dan Fannon from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess looking at the balance sheet now and as well as the cash regeneration even in a more kind of negative performance fee environment is there a point where we can start thinking about you redeploying capital potentially back into maybe share repurchases? A good and obvious question.
I think I'll probably tackle this the same way we did at the end of last quarter.
We look first to internal opportunities to invest and to advance our business that we think will provide outstanding returns for our shareholders.
Dick has articulated those.
Our fixed income business our international platform seeding new products and of course investing in human resources which is our first step.
After that of course we're always looking for ways to return cash to our shareholders.
You're familiar with debt repurchases we've made this year the dividend increase and we will continue to look for opportunities to do just that.
At this particular point we think flexibility is key and so we're remaining in a conservative posture.
We have no plans to repurchase stock at this time but it is certainly not off the table.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe secondly here just in terms of the institutional business you have -- you've hired a new head of sales obviously recently and then thinking about potentially what's the backlog kind of potentially seeps [ph].
I know it's small but maybe even splitting up the INTECH and potentially fixed income business in a kind of how you can give us maybe some numbers around our key activity or final presentation.
Things that maybe could be a little bit more helpful? I'm sorry.
Could you repeat that question? I apologize.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I just want to get a little bit more color around the institutional business.
You have a new head of sales.
And then think about talk about potentially what's happening within INTECH as well as in the fixed income side.
Maybe if there's a way to put some numbers around RFP activity or final presentations or kind of the roadmap that we should be kind of looking at to gauge your success within that channel.
Yes.
I'm sorry I don't have numbers of final presentations for you today.
I can tell you that clearly the fixed income strength is the most important factor in driving forward in positive institutional momentum.
I mentioned that we're seeing a modest increase in interest on the INTECH side.
INTECH is doing a good job and their industry is coming out of I think some challenging conditions where quantitative and mathematical strategies had a pretty low level of interest.
More of that rebound is happening outside the United States.
We also have some research Janus research funds particularly our global research fund which is generating an increasing amount of interest with consultants.
And I think we're optimistic about its near and medium-term future going forward.
So those are the key product areas.
And of course our Triton fund and our Smith team there has continued to develop some modest institutional business.
Those are really the key ingredients for us going forward on the institutional side and it's a domestic and an international story.
And our next question comes from Roger Freeman from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Dick maybe -- hoping you can kind of help us think about what types of things you can do on the performance front and the fundamental product to improve at them.
How do you attack that problem? And is it an issue of -- that a lot of your fundamental product in the U.S.
is large cap oriented and part of it is growth oriented and that's been a tough part of the market.
Do we just need to wait for that to change? And also like do the concentrated portfolios I mean like the Janus Twenty make sense in this kind of market environment now where correlations have just been so high? Improving our investment performance is clearly our highest priority.
And we're looking at all the possible options on a constant basis to make sure that we're delivering the best for our clients.
It's true that we are facing some very difficult environmental elements that are affecting all active managers and in particular affecting growth managers.
And it's true that we've had some challenges that are Janus-specific in our portfolios that we're dealing with.
We're refocusing some of our key employees on a more narrow set of duties to make sure that we're getting the best possible results.
We've made some sort of internal team changes and things on our analyst and PM team that we believe help us address and improve performance.
But it's also worth noting that today 2011 has been just an extremely difficult environment.
Correlation across stocks has been extremely high driven by large macro and political factors.
That creates real challenges for stock pickers like us.
A couple of times this year you've seen correlations fall and the diversity go up.
And when individual stocks are differentiated in those kinds of environments we've seen pretty significant performance upticks in our funds.
And that gives us confidence that our process is working and our people are working.
We don't expect this environment a very high correlation just sort of macro risk on risk off bets to continue forever.
Obviously we haven't had a return to real diversity yet.
But we think that's coming and we think we're well positioned.
A lot of folks have sold a lot of good stocks on the basis of a risk-off trade.
And if we're doing our job picking amongst that group right now we're laying a foundation for future good performance going forward.
And so that's really where we're focused.
And we're looking at all the different elements of our process and making sure that we have it as tight as we can.
But as you know these things don't turn on a dime and that's going to take some work going forward.
And our next question comes from Bill Katz from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to the performance fee deleveraging a little bit just trying to reconcile between your comments that the third quarter expense base might be that right run rate all else being equal and so the potential erosion.
You said there are some things you can do.
But should we be thinking about the incremental margin on the foregone revenues in the 75% 80% range? Or any way to sort of frame out the risk to the downside? It's hard for me to answer that question.
I mean we really don't get into that kind of specific response so I apologize.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
When you look at the -- maybe a two-part question.
I just want that officially [ph] on the share reservicing I'm surprised that it didn't weaken a little bit more given the drop in the assets.
How at best to think about that? And then as a corollary on the marketing side there's a sharp drop absolute-dollars-wise at least in percentages.
Does that have any impact on the ability to grow the business at all? Or where are you saving on the spending I guess? I'm sorry Bill.
This is Brennan.
Can you repeat the last part of that question? I can speak at least the beginning of shareholder servicing.
Not all of  those amounts are directly asset related.
But can you repeat the last part of your question? Research Division</strong> Sure.
Just on the marketing down $0.25 sequentially I know it's a small dollar amount but nonetheless where are you curbing the expenses and how should we think about it in terms of incremental penetration of growth? I think that the answer to the second part of the question is that we have to take a pretty disciplined look at all the discretionary spend.
And so we're making a very conscious effort to make sure that we stay on plan and stay within our strategy but when we find areas where we can hold back on that spend we are doing it.
So I wouldn't read a lot into it but it is our expectation that we will continue to do that going forward.
So that with the current run rates on those expenses and I mentioned before in this environment will probably maintain themselves And our next question comes from Cynthia Mayer from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> It seems like you're getting more institutional traction.
And I'm just wondering if you can talk about any fee differential for institutional versus retail for instance the large balance mandate you got or in fixed income this quarter.
And also when you look at the fixed income inflows this quarter can you maybe break out how much of that was institutional and what types of institutional? First I think we should note that the balance win in this quarter the significant one that we referenced earlier was in DC space.
In more separate account or DB institutional space clearly fees tend to be lower and as size goes up that is more true.
And the biggest difference is probably between different kinds of products.
Fixed income tends to be lower than equities and short-term fixed income lower than full discretion AG [ph]   portfolio.
So the mix of channels and the mix of products has a lot to do with the revenue mix that we achieve.
Clearly some of the products that are growing fastest are not our highest revenue highest fee products.
So there's a little bit of negative substitution effect there as we make more progress in the institutional business.
That said we can drive a very good margin off good institutional businesses as well.
So we're quite pleased to have it and I think we look forward to growing a much more substantial institutional business.
Cynthia I might just add one other thing and that is if you think of this in terms of management fee yield I wouldn't expect there to be much change.
I mean as Dick points out to the extent that there's a shift between our equity business or the fixed income business or from retail the institutional there can be some modest impact there.
The same time in our international channels those are a little larger fee environments.
So when we look at it at least at this point I don't see much reason to think there'll be much of a change.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just one more follow-up on the expenses.
You mentioned you don't want to cut spending to the point of constraining future growth.
And I'm just wondering if you could be a little more specific on that.
Are you saying you don't want to cut certain items further or that you want to restore some items like marketing or continue to hire? And when you say that are you thinking sort of broadly of next year or looking much further out? I think you have some pretty good examples of it in this quarter.
In the sense that I mentioned earlier we hired Susan Oh and we hired 8 important sales heads outside the United States.
Actually not all of those 8 are hired 6 of those 8 I think had been hired.
But we continue to make investments like that and we will continue to do so where it's important to our strategy.
That said we're going to drive hard on discretionary spend given the difficult environment that we face.
And keeping that balance is management's job and that's what we're going to do.
I think Bruce was straightforward in his earlier comment that if the negative performance fees going forward are significantly bad we will see some margin deterioration as a result because we'll continue to make the necessary investments to grow the firm for the future.
And our next question comes from Jeff Hobson from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you give us that -- how much that balanced fund mandate was? Again I missed that.
And then any reason to think that with that product you have some momentum say in the time contribution channel? And then finally those types of products have been more popular in the retail business.
Any sense of any pick up of interest on the retail side with that product? What is the first part of the question? It's a $1.3 billion win for us.
I think there is reason to be optimistic that there's increasing demand for balanced products in the DC space I think some of the folks in that channel have been disappointed by the performance of their target date funds and they're coming back around to take a look at the prior generation kind of balanced products and finding that maybe those compete very well against some of these target date funds.
So yes we're optimistic about the future of our balance products.
I don't have as good insider information in the retail channel and the future balance in that channel so I can't give you any very smart comment in that area.
And our next question comes from Michael Kim from Sandler O'Neill LLP.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just not to beat a dead horse but in terms of the comp.
Yes I know the plan is now more tied to profitability but on the other hand there's only so much that is truly variable like you talked about.
So how should we be thinking about the comp ratio going forward assuming market conditions remain challenging and kind of the performance fee losses step up going forward? Michael from the presentation you'll see that we had a pretty healthy response to the declining profit situation.
I think we've talked 70% roughly.
I think those ratios are going to maintain themselves because we very explicitly tied compensation to our bottom line performance.
Other types of expenses as we mentioned don't respond quite as quickly.
We can't manage them down as quickly and as effectively.
And so to the extent that that continues we will get the variable cost response but there will be pressure on margins as we try to respond to them I think with the other costs.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just in terms of performance fees.
If I look at the slide in the appendix it looks like the total pro forma AUM was about $53 billion as of the end of the third quarter.
That was down more than 20% relative to a quarter ago and yet the pro forma kind of quarterly P&amp;L impact basically stayed flat at around $16 million of foregone revenues.
So can you just kind of talk a little bit about that dynamic? Is that just really a function of kind of the relative performance continuing to weaken for some of those funds? It's a combination of the performance and the assets in each of the funds and obviously some of the funds are just coming out in this quarter.
So I think it's just really the math embedded in the performance fees.
Some of those funds as you know have longer performance patterns that are being affected by the performance fees than others.
So they'll be slightly more volatile but basically you'd have it.
And our next question from Robert Lee from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> It's probably hard to believe it's not a question on comp but some of your peers have similar kind of mutual fund awards.
Typically when there's a mark-to-market adjustment on the balances there's some offset for better or worse in comp.
Do you account for this the same way? And I'm just trying to get a feel for -- because it obviously affects how we think about the margin too.
So was there -- to the extent you've marked down had the large negative mark-to-market on the mutual fund awards was there some offsetting compensation decrease as a result and kind of if you could quantify that? This is Brennan.
Yes the mutual fund share awards do flex with market but they are somewhat delayed due to vesting schedules.
The impact to Q3 was approximately $1 million.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right great.
And can you maybe talk a little bit about -- I think you mentioned I guess maybe it's over the past year I forget the timeframe where I think you said you hired about 8 people for your international distribution.
I know you've kind of built out some investment capabilities.
Could you maybe update us? I mean is that kind of built out for the time being? What are your kind of plans there? And if you can -- any color you can give us on what you're starting to see from those efforts in terms of sales or pipelines or anything like that? Yes.
We hired Augie Cheh recently to run that business.
In his steps what he tried to do was realign the expense base in that business with less sort of management positions and much more of the percentage of the pie dedicated to field sales and client relationship folks.
In that effort he's hired a significant number of new sales people that are only now just arriving or will be arriving soon and will hopefully start to make contributions going forward.
So I can't point you to big sales numbers coming out of those efforts yet but we're optimistic going forward.
What has happened is I think we've got a better aligned team outside of the United States under Augie that is well positioned to deliver improved results.
We've also had some recent good wins.
We've had important new fund launches in Tokyo for our fixed income team.
We've had some institutional wins in Asia and in Europe.
And so that business continues to -- it's doing well but we look forward to the day when Augie's reorganization is at full force in effect.
And at that point we think we'll see significantly better results out of the international team.
And our next question comes from Jonathan Casteleyn and from Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you can update us on search activity on the Quant [ph]  Arena.
At this point you haven't seen a lot of new RFPs although your one-year performance has turned up.
So I'm just wondering what you saw in the third as far as search activity in Quant [ph].
Search activity in U.S.
active management has been down on an institutional basis.
And INTECH is getting -- I think it's fair share of a tiny amount of that that is dedicated towards mathematical or quantitative efforts in the U.S.
but it's a very small number.
Outside the U.S.
you know that in the last quarter we had a significant win in Australia and we continue to feel increased interest from clients and consultants outside the United States.
And we're optimistic that we can put -- win some additional significant business outside the United States on a go-forward basis.
But with lumpy institutional wins the timing of that is unpredictable and uneven.
And so I'm afraid I can't give you a good look forward for -- on a quarter-to-quarter basis how that's going to look.
The feel of it is there's increasing interest outside the United States and a little bit inside the United States.
But inside the United States it's still at a very modest level.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Understood.
And then just to Bruce on the upside of the upsize of the credit facility to $250 million can you just prioritize what you think the strategic options of the company are as you now have a larger credit facility? Great question.
I don't think I'd read too much into it.
I think we saw an opportunity in the market to extend the maturity and gather more sides at the right price.
It gives us a lot of financial flexibility going forward.
It's not targeted at this point.
It's meant to give us the kind of flexibility that we think we might need or want to draw on in the future.
And ladies and gentlemen we have time for one additional question.
And that does come from Mark Irizzary from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Dick can you just talk about the fixed income channel? It's like if you look on a quarterly basis the redemption rate there is maybe a little bit higher then bounces around a little bit.
Is that -- do you expect that as you build out the institutional business that the redemption rate will sort of that it'll become a little more normalized if you will as that business grows? And then also where do you think the big forward share gains are for you from a fixed income where are they coming from? I think in fixed income there's always a challenge in the short-term bond area especially that people use it a little bit as a checkbook.
And that's not our first choice but it's a risk in this business.
It's a liquid pool that people can use and that will drive -- we have an excellent excellent short-term product and the redemption rate on that side will always be higher.
In terms of opportunities I think you're seeing some of the major fixed income players have real performance challenges in some of their key product lines.
And I think for our flexible bond fund in the intermediate bond area our high yield fund and our short-term fund I think there are big opportunities in each of those areas for us going forward.
I think Janus is the new kid on the block in fixed income space; we're still not nearly as well-known in fixed income as we are in equities.
But we're seeing a significant increase in interest and support from institutional consultants and that -- if we continue to do our jobs well that should drive a very steady flow of increasing business going forward.
So we don't see -- we see opportunity on the horizon and continuing gathering momentum.
But we recognized that the fixed income markets particularly in rates have been very volatile and future success depends on our ability to continue to deliver the excellent risk-adjusted returns.
That's the heart of that business.
And so far we have a terrific team that's done just a great job.
And at this time I'll turn the floor back over to Dick Weil.
Thank you everybody for your time today.
We hope the new format of the presentation is effective and useful for you.
And we look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you gentlemen.
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
We thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect your phone lines at this time and have a great day.
Good morning.
My name is Michael and I'll be your conference facilitator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to the Janus Capital Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Before the company begins I would like to reference their standard legal disclaimer which also accompanies the full slide presentation located in the Investor Relations area of janus.com.
Statements made in the presentation today may contain forward-looking information about management's plans projections expectations strategic objectives business prospects anticipated financial results anticipated results of litigation and regulatory proceedings and other similar matters.
A variety of factors many of which are beyond the company's control affect the operations performance business strategy and results of Janus and could cause actual results and experiences to differ materially from the expectations and objectives expressed in their statements.
These factors include but are not limited to the factors described in Janus' reports filed with the SEC which are available on their website www.janus.com and on the SEC's website www.sec.gov.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
Janus does not undertake to update such statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date these statements were made.
Investors should however consult any further disclosures Janus may make in its reports filed with the SEC.
Thank you.
Now it's my pleasure to introduce Dick Weil Chief Executive Officer of Janus Capital Group.
Mr.
Weil you may begin your conference.
Thank you operator.
Welcome everybody to the fourth quarter and full-year 2011 earnings call for Janus Capital Group.
Thank you for your time and attention.
Looking back at the last year I think it's clear that Janus is becoming a stronger and more diverse company.
But we currently face some challenges in our fundamental equity performance particularly in our Janus managed funds.
During the year we maintained strong financial discipline.
Our operating income increased 11% versus prior year and margins improved to 31.8% compared to 20.7% -- 27.7% in the prior year.
We're particularly proud of that discipline.
As you know as we've talked about before it's important to us to maintain a strong balance sheet so that we can remain a good and stable partner for our clients and for our employees through the full and volatile market cycles.
In this past year we generated $225 million of cash flow from operations and we had $672 million of cash and marketable securities at December 31.
We also made significant headway against our strategic priorities.
We further diversified our business through successfully building out our fixed income and we made important strides in institutional and our international businesses all while maintaining a focus on operational excellence and as I mentioned also cost control.
Our mathematical equity performance and net flows improved substantially in 2011.
Perkins maintained its record of very strong long-term performance.
Its global value strategy is top decile for the past year and its very important small and mid-cap strategies were top decile for the last 5 years.
So Perkins remains an exceptionally strong and leading value manager.
We recruited new talent and I'm most proud probably of that.
We recruited new talent both inside the investment team and elsewhere around the firm and coupled with the very strong folks who were already here I think we have an excellent team.
Fourth quarter 2011 EPS was $0.19 compared to $0.15 in the quarter bringing our full year to $0.78 compared to $0.88 in the prior year.
Assets under management at December were $148.2 billion which is a 5.1% increase from September.
Our total long-term net flows were still negative at $4 billion in the fourth quarter compared to $2.4 billion in the third quarter bringing full-year net negative $12.2 billion.
Again we make the point on the bottom of Page 3 of the presentation around the operating margin and the full-year margin at 31.8% fulfills a target that we set in discussions with you a year ago for low 30% margin.
So we're proud of that.
On Page 4 of the presentation I outline a little bit about the progress we made against our long-term strategic vision.
As you know it's been very important for our strategy to build out our fixed income franchise that's been an exceptionally strong success story for us.
We finished the year with more than $20 billion in fixed income AUM for the first time in the firm's history.
We have a strong growth rate and in 2011 net flows were positive $4.9 billion in this business.
We also strategically expanded our global distribution and product capabilities realigned our sales and really restructured our non-U.S.
sales force.
We've earned buy recommendations from a number of non-U.S.
consultants and we believe that our non-U.S.
business is well positioned to move forward in the future.
We're also working hard to improve our Institutional business and market share.
We hired Susan Oh as the Head of our U.S.
Institutional Distribution in October and that was a very important step in moving this team and business forward.
We've added a substantial number of buy recommendations around our fixed income and some fundamental equity products and the improved performance in our mathematical equity strategies managed by INTECH will help substantially also.
We used $120 million of shareholder funds to seed new products across equity and fixed income and alternatives and we're excited about the long-term prospects for those efforts.
And lastly as you all know a year ago we had some real operational challenges.
We have focused with some new people and some excellent effort on operational excellence in the intervening time period.
And I think the changes that have been implemented have had dramatic positive results in the level of our operational reliability and strength of our controls.
So we're very proud of the progress there as well.
At this point I'll turn it over Bruce Koepfgen to talk more about the results.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for calling in.
I'm joined again this quarter by Jennifer McPeek our Treasurer; and Brennan Hughes Chief Accounting Officer who will be available to participate in Q&amp;A as necessary.
As we go through the results I'll focus on 4 key items that I think explain our quarterly outcome: first net flows; secondly performance fees; the decline in operating expenses; and then the improvement in our balance sheet year-over-year.
I will generally follow the order of the deck starting on Page 6.
So let's just quickly review the data.
As Dick mentioned earnings per share for the fourth quarter $0.19 compared to $0.15 in the third quarter.
Earnings per share for 2011 $0.78 compared to $0.88 a year ago.
For your convenience we've added a table in the appendix which outlines the key drivers behind the year-over-year change.
Average AUM of $149.2 billion declined 4%.
Revenue of $215 million declined 9% due to the decline in average AUM and an increase in negative performance fees.
Fourth quarter operating expenses were $145 million which was $18 million or 11% lower than the prior quarter.
Operating income of $70.6 million declined 5% quarter-over-quarter as the 9% revenue decline was off by -- offset by an 11% decline in operating expenses.
Operating margins for the quarter of 32.7%.
Slide 7 summarizes our investment performance.
As you can see underperformance in several of our larger fundamental equity products continues to weigh on our short- and medium-term performance numbers.
However long-term performance continues to be strong across fundamental equity fixed income and our mathematical strategies.
On a complex-wide basis 56% of our funds had 4- or 5-star overall Morningstar ratings compared with the industry average of 32.5%.
Slide 8 looks at the component parts of our company net flows.
Total company net outflows of $4 billion increased quarter-over-quarter.
Fundamental equity posted fourth quarter net outflows of $3.2 billion versus $3.8 billion in the third quarter.
The relative improvement was driven by a decrease in redemptions partially offset by lower sales.
INTECH saw net outflows of $2.2 billion in the quarter down from approximately $700 million outflows in the third quarter as redemptions increased.
As we have mentioned in the past as an institutional manager INTECH's flow vary significantly period to period.
And the increase in redemptions during the fourth quarter was primarily the result of partial redemptions from existing clients as opposed to terminations.
In our fixed income business net sales remain positive at $1.4 billion and continued momentum in the institutional channel.
We should also note that our fixed income business surpassed $20 billion in assets for the first time in our history.
We enter 2012 with a very healthy pipeline and we remain optimistic around the opportunities for this business.
Turning to Slide 9.
Our total revenue declined by 9% as a result of lower average assets and $9.2 million of negative performance fees.
As you may recall we have performance fees on both our mutual funds and separate accounts.
In the fourth quarter we saw negative performance fees on our mutual funds increase to $13.8 million from $4.2 million last quarter.
On the other hand positive performance fees on separate accounts increased to $4.6 million versus $1.1 million last quarter.
During the third quarter a number of our larger funds became subject to this performance fee structure which amounted to an additional $20 billion in assets.
You will see in the schedule in the appendix based on year-end performance if we were recording performance fees on all mutual funds during the quarter the pro forma impact would have been an additional $4 million or a total of $17.8 million for the quarter.
With respect to separate account performance fees the increase reflects earned annual fees of $3.4 million that hit in the fourth quarter.
Slide 10 provides a comparison of operating expenses quarter-over-quarter.
Offsetting a significant amount of decline in revenue fourth quarter operating expenses decreased 11% as a result of the year-end compensation adjustments.
Compensation declined 13% as we aligned the compensation with annual operating performance.
Long-term incentive compensation declined 35% as a result of lower senior profits interest at Perkins.
As you may remember from previous earnings calls the SPI calculation is dependent on revenue levels and relative investment performance which produced a $4.2 million reduction in this expense.
The small increase in marketing and advertising expense is largely due to international marketing and other seasonal expenses.
Finally our distribution cost declined 14% due to a decrease in assets subject to such distribution fees.
So on Slide 11 we attempt to reconcile the quarter-over-quarter earnings per share change.
The top line impact that we experienced as a result of lower average assets and negative performance fees represented about $0.07 a share.
The decline in operating expense as a result of the variable response from compensation and distribution offset about 85% of the revenue decline or $0.06 a share.
Finally last quarter's results included $0.06 of non-operating losses related to mark-to-market losses on our mutual fund awards and seed capital.
The absence of this significant non-operating loss accounted for the rest of the quarterly change.
Lastly a look at Slide 12 highlights the continued improvement of the balance sheet.
Over the last 2 years we have significantly reduced our leverage further strengthening our balance sheet.
As we have mentioned before a strong balance sheet continues to be important to management and our clients.
Our cash position continues to be strong with approximately $672 million in cash and marketable securities.
During 2011 we generated $225 million in cash flow from operations and were able to repay $213 million in debt institute a regular quarterly dividend of $0.05 a share and seed approximately $120 million in new products.
We continue to believe given current headwinds in the business and uncertainty in the market that preserving liquidity and financial flexibility is prudent.
In 2012 we plan to continue investing in our strategic initiatives which we believe will provide outstanding returns for our shareholders over the long term.
And we will look for other ways to create return for our shareholders as appropriate.
That's all I have and I'll turn it back to Dick.
Thank Bruce.
Looking forward given the impact that we expect performance fees will have on our results in 2012 our leadership team will be very focused on maintaining strong expense control.
But also -- or only up until the point where we make sure we're taking care of our strategic priorities.
So we'll be as disciplined as we can but we won't sacrifice the company's strategy and that could challenge margins on a go-forward basis.
In 2012 we expect strategic investments to focus on the same themes that we began in '11.
We're going to continue to invest and build in our fixed income theme we're going to expand and continue to grow our non-U.S.
business we're going to continue to develop our U.S.
institutional business we will focus on broadening product capabilities in order to meet the future needs of our clients and we'll continue to focus on maintaining and further developing operational excellence.
So as you can see the initiatives begun in '11 will continue in '12.
We also have announced that Steve Scheid Chairman of our Board of Directors is retiring from the board at the end of his term in April of 2012.
Glenn Schafer whos served as a Director of our company since 2007 has been appointed as Chairman Elect.
Steve Scheid has been the Chairman for more than 9 years and has served also as Janus' CEO in 2004 and 2005.
We've been very fortunate to have someone of Steve's integrity and experience at our helm.
Personally Steve recruited me to this company and he's been an excellent partner for me during my 2 years as a CEO and I very much appreciate his help and his guidance.
I personally and we all here at Janus wish Steve great success and happiness as he transitions to a new chapter in his life.
Before we turn to questions let me just mention.
I think as you think about our company it's important to understand that we have the opportunity to be one of the very best leading growth franchises with our Janus equity team.
We have one of the very best value franchises with our Perkins team.
We have one of the best mathematical equities franchises with our INTECH team.
And our fixed income business is growing into one of the best fixed income businesses as well.
And so we are succeeding in developing a broader and more diverse team and set of products for our clients and that's really our vision.
We think that globally investors need to invest more in saving for their retirement and more wisely in saving for their retirement.
And we look forward to playing a very important role through each of these businesses in the future.
With that we'll stop.
And operator we'll take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question today comes from Michael Carrier from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Maybe a first question you guys launched quite a few new products over the past couple months and you're obviously gaining traction on the fixed income side and there's a lot of demand for that in the industry.
So when I look away from the equity performance headwinds that you're facing right now in terms of those new areas where are the opportunities that you're seeing? Which distribution channels do you see the demand particularly for some those risk managed products that you guys launched? That's a very good question.
We have identified some key areas for product development that we believe have really substantial opportunities going forward not only in one channel but essentially in all channels.
I think the needs of investors institutionally and on the retail side are becoming increasingly similar.
The buckets that we've identified for our focus are the first one as you mentioned our risk-managed bucket and we have excellent start with our protective growth strategy here at Janus and INTECH is coming out with some excellent new approaches to deliver risk-managed outcomes and that is of course the very foundation of what Perkins has to offer.
We also believe that income is increasingly important.
And you'll see us work hard to develop improved income opportunities for our clients.
We believe that absolute return will play an increasingly important role in the world particularly when rates start going back up and some of the bond anchors that people have built in their portfolios around long duration and such may begin to sway a bit more than they would like.
And we believe folks will be very interested in absolute return which is risk controlled and which has relatively less interest rate risk factor and also fixed income -- less fixed income risk factor -- sorry I think I misspoke less equity risk factor and less interest rate risk factor in a controlled risk foundation.
And lastly we also believe that we'll get through this economic cycle and get to the point of rising rates and real return will be increasingly important to investors.
So our new product efforts will be primarily focused around those buckets.
And we believe that in terms of the distribution channels that we'll be interested those themes will be very important in retail and institutional channels domestically and globally.
We think that they're strong and fairly universal.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Bruce maybe for the follow-up expenses in this quarter well managed very flexible.
When you think about 2012 and given that you provide that pro forma performance fee nothing else changes which some of the performance has picked up year to date.
But when we think about that and some of the new investment areas and when we think about the full year because anything can happen in any given quarter but for the full year and into 2013 still trying to target that 30% margin over time? Well of course our new compensation program it really is a profits-based program.
So there's not direct alignment here.
But I think the direct answer to your question is yes.
I mean for your purposes and your models I think the 30% of revenue number kind of the annualized rate for this year is the right one to use.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just nothing unusual in the expense lines particularly on comp in terms of -- I mean obviously like you said it's changing in terms of income versus revenues but nothing like on a fourth quarter any new launches there that we shouldn't expect going forward? I'm sorry Mike we need to back up on the prior question.
I think I misunderstood your prior piece.
Could you repeat your first part of the question? I think I misinterpreted the question to be the comp line not the margin line.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I was just saying when we look at the outlook on overall expenses you've got what the expense base came in this quarter.
But we look forward we know if nothing changes the pro forma negative performance fees would pick up.
And I was saying in the year to date the performance has picked up so we'll see.
But when I look at what you're investing in and then how much flexibility you had there when you look for 2012 in 2013 are you still targeting that 30% or so margin? And then I was saying anything unusual...
I apologize for misspeaking before.
I think our expectation is given the conditions in the marketplace that there's -- in the performance fee situation that we're in there is some likelihood we'll experience margin compression in the coming year but clearly hard to predict.
I mean there's much that we don't know.
But as Dick pointed out in his comments we're staying very focused on our strategic agenda.
We will continue to invest in that.
Performance fees provide a headwind for us on the revenue line obviously and that could well produce a decline in our margins if we can't have the same kind of response on the fixed income line that we did this year -- I'm sorry on the fixed cost line.
And the next question comes from Daniel Fannon from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess starting off with the comp again.
The long-term incentive comp stepped down.
You highlighted the change at Perkins.
I guess is that sustainable? Or is that -- and kind of walk me through some of the factors there specifically and then I believe you guys have stated before that 2012 there will be a step-up in that line and I'm wondering if that's versus the 4Q run rate or versus 2011 as a whole.
Yes I don't think we want to comment on the specific Perkins comp lines.
But the reference that I made in my comments was to the SPI calculation which is both revenue and performance based.
We did have a $4.2 million reduction there in this quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And so all else equal if their asset levels and performance stay the same that number would be the same in the first quarter? Hi this is Brennan.
No I think we would expect it to turn back up similar to our comp line.
When we're accruing for this the valuation on these instruments as we move to the vesting period and we have a valuation adjustment you are going to reverse some amounts that you've taken in prior periods.
So we would expect it to come up slightly.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess if you could give some color around INTECH.
The performance continues to get better outflows picked up.
I guess maybe thoughts around the backlog or kind of what drove some of the redemption pick-up in the quarter? And maybe as you think about the year how conversations are going with clients? This is Dick Weil.
I don't think I can speak directly to the conversations going on with clients because I haven't been in so many.
But let me tell you what we think is going on.
INTECH as a major player in institutional equity management is susceptible to some of the broader trends that affect how institutions allocate their money.
And as Bruce mentioned earlier most of the redemptions that we saw in the fourth quarter INTECH reports are redemptions from existing clients but not relationship terminations.
And they probably therefore reflect institutional asset reallocation trends as much as anything.
It's -- we view it -- we would view it as much more serious if those were driven by relationship terminations.
And so we're encouraged that the relationships remain good but we are obviously susceptible to changes in asset allocation away from large-cap equities in some of the institutional client base.
And I think that thematically is the largest trend ongoing.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just thinking about it next year I mean is that something you -- the trend that you expect to continue or is there other things offsetting on the positive side? I don't think I have a good crystal ball on that one.
I think people have been afraid of equity markets and equity allocation.
Institutions have found themselves with falling rates in dramatically more underfunded situations.
And you can imagine that some of those institutions react by reducing their risk and increasing their duration to match liabilities more closely.
And others are reacting by taking additional risk to try and maintain their policy rates of return.
It's a real spread out there in the institutional market.
I think if equity markets remain strong through the first part of the year there's a good likelihood that institutions will return some asset allocation back into the equity market as their confidence grows.
But I think that those decisions have yet to be made and they're very hard to predict.
And our next question comes from Ken Worthington from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Performance in the research funds has been substantially better than some of your other bigger funds particularly over the 3-year time horizon.
And it seems indicative that the research department is coming up with some good ideas but they're not getting into the portfolios of some of the bigger funds.
So first is my hypothesis right? And if so why aren't the ideas getting into the bigger funds? No I don't think your hypothesis is right.
I think that the good ideas of our research analysts are indeed finding their way into the larger portfolios.
But the larger portfolios are substantially different in structure than the research funds.
They're not sector neutral and certainly some of them are much higher active share much more highly concentrated.
And as a consequence there are substantial differences.
There are market cap differences between them.
And so without getting into the weeds in too much detail for a call like this I don't think I can adequately explain each of the differences.
And of course the stories are different for different funds.
But overall I don't think that the ideal linkage between the research team and the portfolio management team is broken at all.
But neither is it perfect.
And we like most folks continuously work on ensuring that we have good communication.
I don't think that is the site of the challenge of underperformance for us in some of our larger funds.
So no I think the hypothesis is a little bit off.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well not the first time I've been wrong.
And then just on comp and I apologize if I blinked and missed it.
In the fourth quarter the kind of the falling comp to the $62 million level how much of that was kind of reversal of previous accruals? I guess that's the question because we're trying to figure out just where to start the run rate in 1Q.
Sure Ken a fair question.
There was about $9 million in reversals in the fourth quarter.
I think the important point here is that there are reversals in the fourth quarter every year.
This was the basic true-up to a new compensation plan.
It's profits based and so it just happened to hit in the fourth quarter.
I think if you're -- if for a looking-forward basis I think the annual rates are probably the best to use.
And we'll go ahead and take our next question from Roger Freeman from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Actually just a follow-up on Ken's question.
I just -- the broader performance challenges in the bigger funds is it still the highly correlated markets that weve see? And as you've talked about making some changes to improve performance.
But if you had to rank the sort of market dynamic headwinds versus sort of structural changes that you have or can make internally what's the relationship of the 2? Is it 80 20? Good question.
As we think about it I think the first thing is having done a really careful review of the performance and what drove it we remain really confident in our people and our process.
I think the next layer is all active managers struggled in a market where correlations were very high.
And therefore definitionally the opportunities and rewards in the short term for stock picking were reduced.
We saw 3 months recently where correlations have fallen dramatically April October and this January of this current year.
In each of those months our performance has been really good and in January exceptionally strong.
And so I think we like other active managers face a market environment that when there's a crisis driving risk-on/risk-off decisions and correlations go to historic highs the short-term potential rewards for stock picking are really challenged.
And I think that explains why a huge majority a vast -- a supermajority of active managers have a tough time in that environment.
But we also had some idiosyncratic things around how we were doing our business that created challenges.
And so the next layer down is we had to take a look at our behavior in some of our funds and assess where perhaps we'd held on too long to some stocks and allowed some thesis creep or some other more technical elements of how we're doing our business.
And those -- that later is the layer where we're really focusing our response and some internal steps to address those and learn from those challenges.
I guess the last thing that drove some of our underperformance is we consistently are very focused on non-U.S.
markets.
We have as part of our active share we have a substantial part of our investing that occurs outside the United States even for some of our U.S.
benchmarked our large-cap funds.
That didn't work out very well in the past year but were not shrinking from that.
We think that we're finding terrific growth companies outside the United States at good prices and we think thatll pay in a long and in the medium term.
So that's not something we're going to change and if you look just mathematically at the drivers and the underperformance that's certainly one of the biggest elements.
Emerging markets and non-U.S.
markets dramatically underperform the U.S.
markets in the past year.
And that's not something we plan to change.
We think those judgments will prove out over time.
I hope that answers helpful.
But it's a multi-layered cake that we're dealing with.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
No definitely helpful color.
And then my follow-up would be just as you look at your strategy priorities specifically fixed income international institutional all very big ones and then managing the costs and understand that that can lead to some margin headwinds.
But if you have to prioritize those 3 how do you look at those strategically? Are they all of equal importance or is there a prioritization scheme? I don't think I'm able to give you a perfect answer but let me tell you the process by which we make our investment decisions.
We require proposals for new investments to be evaluated on a 3- to 5-year P&amp;L framework.
And we take a look at those things that we can produce with differentiated excellence based on who we are as a largely investment professionals and then those things that we believe our clients will want in substantial size on a go-forward basis.
And in that intersection we then look at those ideas and apply this profit methodology to ensure that we have business discipline around the ideas.
In each of these cases we believe that there are significant opportunities for us that are at the intersection of what we can do with differentiated excellence and what our clients will continue to want in a substantial way going forward.
And then they're supported by business plans that support the notion that they're good business decisions that will generate good substantial profit in the medium term going forward.
And so we prioritize based on that process and we sit down as a leadership team and review everybody's ideas and proposals for how to invest and where to focus our attention as a business and put all those ideas through that screen.
And then the survivors from that screen are where we put our attention and our investment dollars and that's the list as you see it.
We'll go ahead and take our next question from William Katz from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just trying to get to also the ebbs and flows around the P&amp;L this quarter and I was writing as quickly as I could just to make sure I qualify this right.
So you had $9 million reversal on the employee comp line $4 million round number adjustment to Perkins and then the $3 million annual win performance fee.
Are those sort of the moving parts? So as I look to the next quarter I'm still a little confused on the incentive compensation discussion.
Is it a plus-4-type number as we look to a new quarter? Is it something between the 11 and the 16 last quarter? Just trying to just get a little more guidance around sort of the run rate into Q1? Okay.
Let me try a couple of these pieces.
I may turn it to Brennan for the incentive comp piece.
The $9 million true-up was just as I mentioned the fourth quarter look at the comparison of our compensation pools relative to our bottom-line results.
And on the LTI piece that was just the Perkins SPI adjustment.
Brennan do you want to comment on? Yes I think Bill if you take a look at what we show for the fourth quarter and thinking about a $4.2 million adjustment to the Perkins comp that gets you below where we are at for third quarter roughly the $14 million $15 million is what the total would look like in December or for the fourth quarter had we not taken that adjustment.
So I think when you factor in that $4.2 million adjustment you can kind of see what the quarter would have looked like.
The last piece I think was the $13 million of the performance fee; that of course is just a result of both the performance on the funds that were previously under the performance fee structure as well as the additional $20 billion that were added in the fourth quarter.
The comment on the pro forma piece was that had all of those funds been on a performance fee structure for the entire month it would have been $17.8 million or a $4 million delta versus what was reported.
Research Division</strong> I understand that part.
Second question just with be change in the chairmanship Im guessing its probably not just curious any strategic change in the direction of the firm including the possibility of sale or combination with larger organization? No I don't think you should read into the Chairman change any change in our strategy.
Glenn Schafer the new Chairman Elect is someone I've known a long time.
He was the President of Pacific Life now it's Pacific Mutual Insurance Company back in the days when they owned PIMCO where I worked.
And so Glenn and I have known each other for a substantial length of time and have an excellent relationship.
Glenn has been on this board for a while and has been fully supportive of our strategy and fully aware of it.
And so I don't think you should read any real change in strategy or business associated with the change in the Chairman's role.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up and thanks for taking all my questions.
And I sort of -- I missed what you said on your prepared remarks around INTECH.
You mentioned at the fixed income side you saw the pipeline building a little bit into the New Year.
What's your view on the pipeline for INTECH? I apologize you may have already said it.
We didn't actually make a comment on the pipeline for INTECH and I don't think we have anything material to share with you on that subject today.
We'll take our next question from Matt Kelley from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick modeling-type question.
As we think about the performance fees and knowing the noise that we see this quarter on a go-forward basis can you -- with all the moving pieces can you kind walk us through on the type of the run rate given 2009 performance rolling off where you were at the end of the quarter what a good run rate for the year is? We're going to have to ask you to repeat the question.
We're getting some kind of background noise here.
So we couldn't really hear the question.
Research Division</strong> Yes sure.
So the question is just around the performance fees for 2012.
Obviously there are few moving pieces here and with 2009 performance rolling off as we go forward into 2012 if you could give us a sense for what the run rate is this quarter and going forward? And I guess I would add if nothing changes.
Obviously if performance changed and you come back versus benchmarks more then that would change; but just on a static basis.
So we only heard every other word or so but I think I got the spirit of the question.
Let me give it a try and hopefully itll be adequate.
We really aren't in a position to forecast performance fees going forward.
We've tried to provide everybody with the calculator if you will for performance fees so that you can input your own thoughts on performance.
You understand how the calculation is done.
We want to make sure that you understand how it hit fourth quarter.
These are 3-year averaging and so in the models you have I think you can interpret it.
You'll have to input what you think the performance fees are.
We cant really predict that for you.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I apologize I think I have a bad line here.
But if I could -- can you guys hear me okay now? No I'm sorry.
I don't think we're going to be able to respond to questions because it's too hard to understand when we're only getting every other word.
I apologize for cutting you off.
But we'll turn to another questioner.
We'll take our next question from Craig Siegenthaler from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So just looking at the performance fee slide in the Slide Deck 21.
I'm just wondering if we roll this forward 12 months so we're sitting here looking at 4Q '12 results and every fund performed at benchmark in terms of the mutual fund performance fee do you have an estimate of kind of a range of where this performance fee would sit at that point in time? This is Jennifer.
Just to reiterate what Bruce said and maybe put a little bit of a different color on it.
The performance fee calculation going forward is dependent on the 3-year average performance of all the funds that are subject to the performance fee.
So if you want to model it go back and get all the historical performance and then put in the future performance and you can put your own numbers in that way.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
But you're not going to help us out at all? We can't predict the future performance of the funds and the rest is out there.
And maybe helping you understand how the calculation works but we don't want to get into the business of forecasting performance.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then I just have a follow-up question for Bruce.
I was a little confused on some of your comments in terms of compensation expense because I heard a few things.
But it sounds like when I look at the run rate in the fourth quarter $62 million of comp long-term comp of $11 million both are stepping up.
I heard 2 different kind of areas of guidance but it sounds like the step-up could be fairly significant with $9 million of reversals in comp and it sounds like several million maybe $1 million or $2 million in long-term incentive comp.
But then I also heard you say use the annualized run rate for 2011 which would be even higher than level.
So can you help me think about what to step up and also considering in the first quarter there's generally FICA and unusual kind of comp-related items too? Yes Ill just -- I was trying to make the distinction between the fourth quarter run rate and the annual run rate.
But let me kick this to Brennan to see if we can clarify.
I think if you think about our run rate going forward I think it's better to look at that on an annualized basis because we have reversals in the fourth quarter in both the comp line and the long-term incentive lines.
Those are probably lower than what would we expect to see in the first quarter.
Does that help? Research Division</strong> Well I understood that part but it sounds like the step-up could be fairly significant and that -- the magnitude of the step-up I think is what we have a question with.
I'll add some color to that as well.
In the first half of the year we were not fully on our new compensation plans.
So as you look at the historical 4 quarters in 2011 the latter half of the year is more indicative of a run rate going forward.
The fourth quarter however is not what you should run rate.
And we'll go ahead and we'll take our next question.
And we'll go ahead and take that from Michael Kim from Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on your comments around sort of remaining discipline on expenses but not at the expense of sort of sacrificing your long-term growth prospects.
Assuming revenues remain under some pressure just related to the performance fees aside from comp what are some areas where you think you could maybe rein in some costs a bit more? Well if you think back to the third quarter in some of our comments I think the management team here this year was very disciplined in looking at the fixed cost line as well.
We clearly get a lot of flex from our compensation line.
This year we feel like we made progress in the fixed cost line as well.
I think the question that's on the table is how much farther can we go if conditions remain challenging.
And so that is not clear at this point.
We continue to remain very disciplined in this approach.
But we just wanted to make sure that people realize that if it starts to bump up against the investments that we feel we need to make in our strategic agenda that margins will suffer.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then moving on to capital management.
Any kind of change in thinking in terms of potentially looking at share repurchases or focusing a bit more on M&amp;A opportunities to kind of step up the diversification of the franchise just given -- in the context of a stronger balance sheet? And maybe just to follow up are you seeing more opportunities out there as you look at potential M&amp;A? Let me -- I'll answer the first part of that and then Dick may want to weigh in on it.
I think our answer to this question is the same.
The diversification agenda and our strategic agenda are one in the same.
We believe that at the margin we want to continue on our path to invest in our strategy.
We think that's the best way to create long-term returns for our shareholders.
During the course of the year we've deployed $360 million versus debt redemptions some seeding products and dividend payments.
But at this time theres no decision to repurchase shares.
I'll just add.
I think Bruce just to underline and I agree with what he said I think our thought process is the same.
We look at strategic uses in the business and the needs of the business for our cash first and we have obviously a notion of a working capital safety margin that we make sure we maintain.
And then we look at ways to efficiently use the cash and return it to our shareholders.
We take that obligation very seriously.
One of the ways to do that is repurchase debt.
Another way to do that would potentially be to purchase equity.
We look at the dividend rate also.
In a world of pretty dramatic volatility and uncertainty we've been cautious in our thinking and we remain in a pretty cautious mind frame.
But all the things you mentioned are clearly things we look at.
And yes there are increasing M&amp;A opportunities out there.
There are a lot more banks and financial institutions that probably will sell parts of their asset management businesses as they go under additional regulatory scrutiny and balance sheet pressure.
And so there are opportunities out there but some comments we've made in the past remain true which is this is a talent-based business where culture is really critical.
And so the hurdle for M&amp;A is properly quite high.
It's hard to meld cultures and make these things work well.
Theyre easy financial models to build but they're hard to execute.
And so we approach M&amp;A opportunities with interest but with real caution.
And our main focus is building organically from our base and that remains consistent with where we've been in the past.
So we are interested.
Well look.
We're aware of it.
We do see an increased flow of ideas out there in the marketplace.
But you could fairly characterize us as cautious.
We'll take our next question from Cynthia Mayer from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Back to the comp issues sorry to beat a dead horse.
But I appreciate you guys mentioning look at second half.
I'm just wondering if you could talk a little bit about what you would see us looking at? Are you thinking about comp to revenues? Making about comp to operating profit? Because I thought you mentioned a 30% comp to revenues ratio but in fact it looks more like 35%.
I think the number that's probably safest for use is the 30% number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess looking forward too if performance continues to improve would that impact comp at all? And what role does that play at this point? Well to the extent that performance ultimately increases flows and increases revenues then ultimately it will translate into bottom line results.
But I think the important thing to remember in our compensation practice is that this is a results-oriented profits-based business calculation.
So until that performance finds its way to the bottom line it would not be reflected in the comp pools.
I mean it goes back to the description of this comp plan as creating the type of alignment that we want between our internal environment and our shareholders.
Cynthia this is Dick.
The way I think about it is theres a lag between the performance and the business results on the way down or on the way up.
But we've made the choice that we prefer the tighter alignment with the business results and with our shareholders.
And so that's how we structured our compensation programs in our thinking.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then if I could just ask one more I guess on the fixed income flows.
It looks like those backed off a bit in the fourth quarter but a lot of the industry was actually rotating toward fixed income.
Do you have any thoughts on why that was? I think some of the fixed income flows are lumpy and hard to predict.
We don't perceive any reduction in our momentum.
In fact we think that we're seeing increased momentum in our fixed income business and increase opportunities.
These things won't move on a quarter-to-quarter straight line.
I guess I would also note that we had a significant win in our balance fund product in the third quarter which created a positive lump if you will in the third quarter.
And so the quarter-to-quarter comparisons will always be I think affected by those sorts of major wins.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
I don't know if I can ask one more but do you have any capacity constraints on Triton because it's becoming one of the bigger small-cap growth funds in industry? And if you add the separate accounts it looks like it's edging up.
As part of our fiduciary duty we of course look at the relationship of size and performance and yes in smid products there will be capacity limits but we're not close to those right now.
We can handle substantially more new assets and we think that the exceptional track record that those managers have put together will lead to substantial inflows over the next few years in those products and we're looking forward to that.
And we do have time for one final question and it comes from Marc Irizarry from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just on the comp-to-revenue ratio can you just give a little color when you say -- I think I just heard 30%.
Maybe you could just clarify that number one.
And then number two can you just kind of walk through what role the performance fee reversals if you will play in thinking about the profitability and how you determine comp? I'm going to answer your first piece.
I think the question was how you should think about it as a percentage of revenue going forward.
I tried to handicap in that obviously this is not how we do it internally but the annualized 30% rate is probably what we would suggest you use.
And take the second piece.
Can you repeat the second piece of the question? Research Division</strong> Yes the second piece is as you guys do think about comp to what extent do those performance fee reversals play in and how should we think about the impact of those on the comp and sort of the -- as we think about what the incremental margins can be? Sure.
The performance fees flow through to the bottom line as you know similar to a fixed cost they flow all the way through to the bottom line.
And so they would impact our operating income which impacts the incentive portion of our compensation.
Did that explain it? Research Division</strong> Yes that makes sense.
And then are you -- can you give us sort of if you mark-to-market today your performance fee what are some of your -- if you think about the outlook to where we stand today and think about the first quarter comp.
Can you give a sense of the mark-to-market for those performance fee reversals today? I think we've given you -- all the parts of the puzzle are public and I think we've tried to help you as much as we can develop your calculator so that you can run whatever scenarios you like.
And we're just not comfortable going beyond that point.
So I think we've probably exhausted that topic in terms of what we're able to help you with.
And that are all the questions that we are able to take for today.
I'd just like to invite the speakers to make any concluding remarks.
We'd like to thank everybody for their time and attention today and for those of you who are owners for you ownership support and I hope you found the presentation that we've given transparent and helpful to you.
If you have constructive comments or suggestions we'd be pleased to follow up with you and learn how to better serve your information needs and your interests and have a great day.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
We thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect your phone lines at this time and have a great day.
Good morning.
My name is Kathy and I'll be your conference facilitator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to the Janus Capital Group First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Also as a reminder today's call is being recorded.
Before the company begins I would like to reference their standard legal disclaimer which also accompanies the full slide presentation located in the Investor Relations area of janus.com.
Statements made in the presentation today may contain forward-looking information about management's plans projections expectations strategic objectives business prospects and anticipated financial results anticipated results of litigation and regulatory proceedings and other similar matters.
A variety of factors many of which are beyond the company's control affect the operations performance business strategy and results of Janus and could cause actual results and experiences to differ materially from the expectations and objectives expressed in their statements.
These factors include but are not limited to the factors described in Janus' reports filed with the SEC which are available on their website www.janus.com and on the SEC's website www.sec.gov.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
Janus does not undertake to update such statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date these statements were made.
Investors should however consult any further disclosures Janus may make in its reports filed with the SEC.
Thank you.
Now it is my pleasure to introduce Dick Weil Chief Executive Officer of Janus Capital Group.
Mr.
Weil you may begin your conference.
Thank you operator.
Welcome everybody to the first quarter 2012 Janus Capital Group call.
I'm obviously Dick Weil and with me as usual is Bruce Koepfgen our CFO.
The story of the first quarter 2012 for us is one where we demonstrated fundamental business improvement across importantly both investment performance and better net flows.
However the expected performance fee impact we've discussed with you in prior quarters took full effect and more than offset fundamental business improvement in our financial results.
Let me focus on investment performance for just a moment.
Prior to the first quarter 2012 our Janus-managed large-cap growth strategies have been through a very difficult 18 months.
In the first quarter their performance improved dramatically.
It's hard to generalize about many different portfolios but one very substantial difference is the change in the environment.
Since the crisis at the end of 2008's correlations between stocks the number of stocks and the broad index moving in the same direction on the same day had been very high.
Buyers alternatively scared and optimistic about global macro and the stability of financial institutions have expressed those views by buying and selling beta or in other words the index.
In such periods the rewards for differentiated bottoms-up stock picking are reduced.
In such period the more one looks like the index the better.
As a high-conviction fundamental manager our Janus platform is not at its best during these periods.
During the first quarter of 2012 correlations have fallen dramatically to much more normal levels compared to history and our differentiated stock picking has once again been rewarded.
This gives us the opportunity to demonstrate the strengths of our research and our investment team.
We recognize one quarter's good performance is far too short to fully remedy our recent underperformance but Q1 2012's is a very good start.
Turning to our quarterly results.
Q1 2012 EPS was $0.12 compared to $0.19 in fourth quarter 2011.
When evaluating this result please take care to understand elements around both the fourth quarter of '11 and the first quarter of '12.
Bruce Koepfgen will take you through the details of this more carefully but the first quarter included about $0.03 charge due to 2 elements: change in LTI forfeiture estimates less people are leaving than we expected; and charges related to our recent debt buyback.
When you compare that against fourth quarter of last year you should remember that about $0.05 of benefit in the fourth quarter of last year was from compensation reversals.
Finally I want to point out that we announced a 20% increase in our regular quarterly dividend.
This small step demonstrates that our board is confident in the strength of our balance sheet that we continue to generate strong free cash flow from operations and we take seriously our duty to return capital to our shareholders.
With that I'll turn it over to Bruce.
Thanks Dick.
Good morning everyone.
As I work my work through the materials I'll attempt to focus on a few items that I think help to explain our quarterly results.
First total company net flows improved quarter-over-quarter.
Second revenue improved primarily from market tailwinds but also significantly improved investment performance.
Third the quarter-over-quarter increase in operating expenses particularly compensation and LTI are being driven by the fact that several fourth quarter items did not repeat.
And fourth our improving balance sheet and our capital deployment philosophy.
If you're following along on the deck I will begin my comments starting on Slide 5.
Earnings per share for the first quarter was $0.12 as Dick mentioned compared to $0.19 in the fourth quarter and $0.21 a year ago.
As noted on the slide fourth quarter earnings per share included a $0.05 benefit from compensation reversals.
For the current quarter earnings per share included a total charge of $0.03 related to a change in our LTI forfeiture estimates and the loss on the earlier extinguishment of debt.
We do not expect to have either of these charges repeat in the second quarter.
First quarter average AUM of $158.9 billion improved 7% driven by strong markets and investment performance.
First quarter revenue of $218.4 million only increased slightly as the increase in average AUM was mostly offset by the expected increase in negative mutual fund performance fees.
First quarter operating expenses were $161.9 million which was $16.9 million higher than the prior quarter primarily due to year-end compensation and LTI adjustments that we had in the fourth quarter that did not repeat.
As a result operating income of $56.5 million declined 20% as the slight revenue improvement was more than offset by a 12% increase in these operating expenses.
Margins for the quarter were 25.9% versus 32.7% in the fourth quarter.
Turning to investment performance.
As Dick mentioned we are very encouraged by our year-to-date performance especially in our large-cap equity strategies that underperformed in 2011.
At the same time we want to be realistic and we recognize that more work is necessary to improve intermediate track records.
5-year performance remains strong across the complex and 58% of our funds had 4- or 5-star overall Morningstar rating at March 31 compared to an industry average of 32.5%.
Slide 7 details the components of company net flows for the quarter driven largely by an improvement in fundamental equity gross sales.
Total company net outflows of $2.5 billion improved 38% compared to the prior quarter.
Fundamental equity posted first quarter net outflows of $1.9 billion versus $3.2 billion in the fourth quarter.
Improvement was driven by a 53% increase in gross sales.
Fully 80% of our fundamental equity strategies had quarter-over-quarter improvement in gross sales.
INTECH saw net outflows of $1.8 billion in the quarter compared to $2.2 billion in the fourth quarter on lower redemptions.
In our fixed income business net sales remained strong at $1.2 billion on continuing momentum across all channels.
We remain optimistic about the prospects for this business.
Portfolios are performing and continue to be well-received by our clients.
Turning to Slide 8.
Total revenue increased 1% in the quarter as revenue from higher-average assets was offset by the expected increase in negative performance fees.
First quarter was the first full quarter where all planned funds were subject to performance fees.
As in prior quarters we have a schedule on Page 15 listing performance fees by fund for your reference.
Largely as expected we saw the negative performance fees on our mutual funds increase to $19.5 million from $13.8 million last quarter.
Slide 9 compares operating expenses quarter-over-quarter.
First quarter operating expenses increased $16.9 million as a result of several compensation adjustments that occurred in the prior quarter which did not repeat.
Compensation increased $9.9 million primarily due to the $9 million accrual reversal that took place in the fourth quarter and did not reoccur in the first quarter.
The compensation-to-revenue ratio was approximately 33% this quarter.
All things being equal this sits in a reasonable range to apply going forward.
Long-term incentive compensation increased $8.9 million for 3 reasons: First in the fourth quarter we had a $4.2 million valuation adjustment with the Perkins SPIs that did not repeat in the first quarter.
Second during the first quarter we made an adjustment to the LTI forfeiture estimates as employee turnover improved over the past year.
This adjustment resulted in $2.1 million of higher expense.
We do not expect this to repeat in the second quarter.
Third we rolled out our 2012 LTI grant which resulted in a $2.6 million of additional expense for the quarter.
At the suggestion of many of you we have added the LTI amortization schedule back in the appendix which I think you'll find on Page 17.
So just to be completely clear fourth quarter included a total of $13.2 million in cost benefits related to compensation adjustments which did not repeat in the first quarter; $9 million of accrual reversals; and the $4.2 million Perkins SPI adjustment.
Additionally in the first quarter included a $2.1 million charge related to a change in LTI forfeiture estimates which also will not repeat in the second quarter.
The distribution costs increased $1.8 million.
This increase was largely in line with assets subject to these distribution fees.
Lastly management continues to exercise financial discipline when it comes to discretionary expenses.
Our combined marketing advertising and G&amp;A lines were $4 million lower than the prior quarter.
The management team will remain vigilant on these discretionary expenditures but we'll be careful not to deprive the business of the resources necessary to achieve our strategic objectives.
Lastly a look at Slide 10 highlights the continued improvement of the balance sheet.
As we have mentioned in the past we believe a strong balance sheet is a precondition to our long-term success.
It protects the interests of our clients our employees and our shareholders.
In the first quarter we saw our cash balance decline as a result of our successful debt tender and the seasonal payment of bonuses.
In the last few quarters we have talked about capital deployment so it makes sense to summarize our capital planning process here again.
First as a general principle we believe that preserving liquidity and financial flexibility is critical.
Second we will set aside capital for contractual obligations.
Third we look to deploy cash strategically in the business to drive future growth.
Finally we consider the return of excess cash to our shareholders.
Based on this framework we have taken the following actions this quarter.
We've repurchased $59 million of outstanding senior notes through our recent tender.
We initiated a programmatic anti-dilutive share repurchase program to offset stock issuance related to our LTI program beginning with the 2012 grant which was roughly 2.3 million shares.
We paid out a previously established quarterly dividend of $0.05 a share and as Dick mentioned today we announced the 20% increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.06.
We recognize that these actions are incrementally small but we believe they demonstrate management's commitment to returning capital to shareholders consistent with maintaining a strong balance sheet.
That's all I have and I'll turn it back to Dick.
Thank you Bruce.
Just in conclusion before we take your questions for me the key messages for the first quarter of 2012 are improved fundamental equity performance as we discussed earlier; a significant improvement in total company net flows as Bruce detailed in his comments a moment ago; negative performance fees coming in unfortunately substantially negative but about as expected and we continue to execute our conservative capital policy in terms of the debt reduction steps and then increasing the dividend as Bruce described; and lastly we continue to execute our strategy of intelligent diversification driving forward in fixed income building out our non-U.S.
franchise strengthening our efforts in institutional space all the while continuing to deliver operational excellence and that has been and continues to be our strategic outlook.
With those comments I'll take questions from those on the call.
Thank you very much.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Michael Kim of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> First I know it's difficult to segregate but any sense of how much the sequential step-up in fundamental equity gross sales related to maybe a seasonal uptick in retirement account contributions versus maybe the recent improvement in relative performance trends? I think it's hard to dissect the reason for flows at that level.
Clearly there is some seasonal effect in the DC business and that was positive.
And just as clearly the better returns are short term so probably haven't taken full effect in terms of broad client trends.
So I think you're right to point out it's a mix and we don't have any way to give you a scientific dissection of it.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then maybe a question for Bruce.
I understand remaining disciplined on the expense side but just given the sequential drop in marketing and advertising expense this quarter is there any risk here of maybe impairing kind of the long-term growth prospects of the franchise? Or do you just feel like there's other areas that might be more value-added to focus on at this point? Michael I think that's a great question and I've tried to condition my comments to suggest that we as a -- I think as a management team are very focused on containing discretionary spend.
But we are highly sensitive to the fact that we have an interesting agenda and strategy and we're not going to deprive the business of the resources it needs.
So it's a good question.
We're tuned into it and we'll make sure that we continue to spend at a level that advances that agenda.
And next we have Michael Carrier of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Dick maybe first one for you.
Just when you look at the performance the challenges that you're facing and then some of the strategies that you mentioned since you took over whether it's on the fixed income side the international some of the distribution I guess maybe just get an update on where things stand what areas are progressing as expected versus some of the areas where you might have pulled back a bit.
I think we've all been focused on the performance and we've seen some lift there.
But I think on the strategy side that's kind of taken a backseat at least lately.
So just an update on that would be helpful.
Sure.
Just to review the strategy of intelligent diversification was focused on those things we can do with differentiated excellence that we can sell at good profitability in a size that matters.
Looking at the set of those things we identified fixed income and that is delivering very well.
We're proud of the progress.
Gibson Smith is the leader of that effort and the team had just done a great job.
And we believe we have momentum across institution and retail channels inside and outside the United States.
Our non-U.S.
distribution expansion investing in that and building that out a bit was the next piece of the puzzle.
And candidly we've added a number of -- a significant number of salespeople to the field.
They're brand-new only just having started and so where that is in the pipeline is this year is probably not yet the sweet spot for that group.
It'll probably take one more year for that to have full effect this year.
As new folks are ramping up we expect to see improvement in that business.
But hopefully that would be more fully in effect and -- next year.
The next one is developing our U.S.
institutional presence.
That's probably the slowest of all candidly.
Most of the U.S.
institutional business runs through consultants.
They're notoriously slow to change opinions adopt new products et cetera.
So the pace of change in the U.S.
particularly DB institutional business is quite controlled and deliberate.
And so that's probably third.
So sometimes I tell people internally the fixed income is now the international [indiscernible] and the institutional is a little bit after that.
Lastly we are focusing on product diversification to make sure that we have good solutions for our clients and that's just an ongoing effort.
It's a little hard to give broad comments about the progress in that area.
We're very proud of our protected growth offerings.
INTECH's got some new low-volatility products and an income product that we're very excited about so the strategic development is to fill in the product buckets.
I think they're going well.
And then early in my tenure here as CEO I had to explain the lack of operational excellence in the form of some very significant checks we wrote for errors.
And we invested in and built out operational excellence as our last strategic focus.
I think George Batejan and the new team that's coming to drive that forward have done a very good job and one is never safe in this business.
But I think we have a strong control environment and good people and procedures in those places.
So those have been the strategic and remained the strategic focus for us and I think the progress is going reasonably well.
But unfortunately these things take time.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then Bruce maybe just the -- it's a question on some of the numbers that you went through in the comp guidance all that's helpful.
I just wanted to make sure on the LTIP if we look at the run rate that we had in the quarter we're on $19 million.
We'll shave around $2 million off that.
And then just for the 2012 grant is that fully in this number? And then I think just the 2 other nuances that I saw is just in the non-op looked like there were maybe some investment gains.
Just any color on that and then the tax rate looked a little elevated but because of the charge I'm not really sure.
There could have been some moving parts there.
Yes.
Let me take the first piece.
You're correct the $2 million one is a proper adjustment to the $19 million.
And then just as you look at those numbers just recall that you had the SPI adjustment in the fourth quarter of last year and then the $2.6 million that comes on from the 2012 grants that started with us this year this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then anything on the investment gains and the tax rate? Yes.
The tax rate was a little higher this year -- or this quarter than normal due to some tax adjustments attributable to past LTI awards.
If you back that out you'd be pretty much on top of the 37.25% which is kind of a statutory rate which we'll use going forward.
And next we have Ken Worthington of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Maybe heading back to marketing you're building out a bunch of the strategies global fixed income et cetera.
Can you talk about where you're dedicating your marketing resources and maybe how the marketing strategy is changing again pointing out that the marketing dollar or the dollars fell this quarter? Yes.
Janus is blessed with a wonderful franchise name that's broadly known largely due to the fact that it was built during a period of direct mutual fund sales.
And that channel is no longer really open to new entrants and it's a unique asset we have here that probably can't easily be recreated by others today.
We continue to focus on investing in that.
Janus has a strong reputation for being independent thinkers and we're building our reputation as being disciplined investors across a broader set of assets.
And so we're investing in sort of modernizing the Janus brand and the name while recognizing it's a unique strong asset and that's really our focus.
Ken this is Bruce.
Just one other thing to keep in mind we may have mentioned last quarter there are in these marketing numbers some seasonal lift in the fourth quarter.
So in terms of trying to condition your models something between the fourth quarter of last year and the first quarter this year is probably the right place to be.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And maybe just moving on to INTECH.
INTECH for many many years INTECH the performance used to be consistent and very good.
And then it seems like over the last 4 5 years you have like a -- INTECH has a good year then has a disappointing year and a good year and a disappointing year.
And it's not really stringing together more than a year's worth of good numbers at a time.
So I guess the question is maybe for Dick as you've dug into this what is your confidence in the INTECH methodology? And is there something that's leading to maybe less consistent performance over the last 5 years and maybe in the first 10 years of INTECH's existence? Is it competitors have gotten smarter? And just your views would be great.
Yes.
I'm very confident in the INTECH process.
I think it's extremely thoughtful well researched well understood and very likely to deliver positive performance alpha over medium and long periods of time but like every other investment strategy on the planet it doesn't work in all periods at all times.
So I think their performance indicates that we should have confidence in their long-term capabilities.
In terms of more discontinuous performance more recently I'm not aware of a structural change in the markets that really can be shown to explain a change in their performance profile.
We know that there are an awful lot more rapid traders.
We know that there are people who are looking for small signals and stocks.
We ask ourselves whether some of these pattern traders are affecting how INTECH does its business.
INTECH is very focused on how it executes its strategies not in terms of the investment strategy or the stocks it's buying but how it goes about the actual active buying and selling the execution of the orders in order to avoid falling into the traps created by some of those very quantitative rapid traders.
And there is a little bit of -- there's research and thought going into how to make sure that the more modern market conditions is filled with these guys doesn't disadvantage INTECH.
But the learning we have so far is I don't think that explains -- that doesn't make us more pessimistic about their process.
So my view of them is really unchanged.
I think they have a very excellent process.
It's very likely to work over medium and long periods of time and like other investment products it won't work in every period.
And next we'll move to Dan Fannon of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess in terms of flows the Triton debenture fund had been the most consistent asset gatherers on the equity side and just wanted to see are there other funds that either have performance that are maybe not on the radar or smaller or in style buckets that are in areas that are actually gathering assets currently that we should be focused on or that you think have the potential to start to gather assets for you? I think the -- I'm a little afraid I missed the heart of your question but I think the increase in sales we saw this quarter was pretty broad and it's not narrowed down to one bucket or another.
And come back at me with a further clarification if I'm missing your point.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I was just trying to see if there are other smaller funds that maybe are on the radar screen that we're watching that you've either seated recently or have good performance or are in the style buckets where dollars are actually going that you think have the potential or are in position to start to see some growth.
Well starting in the slightly higher level we have identified about 5 product buckets that we think our product strategy that we think are crucial to our clients both institutional and retail both domestic and international over the next 5-plus years.
And those buckets are insured or skewed results; income absolute return really in the form of sort of controlled risk with relatively lower equity risk factor and interest rate risk factor; real return and asset allocation.
And we're hard at work in each of those buckets.
And we think those are very exciting places that will prove very profitable going forward.
I mentioned earlier on the call that INTECH has come forward with 2 I think very important new offerings: a low-volatility strategy and an income-oriented strategy.
And they're at work on some other really good ideas.
So we're optimistic about that.
Within not so long ago our fixed income team launched some global fixed income strategies that are off to a very good start and we're very optimistic about that.
Perkins has one of the best global value products that is relatively new that we've developed over my tenure here that we're very optimistic about.
And Janus has obviously the protected growth which has been a real market innovation and I think will be increasingly successful over time.
And that's only really a partial list.
I could go on.
We'll continue to work hard at these buckets.
The other side of the coin is we have to make sure that we maintain focus.
We have to prune some.
And so we need to keep our focus on having a limited but very appropriate product set so that we can keep our resources focused on the best opportunities.
So we focus on pruning as well as new products.
And I think that's -- there's a lot to be excited about in that set.
The new product probably takes at least 3 years to really start delivering in a significant way.
So these are medium term kind of projects.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then I guess just to follow up on the previous question around INTECH.
I guess has there been any -- and it doesn't look like there was much change in terms of the gross sales or redemptions in the quarter.
But I guess as you think about conversations and the appetite generally speaking for quantitative strategies has that changed at all? I think broadly speaking the world has not yet turned back to equities.
I think equity is broadly speaking under-owned.
And that's true in institutional and retail.
So we haven't seen a broad change in the institutional appetite for equities in general; active equities more specifically; and quantitative active equities most specifically.
So I think INTECH is doing better and they'll continue to fight the good fight.
But it's -- environmentally we haven't seen either of the institutional or the retail folks turn back equities in a way that I think they will as better equity market performance draws them back in.
And next we have Jeff Hopson of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Any sense with the improvement in the performance any kind of soft indicators in terms of more potential meetings to get on platforms et cetera and anything you're seeing there? And then on the performance fees my calculations are that at least 1 or 2 of these underperforming funds are now back in kind of a neutral area.
Is that consistent with your thoughts as well? On the performance fees I don't think -- without knowing the specifics of your math it's hard for me to comment.
But I don't think so.
You should probably call us after the call and get with John Groneman and the Investor Relations team to make sure you have the right data that you're looking at.
Oh I'm sorry.
The first part of your question was performance helping sales.
I don't have specific data that I can share with you on performance effect on placements.
Obviously it's a positive.
But one quarter is not long enough.
And it will help but I can't really cite any specific data for you in terms of platform placements.
And next we have Bill Katz of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just coming back to the discussion on comp.
Just going back to my notes it looks like last quarter you mentioned comp might be 30% of revenues and now it's 33%.
Can you just sort of talk about the dynamics for the erosion sequentially? Yes.
Bill we've tried -- as we talked on the last call we're trying to provide some indication of where these kind of normalize out.
33% is this quarter.
The difference that you're seeing I think is going to result from the performance fees.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the second question is just on the discussion on capital management and thank you for the greater color.
What would it take to have more decisive net reduction and share count? What are you looking for to get a little more aggressive.
I know the lineage [indiscernible] of the company is not great.
But generally speaking with your cash flow improving and attrition decelerating at what point would you start to get a little more aggressive on buyback? I don't have a specific metric for you Bill on that.
I think our feeling is as we've described it we feel it's in everyone's best interest for us to maintain a pretty conservative posture here.
But we're doing the things that we think we can do to return great returns for our shareholders.
It has been a primary objective of us -- or for us to reduce the leverage on the balance sheet and then as we've been able to fund our strategic initiatives to then look at other things that we can do.
And as we mentioned we've increased the dividend this quarter.
We've also started to engage in a repurchase of the LTI shares that we put out in the normal course of our incentive compensation programs.
So at this point that is all we envision.
That is something that we'll take up with our board on regular intervals[indiscernible].
And next we have Matt Kelley of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So just following up on INTECH sorry to beat that horse here.
But on the annualized gross sales they're staying a little bit weak.
Obviously you need more equity re-engaging.
What -- can you guys give us a sense for how your margin in that business just directionally has been changing if at all? And what sort of money you're still spending on that business? Matt we really don't provide any guidance on the margins in the business.
So I can't help you much on that one.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you -- Dick it was helpful to hear the 5 buckets that you guys have prioritized for strategy.
So when you think about where you are in each of those buckets versus where you want to be I guess it'd be helpful to get some color.
But just curious how -- what areas of those you think you have an edge and where you're really more in kind of build-out mode.
Sure.
I guess I've given you 2 things.
I gave you what we call our business strategy which is around the diversification and then I gave you the 5 product buckets.
I assume you're referencing the 5 product buckets is that right? Research Division</strong> Yes that's right.
Okay.
The first product bucket was sort of insured or skewed results.
And the big effort we've made in there is our 2 protected growth: our U.S.
and our global protected growth funds which I think are unique in the marketplace and very strong.
We don't -- I think those are good lead horses.
We wouldn't close our eyes to other opportunities but I think we have a good representation in that space at the moment.
It's also worth noting that Perkins' entire business is built around the prospect of being conservative when the stock markets are going up fast and being protected a little better than others on the downside which is in effect an expression of the same sort of philosophy and that their business is built around that.
And INTECH is offering some exciting new low-vol offerings which can be seen in that sort of philosophy as well.
So I think we're well represented but the work is never done.
Two was income.
We have as I mentioned INTECH with a new income offering.
We have some other things in the works but there's more -- there's definitely more work for us to do there.
That's a area in development clearly.
Three was absolute return of a -- the problem with that label is it's too darn big and we actually mean a fairly different subset of that.
We're not looking to create "swing for the fences" hedge funds or that sort of thing.
But as we anticipate higher rates in the world we think people will be looking for solid returns with relatively lower equity risk factor and interest rate risk factor.
We have some efforts in market neutral and short that we're working on.
But that's clearly an area for future development.
Four is real return.
I'd say that's under development but with more room to go there too.
And lastly is asset allocation which probably falls in the same bucket.
So I think we've started and we have reasonable representation in each of these areas.
But there's certainly more room to go across the board.
I hope that's helpful for you.
And next we'll move to Robert Lee of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I have a[indiscernible] question for you on the retail distribution.
I mean you clearly talked about today and in the past about the initiatives to expand your global distribution and product set and institutionally that a lot of your -- if I step back a second a lot of your 5 product buckets now are necessarily I think geared towards developing products for the retail channel and one of the things that at least I found fairly opaque over the years is getting a sense of your retail distribution organization and resources.
And you talked a little bit maybe about how your resource kind of in the U.S.
retail-wise and how maybe you have or think you may need to reorient that whether it's more wire house more independence to really be -- or do you think you have kind of the right strategy and game plan today? I guess first I'll say I don't think these product buckets are only retail.
I think most of them have application both for retail and institutional.
The next thing I'd say is I think it's a great strength of the Janus franchise that we have really strong retail distribution.
I think you can see evidence of that in the fact that Perkins has enjoyed a market-leading position in small-cap and in mid-cap that our Triton fund on the Janus platform as in SMID seen a market-leading position that our fixed income flows now are doing quite well on the retail side.
I think there is ample evidence across the board that our retail distribution is very effective when we have a product sort of in the desired slice of the retail population with good performance.
I think we've proven we do distribute it very well.
So I think of that as a great strength to the firm.
We have approximately 100 folks in that distribution effort inside the United States about 1/2 -- a little less than 1/2 internal a little more than half external.
And where do we need to develop? We probably need to spend more time focusing on some of the independents and RIAs.
And we probably need to develop our capabilities to be a solution provider and asset allocation provider.
It's probably not coverage or focus of coverage.
It's probably content that we can build better and be a better partner for our many platforms and partners in this business.
So I think it's improving the quality of our thought leadership and partnership more than probably anything around what we cover.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one -- again one last question on INTECH sort of maybe beating a dead horse here.
But I'm just curious.
I know over the last several years the original founders have kind of substantially phased out I think.
Do you think that that's any of your sense in talking to clients that that's maybe at the margin had some impact on how investors think about INTECH? Or you think that's kind of -- do you think that plays into it at all? Actually I don't.
I don't think it plays into it at all.
I think those founders did a terrific job of building a firm and then they identified successors.
And they went through a multi-year transition to those excellent successors.
I think Jan and Adrian who are the CEO and CIO there took their jobs after a long tutelage under their predecessors.
And it was about as good a leadership transition as I can imagine.
In the investment process it remains entirely consistent with prior periods.
Adrian has been the driver of that investment process for along time now.
And so I haven't heard that and I don't believe it would be fair if people were thinking of it.
What we see is institutions are not putting out searches for active equities.
And as a subset of that they're not putting out searches for quantitative active equities.
And that's a very challenging environment for a quantitative mathematical active equity firm like INTECH focused on the U.S.
institutional market.
And I don't think that condition lasts forever but it hasn't turned yet.
And next we have Cynthia Mayer of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the comp question.
You mentioned the comp-to-revenues ratio guidance went to 33% from 30% because performance fees went down.
But conceptually wouldn't performance fees affect comp? And I'm just wondering if maybe you could clarify how the performance fees do affect the comp? Well okay.
Let's start at the top.
So performance fees are a direct offset to revenues.
So as they process through the income statement they of course will serve to lower bottom line results and compress margins at some level.
Our comp model as we've discussed in the past is built off bottom line results which is we realize a little difficult for you to get to precisely.
So we've tried to offer up some assistance here as a rate to revenue to help you in your modeling.
Yes so -- I guess Cynthia the only thing I guess I would say to that is it's not going to be a one-to-one relationship of -- on that comp line.
No.
Research Division</strong> Right but they would affect it though less you're saying because they affect the denominators so much more.
Yes.
Cynthia I think we've gone about as far in this comp discussion as we can.
So I mean -- I would strongly encourage you to give us a call.
We'll be happy to kind of go around on this again to create whatever clarity is necessary.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just drilling down on the question of seasonal impact.
Could you let us know what your 401(k) assets are at this point? And where those are concentrated? Would that be Janus growth primarily or Perkins as well? Cynthia we really don't disclose that level of detail on our assets.
I'm sorry.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can I ask one more instead then? Why not? Research Division</strong> On the drop in G&amp;A was that from anything in particular? And how sustainable is that? No.
I think if you looked at each of the line items in G&amp;A you'd see decreases across the board.
I ascribe that going back to my prior comments just to really good cost discipline on the part of the team here.
So no there's nothing -- there's no real story there.
And next we'll move to Marc Irizarry of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Dick can you talk a little about the product strategy? You mentioned the buckets for the new products.
Two questions I guess one the fees associated with those products when you think about the sort of the blended fee rates or the fee rates for those products should we expect that over time that there'd be a positive impact from fees from some out of those products? And then also are you going to think about performance fees -- are there going to be performance fees associated with them as well? In most of these buckets I think it's far too early to give you an intelligent answer to your question in the sense that the products and the vehicles that will fill these buckets haven't been fully developed.
It's worth noting that fees vary according to channel as much as according to strategy.
So where and how you package it and sell it matters to the fees as well as what the underlying investment strategy is.
And so for that reason I can't really give you a good answer to your question.
It's just too early.
I would also note that the scope of the existing business is large enough.
And these products are small enough that it will be a while before you would notice any fee difference kind of no matter what the answer was just because the relative size is a stock-and-flow question.
The stock is quite large compared to the flows for the short term.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on expenses the marketing dollars down pretty large sequentially.
When you think about what's going on in the retail channel and the intermediary channel in particular are you seeing more need to maybe ramp up the marketing over time? Are you seeing any pressure from the retail intermediaries to maybe spend a little bit more on your side to either get your own message out there or just to support the channel generally? I think the retail and intermediary channels are putting pressure on us to in -- across all the ways we relate to spend more to support and to pay more for their partnership when we feel that pressure yes.
At the same time I think we have discovered that our best judgment is that we can do less of some of these things than we've done before without hurting the business or the strategy.
So we've -- I think we have been successful about managing to a tighter ship without sacrificing a lot on terms of market effect.
And we've also -- candidly we're reorienting some of the efforts changing resources towards some of the content and the partnership some of the thought leadership our Janus Labs Program which is excellent.
So it's a shift in the mix as well that we're focusing on.
But overall I think we've been successful at just making the darn thing more efficient through good work by a lot of people here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one question on the performance fees for private accounts.
Could you just -- the number ticked down sequentially on the [indiscernible].
If you can just enlighten us a little bit on how big the private accounts are and how we should think about maybe that number going forward.
We don't -- Marc we don't speak to that specifically.
I would just remind everybody that in the fourth quarter of last year we did have this $3.4 million of separate account performance fees that pay annually and it tends to hit -- it does hit in the fourth quarter so that will naturally not repeat in the first quarter.
And our final question for today will come from Roger Freeman of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just on the lower turnover than you were expecting what do you attribute that to? Have you been expecting a higher turnover just because of the new comp plan last year? No.
It's not that fun and exciting.
It's -- we do a historic analysis of the amount of LTI.
Our accounting experts have identified a methodology with our auditors that they believe is the right methodology.
They look backwards.
They're based on that historic record have an anticipated level of forfeitures.
As we move through time as the future doesn't match the past you can have adjustments up or down.
In this case turnover went down which is a good thing.
But the effect of that is as it rolled through the numbers to cause our accounting experts to adjust their expectations for the future.
And that's why you see the charge.
It's not related to in any way that I understand to the new comp plan or management decisions or -- I can't give you a more fun explanation for it I'm sorry.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fine.
Okay.
And then the second question would just be around operating leverage or variable contribution margins vis--vis broader market performance.
Did you -- is there a range besides some of the stuff we've talked about around -- like marketing and advertising expense? But just related to your big initiatives institutional and international fixed income where you would ramp up or down pending essentially overall stock market performance and what the amount of management fees that it can drive i.e.
do we see operating leverage higher market levels? Or do you crawl that back? No.
I think we have substantial operating leverage.
In pursuing these initiatives we have already made a modest investment in for instance 10 or so new sales people outside the United States and those sorts of things.
We've offset a good part of that by reductions we've made elsewhere on the team.
But net-net we don't see big capital investment or increased expenditures on the table to pursue the agenda as we've laid it out.
Candidly we feel under a huge amount of pressure to be very very efficient given the performance fee pressure that's been created on us.
And we're working very hard to get these things done at a bare minimum of expense.
And we don't expect any big balloons or bubbles or sort of pigs and the snake at this point.
And we would call your attention to it if we did but there's nothing on the horizon that we see of that nature.
And that does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to our speakers for any closing remarks.
Have a great day.
Thanks everybody for your time and attention.
We look forward to speaking with you again next quarter.
And that does conclude today's conference call.
We'd like to thank you for attending.
Good morning.
My name is Andrea and I will be your conference facilitator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to the Janus Capital Group's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
Before the company begins I would like to reference their standard legal disclaimer which also accompanies the full slide presentation located in the Investor Relations area of janus.com.
Statements made in the presentation today may contain forward-looking information about management's plans projections expectations strategic objectives business prospects anticipated financial results anticipated results of litigation and regulatory proceedings and other similar matters.
A variety of factors many of which are beyond the company's control affect the operations performance business strategy and results of Janus and could cause actual results and experiences to differ materially from the expectations and objectives expressed in their statements.
These factors include but are not limited to the factors described in Janus' reports filed with the SEC which are available on their website www.janus.com and on the SEC's website www.sec.gov.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
Janus does not undertake to update such statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date these statements were made.
Investors should however consult any further disclosures Janus may make in its reports filed with the SEC.
Thank you.
Now it is my pleasure to introduce Dick Weil Chief Executive Officer of Janus Capital Group.
Mr.
Weil you may begin your conference.
Thank you operator.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Presentation for Janus Capital Group.
In the second quarter of 2012 we delivered an earnings per share of $0.13 compared to $0.12 in the quarter.
Assets under management were $152.4 billion down 7.1% versus March.
Total company long-term net flows were $3.9 billion out in the second quarter compared to $2.5 billion out in the first.
And we maintained an operating margin of 25.3% compared to the 25.9% of the first quarter.
Let me just take a moment to tell you what I think the story of the quarter is and then I'll turn it over to Bruce Koepfgen for some more information from him.
And then of course as we always do we'll take your questions.
For the story on the quarter.
Our highest priority here remains investment performance for our clients.
We've seen some significant improvement particularly in our U.S.
growth franchise at Janus.
But clearly we have a lot more work to do and that remains priority 1.
We are disappointed with the flows in the second quarter but we understand them to be in the context of a very challenging external environment for equities in general for actively managed equities in particular.
With correlations returning to pretty high levels in the second quarter driven by macro risk-on risk-off trading.
This is a tough environment for active management and it has been for a couple of years in this dimension.
With extreme market volatility and a longer-term not such great results in equity markets more broadly a lot of investors are scared and they're either doing nothing or pulling back from equities.
As a result active equity flows in the first half of 2012 have suffered about a $37 billion withdrawal so we continue to face a challenging environment.
In the face of that we're moving forward with our diversification strategy with our planned organic diversification strategy which over time will leave us much less exposed to the ebbs and flows in any single asset class.
Toward that end we continue to balance -- maintaining business discipline and margins with investment in our team and in our strategic priorities.
We've added significant new talent in fixed income in international in U.S.
institutional and in innovative new product areas.
But at the same time the strategy of organic diversification takes more time than we would like.
We're on the right path and we are making progress but these efforts are too new and at this point too small to drive dramatic changes in the flows and the results.
Our balanced business discipline maintained through this process has allowed us to control and reduce operating expenses $8 million compared to the last quarter.
We've maintained a 25%-plus operating margin and we've delivered in this quarter $71 million of cash flow from operations.
Today what we're seeing from our clients from advisors from institutions both in the U.S.
and non-U.S.
is they are risk-averse.
There's strong demand for fixed income and there is -- that creates a very positive trend for our fixed income business.
However we're also challenged by the fact that many clients particularly institutional clients are shifting away from actively managed U.S.
equities.
This creates particular challenges for our INTECH subsidiary.
Many retail and institutional clients are also frozen.
They're making no new investment decisions about hiring new managers in the face of fear and uncertainty.
Over time we are very confident their needs will drive them back into equities where we hope to be well-positioned to help them through our traditional offerings as well as through our very strong range of more defensive equity offerings.
For instance Perkins their entire approach is defensive value.
Janus has a very strong protected series offering INTECH as excellent low volatility offerings that should prove very useful to clients as they reenter equity and risk assets more generally.
But we're not at that point.
Clearly that hasn't happened yet in the broader flow patterns that we're seeing.
So we're on the right path.
We have to be tough in the face of this challenging external environment.
So we have to continue to work on improving our investment performance as our top priority.
Our improvement in the numbers always takes longer than we want but we remain confident we're on the right strategic path.
With that I'll turn it over to Bruce Koepfgen.
Good morning everyone.
Second quarter results are defined by 4 principal items: A decline in net revenue attributable to weak markets; an increase in negative performance fees and net outflows; a corresponding reduction in operating expenses; relatively stable margins and continued improvement in the balance sheet.
Starting on Slide 4.
As Dick mentioned earnings per share for the second quarter were $0.13 compared to $0.12 in the first quarter and $0.23 a year ago.
Second quarter average AUM of $155 billion declined 2% driven by market weakness and net outflows.
Revenue of $206 million declined moderately due to the decline in average assets and an increase in negative mutual fund performance fees.
Operating expenses were $153.9 million $8 million lower than the prior quarter due to lower compensation expenses.
Operating income were $52.1 million declined $4.4 million as lower revenue was not fully offset by lower operating expenses.
Finally our operating margin was 25.3% versus 25.9% in the first quarter.
Slide 5 speaks to investment performance.
On a complex-wide basis 1-year performance metrics improved slightly with 48% of mutual fund assets outperforming the majority of Lipper peers compared to 46% of assets in the first quarter.
However it's important to note that this metric has improved substantially from a year ago when only 16% of complex-wide assets were outperforming a majority of their peers.
At the same time several of our larger funds continue to underperform on a 1- and 3-year basis.
As Dick mentioned improving this performance is our #1 priority.
Fixed income performance continues to be very strong with 100% of assets outperforming their Lipper categories on a 1- 3- and 5-year basis.
INTECH is putting up solid long-term performance with 79% and 75% of strategies beating their respective benchmarks over the 3- and 5-year time periods.
Based on feedback that we've received from some of you during the quarter we've added a slide to the Appendix that provides to the historical performance for INTECH using 3-year track record across all strategies.
This slide illustrates the fact that over the last 25 years INTECH's strategies have been able to successfully outperform their respective benchmarks 71% of the time net of fees.
In addition INTECH recently celebrated its 25th anniversary and I want to recognize the excellent risk-adjusted returns they have delivered for clients over that time.
Their older strategy the U.S.
Enhanced Plus strategy which was launched in July of 1987 has provided an annualized excess return of 1.07% above its benchmark net of [indiscernible].
On a complex-wide basis 40% of our funds had a 4- or 5-star rating at June 30 compared to 32.5% for the industry.
Slide 6 looks at flows.
Total company long-term net outflows of $3.9 billion declined $1.4 billion compared to the prior quarter driven by higher net outflows and fundamental and mathematical equity strategies.
Fundamental equity posted second quarter net outflows of $2.5 billion versus $1.9 billion on the first quarter.
The decline was driven primarily by a seasonal slowdown in gross sales which declined 19% compared to the first quarter.
In addition fundamental equity flows continue to be challenged by the uncertainty in the markets which is driving investors to fixed income and passive strategies.
Our mathematical equity strategies had net outflows of $2.5 billion compared to $1.8 billion in the first quarter driven by an increase in redemptions.
As we have said previously the institutional business can be quite lumpy and in the second quarter we had a sizable mandate loss from a non-U.S.
client who was reallocating assets away from U.S.
equity which accounted for the full increase in redemptions.
INTECH along with many of its large-cap and mathematical quantitative peers continues to experience an environment with limited demand as the outlook remains tempered by secular trends away from active U.S.
equity.
In our fixed income business net sales remained positive for the 14th consecutive quarter at $1.1 billion.
We remain optimistic about the prospects for this business.
The portfolios are performing extremely well and we continue to be well-received by our clients.
Turning to revenue and performance fees.
Our total revenue declined by 6% in the quarter due to lower average assets and an increase in negative performance fees.
Performance fees in our mutual funds were negative $23 million for the quarter.
The change was the result of several funds rolling off periods of relatively strong performance from 2009.
At the current level performance fees are near their mathematical limit and cannot decline materially over the coming quarters.
However due to the 3-year nature of the calculation renewed positive performance will take time to offset accumulated underperformance.
Slide 8 details operating expenses.
Second quarter operating expenses decreased $8 million mostly the result of lower compensation expense.
Employee compensation and benefits declined $5.4 million primarily due to lower variable compensation.
The compensation to revenue ratio was approximately 32% this quarter which is within the range we discussed last quarter.
All things being equal this continues to be a reasonable range to apply going forward.
Long-term incentive compensation decreased $4.4 million for 2 reasons.
First you will recall during the first quarter we made an adjustment to the LTI forfeiture estimates resulting in $2.1 million of higher expense which we did not expect to repeat in the second quarter.
Second we mark-to-market our mutual funds share awards and Perkins SPIs which accounted for the remainder of the quarter change.
Our combined marketing advertising and G&amp;A lines were $2.8 million higher compared to the prior quarter.
This increase was in line with our expectations and comments made on the first quarter call.
As a management team we remain vigilant on our discretionary expenditures but we continue to be careful not to deprive the business of the resources necessary to achieve our strategic objectives.
A look at Slide 9 highlights some of the continued improvement in the balance sheet.
We continue to generate healthy cash flow with $71 million of cash flow from operations driving a 21% increase in cash and equivalents.
As we have often mentioned in the past we remain committed to maintaining a strong balance sheet.
We believe a strong balance sheet is a precondition to our long-term success.
It protects our interest the interest of our clients our employees and our firm.
So in summary delivering strong investment returns for our clients is our highest priority.
While our investment performance in 2012 has improved there's still work to be done.
Given the current environment management remains committed to balancing financial discipline with investments for our strategic development.
As we expected in the first half of 2012 we experienced significant impact from negative performance fees.
However we continue to keep a close eye on discretionary expenses and the variable nature of our business model is designed to respond to market conditions.
Through the first half of 2012 we have reduced discretionary expenses by 13% compared to the same period a year ago and the cash flow generation of our business continues to be quite strong.
Lastly we are focused on strengthening the core of our company while intelligently diversifying the business.
The full benefit of our strategic investments will take time to develop but we are seeing signs of success today particularly on our fixed income business which continues to generate strong flows.
That's all I have and we'll turn it back to the operator for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Daniel Fannon with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess to start in thinking about the comp accruals in this year are you assuming any improvement in performance or adjustment to kind of the negative performance? I think you said in your comments that they're likely not going to move given the kind of 3-year kind of roll off but just curious as about how you're thinking about the year and kind of on the accrual basis.
I think the accrual number that we cited is a reasonable guidepost.
But just recall that our compensation plan is a profits-based plan and it will move with the profits of the business.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess on -- one more on performance fees.
And just thinking about the year and the offset we might see in the fourth quarter potentially from INTECH I guess if you think about where they sit today from a relative performance perspective maybe versus where we were a year ago is it reasonable to assume some positive contribution as we go into kind of the fourth quarter? Yes it is.
Our next question will come from Michael Carrier with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just one question maybe just a clarification.
When you mentioned the one redemption I think you mentioned non-U.S.
client but I didn't catch like what bucket that was whether it was on the quant side or the fundamental equity.
That was an INTECH flow.
Research Division</strong> It was INTECH? Okay.
And then maybe the follow-up just on expenses and maybe taxes.
So you mentioned your discretionary down quite a bit.
When you look at the outlook on the investment spend and what the plan is in terms of diversifying your distribution products like how much have you had to pull back or haven't you? And then just going forward when you look at the discretionary items is there more wiggle room if the challenges continue? And then just on the tax rate just any clarification.
It looks like it came in lower than expected so just what drove it and then just the outlook on that front.
Right.
Well let me start with the tax rate.
That was really an adjustment that was due to the expiration of statute of limitations really on some previous reserves so that was just a $2.4 million reversal that took place this quarter which have the effect of lowering the tax rate.
But our expectation is that this 37.4 going forward is the right number 37.25 is right going forward.
Do you want to speak...
On your first 2 questions which I understand to be how much have we had to pull back relative to what you would like to do in terms of diversifying the firm under financial pressure and then you may have to help me with the other part of that.
We are -- we strongly believe that the way forward -- the right way forward for this company is as we've described in our strategic plan.
That does require investment particularly in terms of some new talent.
As I mentioned in my comments we have added -- gosh over my tenure here over my couple of years plus we've added probably a dozen new people to the fixed income business including some more recently.
We continue to -- we have added and continue to add strength to our non-U.S.
business.
We've added some people who are very talented to our U.S.
institutional business so we are making the investments that we believe are appropriate and necessary to push forward our strategic plan and we're not sacrificing those investments.
We're doing what we think we should.
That said we believe in a wire brush theory.
I mean all these things need to be brushed pretty hard to make sure that they're as efficient and lean and as effective as they can be.
And through that process we've managed to achieve margin and $71 million of cash flow from operations we mentioned earlier.
So there is a balance.
But in that balance we don't sacrifice what we believe to be strategically necessary.
I hope that responds to your question.
Research Division</strong> Yes that is helpful.
Next we'll go to Michael Kim with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> First just curious where you see the biggest flow opportunities maybe in the near-term.
Clearly the fixed income business continues to gain traction and you're working on broadening out your distribution footprint.
But still seems like fixed income is relatively small piece of your overall AUM and it seems like maybe it's early days here for your distribution efforts.
So just curious where you think there are some pockets of growth that you see developing maybe as you look across your fundamental and quantitative equity strategies.
Sure.
Thank you for your good question.
You're right.
Obviously the first thing to mention is the excellent fixed income business we have which crossed $25 billion in assets under management and we expect it to continue to grow very well going forward.
The other opportunities for us we need to improve some of these negative numbers that have shown up at INTECH and in our core equity franchise and that's the combination of continuing to improve investment performance and it's also obviously against the backdrop of what happens in global investor appetite for equities.
And so it's hard to predict.
And as we said particularly the institutional part of that business is lumpy and therefore it's hard to extrapolate from any given quarter's numbers through to the next one.
And that is our main focus make sure that we're building the right relationships with the clients that we're improving the investment performance and then we're going to have to endure the challenging external environment until it gets a little better.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just to follow up on margins.
As the mix of your assets maybe continues to kind of drift away from retail equities in favor of fixed income and you talked about continuing to spend to build out the non-U.S.
distribution the institutional business how does that sort of play out in terms of the trajectory for margins? Would you maybe expect margins to be under some pressure as the franchise evolves if you will and then sort of rebuild as those newer businesses start to scale over time? I think that that's exactly how we think about it.
Next we'll go to Bill Katz with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned that you'd taken some measures to improve performance so I was just kind of curious if you could flesh that out.
Yes we've talked about this some in prior calls.
We've taken a look at the process of particularly the Janus investment team here in Denver.
And Jonathan Coleman and the equity investment team here has -- they've concluded that a certain amount of process change was appropriate and they've undertaken that.
They've shifted some responsibilities around amongst analyst and around a little bit less amongst portfolio managers.
But these sorts of changes we think are productive and lead to really increased alignment and focus across the team and an increased clarity of mission for the participants in the team.
We think those things are having a very positive effect already but it takes time for the full effect of that to be seen.
But we're confident that some of those changes have been contributors to the improved performance in the U.S.
domestic growth part of our business.
I can't say the same sorts of things at Perkins and INTECH.
INTECH's process continues to deliver pretty darn good results over a long long period of time as Bruce mentions.
And in particular they have excellent risk control.
So when they're on the downside of the distribution it's modest and they tend to come back quickly.
So they offer a really nice long-term alpha with good risk control and liquidity which we believe over time will be recognized for its high-value to clients.
And then Perkins has been doing their defensive value investing their way for 30 years now and they're good at it.
But they're going through a period of painful underperformance particularly in the mid-cap product.
And that doesn't involve any investment changes.
They're sticking to their knitting.
And we're very confident that over time that will produce the right outcomes for clients but we're going through a challenging period right now.
But our response to that is not Perkins hasn't been making any changes to their investment process at all.
Research Division</strong> So a follow-up question is sort of going back to your comments -- not the first time you've said it but just want to get an update.
In terms of the secular decline in asset equities where are the volumes going? Well I mentioned that in the first half of the year active equity saw -- got to go back and get the number right -- $37 billion in net outflows in the first half of the year.
I think the passive side had more than offsetting inflows of $57 billion during the same period.
So clearly a lot of the equity money is going to passes.
As we've mentioned since 2008 you go through this period of pretty high correlations and macro driven risk on/risk off trading.
That's not a particularly favorable environment not only for Janus but for all active equity managers.
That gives passive I think a competitive advantage relative to active but I don't think will be sustained through longer periods of time when we expect a little bit of a rebalancing of the boat in favor of actives over time.
But clearly passive's going to be a tough competitor that's here to stay and that's going to be an ongoing part of the industry that we have to deal with.
We take comfort from the fact that we know that people generally in the United States and more broadly around the world are structurally underinvested in equities.
With fixed income yields so low it's simply impossible for people to meet their investment goals and needs investing in low returning fixed income opportunities over the long haul.
You can choose your expert and choose your number.
But if retirement plan obligations grow at something like 7%-ish you just can't get there reliably over the long period of time by investing in fixed income only.
Clearly fixed income's going to have a very important part of the story but people are structurally underinvested in equities.
They will come back and it's our job to be ready to be a good partner for them when they do.
Next we'll go to Ken Worthington with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> You dip your toe back into stock buybacks.
How comfortable are you to ramp this up to a more significant level given the low price of your stock and the good cash flow should market conditions really remain as they are today? I'm hesitating in my answer to you Ken because I'm thinking about what is the proper description of market conditions remaining as they are today.
I don't quite know how to characterize that.
But let me take a shot at answering your question.
As we said we generated $71 million of cash flow from operations in the quarter.
We are clearly fans of a strong balance sheet but of course there are natural limits to how far you take that.
We have gone through in some detail with you our analysis on prior calls of how we think about using that cash.
And clearly once you get through your strategic needs you look very hard at the smart ways to return that capital to shareholders the environment causes us to be more conservative which means we would -- we believe we need a higher stronger balance sheet than you might otherwise need in a less volatile circumstance.
So the effect of the external environment is to make us more conservative and the effect of that is to cause us to want to have a stronger balance sheet than we might otherwise need.
That said over time we'll clearly think hard with our board about appropriate ways to return that capital to shareholders.
We take that very seriously.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I'm going to try to be very balanced here.
In terms of performance Perkins' mid-cap value and overseas are having a rough go of it.
Maybe talk about what's weighing them down.
And then on the other side Balanced and then 2040 are doing fabulous maybe what's helping them out there.
Yes our posture on this call is not to talk too much about individual products.
Part of that is we think you can get trapped in a huge amount of very detailed conversation which may not be appropriate for a setting like this.
And part of it is also candidly influenced by regulatory stuff where if you start talking about individual products...
Research Division</strong> Can I redefine my question then to make it maybe easier? Sure.
Research Division</strong> Where things are going well because there's a number of products are going well besides the ones I mentioned.
What's helping you out? And then where things are challenging because there's a bunch that are challenged maybe what's hurting there so to make it more vague? Sure.
Well obviously we don't want to disrespect the excellent work done by some folks like Ron Sachs and others in the Janus Denver platform.
Some of this is just they are very good portfolio managers who went through a tough period and are coming back and delivering better results as we expected.
Some of it as I described is I think there have been process changes that have enhanced alignment and focused better and made the team more effective and I think that has been rewarding.
And some of it candidly was we had a very positive and favorable environment in the first quarter for active equity investing and we made the most of that.
So I think that explains some of the good news.
On some of the things that are continuing to have trouble the stories are really idiosyncratic.
I mean if you're a Perkins value process that doesn't typically invest a lot in utilities and utilities ends up being the best investment sector you're going to miss something.
That doesn't mean your process is broken.
It's been proven to be effective over a long period of time.
But at that point in the cycle you're clearly going to experience some pain.
So the stories really get idiosyncratic.
On the international Janus franchise the overseas part of it we haven't done as well recently as we'd like and expect.
We have a terrific investor maybe our most talented investor in the whole firm in managing that product but we've been going through a tough period.
So we got to be honest about that and focus with him on supporting him and getting him through that.
I think there is no systematic broader lesson around that that we've drawn at this time.
We haven't made any changes in that part of the process.
But we continue to evaluate it on a daily basis and nobody is satisfied with these returns.
We'll go next to Marc Irizarry with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just withstanding your comments I guess you made about adding some talent you've add a lot of talent on the comp side.
How should we think about the comp ratio going forward? I think you got it maybe to 30 33.
Previously what sort of the range -- what would be the guidance for the year for the comp ratio? Marc I think we're comfortable with where it is right now.
I mean it's in the range that we think it's probably normal so I think you can comfortably use that for the balance of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just performance fee outlook sounds like your comments suggest that maybe this is sort of the level that you'd sort of expect when you're thinking about the comp ratio going forward but maybe there's not a lot more downside to performance fees here but that -- it might take a little longer to roll off some of the performance fee reversals? I actually think that's a pretty good summary.
I mean the math of the calculation as I said at about its maximum downside.
But the nature of the calculation being a 3-year look back it forces a good bit of time to pass before we can make meaningful ones.
And next we'll hear from Cynthia Mayer with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just maybe looking at Page 6 I noticed that the sales rate's higher for fixed income than for most products which make sense I guess given its growing area smaller base.
But the redemption rate is also higher and it's been ticking up.
Is that a function of just smaller base or a function of short-term bonds being less sticky or something else? Are you at all concerned that the money coming in is less sticky in this? I don't think we've drawn a conclusion that there's been a fundamental change in the stickiness of the money.
I think if you look more broadly at the industry in the quarter fixed income saw an uptick in redemptions more broadly and we clearly -- we participate in that.
I do think you're right that a substantial part of our franchise is our excellent short duration product and the short-term fund is naturally going to have less stickiness than some other kinds of product so that does affect the overall redemption rates.
But we haven't noticed a real change in behaviors other than I think we participated in a broader industry trend at that line.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the seed investments I'm wondering since you're being conservative on the buybacks is that something you'd be interested in adding to? And can you just maybe remind us of what the asset composition is there? Yes Bruce the exact number of the seed investments? About $220 million $218 million something like that works [indiscernible].
Apologies we clearly don't have that precise number right in front of us.
But we have made I think very substantial seed investments.
I don't think we're going to seriously increase that number from here but we always look at reallocating that number to more efficient uses.
And so we'll be shifting over time seed capital out of things that have been seeded into newer things and that sort of redistribution.
But I wouldn't expect the aggregate number of seed capital to go up a lot from here.
The $247 million is just financials so this is the market value of a full seed position.
And next we'll go to Roger Freeman with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I guess within fixed income do you think at the level of $25 billion or so in AUM you're at that you're getting sort of full operating leverage or where ultimately does that need to be? In other words are the margin in that business comparable or still below the rest of the business? I think that we -- it's a hard question to answer for the following reason.
As you experience success and grow you tend to reinvest in the franchise and you tend potentially to expand the franchise.
And so the cost base assumptions that you use for determining forward-looking margin curve if you will the development of the future margin are affected by those assumptions and those things aren't known perfectly.
Clearly a $25 billion we're entering a zone where we'll have increasing operating leverage out of future growth in that business.
But where it sort of reaches full mature margin again is -- involves some guesstimation around how much more investment you might make to get there.
I think it is clear that it is increasingly profitable in growth from here for us.
And I think over a fully mature business can deliver margins that are in line with our total company margins clearly.
And so we don't see that mix as negative over time.
We see that as a terrific business that we're very proud of.
But at its smaller size clearly the margin has not been at that level.
So we're coming up the curve and exactly how fast we do depends on future investment decisions.
It's hard to be precise.
Research Division</strong> That makes a lot of sense why you're in growth.
And I guess to that point you had mentioned continued adds around your new initiatives.
We also bring international and institutional into the fray there -- that you've had some recent hires.
I mean across those 3 initiatives how many new professionals came on during the past quarter? One or 2 in U.S.
institutional a couple in -- a few offshore 3 or 4 offshore and 1 or 2 in fixed income and those are not exactly precisely but they're right...
Research Division</strong> No that's fine.
I just need -- yes just the order of magnitude.
We have -- I think in the -- let me give you first half numbers if I can break it out of the quarter.
In the non-U.S.
side for the first half we hired 10 sales professionals.
And in the U.S.
institutional we hired a client strategist and a head of U.S.
Consultant Relations.
In our alternative sort of new innovative product area we hired Andrew Weisman.
He's putting together a team as we speak.
And we've hired a few folks in fixed income.
Next we'll hear from Craig Siegenthaler with Crdit Suisse.
I'm sorry on the last question.
My team is waving me.
Those were gross adds.
In terms of net it was -- we -- that didn't represent a net increase.
That was a redistribution of resources so those were gross additions to those important strategic areas but it doesn't represent a net headcount increase.
I'm sorry I stepped on the next questioner.
Research Division</strong> Craig Siegenthaler Crdit Suisse.
Most of my questions were answered but I had a kind of a topical question.
I want to follow up to one of your earlier responses regarding kind of equities how it's structurally underinvested retirees won't have enough for retirement higher returns et cetera.
I'm wondering when do you think this equity -- the equity flows will recover? And also why would it potentially recover before you have a higher move in interest rates which could trigger negative returns in bonds at the same time maybe a positive returns in equity? So when will this occur and why would it actually occur before the event of higher rates? Yes the simple answer is I can speculate with the best of them on the answer to that but we don't know.
The slightly more complicated answer is modestly higher rates may be good for equities and dramatically higher rates may be bad for equities in which direction the rates go and how fast.
I think there is cost for concern that rates are going to stay down here for a pretty extended period of time.
So in the short-term my personal and our business planning expectation is really that rates stay pretty low for a short to medium period of time and investors have to grapple with how do I meet my needs in the face of pretty darn low fixed income returns and I've got to choose some risk assets in order to deliver whatever my 7%-ish kind of target might be.
I think that's the main driver.
But I can't -- I wouldn't be sitting in this seat if I knew for sure exactly when people were going to be buying a lot more equities.
Seemed to be happening first thing this morning though.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Maybe just a follow-up on -- over at INTECH.
If I dissect kind of sales versus redemptions can you talk about how RFP activities been turning specifically in INTECH versus kind of your outlook for redemptions here? I'm just looking also Slide 6 which is a good reference piece here.
Yes we don't make public INTECH's RFP flows so I can't give you that.
I can't -- what I can say is clearly that the institutional investing population has not turned back towards U.S.
equities and actively manage U.S.
equities in a significant way.
Some of that is they've gotten more liability focused and naturally have lengthen their fixed incomes.
And some of that is they've just been burned and haven't loved U.S.
equities a lot.
I think there's a great investment opportunity which results from that in sort of a contrarian way but it hasn't happened yet.
And predicting when these folks are going to go back into the water is just something I can't do for you.
We have time for one last question.
That question will come from Robert Lee with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm curious is it possible to kind of size the percentage of assets and maybe specifically focusing a bit on the overseas fund or mid-cap value? The percentage of assets that are in kind of more sub-advised business whether it's 401(k) platforms and whatnot? I mean kind of with the thinking that given some of the challenging 3-year numbers that maybe those assets are more susceptible to starting to lose some space in some platforms.
Yes I think it's a good question.
We don't have that data for you today so I'm afraid I can't give you that sort of granularity about the mix of business in those 2 funds so I apologize.
I can understand why you're asking but I just don't have that data for you.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe just another question.
If I look across your product line I mean you do have some products I think conservative allocation fund where I think performance has been relatively good.
A couple of products and places where you have seen better flows through the industry and at least within those maybe doesn't seem like you've been participating as much.
I mean what do you ascribe that to? Is it kind of just not people don't associate the Janus brand with some of those products or is there anything you could do to kind of pump up sales of that? Is really all the focus right now on kind of the fixed income that's where the momentum is? Some of your language was a little hard for me to understand but if you narrow your question to focusing around asset allocation products we do have some good ones.
I will say that most of the ones that have sold well in the marketplace are driven by shops that have strong macroeconomic forecasting bias so for instance my old shop.
And that sort of brand reputation I think helped -- helps drive some of those asset allocation products.
But we have here an excellent more traditional balance fund which accomplishes a lot of the same mission.
It's been gathering assets and it's a really just a very good cooperation between our Janus equity side and our Janus fixed income side.
And we do believe that we have enhanced opportunities going forward in asset allocation space.
We think that's something also that probably Andrew Weisman can help us with.
We're hard at work in those areas but we're not close to unveiling a change that will make a difference that I will highlight on a call like this.
Thank you everybody for your time and attention today.
We appreciate it and we'll talk to you next quarter.
And once again ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for attending.
Good morning.
My name is Chris and I will be your conference facilitator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to the Janus Capital Group Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Before the company begins I would like to reference the standard legal disclaimer which also accompanies the full slide presentation located in the Investor Relations area of janus.com.
Statements made in the presentation today may contain forward-looking information about management's plans projections expectations strategic objectives business prospects anticipated financial results anticipated results of litigation and regulatory proceedings and other similar matters.
A variety of factors many of which are beyond the company's control affect the operations performance business strategy and results of Janus and could cause actual results and experience to differ materially from the expectations and objectives expressed in the statements.
These factors include but are not limited to the factors described in Janus' reports filed with the SEC which are available on their website www.janus.com and on SEC's website www.sec.gov.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
Janus does not undertake to update such statements to reflect the impact of the circumstances or the events that arise after the dates of these statements were made.
Investors should however consult any further disclosures Janus may make in its reports filed with the SEC.
Today's conference is being recorded.
Thank you.
Now it's my pleasure to introduce Dick Weil Chief Executive Officer of Janus Capital Group.
Mr.
Weil you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to third quarter 2012 call.
Welcome from the first snowstorm here in Denver.
I hope you all are doing well.
We're certainly enjoying the prospect of winter around here.
The third quarter results starting with the basic facts we had an EPS of $0.14 compared to $0.13 in the second quarter of 2012.
This included a charge of $0.01 per share due to impairment of intangible assets related to the redemption of a sub-advised account.
Assets under management at September 30 were $158.2 billion which was up 3.8% versus June.
Total company flows were $2 billion out in the third quarter compared to almost $4 billion out in the second quarter.
And operating margin was almost 23% compared to 25.3% in the second quarter.
With me today is Bruce Koepfgen he'll take you through some of the more detailed information but before he does let me just give you my sense of what the story of this quarter was.
And the first and most important element for us in the story of the quarter is investment performance is improving particularly at our Janus domestic equity mutual funds.
We have a long way to go to get back to where we need to be for our clients still but we've seen substantial improvement this year.
The second thing is obviously our net flows improved.
As we said net flows were $2 billion out in the third quarter compared to almost $4 billion out in the second quarter.
That was significantly influenced by a $1.7 billion win by our INTECH mathematical subsidiary from a big non-U.S.
client and that was obviously terrific news for us.
But it's the sort of lumpy institutional flow that's hard to predict.
The third element of the story is the Dai-ichi Life joint -- strategic alliance.
On August 10 which seems like a long time ago at this point we entered into a strategic alliance with Dai-ichi Life Company Limited who is the third largest life insurer in Japan.
Dai-ichi Life announced at that time they plan to acquire between 15% and 20% of our stock through open market purchases and then we granted them an option at an exercise price of $10.25 for 7% roughly of the outstanding as an insurance policy in case the price of their acquisitions rose significantly.
They needed to have some assurance that they could complete their acquiring of our shares at a somewhat predictable price.
The alliance represents a really terrific step forward for us.
First it brings to us a very strong long-term strategic partner as a shareholder which is terrific news I think for our company and for all our shareholders.
Second they are giving us $2 billion of their assets to manage in our strategies including a significant allocation to seed capital to be used to enhance and develop our newer strategies.
Third as you know it's been a major part of our strategy to develop internationally and clearly Dai-ichi Life in Tokyo through their DIAM's affiliate 50% owned affiliate can be a major help for us both in terms of reputation and in terms of building relationships and in terms of distribution in Tokyo.
We're looking forward to that very much.
And as I say that's entirely consistent with our strategic plans and hopefully they can also help more broadly around Asia Pacific.
In exchange for this they will when they're done with their open market purchases have a designee who will be appointed to our Board of Directors as one of the 11 directors of our company.
And they'll have some -- a small number of folks who succumbed themselves in employment and worked with us here in Denver.
And we're really pleased to have this relationship.
It's a very exciting development for us.
It strengthens our company and it advances our strategy.
And so this was what took about 2 years of getting to know each other to put together and we're just thrilled with the result.
With all that said I will turn the call over to Bruce Koepfgen to please take you through some more of the information.
Good morning everyone.
So the most important considerations for the third quarter would include the strategic alliance with Dai-ichi Life that Dick just mentioned an improvement in net flows operating margins that include a noncash impairment charge and continued improvement in the balance sheet.
If you're following along on the deck I'll start on Page 5.
Earnings per share for the third quarter was $0.14 compared to $0.13 in the second quarter.
Third quarter earnings per share included a $2.5 million noncash charge equivalent to $0.01 a share due to the impairment of intangible assets related to the redemption of one sub-advised account.
Third quarter average AUM of $155.5 billion increased slightly driven by market strength and partially offset by net outflows.
Revenue of $209 million increased moderately due to the increase in average AUM and private account performance fees.
Operating expenses were $161 million $7.2 million higher than the prior quarter.
This was due to higher compensation expenses as well as the $2.5 million impairment charge I just mentioned.
Operating income of $47.9 million declined $4.2 million again reflecting the higher operating expenses.
Finally operating margin for the third quarter was 23% versus roughly 25% in the second quarter.
As of September 30 41% of complex-wide assets were outperforming a majority of the Lipper peers on a 1-year basis.
While this is still less than we expect of ourselves this represents a substantial improvement compared to a year ago.
INTECH is also putting up excellent long-term performance with 82% 93% and 75% of strategies meeting their respective benchmarks over a 1- 3- and 5-year time periods.
This reflects a notable improvement from the second quarter.
Total company long-term net outflows of $2 billion improved from $3.9 billion in outflows in the second quarter.
Taken in their parts fundamental equity posted third quarter net outflows of $3.3 billion versus $2.5 billion in the second quarter.
The decline was driven primarily by an uptick in redemptions.
In addition fundamental equity flows continue to be challenged by a market uncertainty and a drift away from active equity strategies toward fixed income and passive strategies.
Our mathematical equity strategies had net inflows of $300 million in the quarter compared to net outflows of $2.5 billion in the second quarter.
The improvement was primarily due to a $1.7 billion non-U.S.
mandate win that Dick referenced.
While we are pleased with this win we want to remind everybody that the institutional business by its nature can be large but inconsistent.
Redemptions also improved in the quarter.
INTECH along with many of its large-cap and mathematical quantitative peers continues to experience an environment with sporadic demand as the outlook remains tempered by secular trends away from active U.S.
equity.
In our fixed income business net sales remain positive for the 15th consecutive quarter at $1 billion.
We remain optimistic about the prospects for this business which has crossed $25 billion in assets under management for the first time in the firm's 40-year history.
Our total revenue increased by 1.5% in the quarter due to slightly higher average assets and improved private account performance fees.
Performance fees on our mutual funds were negative $23 million for the quarter which was flat to last quarter.
Due to the 3-year nature of the calculation renewed positive performance will take time to offset the cumulated underperformance.
Third quarter operating expenses increased $7.2 million.
Of that employee compensation and benefits increased $4.2 million due primarily to a change in variable accrual rates as the result of market fluctuations quarter-over-quarter.
However the compensation-to-revenue ratio remained within the expected range we have discussed in previous quarters.
Long-term incentive compensation increased by $1 million due -- primarily due to the market impact on mutual fund share awards.
And as mentioned earlier depreciation and amortization increased versus the prior quarter as a result of the impairment charge.
Combined marketing advertising and G&amp;A lines declined slightly compared to the second quarter.
We continue to hold the line on discretionary expenditures but are careful not to deprive the business of the resources necessary to achieve our strategic objectives.
A quick look at Slide 10 highlights the continued improvement on the balance sheet.
We continue to generate healthy cash flows with $75 million in cash flow from operations driving a $49 million or 16% increase in cash and equivalents.
As we have mentioned in the past we remain committed to maintaining a strong balance sheet.
In summary delivering strong investment returns for our clients is our highest priority.
We are encouraged by the improvement in our investment performance in 2012 but there is still much to be done.
Given the current environment the management remains committed to balancing financial discipline with investments for our strategic development.
We continue to look for opportunities to invest our excess cash organically in initiatives that have returns above our cost of capital and for opportunities that would provide investors with the best risk-adjusted returns such as buying back debt issuing dividends and buying back stock.
Over the course of the first 3 quarters of the year we have generated cash flow from operations of $140 million.
And we have redeployed $130 million of this capital through quarterly dividends anti-diluted stock buybacks retirement of debt and new seed capital launches.
As we expected we have experienced a significant impact from negative performance fees year-to-date.
However we continue to keep a close eye in discretionary expenses and the variable nature of our business model is designed to respond to market and financial conditions.
And lastly we are extremely excited about our strategic alliance with Dai-ichi Life and are optimistic the relationship can help enhance our brand and build relationships around the Asia-Pacific region more broadly.
Having a strategic alliance with one of Japan's premier financial institutions will help us take the next steps toward building a more globally diverse organization.
That's all I have and I'll turn it back to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Dan Fannon of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess Dick if you could maybe give some context and background around the Dai-ichi transaction or the relationship and how long those talks have gone on? And then subsequent to the actual agreement in mid- or early August kind of how the talks have evolved in the last kind of 2 months.
Sure when I first started here in February of 2010 they contacted us and asked for a meeting.
And we sat down with a fairly open mind about what their desire and intention was and they expressed an interest in growing from their insurance base into asset management.
But they expressed a sort of a humility that they weren't sure that they could build a global asset management company by managing it themselves.
So their intention was to take strategic stakes in one or more asset managers and through equity accounting benefit from the proportionate share of the earnings growth for their own company and participate in the asset management industry globally in that way.
So we took that idea and we sat down internally after that meeting and said what would make this make sense for us? We said well the first thing is we don't want to be dilutive to our existing shareholders they need to acquire the shares through an open market purchase.
The second thing is they need to demonstrate their trust and confidence in us by giving us a significant account of theirs to manage.
The third thing is we'd like some support with additional seed capital to help develop our business.
The fourth thing is we'd very much like to have a distribution and relationship-building assistance in a key region that would make sense to us.
The fifth thing is we'd like to have brand enhancement.
And we went back to them and suggested that those were our key points and they reacted quite favorably to that list.
We then spent really the next 2 years in a very very thorough diligence and relationship process.
There were stops and starts along the way.
There were certainly times when we thought this was not likely to happen.
But in the end through a process of getting to know each other and building trust we arrived at the point of the announcement that I described earlier which we're extremely happy about.
In terms of what's happened since that announcement they are acquiring in the open market.
So necessarily our contact with them is somewhat limited partially due the fact that you of course don't want to give them any inside information but also you don't want to create the appearance of any such thing either.
And so our contacts have been less I think complete than they will be following their accumulation of their stake.
We've had some nice conversations with them about the timing and pace of their investments in our strategies.
And we're working with them to make sure that we're accomplishing their needs as an investor and that they're helping us develop our business.
Those conversations are going well.
And they have begun funding with the first $300 million investment here in October.
So that's an update but we don't expect them to actually join the Board and have the sort of a more extensive relationship until after they're done accumulating their shares in the public market.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's helpful.
And then just as a follow-up for Bruce you highlighted the cash flow generation year-to-date and the uses of that cash and I guess should we think about that still going forward? Is the primary usage we think maybe paying down debt versus share repurchases? Is the excess capital or that being the primary use going forward? Well I think all of those things are going to be under consideration as we've suggested in the past.
We're trying to make a very disciplined uses of the cash as I outlined in the comments.
We don't have -- we have been in the market this year as you know reabsorbing the dilutive shares from our LTI program.
But at this point we believe that a conservative approach to this balance sheet is the right one.
And so there are no plans to buy back shares at this point.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from Robert (sic) [Roger] Freeman of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So on the INTECH win that's great news.
Is that -- you talked last quarter about I believe international interest in quantitative mathematical funds picking up a bit as versus domestic and I'm just wondering if how sort of one-off is this something you have been working on a long time or you have an active set of discussion for larger size mandates in that area? Sure thanks Robert (sic) [Roger] this is Dick.
Relationships like that are the work of years.
The folks who have that sort of investment portfolio to invest are known and you go about building trust and confidence and relationship over a long period of time and certainly that's true in this case.
It's hard to take a point and draw a line from a point.
And so your question's a little bit awkward for me in a sense that this is a point and it's obviously the biggest and most important point in what I think really does form a trend or a line which is an increased level of interest outside the United States in mathematical strategies and in what INTECH is doing.
In particular I think INTECH has been the intellectual leader of low volatility portfolios for a long time.
I think the work that INTECH has done in volatility for decades has positioned it as a true leader in the field with really differentiated excellence in their understanding of volatility and how to capture it and offer low volatility portfolios.
That is an increasingly interesting area for folks particularly outside of the United States.
It hasn't resulted in lots and lots of positive flows yet and these things are always hard to predict.
But certainly the conversations that are ongoing demonstrate there's a receptiveness and an interest in these ideas outside the U.S.
probably well in front of the U.S.
And INTECH is a true leader in this area.
So we're optimistic that over time they can gather an increased flow from outside the U.S.
But again these things are lumpy.
They're individual relationships and they're hard to predict and certainly on a quarter-to-quarter basis I don't think you can draw any straight lines from that one win to future quarters.
Research Division</strong> Yes sure now understood.
Okay and then the follow-up question just on Dai-ichi the $300 million they invested was that in various existing products or is that part of what you're talking about in terms of seeding new product? Is that what that went into? Seed is a little bit of an awkward term with respect to the Dai-ichi investments.
They are not interested in investing in first-dollar brand new ideas that don't have a track record.
Think of them -- their seed investment is really more second-wave investments.
So these are products that are perhaps -- have been started have begun to have a track record and perhaps have an asset base which is small enough that it discourages other folks from coming in.
So think of it as second-wave capital in smaller newer products rather than the very first dollar.
And in the case of the initial 300 I think it's in our global research strategy which is a well-established strategy.
But in the offshore fund that they're supporting it's pretty small.
And our next question comes from Michael Kim Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> First aside from the Dai-ichi partnership can you talk a little bit more about your non-U.S.
distribution initiatives in terms of maybe what regions you're targeting and how you're approaching each market? So for example are you planning on kind of leading with existing fixed income capabilities or is it more of a broader approach that might include some of your newer strategies? And then any potential implications for fee rates and margins as that business continues to scale? This is Dick again.
Let me do my best to answer that but it may be that the detail that you're requesting sort of on a country by country basis is something we can't get into at this level on this call.
We may be able to follow up with you afterwards with some additional information if you need it.
But let me start by saying we hired Augie Cheh from AllianceBernstein -- I'm going to get it wrong how far how long he's been with us more than a year 1.5 years approximately to reinvigorate our non-U.S.
distribution.
And he has essentially leaned out the management and infrastructure layers of our business outside the U.S.
and invested in a significant number and I'm going to get the precise number wrong but it's 10-ish sales folks in field and some other support enhancements to position that team to deliver better results.
The scope of what they're doing really depends on the market.
There are some markets out there for instance Italy where you pursue primarily the retail opportunities.
There are other markets out there for instance the U.K.
where you're pursuing primarily institutional business.
That means the product sets are different the legal vehicles are different the approach to the market the fees the margins are all quite different.
And so answering your question at any sort of more aggregate bucket is going to be a challenge for us because the different countries are really different stories.
So I apologize for not being able to get closer to a complete answer for you but that's probably all we can do in this kind of a setting.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then second question it looks like performance fees from INTECH stepped up a fair amount this quarter.
Can you just talk about the strategies that may be generated the fees? And then does the step-up impact the trajectory looking out to the fourth quarter? Well let me just address what's going at INTECH and the strategies.
As you saw in one of the first pages of our presentation they were up at September 30 to 93% of their strategies outperforming on a 3-year basis.
And those 17 -- or sorry 7% remaining are pretty darn close.
And so they have done a good job with their performance recently and they're really delivering risk-adjusted volatility-controlled liquid returns for their clients which we think is going to win the day in the end.
What they do is apply a philosophy around volatility capture as a way to beat various cap-weighted -- liquid cap-weighted stock indices around the world.
And so they can offer that skill applied to U.S.
indices or non-U.S.
indices.
They do global as well as U.S.
And so their products have a similarity which is they're all driven by the same philosophy and volatility capture kind of engine around what they do.
And that engine is working quite well and has worked well for decades honestly.
It's a very powerful thing.
And so it isn't about which product as much as it's about the central engine working well.
That said they are offering a relatively new product in low volatility portfolios.
These are for folks who are scared by the volatility they've seen in the equity markets in the past.
They want through a full cycle of returns to achieve an index or better peer or better kind of return but they want to get there with a smoother more stable path which typically means in really hot times they'll underperform and they won't go down as far in the bad times.
It's a mathematical approach which is similar to the same philosophy that Perkins has offered with excellence for many years from their side as well.
And so that's the new thing that appears to have the most buzz in the marketplace at the moment.
But the most important element of what INTECH is doing is that they're central engine is strong and effective and delivering for their clients.
And our next question comes from Bill Katz of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just coming back to the margin discussion I guess where I struggle is the markets are up pretty nicely sequentially.
Performance fees are basically flat.
You mentioned that your model's built with a variable nature which will allow for better margins in an uptake and yet your core operating margin was down pretty substantially both quarter-to-quarter and year-on-year.
Can you address why that might be the case and why it might improve? Sure Bill.
I think as it pertains to this quarter the impact you're seeing is really due to this quarterly fluctuation that exists in the market and has affected our accrual rates in the second and third quarters.
So in the second quarter we adjusted our full year accrual rates to reflect what was a more depressed market.
In the third quarter we experienced a market lift.
It forced a change in the accrual rates the full year accrual rates and that really contributed to the delta and in addition impacted the margins.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then second question is as you come back to Dai-ichi beyond the initial $2 billion of general assets they've identified what products could you see the incremental lift as you look out over the next 12 24 months? We're working with them to make sure that they're comfortable with the investment choices for their investments but I don't think we can identify right now the specific strategies.
This is -- we have discussed a number of ideas with them but this is an ongoing discussion and it will evolve over time as their needs and interests evolve as ours do.
And so I wouldn't want to just define the specific strategies.
That will be worked between us in the coming days.
And our next question comes from Robert Lee of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I have a question well my first question being on the fixed income flows is this -- if we look at them they have been steadily positive for a long while now although even just based on the exhibit you have in here there's  been some kind of general decline despite the robust industry flows.
Could you give us some color on fixed income in terms of which products you're seeing the greatest demand for and maybe give us some color around how your senior business split between institutional and retail? And maybe why despite as still being pretty positive it's been -- it has declined at least sequentially for the last 4 or 5 quarters? Sure we don't perceive that business to be in decline or losing momentum at all.
We are optimistic about the prospects for that business.
The portfolios are performing very well and they continue to be very well-received by their clients and building improving relationships with the institutional consultants.
Year-to-date our fixed income business has posted organic growth above 20% which is above the industry and we think that should continue.
As you look at the historic net flows there are some of the lumpiness of institutional accounts in the numbers.
One thing that comes to mind is in the third quarter of 2011 we had a $700 million mandate win from a large public plan which is a lumpy thing which doesn't happen in any -- every quarter.
But our sense that that business is moving forward effectively delivering excellence for their clients really has -- it continues to build in the right ways remains unchanged.
The numbers are going to move around a little bit in terms of flows.
I'm not sure whether industry flows for fixed income are quite as hot as they have been.
I think they've come off to boil a little bit.
There may be some of that reflected in the numbers but by and large we have the strong sense that we're building a really good business with that team.
We're proud of them and we think they're on track.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is it possible just to get some color around where you're seeing the most activity in terms of interest in new business maybe and then maybe some retail institutional if you think is possible kind of breakdown of how the business is flowing? Well we don't have that sort of detail for you on the call.
I mean I think they're seeing positive interests across what they do.
They're seeing it in their shorter-duration portfolios.
They're seeing it in their flexible bond which is their intermediate duration or ag kind of competitor.
They're seeing it with more recently launched global portfolios global credit portfolios and they're seeing interest there.
You can look at the products clearly the bigger products are the short duration and the flex and those are the- those have been the long-standing excellent products and those are the larger size.
But we're very optimistic about the newer global products as well.
So I think we're seeing interest across the board in fixed income.
I think it's probably not as hot as it was a year ago in terms of the industry level of interest but there's still a lot of interest and we're very optimistic about what they're doing and where they're headed.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and maybe going back to follow up on Bill's question with compensation just again just trying to get a better sense of how to think of this going forward.
It's -- understanding there's probably some true-up in the quarter it sounds like but if I look back to the third quarter last year roughly similar level of comp on -- with almost $30 million more revenue and I understand that given my sense that you've made efforts to try to tie comp a little close -- more closely to pretax earnings or revenue generation at this point should we really be thinking about it? Even though it's variable that you're kind of at a level that even if you have some even if the revenues are flatlined it's not that much room really on comp to -- it's kind of-- it may be -- it's not that variable on I'll call it on the way down for lack of a better way of putting it.
So is this kind of like you're kind of at the bottom of where you can really be to run the business pay people that we should expect that...
No I wouldn't go to that conclusion.
I mean if you take a look at the numbers even though there was some noise between the second quarter and the third quarter of this year that comp-to-revenue ratio that we'd spoken to in the past is still traveling in that low 30s area.
I think it was between 33% and 34% this quarter.
I don't think you can conclude that the flex in our income statement has gone away.
And as it pertains to last year remember we've got a fairly dramatic difference this year in terms of our performance fee situation versus what we have now.
So I wouldn't draw that conclusion.
We're still managing this business so that we have flex in that cost structure to accommodate for financial conditions.
And our next question comes from Ken Worthington of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just on fixed income I'd love to get some more metrics kind of going to the underlying strength in the business if possible.
So I'll just try throw out a bunch of them and see if you can share any of them like the pace of RFPs number of clients you had today versus a year ago number of employees you have versus a year ago.
I know you've been hiring and there's been some turnover there but like how much is that going up? And then one forward-looking one what kind of resources are you looking to add there? Like obviously the business has been growing you've been highlighting it.
It's a key focus for you guys.
What do the resources look like a year from now and color there? So I'll put all -- one question with 26 parts all into one.
Well unfortunately I don't think I can give you a great answer to your 26 parts.
We don't give that level of information on the call.
What I can tell you is in my almost 3 years here we have added more than a dozen or so folks to the fixed income team in various capacities.
Maybe that's a little high maybe 10 to 12.
And I think it's pretty well built out.
So I don't expect a radical change in the number of heads going forward.
But as that business grows I think they'll add 1s and 2s here and there on a relatively constant basis as they move forward.
I don't have in front of me the total number of heads in that business but we can -- you can get John Groneman and then we'll talk to you after the call and we can get you a number on that just so you can see the size of the investment relative to the existing team.
In terms of numbers of RFPs numbers of clients et cetera we just don't give out that data.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Is there anything that you can kind of highlight like obviously the sales look great but any maybe questions I didn't ask about the sustainability of the sales like just leading indicators or I know it's kind of fishing but anything to show or highlight how well this business will continue to do? Well our business is a largely a credit-focused fixed income business which focuses on risk-adjusted returns.
It has one eye on capital preservation.
So you can expect certain things from a business like that which is when credit is screaming hot that probably won't be its best period because they will never be the most aggressive in terms of going-down credit and buying the most iffy names and riding that wave.
But they seek to capture a really good risk return by getting an appropriate amount of spread out of credit on top of their poor fixed income rates exposures.
And they've done it well through some incredibly volatile and difficult times through the marketplace.
So they rode this strategy through 2008 and did very well in terms of risk management at a time when credit got its brains blown out.
And that gives them a really good -- a track record through a really challenging time to share with clients.
They also have a really strong team ethic and a really strong client-service ethic.
So we think those things are enduring and will continue bear fruits going forward.
Everybody's wondering what happens to rates.
Everybody's wondering what happens if rates start going up.
My personal opinion is a credit-based fixed income will be better than rates-based fixed income in a sort of a rising rate environment.
Clients are going to give in where yields are right now clients need credit spread more than ever and that accounts for why you've seen some compression and lot of people chasing credit spread.
But I don't think that's going away.
I think that given a low rate environment I think that's a sustained trend.
So I think there's a structural demand for credit-based fixed income.
And I think we do it well.
I think our focus on risk-adjusted returns and capital preservation fits well with the sort of the more scared client base in lots of parts of the world.
So I think there future is pretty good.
But they like all other fixed income managers can face some serious challenges if you get rapidly rising rates or big changes in default rates.
Those can certainly be challenges for them.
And we have time for one final question and we'll go to Marc Irizarry of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Dick can you just elaborate a little bit more on the sourcing relationship with Diam in terms of I guess products and some advisory relationships and also sort of maybe how we should think about what the fees could be that come in and then the timing of the -- and the timing of the relationship? I can take the last part first which is that the level of fees between us are market fees.
But they're individually negotiated based on the kind of strategy and this kind of deal that we might be doing with them.
They have already taken up our global credit portfolios and have done a fund in Tokyo that -- I'm going to get the size wrong.
Do you know John? Roughly $700 million which is a portfolio we have with them their help and distribution in Tokyo.
And we hope and expect more of those.
The nature of the relationship is such that we are friendly and looking to cooperate with each other but there isn't a schedule or a specific plan that says next Tuesday we'll be selling this that or the other thing because DIAM needs to work with the big distributors in Tokyo Mizuho and others to deliver their funds to the Japanese investors.
And so they are very sensitive to the trends in terms of what the Japanese investors are buying at any given moment.
So the first thing out of the gate is a nice start in our relationship with global credit.
But we're optimistic that we can over time build additional success stories with them.
And the pace of that is just very hard to predict going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just on INTECH I guess a question on the mandate.
Can you give us a sense of what those -- what the fee is on that mandate relative to average and obviously it's a big win.
And then on -- and then related to that the -- your distribution are you making any changes in terms of the push of INTECH into retail channels RIA et cetera? On the first one no we can't give you that information I'm sorry.
On the second part about the push in distribution INTECH's client base is substantially an institutional client base.
And I think that's probably going to continue for the foreseeable future.
That's frustrating to me because I think what they do ought to be very valuable to retail investors as well.
The challenge that we face is the strategy is a little more -- it's a little further from what the common man understands.
I mean the words volatility capture can cause lots of retail investors to glaze over pretty quickly.
And so there are some challenges in explaining positioning and selling their excellent products in retail channels.
And that continues to be a hurdle.
So I don't see anything ongoing now that would lead us to expect that they are going to move in a significant way in the retail market.
But we don't give up on that prospect and we're constantly asking ourselves how can we change that answer because what they do is very valuable.
It has been proven over decades and we think it should be interesting to retail investors.
But Ken really we just haven't really have the success we would like in explaining the strategy in a way that makes it accessible to a retail buying public.
And this concludes our question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Weil for additional or closing remarks.
Well thank you everybody for your time today.
We appreciate your attention.
Obviously we're available to take follow-up calls on details underneath what we've described today and we look forward to talking to you next quarter.
Thanks everybody.
And this concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for attending and have a nice day.
Good morning.
My name is Melanie and I will be your conference facilitator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to the Janus Capital Group Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Before the company begins I would like to reference their standard legal disclaimer which also accompanies the full slide presentation located in the Investor Relations area of janus.com.
Statements made in the presentation today may contain forward-looking information about management's plans projections expectations strategic objectives business prospects anticipated financial results anticipated results of litigation and regulatory proceedings and other similar matters.
A variety of factors many of which are beyond the company's control affect the operations performance business strategy and results of Janus and could cause actual results and experiences to differ materially from the expectations and objectives expressed in their statements.
These factors include but are not limited to the factors described in Janus' reports filed with the SEC which are available on their website www.janus.com and on the SEC's website www.sec.gov.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
Janus does not undertake to update such statements to reflect the impact of the circumstances or the events that arise from the date these statements are made.
Investors should however consult any further disclosures Janus may make in its reports filed with the SEC.
Thank you.
Now it is my pleasure to introduce Dick Weil Chief Executive Officer of Janus Capital group.
Mr.
Weil you may begin your conference.
Thank you operator.
Welcome everybody.
Thank you for joining us for the fourth quarter and full year 2012 earnings presentation.
As usual I'll start and talk a little bit about the quarter and the year from my perspective and then turn it over to Bruce Koepfgen to go into the financials in more detail.
From my perspective if you look back on the full year 2012 the most important thing that we do is deliver investment performance for our clients.
In 2012 we had particularly on the Janus domestic platform an exceptionally strong year.
100% of our Janus domestic equity funds outperformed their benchmarks in 2012 and finished in the top half of their peer groups the Morningstar peer groups.
70% of the global equity Janus funds outperformed their benchmarks in '12 and finished in the top half of their peer groups.
This was obviously a much-needed strong year from the Janus equity platform in the face of what is still some medium-term underperformance.
Looking back on how that played into our distribution in the marketplace while we experienced net outflows in some of our largest strategies that were dragging some medium-term negative performance the Janus Triton debenture and the flexible bond funds were all top decile net flow gainers in their respective Morningstar categories confirming I think that when we gave our team strong results in important categories they can deliver excellent flows.
I think we did a very good job remaining financially disciplined while continuing to invest in the long-term growth of our business.
Despite challenging conditions we continue to invest in our strategic initiatives.
The full year operating margins were 25%.
And while this is below our long-term aspirations it represents our strong commitment to balancing financial discipline with continuing the strategic agenda as we've talked about in prior quarters.
We continue to make progress in our long-term strategic vision in 2012.
I think we did make strategic -- a significant progress on the strategic initiatives.
And obviously there's a particular happiness and some pride around the new relationship with Dai-ichi Life which is a big step forward for us in a number of ways that we discussed previously.
Lastly I want to reference the fact that our balance sheet continues to strengthen.
Our liquidity position is as strong as it's been since the end of 2007 with nearly $390 million in cash and cash equivalents and another almost $340 million in marketable securities.
Over the last 5 years we have reduced our outstanding debt by more than 50% and our next meaningful maturity is about 18 months away.
During 2012 we generated approximately $209 million in cash flow from operations despite the difficult conditions.
So I think our financial discipline is playing through into the balance sheet in a very positive way.
And we're -- as you know that's very important to us and we're pleased with that.
With those comments done I'll turn it over to Bruce Koepfgen.
Thanks Dick.
Good morning everyone.
The key takeaways in the fourth quarter would include continued improvement in our 1-year investment performance a decline in total company net flows growth in revenue driven by separate account performance fees and increase in operating margin and year-over-year improvement on our balance sheet.
Starting on Page 6 of the deck earnings per share for the fourth quarter was $0.17 compared to $0.14 in the third quarter.
Fourth quarter earnings per share included a $5 million noncash charge equivalent to $0.02 a share due to an impairment of intangible assets related to the redemption of one sub-advised account.
Fourth quarter average AUM were $155.6 billion was virtually flat to the third quarter driven by market strength offset by net outflows.
Revenue of $216.6 million increased 4% mostly due to an increase in private account performance fees.
Operating expenses of $158.6 million declined 2% due to lower compensation expense offset by the $5 million impairment charge I just mentioned.
Operating income of $58 million improved $10.1 million reflecting higher top-line revenue and lower expenses.
Lastly the operating margin for the quarter was 26.8% versus 22.9% in the third quarter.
Before I get into investment performance you may have noticed that we switched to showing performance using Morningstar peers as opposed to Lipper.
We have been using Morningstar performance in communications with our clients for a period of time and we wanted to be consistent in all our external reporting.
During the transition quarter we have provided the Lipper rankings as well on pages 24 and 25 of the appendix and you will see that there are minimal differences between the 2.
As of year end 68% of our fundamental equity assets were performing above medium the Morningstar peers on a 1-year basis represent -- this number represents continuing improvement and is up from 47% of assets at the end of 2011.
While we're pleased with these results we of course remained focused on improving long-term performance.
Fixed income performance continues to be positive with the majority of the assets in the top 2 Morningstar quartiles over 1- 3- and 5-year time periods.
And our mathematical equity strategies continue to beat their benchmarks' overall time periods.
Total company long-term net outflows of $3.6 billion increased from $2 billion in outflows in the third quarter.
Taken in their respective parts fundamental equity posted fourth quarter net outflows of $2.7 billion versus $3.3 billion in the third quarter.
The improvement was driven primarily by lower redemptions.
We continue to see demand for passive and fixed income strategies which is resulting in headwinds for this area of the business.
Mathematical equity strategy has had net outflows of $1.6 billion compared to net inflows of $300 million in the prior quarter.
As you may recall the third quarter included a $1.7 billion mandate win.
Please remember that quarterly variability poses typical in the institutional business.
INTECH along with many of its large cap and mathematical quantitative peers continues to experience a challenging environment for active U.S.
equity.
In our fixed income business net sales remained positive for the 16th consecutive quarter at $700 million.
The decrease in quarter-over-quarter flows was consistent with overall market trends.
We saw aggregate industry bond inflows decline approximately 25% in the third to the fourth quarter.
We continue to capture market share.
We remain optimistic about the prospects for this business in both the retail and the institutional channels.
Total revenue increased by 3.6% in the quarter due to higher private account performance fees.
Revenue for private account performance fees was $8.3 million in the quarter compared to $2.1 million in the third quarter.
The fourth quarter includes $6.7 million in performance fee revenue from one institutional account.
At the end of this quarter this account converted from a performance fee structure to a fixed management fee.
Therefore we won't see performance fees for this particular account in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Performance fees on our mutual funds were negative $21.9 million for the quarter which was slightly better than last quarter.
However as we have said previously due to the 3-year nature of the calculation we expect this level of negative performance fees to continue for the next several quarters.
Fourth quarter operating expenses decreased by 2% compared to the prior quarter.
Employee compensation declined $5.7 million primarily due to lower compensation for senior executives and management's decision during the quarter to pay a larger portion of variable compensation in stock versus cash.
The quarterly compensation-to-revenue ratio was 30% and the full-year ratio was 32% both within the expected range we have discussed over the course of last year.
Marketing and advertising increased $1.9 million mostly due to seasonal advertising spend.
As mentioned earlier depreciation and amortization increased versus the prior quarter as a result of a $5 million impairment charge related to the redemption of a sub-advised account.
Finally let's just take a minute on the balance sheet.
We generated healthy cash flow of $209 million from operations for the year and our balance sheet is in the best condition it has been in in 6 years.
Additionally we reinvested in the business by providing $58 million in seed capital to new products.
Lastly over the past year we have talked about our capital deployment.
So it makes sense to summarize our capital planning process once again.
First as a general principle we believe preserving liquidity and financial flexibility is critical.
Second we set aside capital for contractual obligations.
Third we look to deploy cash strategically in the business to drive future growth.
And finally we consider return of excess cash to shareholders.
During the year we returned a total of $137 million of capital through $65 million in early debt retirements $54 million in dividends including an acceleration of our fourth quarter dividend through December 31 and $18 million through the anti-diluted stock buyback program.
That's all I have and I'll turn it back to Dick for a few finishing comments.
On Page 13 of the presentation just a couple comments on looking forward.
It's very confusing with what I've told you before because our strategy hasn't changed.
We continue to seek to pursue intelligent diversification while strengthening the core of the company.
Again the most important thing we can and should do is deliver strong long-term investment performance that will remain our absolute #1 priority.
As I said we made some important progress in the past year but there's still a lot of wood to chop there.
Number two we've got to build a more client-focused organization.
We compete not only on the basis of investment performance but also on the basis of reputation and client service and we need to continue to raise our game in those areas.
Number three the intelligent diversification expand and diversify our investment capabilities to be more useful and helpful to our client base.
And number four we have constant pressure on maintaining financial discipline while continuing to fairly reward people and invest in our long-term strategic initiatives.
We have excellent people here at Janus.
I think we're on the right track.
The results have not been what we would have liked yet but I think if we continue to stay true to our past we're positioning the firm for future success.
And that's what we're going to continue to do.
With that I would open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Robert Lee with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question I have is I guess of my 2 is can you talk a little bit about at INTECH I think you mentioned in the presentation that while certainly sales have further been tough that you continue to see more interest outside the U.S.
and their strategies.
Can you maybe give us a little bit more color on if that has actually translated into any sales yet or how we should be thinking about that? Or I mean is there an actual kind of RFP pipeline that's kind of built there? I mean any kind of -- and of greater color on that I think would be helpful.
Thanks Robert.
I think that's a great question.
INTECH is experiencing some pretty strong investment performance.
I think 87% of the firm's strategies were outperforming their respective benchmarks on a 3-year basis once again confirming something we've talked about in prior quarters which is their investment process works.
It's valuable because it is differentiated.
It's risk-controlled and it's liquid and proven over decades and not particularly capacity-constrained.
So I think they have a very valuable process and they're doing a good job.
They've been through some tough waters.
A clients institutional clients in their marketplace have been reducing their exposures to equities in general over the past couple of years.
Second there has been a particular focus on active equity.
Third there has been a particular negative focus on quantitative managers.
And fourth during some of that period they had put a pretty modest but medium-term underperformance for a little while in that period and a penalty function for that was particularly severe.
So they've been through some rough roads and we haven't seen the turn yet in the net flow numbers that we're reporting.
However I think their process is coming back more into favor.
I think people talked about this potential for a great rotation back in equities.
We believe it's inevitable but we don't believe we can predict when it happens.
There were some green shoots in the first quarter of last year there's some green shoots again in the first quarter of this year but how those things grow and on what best is not something I can predict for you.
But it is inevitable that there will be a great rotation back into equities and I think INTECH is very well-positioned to capture a lot of its -- a lot more business in that environment.
So we're not declaring a victory or success by any means.
The numbers have still been bad on the net flow front.
But it's an excellent firm with an excellent process and we're very optimistic about its medium and long-term future goal.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And maybe as my follow-up could you maybe give us some color on this quarter whether any kind of assets that you gained from Dai-ichi and maybe remind us of kind of what your expectations are as it relates to lease -- no asset gathering from Dai-ichi whether it's off their balance sheet or different products that they sell over the coming quarters? Sure.
Well as you know Dai-ichi committed to invest about $2 billion of its own capital with us in a range of things.
They are about 25% of the way there at this point a little bit more in equities than in fixed.
And we would expect that they'd get fully invested over the next -- over this year essentially.
That with respect to the first part of your question which is their own money.
In terms of what they're able to help us do in the marketplace in primarily in Japan in the first instance primarily through their 50%-owned affiliate DIAM.
We manage currently about $925 million in assets for DIAM.
That has been a substantial positive that certainly Dai-ichi Life has made material contributions to already.
We're looking forward to growing the size of that relationship on a go-forward basis but it depends.
It's not by any means entirely in our control or in Dai-ichi Life's control or even in DIAM's control because DIAM distributes through banks and other folks in Japan.
And so we're going to put our shoulder to the wheel and try hard to move that forward as well as we can but it's not really possible to give you a prediction on how that looks going forward.
It's only possible to say it's already a significant success with $925 million of assets being managed for DIAM and that we're looking forward to increasing that with Dai-ichi's help over time.
We'll go next to Dan Fannon with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess just first on the expense side.
Bruce if could you remind us kind of is the comp ratio that you kind of have laid out last year kind of similar as we look at going forward into '13? And then also maybe characterize your budget on the nondiscretionary side if you can compare that maybe versus a year ago? Yes let's start with compensation.
I think during the course of the year we pointed out that we are -- we basically run a compensation model relative to the financial results of the company.
That can vary from quarter-to-quarter.
But I think we've -- as you look at the percentages that we've had during the course of this year that is a pretty good guide for 2013.
So I wouldn't let the changes in the fourth quarter disrupt that expectation.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the kind of more discretionary side of the business as you look at kind of this year versus last year? No.
That's a great question.
I think we've made the point over the past number of quarters that the management team here we believe has been very disciplined in the containment of cost.
And our primary focus is on making sure that we have the resources that are necessary to pursue the strategy that Dick and the executive committee have outlined for the firm.
And so I think we've seen a significant success in that regard.
We've been able to continue to pursue that agenda and contain cost.
There is still a great deal of vigilance on that.
As we've mentioned there is a limit to how far you can go in constraining some of these fixed costs but we still have a keen eye for it where we can delay or reduce expenditures in favor of our strategic agenda.
So that's pretty much where we are.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then I guess just one more on the cash and the building the cash -- you've laid out your priorities and kind of how you're thinking about your capital but I guess would you anticipate this year being heavily shifted more towards one versus the other given you continue to see your cash position build? I think our position there for the time being is unchanged.
We think there's still a great many uncertainties in the marketplace.
We've chosen to take a cautious approach to managing our balance sheet.
As I mentioned before we think it's in the best shape it's been in a number of years.
And so we will continue to manage that conservatively.
I don't expect any changes in the way we've done it in the near future.
If I can just jump in there.
This is Dick Weil.
We've talked about this but not probably for maybe more than a year.
Part of the reason that it's so important that we run a strong balance sheet is because we need to build long-term strategic relationships with our clients.
In that process we can't have them worry about our stability; when there are markets gyrations they need to know that we are stable and focused on their needs not unstable and focused on ourselves.
So for clients and prospects it's very important that we have a constant stable presence as their partner.
Second for employees you simply can't be a good partner for employees through the volatile market cycles unless you have a stable base from which to operate that they can be confident in.
They're trusting us with their careers and we have to be good for that trust.
So for these reasons it's strategically very important to us to maintain a strong balance sheet.
That said we accept and believe passionately that it's our job to generate positive cash flow and ultimately start returning that to the shareholders.
We've given you the hierarchy we used previously.
We want to make sure we take care of the business needs first.
We have some security first.
We invest in our strategic needs second.
And then we go down into returning shareholder capital.
And as Bruce outlined in his comments we've done a lot of that in this past year and we'll continue to look to that.
But we do that looking from a conservative framework for the reasons I outlined.
We'll go next to Cynthia Mayer with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just to clarify a little bit on the sub-advised redemption.
Can you give us some color on that? Was that an INTECH redemption or a fundamental equity maybe a sense of the size? And overall in terms of sub -- go ahead.
No it's -- it was a Janus sub-advised account.
I mean you may recall from some past comments going back to 2002 we ascribed intangible value to some of our sub-advised accounts and have been amortizing those amounts since then in the case -- in this case and which was similar to the third quarter.
We had a redemption of one of those accounts.
And so at that point we realized the remaining balance.
I think it was $2.5 million last quarter and $5 million this quarter.
Research Division</strong> So no more to go on that? Well so the remaining amount is relatively small about $2 million.
So the bulk of that is behind us.
Research Division</strong> And if we look at your overall assets at this point can you give us a sense of how much is still sub-advised and which strategies those are focused in? We -- Cynthia we really don't provide that level of detail on the accounts sorry.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So maybe just stepping back and asking a question on your alternatives platform and seed capital.
If you look at new products like low volatility global flexible bond alternatives how aggressively can you market these? How many of these have 3-year performance records at this point? And should we think of these as products in waiting for say 2014 or things that you will be marketing right away? Thanks.
Cynthia this is Dick.
Thanks for the good question.
The path for each is pretty different.
The strategic or the competitive context for each is pretty different.
So in global bonds we have more of a track record but it takes more of a track record in that space.
It's an established asset class with established competitors and it takes some time for that to build momentum in most of the channels particularly institutional channels.
So we're further down the road there but it also is a longer road.
In the case for instance of our new diversified alternatives fund it's a pretty new asset category.
It's a pretty new opportunity set.
There aren't many folks in the world that have long-established track records.
And what it is also is essentially an asset allocation across component parts.
Each of the component parts can be analyzed separately with pretty well academic -- pretty well-known academic and practitioner research around what those track records are.
So it's probably a faster takeup than the traditional 3 years plus for a product like that.
Similarly INTECH's low volatility it's a newer asset category.
It builds off the same consistent expertise and approach they've had for decades.
We think that's a faster takeup.
So these things are hard to predict and they're quite different on a product-by-product basis.
We'll go next to Ken Worthington with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> Maybe first Dick I'd love to hear your thoughts on retail investor engagement in equities.
And maybe is there data that you're seeing either in the industry or Janus that leads you to believe that either investors are migrating back to reengagement or maybe not heading in that direction just yet.
And then you mentioned kind of green shoots I think with regard to INTECH.
But are you seeing kind of any green shoots or leading indicators on the more plain vanilla equity side of the business? Ken I guess I was referring to green shoots not just with respect to INTECH but with respect to equities in general.
I think there are green shoots appearing with respect to increasing equities in retail and institutional increasing interest in equities.
And that wasn't specific to anything in particular.
That was a general comment.
That said there were also green shoots a year ago and look what happened in the second and remainder of the year the second quarter remainder of the year.
So we're cautious about calling the great rotation.
What we're not cautious about is describing the fact that it's absolutely essential and it's going to happen.
Given where bonds are people simply cannot meet retirement needs.
Institutions and individuals need more equity investing to get where they're going.
So it's going to happen.
The question is when.
And again I don't have my magic 8 ball to answer that one.
Research Division</strong> Can you just flesh out what the green shoots you're seeing just to give us a better sense? Yes.
I'd rather not get too specific.
I think we all probably read most of the same publications.
We see most of the same industry data.
We see -- I don't think that I have a particularly uniquely insightful data set compared to the rest of the world.
There certainly has been increased interest on the retail front and in meetings consultant interest et cetera.
I think we see institutions expressing increased interest in that.
That's not just vis-a-vis our firm.
I think that's marketplace information in general.
I don't see that I have a particularly special data set.
I think we all see the same things.
I'm just cautious about drawing lines from small number of data points.
We'll just have to wait and see whether that persists.
I think the road forward looks better but we live in a world where there are potential upsets from broken political processes in the U.S.
and in Europe that have the potential to derail the current kind of nicer road.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the on INTECH just can you talk about RFP activity since Jennifer's departure? Has that had any impact? Are things kind of consistent with before her departure or has RFP activity slowed down? Like is there any reaction to her leaving? To my knowledge we haven't lost any clients due to that change.
But certainly the clients are watching us carefully to make sure that they understand the change and the impact and that the firm remains stable and productive as it has been.
But we haven't noticed any significant disruption in the business as a result of that.
I guess sorry just to finish my answer to that last question the main point of that transition is it doesn't affect the investment team or the investment process.
There's been no change in the way -- in the folks we're managing the money or the way that they're managing the money and that is the primary concern properly of those clients.
So far it hasn't been a major disruption.
And Mr.
Irizarry your line is open.
Research Division</strong> So just on the comp break how should we think about the level for '13 here sort of 32%? Is that sort of the right range to think about? And then also how are deferrals playing into the way you're thinking about compensation? And how should we think about maybe the way the LTI sort of rolls into the comp line? Okay.
So not to cover old ground in the fourth quarter we -- there was a decision that was taken that the compensation for some senior executive should be reduced in alignment with economics of the business.
And what was the other point that I was going to make here? And so for comp rates for -- oh and I'm sorry then there was one other component of that which was the decision by management to reward some in the firm with stock as opposed to cash.
As you think about the comp ratios going forward I think the ranges that have been established in 2012 are probably appropriate guideposts.
So those have been firmly within the range of 30% to 35%.
Based on everything we know today I would suggest that those are probably good working numbers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just can you just remind us on the LTI? How that sort of folds into the comp mix if you will? Sure.
Without specific guidance I think we've provided an appendix page here that kind of identifies the existing LTI awards Page 21.
As a general statement I would say that the current levels of LTI are indicative of what they will be going forward.
Although I think you will probably see a slight reduction going into 2013 just because there will be slightly fewer awards that are being expensed.
And if I had to frame that it would probably be I think the $14 million to $15 million range.
So if that helps you think about LTI going through 2013 that's kind of the answer.
And we'll go next to Roger Freeman with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I guess my 2 questions just around performance fees.
One how -- regarding the one that you mentioned it's been converting from performance fee to fixed management fee.
How easy is it for clients to do that? Are those predetermined agreements or can they just kind of come upon you? And then the second question would be just looking through the performance fee detail I'm just curious on Perkins' mid-cap value.
The relative performance versus peer has been improving but the negative performance fee increase in the quarter is -- looks like that is the function of the benchmark that deteriorated versus that? On the first point the private account side of the business we're happy to serve clients in a fixed fee or performance fee framework depending on their needs and interest and we offer both.
And we structure them in a way that we're quite pleased to have the relationship in either format.
So it is easy for a private side client to come to us and say "Gosh I'd like to talk to you about converting from one kind of fee format to the other." And there isn't a big hurdle or impediment to that process.
It's better to do it at the end of the performance measurement period rather than deal with step periods.
But other than that it's pretty easy to do.
On the mutual fund side obviously it's much more structural-institutionalized.
It's determined by the mutual fund trustees and cannot easily be changed which leads to the next part of your question around performance fees at Perkins.
There hasn't been a significant change in the math around the performance fees at Perkins.
It varies a little bit with the trailing asset calculation and that's primarily the source of change.
But the rate the fee rate that they are experiencing is pegged at the bottom end of that range pretty clearly and has been and will continue to be until they demonstrate better performance fees at the index in line with the formula for performance fees for that fund.
Just one other point on that is because of the 3-year nature of that look-back calculation you won't see the changes take place quarter-to-quarter that you might expect just based on 1 quarter performance change.
We'll take our next question from Michael Kim with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> First just to follow up on the capital management front.
Some debt that comes due next year I know it's still a ways off but just wondering how you're thinking about potentially just wanting that roll-off to continue to strengthen the balance sheet like you talked about versus maybe refinancing just giving the kind of the current rate environment? As we sit here today Mike I would say that our expectation is that we will just pay that off when it comes due.
We clearly have the balance sheet strength to do it.
It's one of the things that we contemplate when we determine how we should manage our balance sheet.
And so my expectation is that we will just pay that amount in ordinary course.
The opportunities were -- we've bought in as much of that as we really can at reasonable rates.
And so my expectation is that the best way to do that is just let it mature.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second any kind of change in thinking as it relates to investment spending now that the macro environment seems a bit more constructive? Any initiatives from a product standpoint or on a distribution front that may have been kind of set aside in the past that you're maybe starting to come back to at this point? I think our first priority is to adequately resource and invest in the existing businesses rather than grant new projects.
We want to make sure that we're given the team that we have the best tools and the best opportunities to deliver the goals that we've set out.
We're not currently contemplating major investments in sort of new expansion areas.
That said that's as of this moment.
That's the snapshot and these things change with time and we analyze these things on a regular basis.
So we don't know how that will look in the future.
But as we sit here right now we don't have any big investment plans other than maintaining a good level of resource for the existing work.
We go next to Bill Katz with Citi.
Research Division</strong> On the $7 million benefit from the account conversion this quarter was there any expense against that? Bill no I don't believe so.
Compensation a little bit but no.
Compensation would be the only significant one.
Research Division</strong> And would that be a typical 30-somewhat percent against that or no? I think we haven't given a specific percentage so we probably can't answer that.
But it fits into our regular compensation framework.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question for you so a 2-part.
One is as you look at the performance improvement in '12 is there anything that you could point your finger toward that was really driving that? And then the board question is let's just say those green shoots turn to a more pronounced turn do you think you're positioned to capture any of that share? On the first one I think it's a combination of factors that led to better results in 2012 looking first at the external factors.
In the post-2008 period we had and have talked about with you on quarterly calls really high correlation amongst U.S.
stocks.
In an environment where correlations amongst U.S.
stocks and we define that as sort of the number of stocks moving the same direction on the same day when that reached sort of 1937 level highs it's a terrible environment for active management not just for what we do but for others.
But in particular for high conviction high active share managers that's a really rough environment.
So the post-2008 crisis period was particularly unfavorable for active management.
That's changed.
Correlations amongst U.S.
stocks come way down.
And in the past year it's been a much more constructive environment for active management.
That has some and we expect that candidly going forward.
As we discussed last year we didn't think that correlations were going to stay at extraordinary high levels because a it hasn't in history; and b there's a logical reason why pressure builds up the longer that persists.
And eventually individual company results drive stock prices.
So we have seen an improvement in the environment which we expected but we carry around this legacy that passive looked really good for the past couple of years and I think that's going to be a challenge for all active managers.
For forward-thinking investors I think there's a lot of reason to believe that active managers are now going to have a really good period vis-a-vis the past of indices because of these correlations.
So that's the external environment.
The internal environment as Jonathan Coleman and the team at Janus made some significant changes to focus people on a more rigorously defined set of tests and style definition product-promised definitions better alignment with analysts.
And these sort of internal more technical steps I think contributed to the outcome as well.
So it was a combination of factors that led to better results.
We think we have great people.
We think they're very capable particularly in markets that have reasonable correlation levels of generating consistent outperformance over the index.
And we're very optimistic about continuing to build on the success we had in 2012 but there's still a lot of wood to chop.
Research Division</strong> And just in terms of positioning if it flows to where -- recover one of your peers who saw a spike to track record as well so hoping that bit of delay in that recovery.
But if recovery's here and now where would you see the greatest lift to your franchise? Just give me some of the short-term trends? Hard to predict but our Janus Forty platform our concentrated growth platform at Janus had a particularly strong year last year and I think would benefit in one place.
But all of our domestic equity products would benefit in that environment institutional and retail.
INTECH would benefit in that environment also Perkins.
The whole complex has a heavy weighting in equities.
And I think broadly speaking they'd all benefit from that kind of a more constructive environment.
And we have time for one more question.
We'll go next to Matt Kelley with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Dick if I can just quickly come back to the investors getting more interested in equities again.
I guess I'd ask a 2-part question.
A is -- are institutions ahead of retail is your sense? And I know we're only 3 weeks into the year.
And b what sort of funds fund categories are you seeing most in demand among equities for either of those subsets? I don't think I could call a leader in the race back to equities between institution and retail.
I think it's happening.
There are green shoots on both sides but I don't think I'm well enough informed to really articulate which one's moving faster.
Retail tends to move in smaller jumps on daily basis and institutional tends to move in bigger lumps on quarterly basis.
And so there's some of that difference between the cycles and the business that you can see in industry data.
I don't think I have a particularly great insight into the answer to that question.
I think it's happening on both sides.
And the question is does it continue and gain strength or does something happen which disrupts the past? Probably in my estimation due to the fact that modern western democracies can't deal with pension liabilities very effectively.
And it's hurting Europe.
It's hurting the U.S.
It's hurting the public versus private debate.
And the dysfunction in the political system around that issue has the potential to be really disruptive.
And we hope it isn't.
I think it probably won't be but there's a significant minority case risk that the U.S.
government or what happens in Europe gets disruptive again.
And so we're just going to wait and watch.
Our path is the same in either case.
We don't change our plans due to some macro prediction on that scale.
What we do is focus on the things that I mentioned and we'll see how it plays in whatever environment occurs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then 1 quick follow-up for me.
Just coming back to the compensation point.
Given your strong 1-year performance on the complex just I guess how is that communicated to employees? And is there any sort of surprise factor in there? Obviously the -- some of the bottom line numbers have been challenged by performance fees but what do think the sense is internally from a strong 1 year but more challenged kind of 3-year 5-year rolling through versus your comp decisions both in aggregate dollars and then the shift from cash to stock? Well our employees are well-informed about the financial realities of our business.
They're adults.
They get it.
They spend -- a lot of them spend their lives analyzing companies so they're experts.
They understand what's going on.
They understand that we've gotten ourselves onto a much better path.
And that if we can sustain that path going forward you will see eventually really material improvement in performance fees but it won't happen immediately because of the 3-year nature of that calculation.
I think our employees are pretty expert on how that works and how would it likely roll through to profits.
And as Bruce said our employees are in a compensation system which is driven primarily by profit results.
And our commitment to them is if as and when you deliver those much better profits through better investment performance and improved performance fees our employees are going to benefit substantially from that improvement.
They get that and it's our job to deliver that and make it a reality rather than a prospect.
And then they understand they'll be sharing significantly in that outcome.
And so that's motivating for all of us.
Thank you everybody.
Thank you for joining us on the call.
We look forward to talking to you next quarter.
Thank you operator.
Thanks everybody.
This concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for your attending.
Good morning.
My name is Aaron and I will be your conference facilitator today.
I'd like to welcome everyone to the Janus Capital Group First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Before the company begins I'd like to reference their standard legal disclaimer which also accompanies the full slide presentation located in the Investor Relations area of janus.com.
Statements made in the presentation today may contain forward-looking information about management's plans projections expectations strategic objectives business prospects anticipated financial results anticipated results of litigation and regulatory proceedings and other similar matters.
A variety of factors many of which are beyond the company's control affect the operations performance business strategy and results of Janus and could cause actual results and experiences to differ materially from the expectations and objectives expressed in their statements.
These factors include but are not limited to the factors described in Janus' reports filed with the SEC which are available on their website www.janus.com and on the SEC's website www.sec.gov.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
Janus does not undertake to update such statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date these statements were made.
Investors should however consult any further disclosures Janus may make in its reports filed with the SEC.
Thank you.
Now it is my pleasure to introduce Dick Weil Chief Executive Officer of Janus Capital Group.
Mr.
Weil you may begin your conference.
Good morning and welcome everyone to the first quarter 2013 earnings call for the Janus Capital Group.
Before we dive into our usual process of quarterly results I want to call your attention to a few changes we've made this quarter and the way that we're presenting information which hopefully will result in a better communication more useful for you all.
We have heard some commentary from large shareholders and analysts that some of the questions that come up on the call could be better addressed with more factual support and more detailed response.
In an effort to respond to that what we've decided to do is collect questions before each quarter and then address them in some detail as part of the prepared Q&amp;A section in our presentation and then we'll reserve the last section of this call as usual for open mic and questions on a live basis.
We hope this gives you more useful set of communications.
Please give us your feedback in terms of how this works from your perspective.
As a part of this process we've prerecorded portions of this call to ensure quality and accuracy.
Before I hand it off to Bruce as usual I'd love to give you a few starting comments.
As we've talked about in prior quarters Janus is on a journey to becoming a stronger and more diverse company.
As you know we have faced some significant challenges primarily as a result of underperformance in some of our larger mutual funds in our fundamental equity strategy.
As we reflect on performance in first quarter of 2013 it's fair to say that our fundamental equity strategies have come out of the gates a little slower than we would've liked and expected.
That said one quarter's performance is far too short a time period on which to draw conclusions.
But this fits into the larger context as you no doubt know.
We had a tough 2010 and '11.
We had a much better 2012.
Even after the first quarter on a trailing 12-month basis most of the funds look pretty good.
But on a 3-year basis the challenges are significant.
And this affects us as you know both in terms of performance fees over a medium horizon and in terms of net flows.
And that remains our primary focus make sure that we're doing everything we can do to strengthen and achieve excellence in our investment performance for our clients.
In this quarter we saw a growing confidence in our client base more interest and enthusiasm for equity investing certainly which as Bruce details on the numbers led to better gross flows for our equity products particularly for those equity products that have put up a strong performance over multiple years.
In addition to focusing on investment performance we're also focusing on our other strategic priorities.
We've called our strategy "intelligent diversification " and we continue to drive forward as we have over for the last 2 years.
But when we sum up our priorities for this year we start with deliver long-term investment performance we move to building a more client-centric organization we want to expand and diversify our investment and our distribution capabilities to better serve our clients and then we want to continue our disciplined focus on operational and financial matters balancing our investments with the necessary discipline to fund those investments.
Lastly I need to mention 2 things.
First we've increased the dividend this quarter as you would have seen in our press release.
We raised it 17% to $0.07 a share.
This brings our annual dividend payout ratio to approximately 50% as Bruce will discuss in more detail later.
The second piece is during this quarter we announced the intention to have Mr.
Enrique Chang join us as our new Chief Investment Officer for Equities and Asset Allocation.
It's as an intention to join us because he is the subject of gardening leave a contract promise at his current employer and so he's not actually able to start in our business until September.
And that's a little frustrating to wait for him but we're very excited to have Enrique joining us and we think this will help continue our efforts to make sure we have the best possible investment performance for our clients.
With that said let me turn this over to Mr.
Bruce Koepfgen for a more detailed presentation of our financial results.
Good morning everyone.
We have a lot to cover this morning so I'll go right to the numbers starting on Page 5.
Earnings per share for the quarter was $0.15 compared to $0.17 in the fourth quarter of 2012.
First quarter average AUM of $161.8 billion was 4% higher than the prior quarter driven primarily by market strength which was partially offset by net outflows.
Revenue of $214.2 million decreased 1% from the fourth quarter.
Higher management fees were offset by lower private account performance fees and fewer days in the quarter.
Operating expenses of $159.5 million include higher compensation expense lower marketing advertising and G&amp;A expense and the intangible impairment charge from the fourth quarter that did not repeat.
Operating income of $54.7 million was 6% lower than the prior quarter reflecting a slight decrease in top line revenue coupled with slightly higher expenses.
Lastly operating margin for the quarter was 25.5% versus 26.8% in the fourth quarter.
As of March 31 57% of fundamental equity assets were performing above the median of Morningstar peers on a 1-year basis.
This number represents an improvement from a year ago when only 39% of assets were above the median.
While we are pleased with this improvement we are far from satisfied and remain focused on improving overall investment performance as Dick has previously mentioned.
Fixed income performance continues to be positive with the majority of the assets in the top 2 Morningstar quartiles over 1- 3- and 5-year time periods.
And our mathematical equity performance remains strong with the majority of strategies outperforming their benchmarks across all time periods presented.
Total company long-term net outflows were $3.9 billion compared to $3.6 billion in outflows in the fourth quarter of last year.
Taken in their respective parts fundamental equity posted first quarter net outflows of $1.8 billion versus $2.7 billion in the fourth quarter.
This 30% improvement was driven by an increase in gross sales.
Mathematical equity strategies had net outflows of $2.4 billion in the quarter compared to $1.6 billion in outflows in the prior quarter.
This pickup in net outflows was driven by a $1.2 billion institutional redemption.
Despite outflows during the quarter INTECH's performance is excellent and our product set is highly relevant for the current environment.
As a result we're starting to see renewed interest from U.S.
and non-U.S.
clients in both their seasoned strategies and new lower volatility products.
Fixed income flows were $300 million for the quarter down from the fourth quarter but this marked the 17th consecutive quarter of positive net flows for the business.
Despite the recent slowdown in net sales we remain optimistic about the prospects for this business in both the retail and institutional channels.
Turning to revenue and performance fees.
Total revenue decreased by 1% in the quarter as higher management fees were more than offset by lower private account performance fees.
Performance fees in our mutual funds were negative $21.9 million for the quarter which was flat to last quarter.
Additionally as we have said previously due to the 3-year nature of this calculation we expect this level of negative mutual fund performance fees to continue for the next several quarters.
First quarter operating expenses increased by less than 1% compared to the prior quarter.
Employee compensation increased $9.2 million due to a variety of factors including a year-end variable compensation adjustment in the prior quarter seasonally higher payroll taxes and retirement contributions and an increase in commissions due to higher gross sales quarter-over-quarter.
The quarterly compensation-to-revenue ratio was just under 35% which is within the range we have discussed previously.
Marketing and advertising decreased $2.4 million mostly due to the lack of seasonal advertising and G&amp;A was down $1.6 million.
We continue to hold the line on our discretionary expenditures but as I've mentioned in the past we are careful not to deprive the business of the resources we believe are necessary to achieve our strategic objectives.
Finally just a quick look at the balance sheet.
During the quarter we raised our quarterly dividend 17% to $0.07 a share.
This brings our annual dividend payout ratio to approximately 50%.
Additionally we reinvested in the business by adding $77 million in net new seed capital primarily for further funding of existing products that have good performance and are showing significant promise.
Lastly we continued the anti-dilutive stock buyback program and returned $4 million of capital to shareholders this quarter through these purchases.
Now as Dick mentioned in the prologue we'd like to proactively address a number of questions that we have received from our shareholders and analysts before opening it up to live Q&amp;A.
Thanks Bruce.
I think the first question that is most prominently asked by the folks we contacted is could we please provide any additional color around investment performance and our fundamental equity business? And I acknowledged earlier we agree and accept that that is the most important element of performance that we can deliver.
On Page 12 of the presentation the 3- and 5-year charts that you see reflect the impact of some seriously challenging performance in 2010 and '11.
We had a stronger 2012 but we still have a ways to go to heal those records.
I noted earlier in my comments that the first quarter of 2013 is off to a slower start than we would like but it is much too short a period of time to draw any significant conclusions.
And having looked across the larger funds in significant detail at the reasons and idiosyncratic issues creating that underperformance I can tell you that I remain very confident in our process and in our teams.
And I don't look to draw too much of a conclusion from this one quarter's performance.
Perhaps I should say one more word about what Enrique Chang will be doing when he arrives and how that fits into our efforts to improve performance.
As we've talked about our prior quarterly calls at the beginning of 2012 we implemented Project Focus and the Janus platform with the intent to making sure that our process with clients were clear that our actions were aligned with those promises and that our resources were aligned with both our actions and the client promises.
And we took some steps that we previously discussed to strengthen the team.
We view the addition of Mr.
Chang as a very positive contribution along those same lines.
He's philosophically aligned with what we're trying to do and he can help us strengthen and improve and sharpen our process but he doesn't represent a change of significance in our investment philosophy or where our alpha comes from.
As a proven people and process manager he's going to help us make sure we deliver the highest possible level of excellence to our clients but again he doesn't represent a significant change in investment philosophy or what clients can expect in terms of client promises from us.
He'll have the management of the day-to-day equity investment team and contribute across multi-asset portfolios new product development and firm-wide leadership.
Again we're a little bit hamstrung in the sense that he is a contractual commitment which requires him to have a gardening leave through into September and he can't start with us until that date and we're very much looking forward to his joining at that time.
The second question that came to us was so more specificity please around what is driving flow activity.
On Slide 13 we've tried to pull back the layers of the onion around that flow picture to give you a better idea of what is driving our results.
In the first quarter we experienced a 22% increase in gross sales and you can see that on this slide.
It was primarily driven by improvement in our growth core strategies as well as increase in fixed income sales.
In the growth and core discipline the quarter-over-quarter increase clearly the result of an improving market environment for active U.S.
equity managers and we are seeing particular strength in strategies that have put up strong performance over the last 2 to 3 years.
And obviously a lesser extent to those that only put up a better 2012.
On the fixed income side we're continuing to see strength across our strategies on a gross sales basis.
Despite the improvement in a gross sales picture on a total company basis we experienced a 17% increase in gross redemptions driven by our mathematical equity fixed income and value franchises.
As we mentioned in presentation the pickup in INTECH's redemptions was driven primarily by a single $1.2 billion loss mandate.
Despite this loss INTECH continues to hold the #1 market share position for quantitative managers in the active U.S.
institutional space and we're continued to be optimistic about their medium-term future because they're doing a very good job for their clients in investment performance.
In our fixed-income franchise we experienced a noticeable increase in gross redemptions during the quarter which we believe was driven by a change in investor sentiment as improved confidence led to some rotation back into equities.
Their performance continues to be solid and we continue to be very optimistic about the future of our fixed income business.
In our value discipline we saw an increase of redemptions of approximately 31% during the quarter which is primarily driven by our mid-cap value product and its relative underperformance compared to its index.
Let me turn it over to Bruce for Slide 14 and some other questions.
There are 3 other topics of considerable interest that include capital deployment compensation and performance fees and I will take them in order.
Based on past earning calls and recent discussions with many of you it is clear that there's interest in better understanding how we look at our capital structure with an emphasis on how management determines when and how to return cash to shareholders.
On Slide 14 you can see the hierarchy of cash uses and how we go about our capital-planning process.
We start by reserving capital as required by regulators to run our business as well as a liquidity buffer to maintain flexibility.
While the business is not capital intensive this step does require that we maintain minimum capital levels in all of our entities.
Second we look at our upcoming liabilities and set aside capital for contractual obligations recurring programmatic payments and planned debt repayment.
Third we look for areas in which we can invest in our business.
We plan for both organic and inorganic investment opportunities which can include seed funding distribution or investment team build-outs advertising spend and/or acquisitions to name a few.
Lastly after all these factors we look for ways to give capital back to shareholders through dividends stock buybacks or debt retirement.
As an operating principle you know that we believe a strong balance sheet aligns the interest of all of our stakeholders.
Since the financial crisis of 2008 we have been in a phase of de-leveraging in order to strengthen our balance sheet and regain and maintain an investment grade rating.
Over this time we have reduced debt outstanding by $583 million.
Although we believe this was the right decision it has constrained our ability to return cash to shareholders through other means.
Having said that in parallel with debt reduction we have nevertheless gradually increased our dividend.
Following the increase in our dividend that we announced today our regular dividend payout ratio is now in the higher-end of our peer group.
Finally last year we initiated our anti-dilutive stock buyback program that will offset any dilution as a result of employee compensation.
Management is constantly evaluating the amount of capital we return to shareholders.
And as our business fundamentals begin to improve and debt levels decrease to more comfortable levels we will look for opportunities to increase the amount of cash that we're giving back to shareholders.
As we look at our industry and the percentage of annual cash flow from operations that our peers return to shareholders it is clear that we are currently an outlier as our focus has been on reducing leverage on the balance sheet.
Over the last 3 years the industry has typically returned anywhere from 70% to 80% of annual cash flow from operations to shareholders in the form of regular dividends stock buybacks and special dividends.
As a long-term goal we intend to move more in line with the industry payout levels but this will need to be supported by improving fundamentals and a continuation of a strong balance sheet.
Compensation this quarter was sure to generate some questions.
As a matter of practice we do not intend to provide quarterly compensation reconciliations.
However given the size of the change of this quarter we have provided a bridge on Slide 15.
Competition increased $9.2 million from 4 factors which we have outlined on the slide.
$3.1 million due to year-end variable compensation adjustment in the prior quarter.
In the fourth quarter management made the decision to reduce compensation for senior executives and to further align long-term interest of employees with our shareholders by paying a higher portion of variable compensation in the form of stock versus cash.
$2.4 million from seasonally higher retirement contributions and payroll taxes.
As we expect each year we see retirement contributions and payroll taxes increase in the first quarter but then return to a lower amount as the year progresses and limits are reached.
We would not anticipate this amount to repeat in the remaining quarters of the year.
$1.9 million from commissions and base salaries.
Base salaries increased as we have invested strategically in the business over the course of the year.
And in January annual merit increases went into effect as well.
The strategic initiatives that are driving most of this increase include a build-out of our liquid alternatives team continued expansion of our fixed income team and further investments and distribution.
The increase in commissions was driven by a 22% increase in company-wide gross sales quarter-over-quarter and another $1.8 million in other items which includes such things as annual increases to group insurance costs severance costs and a handful of other items.
Remember a large component of our variable compensation is based on profits and will fluctuate with the operating profits of the firm on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
We believe that this structure provides the proper alignment between our employees and our shareholders.
For the quarter compensation as a percentage of revenue was 34.7% which is at the high-end of the range we provided at the fourth quarter call primarily as a result of the seasonal increases in retirement contributions and payroll taxes.
These seasonal costs will not repeat in the second quarter so all things being equal we expect to see compensation come down slightly in future quarters.
The comp-to-revenue ratio should remain in the low to mid-30s going forward.
As with all of our expenses we diligently oversee our compensation structures to align employee interest with shareholders while also ensuring we retain first-class talent throughout the organization.
And finally a quick look at performance fees.
Even though we have spent a lot of time on performance fees in the past based on some feedback and questions we have received during the quarter we thought it would be a good idea to provide some additional insight into the outlook for performance fees.
Two primary factors contribute to that calculation of performance fees which are the 3-year rolling relative performance by fund; and the average size of the fund over the measurement period.
Given the nature of the calculation and the uncertainty of future performance it's difficult to predict future outcomes.
But we do know the historical performance.
So we can model potential outcomes under various scenarios which is what we've provided on Slide 16.
This page reflects different revenue paths under varying degrees of future relative performance.
This is not intended as guidance to future performance fees but it does provide a range of possible outcomes given different performance levels.
On the right side of the slide we have included 3 potential performance scenarios and the year-over-year change in revenue that we would expect in those scenarios for 2013 and '14.
In looking at the page you'll see that the performance fee revenues is currently close to the mathematical bottom and the downside is limited.
Given the relative underperformance currently embedded in the performance fee calculation we anticipate being at our current level for the next several quarters.
That's all for the prepared answers to questions and I think we have time for a few follow-up questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Cynthia Mayer with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on your discussion of compensation.
On the Slide 15 that you were referencing and the guidance of $72 million that looks like it's similar to your comp this quarter excluding the seasonal pension and payroll tax that you point out.
But it also -- the $72 million it looks like it also includes the $3 million you label as year-end comp adjustments and through the other category severance.
So I'm just wondering why would you be factoring in year-end comp adjustments and severance into run-rate comp.
Cynthia I think -- we folded that in because that was an adjustment that took place in the fourth quarter okay.
And for comparison purposes that kind of drove down the comp cost in the fourth quarter relative to what would be the normal rate going forward.
Research Division</strong> But it's shown as an increase I guess.
Well we can continue this offline but...
If this is confusing at all please give us a ring after the call and we'll be happy to help you out with that.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then on the use of capital thanks for the slide on that.
Just wondering if you talked about why would you guys trading at a lower multiple versus peers you would increase the dividend versus buyback shares.
I think our take on it when we look at it it's clearly an option.
Our view was that we had room to increase the dividend that was highly effective way for us to return capital to shareholders.
And our feeling was that we were at a slightly lower rate relative to our peers and that would be the best approach for us to take.
We'll take our next question from Matt Kelley with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was just hoping first you could give us an update on the Dai-ichi funding.
Did anything fund this quarter? Or when are you expecting that to fund throughout the course of the year? And how should we be thinking about it by asset class? This is Dick.
They funded about half of their total commitment so far and we expect the remaining half to come in through the balance of the year.
And what was -- was there a second part to that question I'm sorry? Research Division</strong> The second part was just where it's funding.
Did it show up on the growth equity and fixed income bucket this quarter? Is that similar going forward? Yes it's a fairly diversified book of things that they've invested in including a very substantial part portion in fixed income but also including a number of equity products.
So it isn't just in 1 bucket or 2.
It's a little more diversified.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just curious -- when you guys look at performance and it's a helpful way you guys laid out the slide deck of frequent investor questions.
I'm just curious more of kind of theoretical question on it -- when you look at performance and you're comparing versus Morningstar categories or quartiles I guess how do you think about it versus benchmarks? Is it more about improving performance versus peer funds or versus benchmarks? Or is it -- is the conversation evolving at all between those 2 things I guess is my broader question? I think we have to be clear on a product-by-product basis what our promise is and that promise is usually articulated relative to an index for a great many clients.
But if you look at the flows and the business outcome of our performance it's also heavily affected by performance relative to peers.
And so we have to integrate those 2 views as we look -- think about our performance because they're both important.
With the obvious rise in ETS and readily available passive investments as a very serious competitor in our business that certainly elevates the absolute performance versus index probably higher than it used to be in the retail business.
That's always been the first element of analysis in the institutional business.
And lastly I'll mention as you know as Bruce has outlined in great detail our performance fees are relative to the benchmarks not relative to the peer group.
Research Division</strong> And just one quick follow-up for me.
On the alternative side you guys have been very active there it seems like.
I'm just curious for a sense of where you view the long-term built-out of that business going obviously you've been adding in liquid alternatives.
Anything else you think is incremental from here? And what are you doing to expand through distribution channels? I am convinced that our industry has not provided adequate answers in terms of asset allocation because portfolios of stocks and bonds plus or minus REITs plus or minus maybe some long-only commodities even is insufficiently diversified as a return stream to get people good risk control characteristics especially in the face of the sort of volatile global macroeconomics which seem to be a constant feature.
As a consequence we pushed into liquid alternatives as an answer to that question.
Where can I get true diversification? Where can I build a piece of diversified return that helps my overall asset allocation and helps -- let me sleep at night in the face of a lot of volatility in the world? I think that remains the fundamental driving thought behind our alts business.
And one could imagine using our liquid alts platform to extend in some directions to build out across that idea in different ways where institutional and retail client base is.
That said we have a limited capacity to invest.
We -- our wallet is not unending and as we make investments we need to hold them accountable for success before we continue to invest in successive rounds.
So I think right now we'd very much like to see our liquid alts platform develop success.
We think it's on the right path.
We think it's an excellent product with a great future.
But it's going to take some time for that to generate client relationships and flows.
As that happens I think we then become more open to successive rounds of development.
We'll take our next question from Ken Worthington with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First on Perkins.
The owners I think put back the remaining of their interest to Janus as was their option.
A skeptic would say that it could be a lack of confidence in the business given performance in sales.
How do you interpret the exercise of the put option? And is there additional action that you either need to take or are taking to kind of protect that franchise? I think that these sorts of strategic transactions involving the transition from sort of an owner-founder culture into next generations have a normal life and the incentives around the purchase of equity in Perkins from some years ago ran their course and we were not surprised to have this event happen.
We have come to a substantial agreement on new compensation structures and plans with the folks at Perkins.
We believe that that's very stable.
And we and they are excited about the future of their business.
So I think in this case the cynical perspective would be not quite right.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then to follow-up on that a question on Dai-ichi.
I think part of the relationship is a cross-selling with DIAM.
Where does that stand? And just to flesh out your answer to his question on the -- I think it's $2 billion that needs to be invested of which you said half has been invested so far was the majority of that half in the first quarter or did it happen before the beginning of the year? Just a little more color to see how much is in these 1Q numbers.
Well I think -- actually nothing even have that number right in front of me.
I'd have to go back and remember where we ended the year and what we said on the last quarterly conference call about progress.
So forgive me but I don't have the exact split between fourth quarter last year and this quarter at hand.
Research Division</strong> The DIAM? On DIAM we have approximately $900 million of Janus managed AUM raised in Tokyo.
And actually it's $875 million apologies.
At March 31 raised with the help of our colleagues at DIAM in Tokyo.
So that has been a very successful and productive relationship for us.
And we expect and hope to continue to be good partners with those folks and continue to raise additional assets as time goes forward.
We are all subject to the changing demands and desires of the retail marketplace in Tokyo because what we do with DIAM is effectively use their good auspices and technical help to position funds for sale through bank and other networks in Tokyo.
At the moment it's mostly fixed income product but as their appetites change we hope to stay in front of that.
We'll go next to Dan Fannon with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Bruce I guess you mentioned on the call about INTECH you're seeing some pickup in demand.
Can you talk about that just in conversations or RFPs meetings kind of give some context around that? This is Dick.
I'll hit that one for Bruce.
INTECH is experiencing an increase in activities in terms of consultant opportunities and client meetings and incoming calls folks who are interested in what they're doing for a living.
It takes a while for a pipeline to fill from that end through to finals through to flows.
So we're encouraged by the pickup in activity but it's going to take some time for that to fully come forward in flows.
And I'll just say one thing about INTECH's evolving performance.
Last year at this time the 1- 3- and 5-year gross of fee outperformance of their benchmark was 65 57 and 54.
And this year it's 191.
So their -- the strength of their performance track records has improved substantially over the last 12 months.
That also takes some time to work its way into the marketplace and to see the full effect of it in flows.
So we think they're very much on the right track.
We think the leadership change there is working extremely well.
We are very disappointed with the flows that we have seen but we remain really optimistic about the future of that business.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I guess just on fixed income that we saw pickup in redemptions you highlighted in a more industry trends with regards to greater demand for equity.
So is that how you think this business will unfold if we see broader pickup in equity demand we should see fixed income redemptions pick up? Or are there other things happening within your client base? I'm not aware of other things happening within our client base that I should call your attention to.
As to the correlation of flows between equity and fixed I wouldn't want to make a bold prediction here.
I think sometimes they trade off against each other.
And sometimes they both benefit from movements out of cash.
And it's a little bit hard to predict.
Also a significant part of our fixed income business is institutional and therefore can be lumpy.
So I wouldn't say more than I think they're doing -- they continue to do a very good job.
I think they continue to have good prospects for future growth.
We're optimistic about their business as well.
We'll go next to Marc Irizarry with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Dick just -- can you give us a little perspective on the distribution channel and maybe some of the changes if any that you're making there that could help drive your gross sales? And in particular if you think about the volatility around the performance this year just for the core Janus business and sort of the phenomenon of good year bad year what impact is that having sort of demand? I think maybe is there more of a longer-term change in terms of volatility of outperformance that we should be thinking about? I think short-term performance 1 quarter performance is not an adequate foundation to say much.
Clearly our funds that have put up consistent good performance have successfully been sold at the front of the industry.
Janus Triton Fund I think was first in the Morningstar category for its peer group.
Janus Venture Fund was sixth in its category Morningstar category peer group out of 203 funds.
The Enterprise Fund was 18th out of 205 funds.
Where we have consistent strong performance I think our distribution has proven it can sell at the front of the pack.
And it's no mystery that in some of the other funds our larger funds as I said at the start we had a particularly challenging '10 and '11.
We had a better '12 but we need to continue that.
And we came out slower than we would like in the first quarter of '13 but again that's such a short period I don't react too much to that first quarter number.
We'll take our next question from Bill Katz with Citi.
Research Division</strong> First question goes back to your discussion on capital management return.
And so I'm curious what would be the key metric that we should be looking forward to assume a 50% [ph] capital return relative to net income? Bill good question.
I think as you look at that waterfall slide you can kind of see the way that we cascade through that capital plan.
We mentioned in our comments that over time as we get our balance sheet in the position that we would like it that we'd like to get ourselves more toward market standards we've seen in the recent history anyway market standards of 70% or 80% return of cash.
And I think we'd like to try to march in that direction if we can but that will be contingent upon our ability to now secure and stable balance sheet and credit rating.
Research Division</strong> Just to qualify is that a function of organic growth like some of your peers? Or is it just net debt or EBITDA coverage ratio? Well it'll be impacted by both.
I mean clearly the business fundamentals will drive our ultimate decision on that.
Research Division</strong> And my second question goes back to your discussion on margins.
And obviously the average assets not obviously but most likely average assets being up into the second quarter just given the end of period dynamics in Q1.
Can you give us a sense of the comp level -- the comp guidance for the second quarter? Would it be a margin calculation as a percentage of revenue? Or in absolute dollars that we should be thinking about to reflect the change in revenues? I think we've tried to frame this compensation discussion in terms of low to mid-30s as comp as a percentage -- yes comp as a percentage of revenues.
We've tended to be firmly in that range.
This quarter we're a little bit higher in that range than we have been for the reasons that we articulated.
If you take away the seasonal adjustments that took place in the first quarter that won't repeat it gets us down into that 33-ish percent range.
I think that sits firmly within that range that we've articulated for you.
It will move around a little bit Bill but that's I guess the best that I would frame it.
We would look at it more in terms of ratios would be the yes.
We'll go next to Michael Kim with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> First just curious to get your take on sort of the outlook for asset allocation trends maybe coming out of the first quarter.
So would you sort of expect retail investors to continue to gradually move up the risk curve assuming the broader markets remain constructive? Or do you feel like we're still sort of in somewhat of a holding pattern? I think it's a really hard moment in time to talk about patterns because we have no sustained trend and deflation with contraction in Europe et cetera a slowdown in manufacturing in China deflation is the issue of the fear of the day.
But the private sector balance sheets and company prospects remain pretty strong.
So I think it's pretty hard to talk about single path expectations going forward from here.
And we're not -- it's not crucial in our planning for us to make that sort of short-term path-dependent prediction.
At the moment -- what's more fundamental to our planning is we know or we think we know over the long term investors can't possibly get where they're going unless they come back more substantially into equities.
That's the first thing we think we know.
And the second thing we think we know is we think people need more diversification in their asset allocation.
And those are the 2 truths that we're focused on at the moment.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then second can you just sort of give us an update on -- in terms of what you're seeing on the M&amp;A front as it relates to kind of supply and the level of competition out there and maybe any color on pricing trends that you may be seeing? Well obviously we follow that market with great interest.
We'd like to stay well-informed.
It is surprising to us I think that given the really generous financing terms available in the world there haven't been more deals done.
I think the uncertainty in the regulatory environment and the uncertainty in the economic environment is stalling what would otherwise be a pretty active period in M&amp;A.
In terms of pricing the deals that get done seem to be fully priced but there aren't tons and tons of them.
So I don't have anything particularly insightful to say about pricing trends on the M&amp;A side.
I expect that if the world doesn't go off the rails in some deflationary process that you'll start to see an increasing amount of M&amp;A activity because of the very accommodating financing terms available in the world.
We'll take our next question from Craig Siegenthaler with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> You guys have a 1940 Act Global Bond Fund.
And it grew from about 0 in February in terms of AUM to about $230 million in March.
I'm just wondering where did these flows come from.
Was this your balance sheet in terms of seed capital? Was this a Dai-ichi general account investment? What really went into this fund? It's mostly Dai-ichi.
I think a big part of it was Dai-ichi related flows.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And you know when -- do you know when this fund will have a 3-year track record? As I sit here I don't have that answer but we can follow-up with you after the call.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just final question here is Enrique Chang you said will probably start around September.
Should we expect any unusual charges over the next few quarters and an increase in comp even though modest due to his addition or maybe some members of his team to? Craig I don't think you'll see anything outsized as it pertains to Enrique joining us.
We'll take our next question from Robert Lee with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate the added color.
I'm looking at Page 16 of the performance fees.
Just a quick question just to drill into a little bit on some of the -- one of the assumptions you have.
And kind of the middle there where the -- we have I guess there's kind of benchmark performance.
You get this pop-up -- this improvement I should say in performance fees in '14.
Is that mainly -- just trying to drill into that is that mainly just because you're rolling off a tough 2010 and therefore the relative looks better? Or is it partially driven by just lower average assets? I'm just trying to get a sense for some of the assumptions in that.
Your first presumption is right.
It's primarily roll-off in the performance from prior years.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just to go I mean quick modeling question.
I know you've covered comp pretty well.
But if I look at some of the other line items I know there's some seasonality in marketing but G&amp;A and the other distribution costs they've all seemed to -- at least versus our expectation came in somewhat lighter.
How should we think of those going forward? I mean is it going to be an unusually low quarter for some of those? And particularly as you roll out new products new strategies at some point you've got to spend to help market those and get those out there.
So how should be thinking of some of those line items? Right.
Well on the marketing and advertising line we've pointed out I think in the past that there is some seasonality in the fourth quarter which can throw off your comparisons going into the first part of the year.
That's in effect what's going on here.
I think that's really the only time of the year that you'll see things that are seasonal in nature and marketing and advertising.
Otherwise it's hard to give guidance on some of the smaller bucket items in terms of seasonality.
I mean they'll come and go.
But as it pertains to distribution you've heard Dick's comments on our desire to expand some of our channels.
It is my expectation that we will continue to invest in those channels.
And so you may see some periodic lift in that as we go forward.
Ladies and gentlemen we have time for one final question.
We'll go to Jeff Hopson with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So the first question the improvement in the sales and/or flows on the retail side I guess.
It looks like January clearly had some benefit to that.
Is that fair to say that there was a boost from January specifically? And in terms of some of the new products that you've introduced over the last few years I'm just -- it doesn't look like at this point there's the potential for a breakthrough and that any improvement that would be material in sales and flows would come from traditional products.
Is that fair to say? And then finally is there any new message that wholesalers sales marketing is delivering in the market today regarding new products new messages that could potentially provide some spark here as we move forward? This is Dick.
To your first question yes January was a contributor on the retail side especially.
To your second question the way we think it around here a new product which we develop is a 3- to 5-year time period before it really makes a significant impact.
What I tell folks when I speak internally here is that the most important thing we can do by a wide wide margin by an exponential factor is to take care of our existing clients and by taking care of our existing clients I mean deliver good performance and good client relationship to those people.
And that is vastly more important than all the new products and new-fangled ideas you can stand on their head.
If you do that core job well then you can be permission-ed to develop your business in a successful path over a 3- to 5-year time period.
And that's really how we think about it.
And lastly the third part of your question was wholesalers.
Our wholesalers have been delivering for 3 to 6 months -- 6 months probably.
A message around our strategic thought which is that a huge part of the buildup of cash on the retail side for retail investors was a fairly eloquent statement that they felt poorly treated by their asset allocation.
They experienced too much volatility and risk particularly through that '08 '09 cycle and that scared them.
And then with all the elements of global uncertainty that everybody reads about in the paper every day people essentially withdraw from the system and go to cash.
That essentially if you think about what that is on a repeated pattern basis it ends up being fear-based market timing in the sense that people sell at the wrong time.
And then when the market goes way up as it has since the first quarter of 2009 and they see they've missed 125% return or whatever it's been then they get sort of cajoled by advisers and others to come back in having missed that terrific period of returns.
And so it's fairly predictable that fear-based market timing doesn't end well for the investors.
The message we've taken out is that a more conservative asset allocation something that you can sustain through periods of volatility is a much wiser course for our clients.
And that doesn't mean there isn't a good home for some more aggressive more volatile products and investments.
Certainly that can have -- that can be a component of your investing.
But overall we believe clients need to be advised and they need to follow a path of conservative asset allocation so that they don't lose faith at the wrong periods and go into cash and essentially miss the key market return opportunities.
So that's the message that we've been taking out to clients.
And it's -- I think as you can see consistent with other strategic thoughts we've mentioned on this call.
And it's been working we find that folks appreciate it and understand it and are acting somewhat in accordance with that as they move forward.
So that's the new message from the wholesaling force that's out there.
It obviously supports some new product development along the lines of our liquid alts but it also all of our existing products have a key place in that message as well.
I guess in terms of final comment I would just like to thank everybody for your time and attention today.
I hope the new format and information structure that we've offered is increasingly useful for you.
Please get back to us with your feedback.
And as always we'll try and be as good in servicing you as we possibly can be.
Thanks for your time and attention.
Have a good day.
This concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for attending.
Good morning my name is Nicole and I will be your conference facilitator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to the Janus Capital Group Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Before the company begins I would like to reference their standard legal disclosure which also accompanies the full slide presentation located in the Investor Relations area of janus.com.
Statements made in the presentation today may contain forward-looking information about management's plans projections expectations strategic objectives business prospectives anticipated financial results anticipated results of litigation and regulatory proceedings and other similar matters.
A variety of factors many of which are beyond the company's control affect the operations performance business strategy and results of Janus and could cause actual results and experiences to differ materially from the expectations and objectives expressed in their statements.
These factors include but are not limited to the factors described in Janus' reports filed with the SEC which are available on their website www.janus.com and on the SEC's website www.sec.gov.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date of which they are made.
Janus does not undertake to update such statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date of these statements were made.
Investors should however consult any further disclosures Janus may make in its reports filed with the SEC.
Thank you.
Now it is my pleasure to introduce Dick Weil Chief Executive Officer of Janus Capital Group.
Mr.
Weil you may begin your conference.
Thank you operator.
Welcome everybody to the second quarter 2013 Janus Capital Group earnings call.
Let me start by giving you a bit of my perspective on this past quarter and then as usual I'll turn it over to Bruce Koepfgen.
I'd like to call your attention to really 3 main elements for this quarter.
The first most obvious element is you've seen EPS for the second quarter of $0.08 per share compared to $0.15 in the first quarter.
It's important to note that that includes $0.04 per share noncash charge to the extinguishment of debt on our convertible debt exchange and another loss related to our seed capital program and Bruce will take you through that in more detail in a minute.
The second thing I want to call your attention to as the obvious major element of this quarter is the net outflows that we experienced in the quarter which were clearly impacted by some shifting market dynamics.
But very importantly the fact that we haven't yet adequately healed the underperformance in some of our larger investment portfolios and obviously also affected by some portfolio manager changes that took place in the quarter.
Anticipating some questions it's not possible for us to give you a clean attribution across the reasons for various client decisions.
Many of those decisions are made for a complex set of reasons.
And if we tried to attribute to a single reason I think we'd give you the wrong impression.
But it is clear that a combination of some underperformance and the effects of portfolio manager change were active in the results of the quarter.
As I mentioned at the start I thought I should cover 3 important elements of the quarter.
We talked a bit about the earnings per share.
We talked a bit about the net flows.
And the third element is this portfolio manager change element I'd like to address.
Portfolio manager changes are a function of our business.
Particularly when performance isn't as good as one might hope one has to take a look at whether we have all the right people in all the right seats.
During this past quarter we've clearly made some significant changes.
And they do impact sales and redemptions in a negative way and we saw some of that in the second quarter.
But it's important to note that I am more confident now in our portfolio management team than I have been at any time since I started.
I think particularly if you count the addition of Enrique Chang who actually won't start until September the team is really in better shape than it has been since my arrival.
And so while these changes have a short-term disruptive effect I'm very confident that we've got the right people in the right places to deliver excellence going forward.
A couple of other more minor notes about the quarter just to touch on we maintained our financial discipline through this period with margins increasing in the quarter to 27.1%.
And we obviously took some steps to further strengthen our balance sheet through cash flow from operations and our convertible note exchange which Bruce will tell you about more as part of his presentation.
Finally I'm excited today to announce several changes to our executive leadership team.
Our CFO Bruce Koepfgen is being promoted to a newly established role as President of Janus Capital Group.
Jennifer McPeek who's currently Senior Vice President and Treasurer is being promoted to CFO both effective August 1.
I congratulate both of these terrific people on their promotions.
They'll do a terrific job for us as they have already.
And it should position us even more strongly in our leadership team to help drive the business forward.
The last thing I'll call your attention to is the structure of this call.
Last quarter we tried something new.
We built in some Q&amp;A based on discussions with analysts and stockholders prior to this meeting.
That seemed to have been very well received.
The feedback we have heard has been good.
So we're going to continue that.
And we have some preprepared Q&amp;A following Bruce's remarks that we'll go through.
And then of course following that as always on this call we'll take your live questions.
With that said let me turn it over to Mr.
Bruce Koepfgen.
Good morning everyone.
For those of you who would like to follow along on the deck I will start my comments on Page 5.
Earnings per share for the second quarter was $0.08 compared to $0.15 in the first quarter.
Second quarter earnings per share included $0.04 per share noncash loss on the early retirement of debt.
It also includes $0.02 per share loss primarily attributable to the mark-to-market impact of our seed capital program.
By comparison the first quarter included a $0.02 per share benefit on investment gains.
So the total quarter-over-quarter noncash change attributable to investment gains and losses totaled $0.04 a share.
Second quarter average AUM of $164.2 billion was 1.5% higher than the prior quarter driven by market strength.
Revenue of $215.8 million increased 1% from the first quarter as higher management fees were partially offset by lower private account performance fees.
Operating expenses of $157.4 million decreased by 1% primarily from mark-to-market adjustments and long-term incentive compensation.
Operating income of $58.4 million was 7% higher than the prior quarter reflecting both an increase in top line revenue and continued financial discipline.
And lastly our operating margin improved to 27.1% from 25.5% in the first quarter.
Turning to investment performance.
As of June 30 45% of fundamental equity assets were performing above the median of Morningstar peers on a 1-year basis.
This number represents an improvement from a year ago and only 41% of our assets were above the median.
Fixed income performance continues to be strong with 100% of the assets in the top 2 Morningstar quartiles over the 3- and 5-year time periods.
And our long-term mathematical equity performance remains very solid with the majority of the strategies outperforming their benchmarks across 3- and 5-year periods.
On Slide 7 total company long-term net outflows were $5.4 billion compared to $3.9 billion in outflows in the first quarter.
Taken in their component parts fundamental equity posted second quarter net outflows of $4.3 billion versus $1.8 billion in the prior quarter.
This decline from the first quarter was driven by an increase in redemptions as well as the expected seasonal slowdown in gross sales.
Although difficult to precisely attribute the reasons for this increase in redemptions they were largely driven by the continued underperformance in several of our largest fundamental equity funds and the changes in portfolio management that took place during the quarter that Dick previously addressed.
Mathematical equity flows improved in the quarter with net outflows of $1.2 billion compared to $2.4 billion of outflows in the first quarter.
The improvement in net outflows was driven by the large institutional redemption in the first quarter which did not repeat in the second quarter.
While gross sales levels remain low we are seeing activity and interest increased in many of INTECH's newer strategies including low volatility and non-U.S.
products.
We are encouraged by this interest and optimistic about the business going forward.
And fixed income flows were $100 million for the quarter down from $300 million in the prior quarter.
Despite the fact that industry-wide fixed income flows were negative for the first time since the fourth quarter of 2008 Janus flows were positive for the 18th consecutive quarter.
Turning to revenue and performance fees.
Total revenue increased by 1% in the quarter as higher management fees were only partially offset by lower private account performance fees.
Performance fees in our mutual funds were negative $22.5 million for the quarter which continues to be close to the mathematical bottom of the calculation.
As we have said previously due to the 3-year nature of the calculation we would expect this level of negative mutual fund performance fees to continue through the remainder of the year.
Performance fees in our private accounts were positive $300 000 compared to $2.3 million in the first quarter.
This amount will fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter depending upon how private accounts with performance fees perform against their respective benchmarks.
As we look at operating expenses there's really not much of interest to report on the expense line other than possibly to point out that our continued discipline in controlling discretionary expenses coupled with the increase in revenues resulted in 160-basis-point improvement in operating margins quarter-over-quarter.
And finally a quick look at the balance sheet.
We successfully exchanged $110 million of the company's existing 3.25% convertible senior notes due in 2014 for $117 million of new 3.25% convertible senior notes due in 2018 during the second quarter.
I will discuss this transaction in more detail later in the presentation but we are pleased to be able to take advantage of favorable conditions in the marketplace which served to increase our financial flexibility.
During the quarter cash equivalents increased by 9% driven by cash flow from operations of $67 million.
Now lastly in the second quarter we paid a $0.07 per share or $13 million quarterly dividend and repurchased $9 million of stock via our anti-dilutive buyback program.
We'd like to address a few questions that appear to be of interest to shareholders and analysts.
They include: first a further detail on the change in quarterly flows; second the quarterly change in earnings per share with particular emphasis on the below-of-the-line items; and lastly an overview of our convertible note exchange.
And with that I'll kick it back to Dick to speak about quarterly flows and then I'll take the last 2 questions.
Thanks Bruce.
Turning to Page 12 of the presentation.
We have attempted to address and anticipate your questions around the changes in flows from quarter-to-quarter.
Obviously we were -- and remain frustrated with the level of outflows.
But improving the investment performance particularly in some of these funds where we have changed portfolio management is going to take some time.
On the good news side INTECH's flows were $1.2 billion better than in the first quarter and that can be explained primarily by the absence of a single large redemption.
But as Bruce noted earlier we're encouraged and optimistic about the future of their business.
Perkins flows were roughly flat.
As Bruce noticed earlier the Janus fixed income flows were slightly worse but remained positive overall reflecting the excellent job that team continues to do although at this point in the face of some difficult market conditions in terms of industry outflows in the quarter.
Janus equity experienced a $2.6 billion worsening of its net flows which as we've noted really relates to some underperformance and some expiration of outflows related to portfolio manager turnover and some interruption of inflows related to portfolio manager also.
As I noted above it would be natural for everybody to say "What's the attribution across that set of causes?" And it would be very difficult to give you any accurate answer because we don't have full transparency in every client decision and usually those decisions are made for a combination of reasons.
With that said I will turn it back to Bruce to address some additional questions.
In looking at our financial results for the quarter we thought it would be helpful to walk through the specific items impacting second quarter per share relative to the first quarter.
On Slide 13 you can see a breakout of the operating and nonoperating factors that bridge our first quarter and second quarter earnings per share.
First we had positive operating results for the quarter resulting in roughly a $0.01 increase in earnings per share quarter-over-quarter.
This improvement was due to the increase in average assets during the quarter and our continued focus on financial discipline resulting in lower expenses.
Secondly we had a noncash charge of $0.04 per share in the second quarter related to the convertible senior note exchange.
And finally the investment gains and losses line was responsible for a quarter-over-quarter change in earnings per share of $0.04.
The quarter-over-quarter change was a result of the difference between the $4.6 million net investment gain in the first quarter and a $6.1 million of net investment losses in the second quarter.
As many of you know we have invested meaningfully in our seed capital portfolio over the last few years.
And as of the end of the second quarter this portfolio was $341 million.
With a portfolio of this size it's not unexpected to see mark-to-market changes of this magnitude.
Turning to the next slide.
We also wanted to walk through the convertible note exchange which we successfully completed during the quarter.
As we have discussed in the past a strong balance sheet is very important to management at Janus.
In the second quarter we were presented with an opportunity that allowed us to capitalize on high demand in this convertible note market.
This demand enabled us to refinance at extremely attractive rates extend our existing debt maturities increase our financial flexibility and maintain our presence in the convertible notes segment of the capital markets.
During the quarter we executed a successful exchange of $110 million of existing 3.25% 2014 convertible senior notes for $117 million of newly issued 3.25% 2018 convertible senior notes.
We intend to retire the remaining $60 million of the 2014 convertible notes in July of 2014 at maturity with cash on hand.
The transaction will reduce pretax GAAP interest expense in the second half of 2013 by approximately $3.5 million and the additional financial flexibility provided by the transaction will allow us to retire existing long-term debt obligations should the opportunity arise in the future.
The 2018 convertible senior notes carry an annual cash interest rate of 0.75% and are convertible into shares of Janus common stock at a conversion premium of 25% or $10.86 per share.
In conjunction with the convertible note exchange we also entered into a note hedge and warrant transaction which will reduce the potential for future dilution to existing shareholders by effectively increasing the conversion premium on the 2018 convertible notes to 45% from 25% or $12.60 per share.
The reason we entered into this note exchange and warrant transaction is because we are optimistic about the prospects for Janus Capital Group and we wanted to protect our existing shareholders from the risk of future dilution.
That being said if we experience a meaningful increase in the stock price beyond the effective conversion premium of 45% we would expect to take measure of that at the time but quite likely to repurchase shares to offset any resulting dilution to existing shareholders.
We believe that this transaction further positions us to continue executing on our strategy and significantly increases our financial flexibility.
With that I will turn it back to the operator for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Matt Kelley with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping first to -- if you could just fill us in on what portion of the Dai-ichi agreement the distribution agreement there funded this quarter in which buckets potentially and total to-date from the beginning of the agreement? Yes.
Sure Matt.
We were about 60% into that program through the second quarter the total program being $2 billion.
And in the quarter I think we funded an additional $170 million in global investment grade.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my follow-up is just in terms of the performance on -- especially on INTECH it looks like it slipped quarter-over-quarter on the 1 year.
So I'm just hoping to get some color from you guys in terms of some of the drivers behind that and how that's being communicated to clients.
Sure this is Dick.
Thanks Matt for the question.
INTECH tends to be a very very effectively risk-controlled product set across their line of products.
And they can move around the index and the measure of how much is above or below can move around visibly as a result.
That can happen with the relatively modest amount of change in investment performance.
And so that's happened a little bit in this quarter.
There's no particular important message to it that we see.
INTECH's long-term performance remains very solid.
What they do works.
Under the new leadership of Adrian Banner over recent periods I think they've become even more effective and focused as a team.
We're very optimistic about what they're doing in some new products in terms of low volatility in terms of some income-oriented products and some international-oriented products.
And so we think they're on the right track going forward.
And I wouldn't draw too much of a message out of the rather modest changes to investment results over short periods of time.
And our next question will come from Ken Worthington with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> Maybe to follow up on Dai-ichi.
How regular is the dialogue with Dai-ichi and maybe if you can talk about what the nature of the dialogue is.
And once you meet that guaranteed investment threshold the $2 billion what are your expectations for additional investments after that? Are there any that you have or do you think things just kind of paused at that point? Thanks Ken.
I guess as a general statement I would say that the relationship with Dai-ichi is meeting or exceeding all expectations.
We have found a multiple opportunities to continue to work with them to expand our business in Japan.
The people that we are working most closely with are true professionals and a delight to interact with.
And we clearly share a common goal to advance the interest of Janus business.
So we are well on track.
The $2 billion is an initial amount that they've agreed to fund.
But I think it's safe to say that everyone on our side of the table and on theirs is looking for additional opportunities to expand our business in multiple areas.
I can't point to any particular ones at this time but I think it's safe to say that we are all equally incented to do that and the relationship so far has been extraordinary.
Bruce just let me add one last point to that.
As of June 30 we managed about $940 million of assets for DIAM which is the 50% owned affiliate of Dai-ichi.
And obviously what that represents is significant help from Dai-ichi in distributing our products in Japan.
And I'd just follow on with the same comments about DIAM that we've made about Dai-ichi.
It's just a wonderful working relationship.
To-date they've raised just short of $1 billion for us which is an extraordinary effort in a short period of time.
And again equally motivated to find new and different opportunities for us to work together in the future.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then maybe moving to compensation.
Can you talk about the impact of payroll tax this quarter? And were there any other unusual items in compensation? I know you've made a number of high-profile hires.
Wasn't sure if any -- there was any impact from those in terms of like buyout of bonuses or anything like that may have gone through this quarter.
I'll turn to -- I'll turn the payroll tax issue to Brennan.
But in terms of the compensation as a general statement I think comp-to-revenue ratios this quarter were 34.5% or so last quarter.
I think about 34.7% so well within the ranges that we have historically suggested to you.
Our comp programs as you know Ken are built off of bottom line profits not off of revenue.
So market movements and changes can impact those quarter-to-quarter mix is a little tough to predict with precision.
But I don't see anything in the compensation right now that would change our sense to that kind of low- to mid-30 percentages where we should be.
Research Division</strong> You used to have a payroll tax impact from 1Q to 2Q and it didn't look like we had it at this quarter.
Ken we did see that.
There was about a $1.5 million decline Q1 to Q2.
We normally see a pickup in payroll taxes in Q1 that did not repeat in Q2.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then what made up that difference? Yes Ken this is what I was mentioning before.
It's hard to hit this with some precision.
I mean our comp line is going to change a little bit with market conditions and we saw some of that this quarter.
Our next question will come from Michael Kim with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just first curious to get your take on some of the fund flow trend that we're seeing across the industry in terms of kind of the bond fund outflows more recently.
And any insights into trends as you look across your funds? Thanks Michael.
Obviously there's a lot of concern in fixed income markets and there's been a lot of volatility.
And June was a particularly tough period in rates for fixed income investors.
And the decision-making at the government and central bank level around policy and market intervention and uncertainty around those processes is going to drive volatility and fear in fixed income markets for a while.
So we haven't seen the great rotation that people talk about out of fixed income into equities in a big way but we've seen a lot of concern and fear in fixed income markets and that's clearly affected flows into fixed income.
I would say impossible for me to predict the future past in that zone.
Although certainly I would anticipate continuing volatility in fixed income around whatever central bankers and governments say and do for the near period.
That said our fixed income team continues to be doing just an excellent job.
And I think they'll continue to gain market share from everything I can see.
But the loss will clearly be affected by industry flows and which direction the river is flowing.
But again I don't think we've seen the great rotation by any means.
We haven't seen any sort of capitulation by fixed income investors by any means.
And we haven't seen the sustained rate rise that so many people expect yet.
So there's a lot of -- we're in the third inning of that sort of fixed income game or maybe second.
I think there's a lot left to go.
But our guys are doing a very good job.
They're well positioned.
And they continue to gain market share and we're very happy about our fixed income team.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then second it looks like marketing and advertising expense remained a bit low prior run rates.
So just wondering if that's related to some of the more recent performance trends and how should we be thinking about that line going forward? No Michael I really can't point anything special there.
I mean that's kind of steady state.
We've mentioned in the past that the whole management team here is highly sensitized to cost containment.
It's been a I think pleasant experience for me while I've been in this post while we haven't had to veer off our strategic path but there's nothing special going on in the marketing line.
We continue to expend or to spend money there as necessary to support the agenda.
Our next question comes from Robert Lee with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question is maybe I appreciate it's harder to parse flows between or why people left.
But I guess what I'm kind of curious about is maybe parsing it by distribution channel.
If you saw the pickup in the outflows come with the predominantly say sub-advised 401k platforms or is it coming from kind of individual investors? Any kind of incremental color about how the different distribution platforms are behaving? And then a follow-up question on INTECH.
We really don't have any breakout that's available to kind of parse the distribution channel impacts by virtue of the changes.
So...
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well then maybe shifting over to INTECH.
You had talked about they're being encouraged by increased interest in their mobile strategies global strategies.
I'm just maybe trying to drill down to that a little bit.
Are you starting to see actual pickup in RFP activity? Has it gotten to that level? Or is it more just more people inquiring about the strategies whether it's consultants and whatnot? So it's still kind of I'll call it the pre-RFP stage so to speak? We're seeing a pickup particularly outside of the United States in both -- I don't have the specific formal RFP numbers in front of me and a lot of that business doesn't always go to formal RFP state.
But it's safe to say that particularly outside the United States we're seeing a lot more serious interest and activity in the zones we talked about in those INTECH products.
I think that's probably as fair an answer as I can give you.
Our next question will come from Bill Katz with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Question for you on as you think about incremental growth for the business.
Sort of curious if I look at your slide that gives out the gross sales by quarter what's remarkable is that there's been so flat or down in all your major buckets and the marketing spend is sort of flat.
Can you talk a little bit about strategy to grow the business from here and the impact on margins? I think Bruce really addressed the marketing point and it's really in the context that our whole leadership team has adopted I think very effectively the view that we should be extremely efficient with our spend but we need to continue to invest where appropriate to generate the right business results.
So we're not sacrificing our strategic or practical agenda for cost control but we're trying to be as efficient as possible while continuing to support our goals.
I think that's the first thing.
The second thing is -- the most important element we can deliver right now for flows is not advertising.
It's better investment results in some of the key large pools.
We've obviously made some changes to support that effort.
I said earlier in the call I'm more confident in the -- having the right people in the right seats especially including Enrique joining in September.
I think we've strengthened the team substantially and I'm excited about that.
That hasn't come through yet in the results and it's going to take some time.
But that's the most important element of addressing our flow situation.
And no we don't have on the books a significant new level of marketing and ad spend.
We don't have that planned at the moment.
Bill just one final point on this.
We're happy I think this quarter with the 160-basis-point expansion in the margin.
And as I mentioned before I'm very pleased with the seriousness with which the management team takes cost containment.
But all that being said the biggest factor weighing on our margins today is performance fees as Dick has referenced.
And my expectation is that as investment performance improves those margins will improve as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The follow-up question is maybe for Bruce.
Any in particular strategic shift given the new office new position and going back and thinking about opportunities for growth expansion et cetera and capital deployment? Let me take the first piece of that.
No there will be no strategic change based on promotions internally.
I mean these teams have been working effectively together for the last few years.
And I look forward to continuing in that capacity.
I'll kick it to Dick for the other strategic...
I think we are happy with our basic strategy of intelligent diversification.
The first plank of that was push the fixed income business forward and we think that's going well.
The second plank of that was drive our international business forward and I think that's in progress and I'm optimistic about how that will continue to develop.
The third plank of that was help strengthen our U.S.
institutional business beyond the terrific business that INTECH has.
And we've acknowledged at every point that we've mentioned this that that is a slow process and we've also acknowledged at every turn that that started essentially later than the first 2.
So for that reason I think it's too early to give a call on that.
But it's quite clear that our fixed income business significant part of its success is institutional.
And INTECH our optimism there also includes some better performance in institutional.
So I think the strategy is working from that perspective.
And then we talked about diversification of the product line beyond that with our liquid alts effort that we started at the beginning of this year.
It's brand new and it's too early to evaluate but we remain very excited about that direction.
And lastly I think I've mentioned on calls that we continue to look at opportunities to strengthen ourselves in income-generating investment products and in a couple of other areas.
And we'll continue to look at that and Bruce will provide a lot of leadership into that effort and those challenges.
So I think we're on the right track strategically.
I don't think we'll see any major shift.
We'll continue to push forward with ideas that we've laid out.
And we're optimistic we'll see improving investment performance that will drive performance fees better and then eventually investment flows better.
But these things are going to take some time.
Our next question will come from Cynthia Mayer with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> So just another question on the flows.
To the extent the -- that when there's PM turnover there's outflows.
When you've seen that in the past has that taken a couple of quarters to work its way out? Would you expect that there'd be some follow-through to 3Q? Yes.
I don't think it's a 1-quarter event.
I do think it follows through to later quarters.
I don't know exactly how many and I don't have enough of sort of a data set to give you a statistical or math-oriented answer but my judgment would be that these things continue for a number of quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then another flow question which is sometimes in Q2 I think there is heightened flows both in and out of variable annuities.
And I'm just wondering if you saw any shift in VA in the quarter.
I don't have that data right in front of me.
And candidly I haven't focused on a big shift there.
But I don't have that data right in front of me so I can't give you a high-quality answer.
Sorry Cynthia.
Our next question will come from Marc Irizarry with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can we get Dick maybe from you some color on how things progressed in equities for you guys in -- throughout the quarter particularly after the PM changes? And then can you give us a little more color on how things have been tracking in July? Sure.
The new PMs have been on their jobs only a very short time.
And with respect to Doug Rao coming in from outside of the firm on the 40 and Marc Pinto taking over the 20 from Ron Sachs the early part of those periods are I wouldn't say dominated but certainly significantly affected by some portfolio restructuring that one has to do.
So the period is too unusual and too short to have any meaningful assessment of any kind of performance.
But I think those folks Marc Pinto and Doug Rao are going to do a terrific job on those funds.
And it's just too early to point to data and say "Here it is." Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the projection of flows quarter-to-date versus maybe the trends that you saw on a monthly basis throughout the second quarter any noticeable change in trends quarter-to-date? Marc I don't have that information in front of me.
And I don't -- I can't think of any noticeable change in trends because of those actions.
And ladies and gentlemen it appears we have time for one more question and that question will come from Craig Siegenthaler with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just to have certain -- back to Marc's question and going a little deeper on trading and venture.
How large are these funds today if you add back -- if you include the separate accounts AUM to the mutual fund AUM? What I'm trying to get is I'm just trying to read into what or how flows have trended in these 2 funds since the PM departures in mid-May? In general as you know I think we try hard to stay away from focusing on individual funds in this call.
So I can't give you the individual fund flow data.
I think the assets add up to about $8 billion and there hasn't been a meaningful shift in that AUM yet.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And we all have assumed fund data so we see kind of monthly and sometimes weekly.
But how -- was there any meaningful changes outside of the mutual fund channel for those 2 funds and what flows in the separate accounts channel? I can't think of anything significant to call your attention to.
The vast majority of those assets are in those funds.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then I just have a quick question for Rich on the margin.
Nice improvement in the quarter but it looks like long-term incentive comp given a normal quarter probably goes up a little bit.
In marketing we're still low so then maybe some upside there.
So if can you give us any kind of granularity around the margin trends especially related to long-term incentive comp and marketing.
That'd be quite helpful.
Well I'm not sure I can give you any more granularity than is already there.
I mean I think in our deck we have a table that speaks to LTI that gives you the grant dates and vesting schedules.
And I think the math of that would compute to something like $13 million a quarter.
Now there's some portion of that LTI that is in mutual fund awards in which will be subject to market movements.
But I think as a general guide that kind of guides you toward the LTI awards that you could expect the LTI cost.
Well thank you everyone for joining us today.
We look forward to talking to you next quarter.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
Thank you all for attending.
Good morning my name is Audra and I will be your conference facilitator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to the Janus Capital Group Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Before the company begins I would like to reference their standard legal disclaimer which also accompanies the full slide presentation located in the Investor Relations area of janus.com.
Statements made in the presentation today may contain forward-looking information about management's plans projections expectations strategic objectives business prospects anticipated financial results anticipated results of litigation and regulatory proceedings and other similar matters.
A variety of factors many of which are beyond the company's control affect the operations performance business strategy and results of Janus and could cause actual results and experiences to differ materially from the expectations and objectives expressed in their statements.
These factors include but are not limited to the factors described in Janus' reports filed with the SEC which are available on their website www.janus.com and on the SEC's website www.sec.gov.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
Janus does not undertake to update such statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date these statements were made.
Investors should however consult any further disclosures Janus may make in its reports filed with the SEC.
Thank you.
Now it is my pleasure to introduce Dick Weil Chief Executive Officer of Janus Capital Group.
Mr.
Weil you may begin your conference.
Thank you operator.
Welcome everybody to the third quarter 2013 call for the Janus Capital Group.
This quarter like prior quarters I'll start with some introductory remarks.
I'll hand it over to our new CFO Jennifer McPeek to give you some more detailed information around our results.
And then we will turn to addressing some questions that have been brought to us over the quarter.
Jennifer and our President Bruce Koepfgen will do that.
And in the fourth section last we will as always take live questions from you all over the phone.
Thank you very much for your participation today.
For the Janus Capital Group the story of the third quarter and for much of this year is that equity markets have remained strong despite what sometimes seems like our elected government's best efforts to undermine the economic recovery.
At Janus we're using the support of positive markets and the effect which substantially offsets negative flows to give us the time and strength to continue to work on our investment team and investment results.
As we've said many times our mission is to deliver excellent investment performance and client service to our clients.
Looking at this most important element of investment performance we can say our Janus fixed income team continues to deliver really excellent results and we're very proud of what they're doing.
Our mathematical equities team managed at INTECH is doing a fine job and they're keeping their promises to clients.
However in fundamental equities most of our most important strategies are fighting uphill out of a hole dug with some recent performance.
Our priority is to improve the fundamental investment performance which over time will drive improved performance fees and improved net flows.
On our Janus platform this quarter we welcomed the new CIO of equities and asset allocation Enrique Chang.
He's a passionate and proven leader who will help us with his strong and wise leadership.
We couldn't be more pleased have him on the team.
After a tough start for investment results in 2013 and after some significant changes our fundamental Janus equity team is delivering stronger results.
However this needs to be sustained over a much longer period of time.
We've got a lot of work to do.
In that light we are of course aware of some recent stories that have been focusing on some departures from our Janus equity team.
While disappointed at a small number of those departures my personal view is that the real story here is exactly the opposite.
People are getting this exactly wrong.
The story here is the talent coming in the door which is overwhelmingly outweighing any departures.
Considering the new talent coupled with the excellent talent already on the Janus investment team I am convinced we're on the right road and that we're getting stronger.
Looking at other key initiatives in our business you are all aware that we've set strategic agenda of intelligent diversification.
We've talked about that for several years now.
We identified first fixed income as a strategic priority and we've regularly reported to you on their excellence and growth.
Clearly this effort has been a significant success to date.
And looking forward we continue to see exciting opportunities for that business.
Our second major strategic initiative that we identified for you was our non-U.S.
business our global business.
Today in the prepared Q&amp;A section we will report to you on the growth and development we're seeing in this area.
We'll address 2 elements of this strategic initiative.
We'll talk about the exciting success we're building in our non-U.S.
businesses.
And separately we'll talk a bit about the really terrific partnership that we have been developing with Dai-ichi Life and their affiliate DIAM in Tokyo.
Our third and fourth priorities as you know were U.S.
institutional and our development of uncorrelated return in the alternative product area.
We'll report to you in future periods on those efforts.
Lastly in today's presentation Jennifer McPeek is going to present a bit of a technical primer on performance fees.
We want to be sure that we are as transparent as we can be about how these unusual fees have worked against our company in recent times but are turning into a very material and positive option for us as we anticipate improved performance in the years ahead.
In sum we remain focused on investment performance as our highest priority.
In my seat this means building a strong and stable investment team by getting and keeping the right people in the right seats.
I feel very good about our progress.
We continue to execute on our strategic initiatives around the intelligent diversification.
And last we remain focused on building a balance between business discipline and appropriate reinvestment in our business to maximize profits over the medium term.
With that I'll turn it over to Jennifer McPeek.
Thanks Dick and good morning everyone.
I'm going to start on Page 5 and I'll move from the top to the bottom walking through the key financial results for the quarter.
Third quarter average AUM and revenue were both about 1% higher than the second quarter driven by market gains which more than offset outflows.
Third quarter average AUM was $165.2 billion with revenue of $217.7 million operating expenses of $158.7 million increased by 1%.
That was primarily from higher mark-to-market adjustments and our long-term incentive compensation and a slight pickup in D&amp;A expenses.
Operating margin was flat at 27.1%.
These results contributed to earnings per share of $0.17 for the third quarter which compares to $0.08 in the second quarter.
A bit about the nonoperating items.
The third quarter reflects a $0.05 per share quarter-over-quarter increase in net investment gains.
There was a loss in the second quarter and a gain in the third quarter.
As you may recall second quarter earnings per share included a $0.04 per share noncash loss which was related to the convertible note exchange.
So in sum an essentially flat quarter for the operating results and quarter-over-quarter improvement below the line.
Turning now to Slide 6.
Our standard summary presentation of investment performance.
Most of the figures on this page have not significantly changed from last quarter's presentation with the exception of INTECH our mathematical strategies which saw an improvement in the 3-year number and a deterioration in the 5-year figure.
Additionally the 1-year number which of course tends to be the most volatile for all of our strategies improved substantially in fixed income.
Our fixed income performance continues to be quite excellent with 98% 100% and 100% of the assets in the top 2 Morningstar quartiles over the 1- 3- and 5-year time periods.
On Page 7 is our standard flows trends presentation.
We experienced improved flows quarter-over-quarter.
In the third quarter we had outflows of $4.2 billion compared to $5.4 billion in outflows in the second quarter.
This improvement was led by our mathematical strategies which are shown in the lower left-hand box on this page which had approximately $2 billion of non-U.S.
mandate wins during the quarter.
We are quite optimistic about the prospects of our international business going forward.
And since we have gotten a lot of questions about it we've also included a slide later in the presentation which Bruce will provide some additional color on.
Turning to fundamental equity flows which is in the upper right corner of this page this bar chart represents both Janus equity and Perkins combined.
We had third quarter net outflows of $4.9 billion versus $4.3 billion in the prior quarter.
And this decline did include a notable large mandate loss in the third quarter of $1.3 billion which is from a Janus strategy.
Finally fixed income flows were near breakeven this quarter compared to inflows of $100 million in the second quarter.
This slowdown coincides with the industry-wide slowdown in fixed income flows.
Moving to Slide 8.
There's not much to note this quarter on the revenue side.
Management fees increased in line with higher average assets.
Performance fees on the mutual funds were negative $22.3 million for the quarter which is offset by positive separate account performance fees of $0.3 million.
In response to popular demand that we have included an illustrated example of how these performance fees may evolve going forward.
And at the end of our prepared remarks I'm going to walk through that example.
Hopefully that will answer some of those questions.
So moving to Slide 9 let's break down our operating expenses.
Operating expenses increased 1% mostly due to the mark-to-market adjustment on the investments and advised mutual funds which is something you'll see in our LTI line and a slight increase in G&amp;A.
That increase is completely consistent with the expected quarterly volatility that we see in the G&amp;A line item.
For many of you who ask questions during these calls about our investment funds for the business and whether and when we will start to see the operating expenses creep up I'm going to give you a few comments now anticipating that there may be some questions as well going forward.
I think these are very relevant questions because we have been indeed very successful at holding fixed expenses in check over the last few years.
We do some internal benchmarking related to peers.
And looking at those benchmarks we see that both our absolute and relative fixed expenses have come down over the past 3 years.
Of course this was a deliberate choice on the part of management.
But it was a choice related to what we saw as a challenging time following underperformance that occurred in our largest fundamental equity strategies in 2010 and 2011.
So we knew that bad underperformance would significantly impact loads and also profitability.
And given that outlook we had to tighten the belt.
We are not going to give you specific guidance around future spending and investment but the reason that I went into that digression is because I do want to reassure shareholders who are listening that we don't intend to starve the business or inhibit growth going forward.
Our guiding principle on spending is that we want our business investment to be focused timed for maximum growth potential which is a nice segue into the next slide Slide 10 which discusses our balance sheet.
So while we've noted that we've held the line on operating expenses in the past few years we have at the same time upped our investment in longer-term growth through steadily seeding new products.
You see this in our cash and investments division which had grown over the longer term and this quarter strengthened future growth strong alpha and market data which drove appreciation in the fee portfolio.
We had cash flow from operations of $78 million in the quarter.
Uses of cash included purchasing Perkins minority interest per our contractual obligation paying our dividend and doing both share buyback and opportunistic repurchase of our 2017 notes.
Now as we've done over the past few quarters we're going to address a few frequently discussed topics that have come up to us in our Investor Relations team over the course of the quarter.
I will hand it over to Bruce Koepfgen who will walk through some comments on our international strategy and our relationship with Dai-ichi Life.
Good morning everyone.
By now you all know from prior calls that we believe that a strong international presence is an important part of our long-term strategy to diversify the business.
To that end we have made several key investments over the last few years.
First we brought litho new leadership to guide our international initiatives.
Second we examined our business and decided to place relatively greater emphasis on client-facing resources.
And third since 2011 we have opened offices in Paris The Hague Zurich Frankfurt Taipei and Dubai further expanding our international reach.
As with any strategic investments the costs will naturally run ahead of the intended results.
And even though our leadership team believes these investments are central to our long-term success and they will play out over time we don't get or expect any credit for simply spending money.
But as a result of these investments and with our strategic partnership with Dai-ichi Life we are starting to see some positive results in our international business which we wanted to share with you.
Since the end of 2010 our international assets have grown 20% annually and currently sit at $21.8 billion still a fraction of what we believe the long-term potential of the business to be but nonetheless the highest total of non-U.S.
assets in the 40-plus year history of the firm.
Additionally non-U.S.
assets have gone from 8% of total company assets as of December 2010 to 13% as of September 30 of this year.
Importantly we are seeing a pickup in our organic growth as flows have continued to be positive in 2013.
Year-to-date we have had net inflows of $2.7 billion representing 22% in annualized organic growth through September 30.
While we're still in the early stages of developing of this business and forging a strong partnership with Dai-ichi Life we are pleased with early returns and enthusiastic about the prospects for this business.
Turning now for just a minute to Dai-ichi.
Given that Dai-ichi is an important part of our international strategy and since we have recently passed the 1-year anniversary of announcing the agreement I wanted to just give you an update on what has been accomplished.
It has been a little over 14 months since the announcement of Dai-ichi Life intended to acquire up to 20% of Janus Capital Group's stock.
Today Dai-ichi is our largest shareholder and the relationship has had a very positive start.
Since the fourth quarter of 2012 Dai-ichi Life has invested approximately $1.7 billion of the $2 billion commitment of general account assets.
The funds have been invested across fundamental equity fixed income and mathematical strategies.
In addition to the Dai-ichi general account investments we are extremely pleased with the distribution relationship with DIAM which has resulted in total assets under management of $1.2 billion as of the end of September.
Both companies are proactively looking for ways to expand our partnership and we couldn't be more pleased with how the relationship has evolved over the last year.
It is exceeding all expectations and adding significant value to the business.
Jen? Thank you Bruce.
In discussion with many of you who are on the call today we've learned that there is quite a bit of variation in how people model our performance fees.
Some of you build a fund-by-fund model and that's exactly what we do internally here.
While this is certainly a detailed approach and clearly more time-consuming I think there's a strong case that can be made that it uncovers some valuable information particularly because in our mutual fund performance fees which have the 36-month performance period.
There's a lot of this future calculation that's already baked.
And you can see trends and anticipate them without necessarily forecasting future fund performance.
The team here has put together a couple of slides that hopefully will illustrate that.
It's a little bit different approach than we've taken in the past so we certainly appreciate any feedback you can give us after this call as to whether walking through this tutorial was helpful to you.
So let's turn to Slide 14.
This is a generalized slide which describes how we do a performance fee calculation for a single fund.
There are 2 main inputs to the calculation.
One is the average AUM and the other is the relative performance to benchmark net of fees.
So both of these inputs have to be calculated over the same time period which for Janus mutual funds is 36 months trailing.
So first we'll draw your attention to the graph on the left which illustrates the AUM calculation.
And it clearly shows perhaps an obvious point which is the 3-year average AUM can be substantially different than the current AUM on the fund.
The fund that experienced AUM loss a couple of years ago which this graph might represent has an average AUM here of $7.5 billion and a current AUM of $6.3 billion.
Now let's look at the graph on the right.
This graph illustrates how we calculate what we call the performance fee adjustment.
This adjustment which is shown in the red line is a function of 36-month cumulative relative performance net of fees.
Each fund has their own custom hurdle rate I'm just going to kind of call that out there.
In this case it's 8.5%.
The hurdle rate sets the relative performance level at which each fund gets to either their maximum positive performance fees or their maximum negative performance fees which is always 15 basis points.
We always include a fund-by-fund build-up where you can see each fund's hurdle rate if you do decide to do this kind of modeling and that is included on Page 21 in this presentation.
You'll also see that between the minimum and the maximum performance fees are step functions which really means only that the performance fee rate changes every 50 basis points rather than being a straight line.
On this chart you'll see a gray line.
That gray dash line shows what happens if the fund has performance that is outside the hurdle bands.
This example shows that a fund that has minus 11% relative performance would just hit at the negative maximum of minus 15 basis points.
Okay.
That was quite a mouthful.
But hopefully I've articulated a key takeaway that we get from fund level modeling.
Understanding how far below or above the hurdle rate a fund is currently can allow you to solve for how much incremental performance is needed before the performance fees start to move.
So because of this insight we were able to give you guidance earlier this year that we did not expect to see in near-term movement in those performance fees in 2013.
So we provided that guidance but it didn't require us to actually forecast any future fund performance.
We just knew that we were far enough below the negative hurdles on our largest funds.
And therefore it would most likely take us a while to start making headway.
So now turning to Slide 15.
To close this out we've chosen a specific fund to demonstrate the other insight that comes from fund level modeling which is understanding the performance roll off phenomena.
So this slide here has some actual data from the Janus Forty strategy.
We're showing a hypothetical quarterly calculation for simplicity.
I'd like to point out that in real life the calculation is done monthly.
We also rounded off some of our calculations as the intent here is to illustrate how the mechanics work.
So first let's quickly walk through the current quarter calculation which is in the blue column on the right.
Trailing 36-month AUM for the fund was approximately $5.5 billion.
Cumulative relative performance net of fees over that same period is minus 10.9% which is below the minimum hurdle.
Thus the performance fee adjustment is minus 15 basis points.
So you multiply those together for annual performance fees of minus $8.3 million or minus $2.1 million on a quarterly basis.
Okay.
Now I'm going to walk through a hypothetical.
And let me emphasize that again a hypothetical scenario where we roll Forty Year to the end of the third quarter in 2014.
Two assumptions are needed.
We have to assume the future AUM and the future relative performance.
In this example we're assuming the AUM remains constant going forward and we also assume that the fund performs flat to benchmarks net of fees.
The new calculation is here in the gray column.
So in this scenario the 36-month rolling average AUM actually declined to $4.5 billion because the fund's assets were higher in the periods that are rolling off as we roll forward.
So now for the interesting part.
You can see that the cumulative relative performance improves very significantly under this scenario.
A go-forward performance assumption is pretty benign.
But the reason that the cumulative number improved so much is because of the negative quarters that roll off.
We have those quarters shown in the bar chart in the gray box on the left.
As a result the cumulative relative performance goes from minus 10.9% which is where it is currently to a positive 1.3% in this again hypothetical scenario.
And this equates to annual performance fee adjustment of positive 2.3 basis points.
So when we run the math through on that we get positive performance fees of $263 000 for the quarter.
It's a somewhat surprising result because intuitively one might think that if we perform a benchmark our fees would remain pretty static.
It's not the case here because we have 3-year rolling and cumulative calculation.
So what's leading the calculation is just as important as what's coming onto the calculation.
So hopefully this example gives you a little bit better insight into how the performance fees work and gives you the tools that you need to model them at the fund level if you choose to do so.
As always if anyone has any questions or wants to balance your modeling results off of us our Investor Relations team remains happy to take your calls.
Now we're done with the prepared remarks.
We have some time for a few follow-up questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Daniel Fannon at Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Gerry O'Hara sitting in for Dan this morning.
If you could just give a little more color on the International business it looks like -- can you actually give us maybe some specifics on some of the funds that have been seeing traction in that space? Or is it more that it's just global assets that have been coming into U.S.
products? Yes.
Gerry this is Bruce.
Don't have fund-by-fund detail but yes I think it's kind of a collection of fixed income and equity investments coming in through DIAM Dai-ichi and other sources.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And just as a quick follow-up clearly there were impactful marks on the seed portfolio this quarter.
Can you give us any sense of mix as to what you're seeding now? Is it sort of 50-50 global international versus alternative? Or is it sort of similar to the mix of your existing asset base? Gerry it's Jennifer.
Our seed portfolio is I'd say more diversified than our overall asset mix.
It's going to be more slanted towards the newer products that we've launched.
So if you go and look at new mutual fund launches over the last several years 2 to 3 years you'll get a sense of some of the places that are seeded in.
And we'll go next to Matt Kelley of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask first about the INTECH inflows.
And just looking back over the past few quarters that you've given in the press release -- the presentations sorry that's the second quarter out of the past 5 that you've had kind of the spike up in sales and you're noting non-U.S.
investment in those funds.
So I'm just curious who these clients are and what specifically they're looking for.
And if the -- what performance track record they are looking at to? Because I know that you guys gave the color on the 5-year the 1-year versus the 3-year.
So what are they looking at for performance and for putting money towards there? Yes.
Matt this is Dick Weil.
Most of the significant improvement in the flows from INTECH this quarter were institutional flows from Asia.
And they're looking at a lot of the same track records that are disclosed here.
There's nothing particularly unusual about the kinds of products that they're buying.
And they're looking at the fact that on a risk-adjusted basis and over long periods of time INTECH has been consistent in delivering outperformance with really good risk control and with a diversified approach to the problem compared to what other asset managers do.
So I think it's -- INTECH offers a differentiated excellence in how they approach the problem of generating outperformance over liquid indices.
And if not capacity constrained it's well risk controlled and it's very reasonably priced.
And the combination of those things has been quite attractive for some very large Asian institutions and we believe it will continue to be attractive.
And further on that we think that it has been a trend in recent quarters and probably will remain that there's heightened interest outside the United States for what INTECH is offering compared to what's in the U.S.
We're seeing much more pickup and focus outside the U.S.
We think and believe that eventually we'll be able to get that better momentum in the U.S.
But this is a lumpy business and it's very hard to extrapolate on a quarter-to-quarter basis because inherently these accounts are large and hard to predict and don't occur on a quarterly basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my follow-up is on the non-U.S.
business update you gave.
The $2.7 billion of flows this year can you guys tell us what is Dai-ichi in that Dai-ichi and DIAM? And also how much of the Dai-ichi general account assets have gone into INTECH? Sure.
This is Bruce.
Of the $2.7 billion about $1.4 billion of that would be Dai-ichi related and the balance would be picked up as Dick just mentioned primarily in the INTECH strategies that were placed in Asia.
In Dai-ichi to date is $1.7 billion of the 2 general account assets and about $1.4 billion of that was placed this year $300 million the last year.
We'll go next to Michael Kim at Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> First just be curious to get your take on retail flow trend across the industry.
It just seems like investors continued to avoid fixed income funds more broadly but we aren't necessarily seeing that translate into a more decisive move into equity.
So just wondering how you see those trends playing out.
And then more specific to Janus where there could be some pockets of growth assuming the macro environment remains somewhat uneven.
Sure.
In my opinion we haven't seen the so-called great rotation and probably won't until you see even more volatility and higher rates on the fixed income side.
And so going to your last part of your question first I think there remains for us some time and opportunity to continue to strengthen our track records to prepare for the day when that higher rate scenario and higher volatility scenario drives a lot more money into equities.
What we're seeing in the industry is increased interest in equities and decreased interest in fixed income for all the obvious reasons.
That obviously includes a significant uptick in interest and passive and ETFs but it also includes good flows for well-performing active managers.
And we believe that's a confirmation of our continuing confidence that when we do a good job and our active management offering good returns at especially good risk-adjusted returns our clients will reward us with positive flows.
So we take that as a positive sign that there's still a lot of interest in equities and in active equities we think that'll kick up when rates get more volatile and head further up.
So we see that as a future opportunity that we're trying our best to prepare for.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second question just coming back to the non-U.S.
business.
Any sense of potential impact on overall fee rates or margins as that side of the business continues to scale particularly as it -- it sounds like a fair amount of the upfront infrastructure has already been built out at this point.
Michael it's Jennifer.
I'll try to address your question on fee rates.
As we noted earlier the recent growth in international has been dominated by institutional flows.
And those institutional flows do have a lower fee rate than the retail side so I think you see that in our mix.
Generally look at new business on a net present value basis.
So the institutional assets well they have a lower fee rate they tend to come in much larger chunks they're stickier assets and so they're quite attractive really to us.
But if you're just trying to model the fee rate I think that's the current trend.
Over the longer term we're going to see our performance reflected in retail flows as well both domestically and internationally.
So I don't think I would extrapolate a trend for very long there.
We'll go next to Ken Worthington at JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> When you started the presentation I think the first bullet was the focus on performance.
So as you think about performance from here what can you do to improve performance? Is it -- is your goal to focus on changes of personnel additional resources greater coverage new products or is there something else that you think you can work on as a management team to drive better performance? Ken it's Dick.
I think speaking individually from my seat I've done what I can and should do in terms of making sure we have the right people in the right seats.
And we have a very strong team and stable team hopefully going forward in place.
With the addition of Enrique Chang I think we're well positioned to deliver that.
And that's most of what I can do from the CEO seat and what I should do.
Now Enrique will obviously be pursuing issues of making sure that we're clear about all our client promises making sure that we're getting paid for all the risks we're taking in our portfolios.
He'll make sure that we're consistent in style with what has delivered good results in the past.
So he'll be operating with the team in an integrated basis everyday to make sure that we're delivering the best possible efforts from our fundamental equity team on the Janus platform.
And that's work that's obviously only just begun as he's been here I'm going to guess now a month.
And so there's lots more to do on that front.
But fundamentally the most important thing I think the CEO can do is make sure that you have the right talent in the right seats and I feel very very good.
As I mentioned earlier in the call I think the story of Janus is the talent inflow that we've been able to create over the last several years and meshing that really excellent inflowing talent was the terrific talent that's already here.
So I think that's the most important thing I can do from my seat.
I consider the job pretty well complete from what I can do and I've have handed the baton off to Enrique on the Janus platform and he'll carry it from there.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And maybe it will be helpful to just talk about the performance this year.
I think a couple or many different categories have underperformed.
I'd love to hear your color on maybe why it's underperformed.
So for the Janus-branded funds the value funds and then INTECH why have those 3 equity categories underperformed this year? Well I think it's not as broad as what you're describing but trying to address the heart of your question.
On the Janus platform I think a number of the funds had a tough start to the year.
We made some changes of some personnel.
And since we've implemented those changes the numbers appear to be stronger.
And that's too short a period of time to be particularly meaningful or to crow about.
But a mountain climb start with steps and those are good first steps.
On the Perkins platform Perkins is a defensive value manager and they have been for their 30-year history.
And they're focused on protection of principal as well as positive returns.
And so in a market which has really been screaming upwards since what the second quarter of '09 this is not a period of time in which you'd expect them to be at or leading the index and they're not.
Now they don't have an infinite permission from their clients to lag the index.
But if you know their style and what they offer they're trying to offer their clients protection against the downside in over a full cycle good performance compared to the index with better risk-adjusted features a smoother ride essentially.
So their returns are not particularly -- the fact that they're lagging at this point in this kind of a market is not particularly surprising but it is problematic in a sense that the further they get from the index the more negative flows we're going to see and it's very -- it's a challenging period for [indiscernible].
So that's sort of is what it is.
On INTECH we tend to report what percentage of assets are above and below benchmark.
That tends to create rather dramatic looking swings from when you're a little bit above the benchmark to when you're a little bit below the benchmark.
And candidly those are not necessarily particularly insightful or meaningful swings.
INTECH's products continue to deliver on their promises by and large.
Various strategies within are outperforming on a year-to-date basis various strategies within are underperforming on a year-to-date basis but really all within the range of expectation-given style.
And I think what I try to say at the start was I believe that INTECH is keeping its promises over the medium- and long-term time periods to its clients by and large and I think that's true.
But to get more specific you've got to get into each strategy by each strategy and they'll all have slightly different results over different time periods.
We'll go next to Cynthia Mayer of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> So thanks for all the color on the hypothetical performance fees.
And I'm just wondering staying in the land of hypothetical if your performance fees on those funds get back to flat cumulatively how much of that would fall to the bottom line? And would you change at all your approach to comp as a percentage of revenues? Cynthia I'll take the first part of that question.
Our performance fees fall to the bottom line as you alluded to accepting the amount that goes to our profit base the compensation pools.
We haven't disclosed that exact amount and I don't think I'm at liberty to do so right now.
So unfortunately can give you a direct answer but I think that you're -- what you're getting at is that all of that with the exception of the part that we share with employees through compensation pulls does fall to the operating line.
And let me address the second part of your question Cynthia this is Dick with -- we've told our employees that we have a profits-based plan and when those profits have gone bad the employees have endured that negative change.
And when hopefully the performance fees go up and profits generally move in the right direction they're going to share in that benefit according to the terms of this profits-based plan.
And no we would not consider giving them the downside and then not sharing the upside that would be unfair and contrary to the deal that we've made with our employees.
So we'll be consistent.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then in terms of the INTECH separate account assets how many of those have performance fee structures at this point? And with some decent sales there this quarter and maybe ahead how many of the assets coming in have performance fee structures attached? So I don't have an exact number of accounts for you and can't give you forward-looking performance [ph] Cynthia but our total private account assets that have performance fees are $13.3 billion and that's in INTECH predominantly.
So it is a growing number.
A year ago it was at $11 billion.
We'll go to Bill Katz at Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just want to try and come back to the discussion on the good investment spend of the business.
And if you can just tell me Jennifer perhaps if you just sort of think about the morning [ph] so you're not going to starve or inhibit growth how do I sort of juxtapose that against some of the flow dynamics that you're seeing in terms of some of the higher fee products going out the door like growth and the value team? And then your comments about sort of bolstering the non-U.S.
business relative perhaps to the U.S.
business maybe just help me sort of think about the margin dynamics there? Sure Bill.
It's a multifaceted question you've asked but I'll try to get it what I think is the heart of it.
When I talked about not wanting to starve the business or not intending to starve the business going forward what I was trying to communicate is that the management team here is ready to invest when we see a window of opportunity to really take market share.
And in order for that to happen you have to have a lot of things come at the same time.
So we'll have to have the right kind of track record in products where there's a lot of demand.
And when that happens we're prepared to invest and to really drive growth.
So it was around our philosophy and I think we're watching all of the leading indicators to see when that happens.
I don't want to imply that there's not operating leverage in our model going forward.
I mean the marginal amount of investments that's required is not significant enough to offset operating leverage.
We do have pretty strong operating leverage like all of our peers do.
I think we have marginal profits that are well above our average level right now.
So I think you'll continue to see if we do get that asset growth that our margins will improve.
Research Division</strong> And then second question is just as -- and Dick I'd be curious to your thoughts here.
You mentioned you feel like you have the right team in place right now.
And if you look at underlying flow trends it's still somewhat mixed as is performance.
What do you think is the lead lag what's the reaction from the gatekeepers that are on the institutional side or some of the broader retail distributors that you're working with to these changes? And when might there be some type of stabilization in the redemption pressure? It's a great question and none of our crystal balls are really good enough to give you a great answer.
The truth is that the change in personnel is upsetting to some and even comforting to others but it is a hard thing to quantify.
And you put that in a blender with the performance of whatever strategy the client involved may be in and you get a sort of blended set of effects.
We don't anticipate that the flows are going to get a lot better until we demonstrate consistently stronger investment performance.
I think we have started as I've mentioned to do that.
I think we have the right people in the right place to do that.
But it's going to take some time and we're clearly not out of the woods yet.
So I can't give you a specific time period that's a better answer than that.
But I think we're on the right road.
I think we have the right people on board.
I think we're doing the right things.
It's going to take some time and it's going to be painful in the interim until we can get that better pattern firmly established.
And that does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
I'll turn the conference back over to our speakers for any closing remarks.
Thank you everybody.
We look forward to talking to you again next quarter.
And that does conclude today's conference.
Again thank you for your participation.
Good morning.
My name is Kayla and I will be your conference facilitator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to the Janus Capital Group Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Before the company begins I would like to reference their standard legal disclaimer which also accompanies the full slide presentation located in the Investor Relations area of Janus.com.
Statements made in the presentation today may contain forward-looking information about management's plans projections expectations strategic objectives business prospects anticipated financial results anticipated results of litigation and regulatory proceedings and other similar matters.
A variety of factors many of which are beyond the company's control affect the operations performance business strategy and results of Janus and could cause actual results and experiences to differ materially from the expectations and objectives expressed in their statements.
These factors include but are not limited to the factors described in Janus' reports filed with the SEC which are available on their website www.janus.com and on the SEC's website www.sec.gov.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
Janus does not undertake to update such statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arrive after the date these statements were made.
Investors should however consult any further disclosures Janus may make in its reports filed with the SEC.
Thank you.
Now it is my pleasure to introduce Dick Weil Chief Executive Officer of Janus Capital Group.
Mr.
Weil you may begin your conference.
Thank you operator.
Welcome everybody to the fourth quarter and full year 2013 earnings presentation for the Janus Capital Group.
Let me start today as I do with an executive summary and then I'll hand it off to Jennifer McPeek to go through the numbers in more detail and then we'll address some special topics at the end of the call and finally take your questions.
So executive summary.
Clearly the most important piece to address is net flows.
For the full year of 2013 we had $19.7 billion of net outflows which were obviously very very disappointing.
And we're primarily driven by some challenging fundamental equity performance coupled with the effects of portfolio manager changes primarily on our Janus equity platform.
If you look at the fourth quarter the number was $6.2 billion in net outflows.
Taking that head on that's a little bit worse than the prior quarter.
And you can fairly ask does that represent some sort of accelerating trend or deterioration? From what we can see this represents a continuation of prior trends coupled with the absence at INTECH of some major institutional wins in the third quarter that did not repeat in the fourth quarter.
So again we look at the fourth quarter outflows as being consistent with prior trend coupled with the fact that there was a major $2 billion of sort of lumpy institutional flows in the third quarter which did not repeat in the fourth quarter.
And candidly we look at that as Jennifer McPeek will talk about a little later as regular variation.
We can't count on those major institutional wins in every single quarter.
And we'll talk a bit more about the fact that remain very optimistic INTECH can continue to win business in that space but in one of our special sections we'll go through those questions and more detail.
So look that was disappointing also in the sense that it wasn't better than the prior quarter but we don't look at it as worse either.
It's a continuation of that disappointing trend.
And that brings us to sort of the reflection on our 2013 and where we go from here.
Clearly it's our job to make those numbers better.
The main way to make those numbers better is to improve investment performance and continue to build from that strength and platform.
We believe in 2013 we were very benefited like the rest of the industry from a strong equity market which gave us the flexibility and the time candidly to make some very important changes in the leadership and on our portfolio management team primarily at Janus.
We believe those changes have been very positive and we think they'll pay dividends into the future.
So we think we're positioned to continue to strengthen our investment track records and make the necessary substantial improvements on these flows.
But it doesn't happen overnight and it hasn't happened yet.
And so we accept that these net flows are disappointing but we believe we've taken important steps to make them better in the future.
And that's the main message.
Obviously the second message that I'd just like to call your attention to is around our net cash position.
Since 2008 we have improved our net cash position by over $1 billion.
And as we sit here today and Jennifer again will go through this in much greater detail for you we have a very strong positive net cash position.
In fact it's the strongest it's been in more than a decade and it covers all of our short and long-term debt and gives us a nice cushion for operating and those sorts of things.
And so we feel good about our conservative policy that we've been pursuing which is to have a strong balance sheet which allows us to be a strong stable partner for our clients through what will undoubtedly be some volatility in market cycles.
And that has been our commitment.
I think it's the right plan and I think we've executed it well and the balance sheets in terrific shape.
And with that said let me turn it over to Jennifer to go through the numbers more specifically.
Thank you.
Thanks Dick.
Good morning everyone and thank you for your time today.
I hope you'll find today's discussion interesting and informative.
If you're following along in the materials I'm going to go ahead and start on Page 5.
Let me begin by highlighting the firm's operating results for the quarter and for the year which were strong results they reflect the impact of positive market conditions.
Fourth quarter average AUM was $170.3 billion driven by market gains of $13.4 billion which more than offset outflows of $6.2 billion.
Total revenue was $226.2 million an increase of 4% from the September quarter.
Full year results show revenue up 3% versus 2012.
Operating income also increased reflecting operating leverage in our business model and lower compensation expense.
Quarterly operating income was up 14% versus the third quarter.
In 2013 overall results improved 12% in operating income versus the prior year.
The margin came in this quarter at 29.6%.
These results contributed to earnings per share of $0.21 for the fourth quarter compared to $0.17 in the third quarter.
Annual results also improved with a 13% growth in EPS compared to 2012.
So in sum we saw operating results that has financial improvement really across-the-board which reflects the growth that was realized by the industry overall during a full market year particularly in a very strong market in the most recent quarter.
Turning now to Slide 6.
This is our standard summary representation of investment performance.
Our strategies across our advisers generally did well in the fourth quarter and most of the figures on this page have improved from last quarter's presentation.
As an active manager with independent investment teams you would expect to see more variation in the short-term return statistics than you see in the long-term statistics.
Internally our investment focus is more weighted towards the long-term and I'll draw your attention first to the statistic on the bottom of the page which is the complex-wide Morningstar ratings.
This as you may know includes 10-year results as well as risk-adjusted performance.
So it is the longest term statistic we provide.
Industry-wide only 32.5% of funds have 4 and 5 star ratings.
So we see that our performance here at 56% of funds speaks quite strongly to our long-term risk-adjusted performance track record.
It really reinforces our conviction in our investment processes.
Briefly looking at some of the more recent short-term performance trends we are encouraged that the fundamental equity strategies finished the year with pretty strong performance as a whole.
While there's still more work to do as Dick mentioned you can see that the improvement is beginning to impact the 3- and 5-year company-wide metric.
Fixed income team not surprisingly continues to deliver with some very impressive short- and medium-term performance numbers.
INTECH's performance shows the biggest change from last quarter in the 1-year number.
We went from 29% to 59% in that 1-year outperformance versus benchmark.
The process discipline that INTECH's investment team employees will sometimes result in mild underperformance versus the benchmark in any given quarter.
That's expected to happen.
Dick will talk a bit about INTECH's performance their long-term track records and get some more clarity in our topics of intersection in a few minutes.
Let's turn to Page 7 talk some about flows.
We did experience a pickup in outflows quarter-over-quarter $6.2 billion compared to $4.2 billion in the third quarter.
The biggest change was in our mathematical strategies which is INTECH.
In the third quarter we had approximately $2 billion in lumpy non-U.S.
mandates in INTECH.
And these did not repeat in its size in the fourth quarter.
And you can see that impact in the chart in the lower left-hand corner of this page.
In fundamental equity which is in the upper right-hand corner again this represents both Janus' equity and Perkins' we had fourth quarter net outflows of $4.9 billion which was flat from the prior quarter.
What you can't see in that flat number is that there was a very lumpy outflow in the fourth quarter which was $2 billion from a Janus' equity strategy.
So the overall trend was affected by a couple of positive large inflows in the third quarter and a very significant large outflow in the fourth quarter.
As Dick explained earlier these lumps that we see are variations.
They're not one-time events.
We expect that variation to continue to occur.
We plan that positive lump outnumber negative ones over time.
I'll continue to try to call out the larger size inflows and hopefully fewer outflows in these quarterly results.
Slide 8 is our revenue breakdown.
Management fees increased in line with higher average assets.
The weighted average management fee for the current quarter was 48.5 basis points.
Performance fees on our mutual funds were negative $21.3 million for the quarter which is slightly better than the third quarter.
The performance fees on mutual funds were offset by positive separate account performance fees.
Slide 9 breaks down our operating expenses.
Operating expenses were essentially flat from last quarter as higher variable AUM base distribution expense as well as the seasonal lift in marketing and advertising was offset by a decline in compensation.
LTI increased $2 million during the fourth quarter.
That was due primarily to higher mark-to-market adjustments on our investments and mutual fund awards.
We're going to start providing more specific guidance on LTI expense and that's because we've gotten some feedback from the analyst community that our previous approach of giving grand detail in our appendix tables was insufficient for some of your modeling purposes.
So for 2014 our current outlook is approximately $65 million in LTI expense.
We're going to keep providing that current year outlook.
I think we'll just keep doing that in a footnote to the standard page.
Please keep in mind that a small part of that expense line moved with the market as it is in the form of those mutual fund awards.
That estimate of again $65 million assumes flat markets.
Corporate curates can also differ from historical levels which would impact that going forward.
Our investment gains in other income which is not detailed on this page was $2.8 million in the fourth quarter.
That was driven primarily by mark-to-market and dividend income in our seed book.
Let's talk a second about taxes.
Our expected tax rate in the fourth quarter was 35%.
That's lower due to a benefit related to expiration investing of certain equity-based compensation awards.
I'd like to give everyone a heads up for some modeling purposes that we have options previously granted options that are expiring in the first half of this year of 2014.
And those options are currently very far out of the money.
So the impact assuming that they do expire out of the money of that expiry will be a much higher effective tax rate during the first half of the year.
Based on our sight lines right now it looks like that will be likely in the mid-40s.
Turning now to Slide 10 and a look at our balance sheet.
Total cash and marketable securities increased by 5% quarter-over-quarter and that was driven by cash flow generation.
We had cash flow from operations of $92 million in the quarter.
As we've discussed in the prior quarter we have roughly $100 million of debt in converts that are going to be maturing in 2014.
During this past quarter we specifically set aside some cash and put it into match-funded short-term fixed income portfolio really setting it against those upcoming maturities.
That's why you'll see in our balance sheet what appears to be a shift in cash into marketable securities this quarter.
Now as we've gone over the course of the year we're going to address a few frequently discussed topics in our special section.
This quarter we're going to talk about an update on INTECH's business investment process talk about the change in compensation and a little bit about capital planning in balance sheet.
I'll turn it back over to Dick.
Thanks Jen.
When looking at the net flow number and we are seeing $1.8 billion out in the fourth quarter net for INTECH we thought it was fair for you all to have the question hey Dick you've been talking about how much confidence you have in INTECH and what a good process they have for a while now what's going on with their flows? And to try and give you a sense of that answer obviously in light of the fact that they're an institutional process which is perhaps less public and less well understood than some of our public mutual funds we thought we should do a special section addressing those questions here with you today.
The first page Page 12 is the annualized rolling 3-year performance of all of their composites.
Each dot represents a 3-year period of time and dots in blue above the diagonal line represent outperformance and the degree of outperformance is represented by the distance from the diagonal line.
The dots in red below the line represent 3-year periods which were beneath benchmark in each of these composites.
I think as you can see INTECH's process represents some very positive elements and has through the course of its long and successful history.
The first element is with 73% of the rolling periods above benchmark the process works.
It adds value net of fees across all that it's done over its history.
The second thing to notice look at the red dots.
They're not far from the diagonal line.
This indicates that their risk control process is also working.
They have very good risk control and given the 3 years if they do happen to underperform it tends to be a very modest level of underperformance.
To me this chart is a powerful statement that INTECH's investment process and it's risk management processes work very well.
Turning to Slide 13.
The upper left of this slide shows a pie chart which gives the AUM breakdown at INTECH by strategy.
The message here is that almost 80% of their current stock of business is in a handful of composites that are focused on the U.S.
large-cap equity market.
Now there are a couple of things we need to say about the market for these products.
The clients are largely U.S.
institutions who have recently I think it's well known faced 2 trends: number 1 they had been reducing their exposure to large-cap U.S.
equities; and number 2 a great many of plants have considered whether to shift their allocation model to using passive rather than active for the more-liquid large-cap U.S.
equity segment.
These 2 trends clearly create some challenging competition for INTECH in this stock of their business.
Looking at their performance which is detailed a bit in the lower left-hand corner you can see that while their performance has not been bad it has been approximately the index in the U.S.
segment.
And as a consequence it hasn't been quite strong enough to successfully defend against some of these outflows.
It's worth noting against that sense that: number one a lot of times when they've had outflows it's been part of a whole plan restructuring rather than them individually being replaced as a manager and that's probably even more difficult to defend; The second thing is despite this pressure on their business INTECH remains the #1 firm in market share for mathematical strategies in the U.S.
institutional spaces reported to us by investors.
So they continue to be a very successful firm in this space but competition is tough.
And their performance hasn't been bad but it needs to get a little better to strengthen their defense in this area.
The other message of the chart on Page 13 in the upper left is this green section which is a little north of 20% of their current asset.
This is a growing segment of their business.
This is largely their global non-U.S.
benchmark products for which the buyers are largely institutions outside of the United States.
We have reported to you transparently on some lumpy flows in this area and we hope to continue to do so in the future.
The performance in this area has been quite strong with good alpha and there is a lot of interest in non-U.S.
institutional circles for this element of their product.
And so looking forward you can see that the existing stock of business is spread across these 2 areas one under some significant competitive pressure and the other experiencing some significant organic growth.
I also want to call your attention to a third part of INTECH's business which we believe is exciting not necessarily on a quarter-by-quarter basis but certainly over the next 3 to 5 years.
Through recent research and development and through their long and sustained history as volatility experts in equity indices INTECH has been able to develop and deliver a excellent sweep of new products which focus on emerging markets which focus managed volatility which focus on low volatility targeted volatility and these are very customizable around the interest of an individual institution.
These ideas and products are beginning to gain traction already and we're optimistic that over the next 3 to 5 years they can grow to become a significant part of INTECH's business success.
So overall I think the message for INTECH is their process works and is doing reasonably well.
In the U.S.
segment they face very tough competition on a continuing basis.
In the global segment they have experienced growth and should continue to experience growth opportunities.
And some new product development has offered exciting additional upside for the medium-term.
With that said I hope that makes the story of INTECH a bit more transparent for you all.
And I'll turn it back over to Jennifer McPeek.
Thank you Dick.
Compensation in this quarter we're sure to generate some questions so we have provided a quarter-over-quarter bridge on Slide 14.
As we've described in the past the bulk of our employees are paid their year-end variable comps out of a number of different processes and tools that we have throughout the company.
So since the operating profits did increase quarter-over-quarter all other things being equally we of course expect to see an increase in that variable cash compensation.
The amount you would expect to see quarter-over-quarter is about $2.5 million or on the slide it's $2.6 million.
However offsetting that increase at the year end we make real decisions on how that variable comp is going to be paid out.
And as a result there were adjustments in the split between cash and LTI in the variable comps.
Essentially we decided to take some key leadership with a heavier portion of LTI.
The full year impact which includes an adjustment for prior accruals that take place in this quarter results in a $6.2 million reduction in our cash compensation line versus the prior quarter.
Cash comp per revenue in the quarter was thus unusually depressed.
It's down at 31.2%.
Going forward we're going to be discussing and reporting not only on that cash comp-to-revenue ratio which we talk about every quarter but we're also going to be revealing our total comp-to-revenue ratio and discussing that.
That ratio includes LTI.
It's a metric that we managed too internally not on quarter-to-quarter basis but it's something that we track and manage too over the long run.
In 2013 that figure ranged from 39% to 42% and we expect it to remain in the low '40s in the near future.
Let's next move to Slide 15 where I wanted to take a moment to talk about our balance sheet and capital planning.
We have consistently delivered a message to our shareholders and also to our bondholders that we intend to take a very conservative stance.
You can see on Slide 15 that the conservative approach combined with strong underlying cash flow dynamics has resulted in a really strong net cash position.
Overall our net cash has improved by almost $1 billion over the last 6 years.
We're now in the strongest net cash position we've been in in the last decade.
At the end of the year net cash is $270 million.
And just to put that in context that is more than enough to run all of the operating capital needs the regulatory capital needs and also a reasonably sized seed capital book for a company in our size.
So what I think you can reasonably take away from that is that we have set aside cash that's sufficient to pay down all of our liabilities.
Going forward what does that mean? Well before I answer that question let's look to Page 16 so we can talk about what we've done in the past with our capital planning.
You can see on the left-hand side that what management has done is really tried to balance debt pay down with a gradual increase in returning capital to shareholders.
We've increased our dividend in 2012.
We also initiated an anti-dilutive stock repurchase program.
As a result you can see on the right-hand side we have increased our payout ratio.
And while we've increased it more than tenfold but it really started as a position close to 0 just post-financial crisis.
We'll be looking at our overall payout levels going forward in the context of a very strong balance sheet of course while weighing that against any investment opportunities that we have to further strengthen our competitive and financial position.
And with that I'm sure we'll have a lot of great follow-up questions.
Let's turn it over to the operator.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Craig Siegenthaler with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you can go through the tax rate one more time.
First maybe give me just a little more detail why it's kind of jumped in the mid-40s.
I believe you said there's an acceleration now the money options.
And then from a modeling perspective should we sort of assume kind of mid-40s first quarter second quarter followed by back down the kind of the traditional rate of 35% to 38% by 3Q? Thanks for that question Craig.
Yes.
Let me answer the second part first.
Yes that is probably the best modeling assumption you can make for 2014 is that in the latter part of the year we don't have any options expiring of note in the latter part of the year.
So you wouldn't see that happening.
You go down to more of our typical tax rate.
I think it's 37.25%.
A little bit of detail on why that's happening we issued options back in 2004 and 2007 that are currently way out of the money.
Those expire in the first and second quarter of this year.
And so when that happens there's a tax adjustment that we took a deduction for in our GAAP income statement when those were issued at the value at the time.
Since they're expiring worthless there's a tax expense.
It's a set dollar tax expense but as that flows through the effective tax rate it's going to be higher.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just my follow-up.
As I focused on the $4.9 billion of redemptions from the fundamental equity franchise how much do you attribute to the funds where there was a change in manager in 2013? And then among that buckets how much would you kind of directly attribute to the fact that the manager was changing in outperformance? I know it's a difficult question but maybe you can give us some percentages or some color there? Hi Craig it's Dick.
We haven't broken it out exactly on a fund-by-fund basis.
But it -- the quarter included a $2 billion withdrawal that was definitely impacted by the combination of some challenging performance and portfolio manager change.
And so the -- while we can't separate precisely the effects of one element versus the other the combination there was clearly -- had a big negative effect in the quarter.
We are optimistic that given the strong performance of the new team over the last 6 months we think we have worked through a lot of the effects of those portfolio manager changes and some of the effects of the challenging performance on that Janus platform with respect to those affected funds.
I think that's probably the best answer I can give you.
And we'll take our next question from Robert Lee with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Maybe sticking with the last question a little bit.
I know Dick you mentioned just mentioned that you think maybe your through it but could that -- maybe give us a little bit more color on where you are seeing kind of outside that one big redemption some of the larger redemptions or is out of -- which channel it may be? Is it out of kind of the I guess I'll call it the supermarket channel? I mean is there any kind of -- is it from the more sub-advised business? Any color on kind of which channel is maybe experiencing relatively more pressure than others? Thanks Robert.
The lumpier flows are institutional relationships.
And certainly we've seen some lumpy outflows in those funds that we're affected by the combination of portfolio manager change and some challenging performance.
I can't give you a channel-by-channel breakdown of that but I can say that the new sort of restructured portfolio manager team has put on a strong start and I think the clients have worked through those elements.
And so on a go-forward basis it's more likely that any future changes would be driven by ongoing performance and those sort of things than the special effects of this past year.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe as a follow-up on expenses.
If we look ahead to 2014 and just think about the impact of the negative performance fees so as performance-based better on some products and you roll-off some tougher months and quarters possibly those starts to decline.
How should we think about that flowing through on the expense side in terms of operating expenses outside the comp? I think it's been generally been pretty well-controlled.
Is there some latent spending that we can see come through if you start seeing some easing of the revenue pressure from the performance fees that maybe there's some catch-up spending on distribution or marketing or infrastructure that you think can kind of pushing off for a while? Thanks Robert.
I would not expect to see anything very significant.
We don't have as you describe a backlog of spending initiatives that we're just waiting to spend on.
We've been really changing where we're spending money to the areas that are driving growth.
So we've already made a lot of our initiatives.
We just funded them with cuts in other areas.
So there's not a loaded spring of spending here at the firm.
I think we're -- you may see very small single-digit percent increases in G&amp;A over the next year but that's probably all I see right now.
And we'll take our next question from Michael Kim with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> First I know it's still relatively early days but it does seem like risk appetites appear to be rebuilding at least on the retail side of the industry.
So just curious how much of an opportunity that could be assuming higher interest rates for sustained period and lower correlations across asset classes.
So just assuming investors continue to put more money into equities broadly speaking how do you see that playing out for your funds in light of some of the relative performance trends? Thanks Michael.
I think the strength in equity markets provides momentum to active equity management and flows where performance is strong.
That's encouraging for us in -- where we have strong performance.
I think we'll continue to be able to capture benefits supported by those really favorable equity market conditions.
I think it is essential in a long-term sense away from sort of the shorter-term ebbs and flows that investors recognize that they can't get to their retirement goals without significant equity investing.
And indeed without some significant alpha included in their equity investing and that makes us optimistic as well in a longer-term basis.
But in the short-term side clearly this very favorable equity market is going to support increasing flows for equities in general and active equity management in particular.
And where we're able to put up a very competitive performance we expect to be able to take advantage of those favorable trends.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe one for Jennifer just to follow up on the payout ratio discussion.
Now that you've sort of pre-funded the senior notes and converts that are doing the first part of the year how are you thinking about a potential step up in the payout ratio looking beyond that -- as you mentioned cash continues to build and the seed capital needs seems to be sort of leveling out.
So just any color there.
And then also any guidance in terms of sort of the underlying mix in terms of share repurchases versus dividends.
Well Mike I don't have anything specific to telegraph or disclose today.
But I think you hit on the right point which is that going forward we do not need to set aside future cash for debt retirements.
So that's -- you got that covered.
We wanted to acknowledge it.
And then the obvious change in our thinking is what are we going to do with the cash? We're looking at everything.
We look at our peers.
We talk to our shareholders.
Depending on the fundamentals in the business that will be a big driver of how quickly and in what form we're able to raise the payout ratio.
And we haven't made those decisions yet but I will continue to keep everybody updated on that as we move forward.
And we'll go next to Kenneth Worthington with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping to get just an update on Dai-ichi.
So maybe 2 parts.
One what were the kind of the DIAM and Dai-ichi sales for the quarter? And then two as we come to the end of the mandatory investment period for the Dai-ichi general account do you expect additional investments from again the Dai-ichi general account or do you think that phase of the relationship is over and the future sales are really coming from the new products at DIAM? Thanks Ken.
Let me start with the DIAM piece.
At year end I think we finished with slightly over $1 billion of client assets under management through our work with DIAM in Tokyo.
So that's been a big success so far and we look forward to continuing to grow that base.
With respect to the Dai-ichi general account funding that we've talked about so much they have essentially completed their commitment to invest $2 billion with us.
And we're optimistic that over time as their business grows and we do a good job for them there are opportunities to grow it.
But it's fair to say that they've been terrific partners and that they've fulfilled that commitment and really all other commitments they made as part of the relationship.
Research Division</strong> And then just on INTECH you guys had a bunch of comments in the prepared remarks but what is the pace of RFPs looking like? Are you seeing a greater pace given that performance just kind of bounced back not just for mathematical but for quant more broadly? Are you making it to finals? How are things looking as we think about leading indicators for the acknowledged lumpy sales that we saw last quarter? Well as you know I can't really give you a forward guidance on flows.
But I can tell you that particularly in that slightly over 20% of their business which is the global and also with respect to the third element of their business I mentioned a lot of their new product development there's significant interest particularly outside of the United States.
And so as I've said before they're a terrific team.
They're doing a really good job and we're optimistic about their future especially in those areas.
And we'll go next to Bill Katz with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I take the $6 million of the cash adjustment the compensation adjustment from cash to long-term incentive compensation and just look apples-to-apples quarter-over-quarter I calculate an incremental margin of about 21%.
Can you help me understand A is that correct? And B if it is what are some of the moving parts underneath that particularly given the higher equity market? I'm just trying to get the impact of incremental growth versus attrition? I'll try to address that Bill.
The incremental margins that we get on revenue they range from 50% to 70%.
So I'm not sure what your 21% calculation is.
I don't know if you could explain that a little bit further? Research Division</strong> I'm looking at the change in your operating income divided by the change in your revenues on a sequential basis adjusting for the $6 million adjustment in your comp line.
Well why don't we try to kind of take that off-line because I'm not seeing the same calculation? But I think maybe getting to the heart of your question we do have pretty healthy incremental margins on revenue in our business.
And so that change that you see in the cash compensation line the reason that we're trying to also include total comp-to-revenue ratios going forward is that it's really just a currency choice on management's part.
And total compensation-to-revenue over time will be something that you'll be able to model and see as being pretty stable.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then just -- I think you've had some turnover in institutional channel again.
Can you talk a little bit about maybe the impact of Ms.
Beery leaving the firm? What paced that? And then what the replacement cycle be and what the consultants are saying about that turnover? Sure.
Thanks.
This is Dick.
I think you've related 2 things that are unrelated.
The first element of what you said was institutional turnover.
I'm not sure exactly what you're referring to but we tried to be transparent about the various lumps in retail and institutional in and out that are really large.
And so I don't think there's a particular message there.
Robin's transition I think is really an unrelated topic.
She's transitioning after almost 20 years here.
She's looking forward to spending some more time with her family.
She's done a terrific job and she's going out with the proverbial 21-gun salute.
She's been a fantastic leader and partner for our firm and she leaves with our gratitude and respect.
But not -- she hasn't left yet.
She'll be working with us here through until end of the summer.
And so we're grateful for all she's done for us and continues to do for us.
And there is no linkage between that and whatever you may have been referring to in the first part of your question.
And we'll go next to Dan Fannon with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I guess just a follow-up on that last question.
Do you anticipate a search process on kind of the timing for her replacement kind of -- I think she's there till August or so.
I guess what is the time period you're looking to to fill that position? Well Robin has had a huge role for us over the years.
And what we've done is restructured a bit in anticipation of her retirement from Janus first by promoting Drew Elder internally to run our retail businesses which is a very large part of what Robin has been doing for us.
And Robin has mentored Drew and he's been together with Robin for years.
So that's a smooth and a wonderful transition from our perspective.
Second during the interim period until she retires at the end of summer Robin has agreed to lead our marketing and communication.
And we are looking for an executive.
It's an internal and external search that we're looking for a new candidate.
We hope to fill that role in good time so that we can complete it in an orderly and smooth transition with Robin in that area of communications marketing product.
Research Division</strong> And then to follow up I guess within the fundamental act of equity component can you disclose what percentage of those assets are institutional versus your traditional retail products excluding obviously INTECH? I don't have that number I'm afraid at the tip of my fingers.
Obviously INTECH's assets are predominantly institutional and you can see those.
And Janus' and Perkins' assets on the equity side are predominantly retail and you can see those.
And that's most of the answer.
But I don't have precise figures for you.
I'll add on to that.
I think some of that question may have come from the surprise in the $2 billion outflow in Janus that wasn't in the Sims on data.
That was a separate account that is in the retail channel.
That's why you didn't see it in the numbers.
And we'll go next to Cynthia Mayer with Bank of America Merrill-Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just to clarify on the comp.
I guess with the new year just the mix and cash versus equity revert to the old mix? And then should we expect depending on how the year goes that there would be another adjustment in 4Q? Thanks for the question Cynthia.
So the reason you see the large adjustment in the fourth quarter is because we've been accruing throughout the year for this year-end compensation at a different mix.
And so the fourth quarter number has a catch-up from the prior 3 quarters as well embedded in it.
That's why it's an unusually large number.
Going forward we accrue at our best guess of what we're going to do for the full year of 2014.
So we would not expect there to be a catch-up.
We're always adjusting our accruals with our best knowledge at the time.
Cynthia this is Dick.
The exact mix of cash-to-LTI is actually set in a detailed process in conversation with our board and the compensation committee of our board.
And in this past year obviously one of the big effects on results was a very positive external market environment.
That presented us with an unusual outcome where our profits were substantially supported by external results.
As a consequence in conversation with the compensation committee and the board the decision was made to reflect that benefit with a relatively heavier mix of LTI.
That's hard to predict on a future basis.
But in general we believe that's a very unusual circumstance.
Not to say it couldn't be repeated but it's not something we'd predict on a go-forward basis.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Thanks.
That helps.
And then G&amp;A also appeared a little bit lower than usual but pretty flat on an annual basis.
Was there anything lumpy in that? Or is that a good level to think about to start off this year? There's a quarter-to-quarter variation in the G&amp;A.
And I think what you saw this quarter is nothing outside that normal periodic variation.
But as I comment I think on an earlier question you might see a slight increase for the full year in 2014.
And we'll take our next question from Matt Kelley with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to come back to INTECH for a second.
It will be helpful if you guys could tell us -- you've talked about some Asia client demand in the past.
It would be helpful to hear what kind of clients are your cornerstones for INTECH and where -- what types of clients you've seen represent that new demand.
Who exactly are these institutions are just so we can get a sense for what they're looking for? Sure.
Thanks Matt.
INTECH has success with the largest and most sophisticated institutional client base outside the U.S.
with a special focus of success in Asia so far.
But there's a challenge which is to continue that drum beat of success.
And also to broaden it to include more middle-market institutional success in those same markets.
Obviously we're hoping that some of these sovereign wealth funds and market leaders will be bell cows behind which other more local institutional clients can and will follow.
And so we're optimistic about taking those headline client wins and building them into a broader base of institutional success in some of these non-U.S.
regions.
But the names -- obviously we'd never disclose the names but the names involved would be very well-known world leaders in non-U.S.
institutional space.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Thanks for that.
And then my follow-up maybe this is for both of you but whoever wants to answer that's fine.
But I'm just coming back to comp a little bit just -- I'm sure you have various planning scenarios internally.
But when you're looking at compensation policies for both the senior executive team and the investment teams how do you think about market performance or just the markets being up versus your fund outperforming versus revenues versus earnings? Like what is the actual metrics that you're looking at for different pieces of the employee base there? Sure thanks.
We generally believe that profits are a good measure over the long-term for employee contribution.
However over the short-term they can reflect a lot of things which are diverse elements and including in this past year very strong external markets.
And so the leadership here and the board have to make management decisions around currency reflecting some of those elements.
Obviously internal organic growth is the desired state and would be the most valued outcome.
And when as in this past year we have really results driven much more by the external market factors we have made the decision to reflect that with a relatively heavier dose of LTI which I think is reasonable under the circumstances.
But it's not something we look to and repeat on a -- necessarily on a go-forward basis.
But the account -- but the board and the leadership have to take it into account what is the mix of factors which is driving the results and then try and reflect that fairly.
But really I'll go back to my first sentence.
We believe that over time a profits-based compensation plan really makes partners out of the employees.
That's the right culture.
It rewards people fairly.
But in any given period you can experience some substantial variation.
And due to our time constraints we only have time for one more question.
We will take our final question from Marc Irizarry with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Dick can you just talk about your strategic imperatives for 2014 when you look at distribution and product? What are the couple of things that if you think about your outlook on what needs to happen from a distribution perspective or product perspective what are the couple of things that are that you're focused on? Well clearly the elephant in the room is improving first flows and second financial results.
And the tools for that are: First we need to support our investment teams to deliver continuously improving and strong investment results; and then our distribution teams need to be very effective in capitalizing on those and building successful long-term relationships.
So our priorities really fall out of that.
They are to make sure we're doing everything to support better investment performance and then driving that relationship building of sales through each of the channels and sort of understanding that sales is a process perhaps even torturing a bit some of the sales processes to make sure that we're getting the most out of our resources.
We've invested recently over the past few years heavily in better data to support primarily our retail efforts to make sure we know where sales are coming from and that we can logically link outcomes with the inputs that we provide into the selling process.
So we've -- we are getting better data and we will continue to improve and learn in the use of that to help target and support more effective sales efforts.
And then of course we have talked about a lot our strategic initiatives include investing and building of U.S.
institutional and investing in building our non-U.S.
sales.
We've experienced some significant success with our non-U.S.
sales.
We're looking forward to that continuing to build positive momentum.
And we've acknowledged that U.S.
institutional is perhaps slower to develop driven by the consultant community.
But we think we're making the right steps in building progress in that area too.
Fixed income clearly has done a terrific job and will be a leader in some of the development of our newer relationships and newer areas.
They've been a big help in institutional and there's a big market for it outside the United States.
We're optimistic.
And INTECH as well we've talked a lot about in this call.
And then we have a new product area liquid alts which we're hoping over time can become -- in the next 3 to 5 years sort of timeframe can become a significant contributor to some success particularly in the institutional space.
But that remains to be proven.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up.
Dominate [ph] retail side.
Do you have any visibility? I understand that you can have some lumpy outflows.
But are there any sort of indications from the channel that maybe you've been put on watch or hold or -- that we should expect some additional lumpy outflows on the retail side? I can't tell you we have any specific expectation around that.
I can tell you that I think the Janus equity platform has been making strides forward and is moving ahead.
And I can tell you that I think the defensive elements at Perkins are going to continue to be under pressure if the markets continue their sort of one-way-up ride.
But exactly what that leads to in terms of lumps or no lumps is impossible to forecast.
Everybody thank you very much for joining us once again on this quarterly conference call.
We look forward to speaking with you again next quarter.
Thank you operator.
This concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for attending.
Good morning.
My name is Anna and I will be your conference facilitator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to the Janus Capital Group First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
In the interest of time questions will be limited to one initial and one follow-up question.
Before the company begins I would like to reference their standard legal disclaimer which also accompanies the full slide presentation located in the Investor Relations area of Janus.com.
Statements made in the presentation today may contain forward-looking information about management's plans projections expectations strategic objectives business prospects anticipated financial results anticipated results of litigation and regulatory proceedings and other similar matters.
A variety of factors many of which are beyond the company's control affect the operations performance business strategy and results of Janus and could cause actual results and experiences to differ materially from the expectations and objectives expressed in their statements.
These factors include but are not limited to the factors described in Janus' reports filed with the SEC which are available on their website www.janus.com and on the SEC's website www.sec.gov.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
Janus does not undertake to update such statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arrive after the date these statements were made.
Investors should however consult any further disclosures Janus may make in its reports filed with the SEC.
Thank you.
Now its my pleasure to introduce Dick Weil Chief Executive Officer of Janus Capital Group.
Mr.
Weil you may begin your conference.
Thank you Operator.
Welcome everybody to the first quarter 2014 earnings conference call for the Janus Capital Group.
Thanks very much for joining us.
As in prior quarters Ill start with a summary.
I'll turn to our Chief Financial Officer Jennifer McPeek to take us through the results in more detail and then together well turn to a couple of special topics that we hope will be useful to go through for the group in some detail and lastly well take open calls on the telephone as weve done in the past.
So thanks again for joining us.
Q1 2014 the obvious headline story is net flows of $1.7 billion out which is a significant improvement compared to prior quarter and compared to a year ago.
We will get into the details of this number in two ways.
As is normal for us well take you through the flows by investment discipline by fundamental equity mathematical equity and fixed income.
And then in a special section of that well take a look at it another way.
We thought it might be helpful for you to get some perspective on the volatility that youre seeing in this number by taking a look at flows from a channel perspective as we think about channels.
Obviously $1.7 billion is a dramatic improvement over the 6.2 in prior quarter.
Its a drastic improvement over the $3.9 billion in net outflows in the first quarter.
But we would call your attention to the fact that quarter to quarter net outflows particularly as affected by our institutional business outside of the United States is a pretty volatile number and its hard for us to predict on a quarter by quarter basis where this is going.
So were encouraged pretty much with the progress weve made in this quarter but the real important thing for us to do is to continue the hard work of putting up improved numbers going forward.
The second thing Id like to call your attention to about the quarter is while some of our funds struggled in some of the market conditions in the first quarter value outperforming growth or some of the smaller caps performing large caps the thing that is particularly important from our perspective is that our three year track records have improved significantly over last year.
At the end of Q1 2014 64% of complex wide mutual fund assets are in the top two Morningstar quartile compared to 31% a year ago.
For us this improvement is significantly important obviously because in addition to the client relationship and selling functions we have performance fees at Janus Capital Group which are significant and have been a drag in the past and this improving three year track gives us an opportunity to see significant improvement in our performance fees.
And Jennifer will take you through the more detailed perspective on that improvement at the end of this section.
Third our balance sheet Id just like to call attention to that.
We have generated over $200 million of cash flow from operations over the last 12 months and in April we retired another $39 million of debt that came due.
As you all know well from prior calls with us it has been a priority of ours to maintain a strong balance sheet from the perspective that success in our business requires that were good long term partners for our client that were good long term partners for our employees and for candidly our owners.
And that partnership requires that were stable through the predictable cycles of the market and that stability in turn requires a strong balance sheet.
So weve been working over the four years that Ive been here to strengthen that balance sheet and I think weve arrived at a very good place with a very strong balance sheet and continued generation of significant positive cash flow from operations.
So Jennifer will take you through that in some more detail further in the deck as well but as you all know that strength enabled us to raise the quarterly dividend by one penny recently.
Let me take just one more moment to talk about our business strategy going forward.
As weve discussed on prior calls weve been pursuing the strategy that weve titled Intelligence Diversification and the main message here for 2014 and looking ahead is that well continue to pursue that strategy but let me review with you what that means for a moment.
As some of you may recall when I arrived four years ago I took a look at the Janus business model and I thought because of the volatile nature of the underlying beta in U.S and global equity markets because of the volatility associated with the alpha we were seeking to produce in our performance in our business model because of the volatility introduced by some of the performance fee structure on our mutual funds.
And on top of those elements the volatility induced by what was then a much more significantly levered balance sheet felt to me like no matter how you operated the company; it was destined to be a fairly volatile roller coaster ride under that set of business conditions.
And so we evolved the strategy of Intelligence Diversification which said lets continue to do what we do very well on the Janus platform continue to do high conviction equity a larger growth equity management and obviously different at Perkins with value and mathematical at INTECH.
But lets continue to be what we are and be excellent in that but lets add to that some diversifying elements in terms of product primarily thinking about fixed income at the time and more recently weve been focused a little bit on liquid alternatives.
And then not just products but also client type diversifying outside of the United States with our global business and diversifying with more attention and focus on institution as well as retail.
And again the idea behind that was in order to be the best possible partner for our clients for our owners and for our employees I thought it was important to evolve the business to a less volatile and in my way of thinking more stable framework through this strategy.
And so thats what weve been pursuing and were making good progress down that road.
Its obvious and important to note that organic changes like this take a significant amount of time to bear fruit but if you look at our priorities stabilizing our equity franchises growing fixed income building better distribution in retail and institutional delivering on our client promises and providing a foundation underneath all of it of operational excellence were clear that these are the right priorities for us and we accept that they wont happen overnight.
We feel like weve made very good progress over the last several years and we look forward to continuing that progress but that remains the focus of our strategy.
In a more narrow sense we recognize that essential to that strategy essential to keeping our client promises essential to stabilizing our equity franchise is first and foremost just getting some better investment performance in some of the areas where we havent done that as well as we could have and should have and thats been obviously the highest priority.
Next is making sure that we continue to do a great job in developing client relationships and supporting those relationships through time because in the end the coin of the realm is stable happy long term relationships with your clients with your owners and with your employees and thats what we aim to deliver.
With those words please let me turn it over to Jennifer.
Thank you Dick and good morning again everyone.
So if youre following along with the materials Ill begin on page five.
Ill start by highlighting the firms operating results for the quarter.
First quarter Average AUM improved to $173 billion from $170.3 billion in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Total revenue rose to $230.2 million which was the result of the increase in average assets and some improvement in performance fees.
This represented a revenue increase of 2% from the December quarter and an increase of 7% year over year.
Operating income was $66.9 million nearly flat on a quarter-over-quarter basis and an improvement of 22% versus the prior year.
Operating Margin for the quarter was 29.1%.
Earnings per share was $0.16 this quarter.
That compares to $0.21 in the fourth quarter and $0.15 a year ago.
The quarter-over-quarter decline was due to the below the line item of fee capital mark-to-market other income and taxes.
Turning now to slide 6 we summarize our investment performance as of March 31.
Dick has already touched on the Complex-Wide Mutual Fund and I have a couple more highlights to add.
The one year Fundamental Equity metric improved from quarter-over-quarter and the three year Fundamental Equity metric had more noticeable improvement as poor performance from the first quarter of 2011 rolled off.
The percentage of Fundamental Equity Assets in the top two Morningstar Quartiles on a three year basis improved quarter-over-quarter from 39% to 59%.
The three year metric as weve noted is particularly relevant since its also a performance fee measurement period.
Fixed income performance continues to be very strong with similar results to what weve shown previously.
INTECH performance showed moderate changes from the prior quarter with the largest change being in the five year number which moved from 42% strategy of beating the benchmark to 58%.
For INTECHs institutional client base long term risk-adjusted performance isnt much relevant.
Page 7 is a flows presentation.
In the fourth quarter as Dick noted we had outflows of $1.7 billion which compared to $6.2 billion of outflows in the prior quarters.
Fundamental Equity flows in the upper right hand corner represent both Janus' Equity and Perkins' value and we saw first quarter net out flows in this discipline of $2.3 billion which compares favorably to fourth quarter net outflows of $4.9 billion.
Janus equity runway flows improved and that improvement was partially offset by increased net outflows in Perkins value strategy.
Perkins strategies had $1.8 billion in outflows in the first quarter compared to $1.1billion in the prior quarter.
And if you may recall during the fourth quarter we also had a large mandate loss of approximately $2 billion which was from a Janus Equity strategy.
We did not have a similar loss this quarter.
Moving on to INTECH in the lower left hand corner we saw an improvement here in the flow story.
However as you can see in the five quarter historical trend these mathematical flows vary significantly.
Turning to Fixed Income flows improved moderately primarily due to a decline in our redemption rate.
Our first quarter annualized organic growth rate of 10% for fixed income compares quite well to the active taxable bond industry growth rate which was in the mid-single digits in the quarter.
As we stated last quarter as were successful in growing our global institutional business and continue to compete for larger mandates we expect the lumpiness in our flows to continue and as Im sure you do we find that difficult to predict.
Looking to Slide 8 management fees increased slightly quarter over quarter with higher average assets being offset by fewer days in the quarter.
The weighted average management fee for the quarter was 48.8 basis points.
Performance Fees improved to minus $15.9 million dollars.
This decomposes to minus $17.9 million in mutual fund performance fees and positive $2 million in separate account performance fees.
Slide 9 breaks down our operating expenses.
Operating expenses increased $4.1 million compared to last quarter with the compensation line item shown here in blue being the biggest driver of that increase.
The quarter over quarter comp increases came from two areas.
One the seasonally higher payroll taxes and retirement contribution; and two the adjustment that we did back in the fourth quarter which as you probably recall resulted from an increase in our non-cash incentive pay percentage.
The LTI bar which is shown here in green declined by $5.8 million.
That was driven by mutual fund share awards mark-to-market and a decline in our subsidiary SPI.
Note in the footnote to this page our current estimates for a full year LTI expense is about $60 million or about $48 million for the rest of the year.
So that should help you in your modeling.
This projection assumes flat AUM going forward.
As actual results vary well update the full year estimate each quarter.
Our total compensation to revenue ratio which includes that LTI expense was 40.2% this quarter.
Slide 10 a look at our balance sheet.
Total cash and marketable securities declined by 7% compared to the prior quarter which was driven primarily by compensation related movements which includes some seasonal vesting events and our annual bonus payments.
As I mentioned during last quarters call our strengthening cash positions is enabling us to consider returning more capital to shareholders.
In that vein we just announced an increase in our regular dividends.
We also repurchased shares this past quarter approximately $11 million of share repurchase.
Ill note that this level was up from the prior years first quarter which is the most relevant comparison point.
Share repurchase is something well continually be evaluating based on market conditions and company strengths.
Of note and not depicted i0n these charts on April 15 we retired 39 million of our senior notes as insured.
We retired those with cash on the balance sheet.
We also continue to intend to retire about 60 million in converts which is going to mature in July.
We intend to use cash to retire that.
Post these two deleveraging events our credit strength will be higher than its been since before the crisis.
Ill reiterate Dicks point that this is the culmination of a deliberate multiyear focus on building our balance sheet to support our business as the market fluctuates.
Now as weve done on prior calls we would like to address a few of the frequently discussed topics that came up over the course of the quarter.
Dicks going to walk through a discussion around flows and Ill finish up with a quick update on our performance fee outlook.
Thank you Jenifer.
Turning to page 12 we present a breakdown of our flows by channel by the sales channel and the way that we think of our business.
Along the right side of the page we have Retail Intermediary U.S Institutional and International being the three largest channel pipes in the way that we look at the business.
Retail Intermediary for us is $107 billion asset base ranging across things like our advisor business our defined contribution business our direct business and things of that nature.
You can see that while the aggregate net flow number has demonstrated significant volatility particularly in this quarter its moved up almost $2 billion from $5 billion net out in the fourth quarter of 2013 to $2.2 billion net outflow in the first quarter of 2014 the big difference there is the level of redemptions.
The level of gross sales across the topline has perhaps been a bit more consistent.
Driving that number is of course as we discussed last quarter we had a more than $2 billion single redemption in this channel in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Its absence in this quarter speaks loud into why the gross redemption number moved from $10.5 billion to $7.4 billion net outflows and that really drove the change in that line.
Looking at the next box on the right hand side of the page U.S Institutional; this is about a $42 billion channel for us.
About 80% of those assets are managed in resident at INTECH per mathematical manager.
As you look across those US Institutional numbers I think you can see the pressure that weve talked about in prior quarters that INTECH faces in the US Institutional market.
Failing new business in this space is tough at a time when U.S Institutions have been reducing their exposures to U.S equities in general as a general trend and the second general challenging trend has been as you all know well some of those institutions have rotated towards passive exposure in the U.S large-cap space for their asset allocation efforts and those two trends have been challenging and remain challenging and I think that goes a long way to explaining why the gross sales number has been relatively modest.
The redemptions are a bit lumpy and theyre hard to predict and you can see how theyve laid out since the first quarter of 2013 but overall I think thats the channel story there.
If we turn to the third box at the bottom of the page on the right side International.
This one is comprised of both retail and institutional assets.
If you look here the gross sales line demonstrates a pretty significant amount of volatility moving from a small number of $1.5 billion in the second quarter of 2013 to the very next quarter the largest number on the page is $3.9 billion of gross sales in the third quarter of 2013.
That volatility in the sales line is primarily driven by institutional business the lumpy institutional business in that historical case large institutions in Asia doing business with INTECH.
So in this channel International I think the significant volatility you see is driven a lot on the gross sales line and its driven particularly by large institutional mandates when they happen to be won by INTECH.
As weve talked about in prior calls and quarters thats not a particularly consistent feature from quarter-to-quarter.
And so I think the combination of those three channels and the volatility we described there explains and sums to the numbers on the left side of the page the total company long term flows.
And our caution here in some cases for instance the International businesses its the gross sale line that seems to be more volatile and other cases its the redemption line that seems to be more volatile.
But its pretty hard for us and we believe pretty hard for any of you to reliably extrapolate flows from quarter to quarter.
So we simply caution that.
These things have a certain level of volatility and indeed as we hope to grow our success in institutional channels it may be that that volatility even increases with what will hopefully be more large lumpy institutional wins in the future.
Were hopeful that this view of flows by channel is useful to you in getting a deeper understanding of our performance and the changes that occur from quarter to quarter.
With that Ill turn it back over to Jennifer McPeek.
Thank you Dick and Ill turn to the last page of our prepared remarks.
Performance fees we saw this quarter improvement in our mutual fund performance fees which is both exciting its long anticipated.
Most of you that follow our stock have taken our suggestion to build a bottom up fund by fund performance fee model.
Hopefully this slide will simply help you calibrate those models.
I want to emphasize first that this page is neither a guidance on fees nor a prediction of fund performance but rather simply to illustrate how we think about this internally how we model the range of outcome for that particular revenue line item.
Note specifically that not only fund performance but also asset levels and benchmark performance will affect the actual results.
With those disclaimers out of the way first the left hand side of the page.
Here this is simply a historical chart that shows our actual performance fees each year.
You can see again that in 2012 and 2013 we were close to the maximum negative performance fees on most of our funds.
That minus $88 million in 2013 is the base line for comparison on the right hand side of the slide where weve included three potential performance scenarios for 2014.
These scenarios start with actual first quarter performance and then show a range of performance expectations for the remainder of the year.
The range is from plus to minus 400 basis points which is across all of the funds that have this fees.
Then you can see in the right hand side of the slide the Delta under these three scenarios in performance fees for the year of 2014.
So that $ 42 million $32 million and $24 million is the difference in performance fees versus what we saw in 2013 under the three scenarios.
So stepping back the conclusion that you can draw from looking at these ranges is that unlike a year ago when there was fairly little range of performance fee revenue expected this year our financial results can vary more based on this performance factor.
These modeling scenarios that weve shown resulted in a $18 million swing from best to worst and show that even in our poor performance scenario we do expect that we would see significant improvement versus those 2013 models.
So with that I would like to turn it over to the operator and open it up to your questions.
Operator? Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen at this time we will conduct the question and the answer session.
In the interest of time questions will be limited to one initial and one follow up question.
(Operator instructions).
Well move first to Dan Fannon with Jefferies.
I guess just starting with Dick following up on your comments around the international segment.
Outside of INTECH what other components of the business potentially are driving the increasing growth sales? And then as you look forward are there products that are gaining more traction in that segment that maybe are smaller and not on the radar for us at this point? Sure.
Thanks for that question Dan.
Obviously INTECH has been a big part of the story particularly looked at from an asset perspective.
There are also some significant revenues but less from an asset perspective driven off the Mutual Fund businesses that we have particularly in Europe.
But weve made strides recently to build out in Taiwan and Hong Kong and were hopeful that those businesses can drive forward.
Our fixed income business has done quite well particularly in Japan with the help of our partners at Dai-ichi and their affiliate DIAM.
And so Fixed income I think continues to have significant opportunities outside the United States but thats not all.
I think our Janus Equity strategies have some prospects.
Its a bit of a diverse set of opportunities and were hopeful that over time we learn business in the liquid business as well.
So its a fairly broad group of strategies that have opportunities outside the United States.
But its fair to say that from an asset base INTECH has been driving a lot of the story looking backwards and its fair to say that on a revenue basis Retail looks a little more important than it does on asset basis.
Okay great and then just the follow up.
I guess thinking about this year and the strength of your balance sheet and what youve -- you have some maturities coming due.
Should we continue to think about 2014 as a delevering year and given the limitations with the Dai-ichi ownership stake that buybacks really wont get much more than offsetting a dilution? Dan this is Jennifer.
Thanks for the question.
First part of your question yes will continue to be a delevering year for us.
In April we retired some notes and we have some more coming up in July.
So we will be continuing a long our delevering path.
Regarding your second question around share repurchases were continuing to look at that.
I think you saw us do some share repurchases in the first quarter and as our cash position continues to strengthen well be looking to increase our payout ratio but I dont have anything specific to give you right now.
Let me just jump with one last addition to Jennifers comments.
I think you referenced in your question Dai-ichi and unless I misheard you.
Theres nothing in our deal with them that restricts our ability to buy back shares.
We have to make sure they maintain a certain percentage so theres some mechanics and plumbing between us and them but we are not blocked from share repurchases based on our relationship with Dai-ichi.
Of those that if they -- if you buy back your percentage goes above 20 and then thats -- in the original agreement that was where that threshold was kept and so they would have to either sell some of their stake as a result.
Is that true? Yes.
You can look at the agreement as its filed but thats a more of a technical issue rather than a strategic or capital planning issue for us.
Well now move to Craig Seigenthaler with Credit Suisse.
Just to Dans question how do you solve that because if you cant buy back stock if thats something that you can revise the contract with Dai-ichi? I must not be speaking clearly as I think.
Im sorry Craig.
I tried to say in answer to Dans question that the agreement does not block us from buying back shares.
So forgive me for repeating but its the same answer to you.
We are not blocked from repurchasing shares.
If we push the percentage of Dai-ichi ownership up to high theres some plumbing that we have between us and Dai-ichi to pull in some of their shares and there we have a very good relationship with them and thats possible.
We do not -- there are some mechanics involved in the execution of that but essentially theyre very cooperative with us and we have the opportunity to buy back shares if thats the judgment our Board of Directors makes.
Thanks Dick.
Very clear and just us my follow up how do you weigh the attractiveness of share repurchases versus special dividend here because that could be another option for you guys? Sure Craig.
There are many options increasing our regular dividends special dividends or share repurchases.
We like to have a balance among those three ways of returning capital.
I think youve seen that in the past.
One of the things about share repurchases thats attractive to us is as were getting stronger and theres a lot of uncertainty still in the pace at which our fundamental strengthens share repurchases give us a lot more flexibility.
Were looking into that as were going forward able to dial that up or down as we see the pace of improvement in our business fundamentals.
So I will say that that has an element of attractiveness for us in terms of just giving management the flexibility.
Well now move to Mathew Kelly with Morgan Stanley.
I just wanted to -- sorry about the echo but I was wanting to touch on it looks like when you look at some of the monthly data you had some nice wins in Life Sciences and also youre flexible in short term bond strategies.
So was just curious if you see incremental demand picking up into the second quarter or if thats just a month to month basis there and any other trends any other funds that Im missing that you see incremental stronger demand? I think weve been focused on the fact that the really well performing funds on our platform will have significant opportunities.
And I think what youre describing is just essentially the execution of that.
We have a talented retail sales force thats able to do quite well when theyre given reasonably strong performance to work with.
And obviously Life Science this year the additional thing has been theres been a huge wave of interest in that sector not just for us but in the market in general.
So its particularly nice when you have excellent performance and an excellent team in an area thats of special interest to the client base and thats what been happening in Life Science.
But more broadly speaking this is just an example of the fact that when we put up strong performance were able to move that significantly forward in the marketplace and that demonstrates the strength of the team and the opportunity going forward.
Okay thanks.
And then following up on that in terms of your marketing spend obviously youve been kind of delevering the balancing kind of conservative on some of your expenses.
But is there a point when some of the acceleration in some of these fronts that youre seeing in traction for we just talked about Life Sciences but assuming therere others as well is there a point when you think that you kind of loosen up on marketing spend a little bit or you can drive stronger growth than you are now with higher marketing spend? Hi Matt.
Ill attempt to answer that.
The short answer is yes.
There will be a point when the marketing spend is going to in our opinion deliver a higher return and that is definitely tied to performance.
So short answer is yes well definitely see that becoming a little bit more attractive in terms of return on investment.
But Ill couch that with a moderation in assuming an increase in spend.
I think nothing extensive maybe single digits increases on a percent basis would you expect to see in the near term.
Okay thanks.
Well now move to Robert Lee with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> I was wondering if we could get a little bit more color on the fixed income business.
Clearly performance there has been pretty good and its been a steady source of inflows but can you comment a little bit on your efforts and where they stand on broadening that to the institutional market away from retail markets whether its in the U.S or Japan or elsewhere and just kind of where you feel you stand with that? Sure.
Thanks for the question.
Over recent years our fixed income businesses has been successfully growing at a nice clip because their focus which has been capital preservation and making sure that theyre conservative in times of high volatility and risk as an approach to credits based fixed income management is a bit unusual.
Most of the credit base managers are more volatile and significantly less protective on the downside.
And so our approach to the fixed income business has given our team some differentiation from some of the other credit base managers and thats been nice.
And then theyve done a terrific job of putting up strong numbers consistently over time and thats obviously the most important element.
So theyve had opportunities in Retail and in Institutional and its been domestic and abroad.
The Japanese market in particular with our relationship with Dai-ichi and DIAM has been a successful market for them.
That market tends to move in product cycles and weve been through one where they were very interested in U.S fixed income and to a certain extent international yield based fixed income.
Thats been good for our fixed income business and for sales of fixed income in general in Japan.
That appetite is probably rotating more towards equities right as we sit but thats a day to day month to month thing.
And so who knows how that develops on go forward basis and well hope to be able to participate in that as it evolves.
Theyve also had Institutional and Retail opportunities elsewhere outside of United States in the world.
So its a pretty broad based appeal.
If theres a single sort of thread to it global interest in U.S fixed income would be an important thread in the mix if you were looking for just one thread but its really a more complicated story than that and they have opportunities a pretty wide in geography and also in market segment.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay thanks.
And maybe as my follow up you talked about clearly that you would expect volatility of sales in the Institutional channel at INTECH as mandates come in and out.
And so I guess maybe it would be helpful there to get some color or perspective in number one in the quarter just past with the pump up in the gross sales driven by a small handful of mandates? Was it just a happenstance in maybe a large number of Institutional of mandates funded? And any color you may have on the pipeline and changes in RSP activity files that type of thing.
In the first quarter INTECH was successful and was funded at an increased amount of significant sales.
I think that the increase was north of $1 billion and they were successful with those new mandates getting us funded in the quarter.
As we pointed out their wins tend not to be quarter to quarter consistent.
So while we are trying every quarter they may not fund at the same rate every quarter.
The INTECH story more broadly speaking continues to be a balance of a lot of better opportunities outside of the United States and some pressure in the U.S Institutional businesses weve described now several times.
And that balance creates the net opportunity set for INTECH on a go-forward basis.
And I cant give you more intelligent color than that I dont think.
Well now move to Mr.
Michael Kim with Sandler ONeill My first question now that Enrique has been in his seat for I think around six months just wondering where he is in terms of putting a stamp on the team and the investment processes and how youre thinking about the timeline in terms of measuring his progress.
I think Enrique is off to a terrific start.
Hes a strong mature leader and hes been a terrific addition to the team.
He doesnt manage the funds.
He manages the team the process the culture the risks sorts of things.
Those things take time to evolve.
And as good a start as hes off to hes only been on the ground now for six to seven months and it takes time to fully implement those things.
And so obviously its an ongoing process but were thrilled with his start.
Were thrilled to have him on the team and I think hes doing the right things.
The linkage between that and performance in any given month or quarter is a little more indirect.
Hes trying to create the conditions that maximize the opportunities for everybody to deliver success.
And I think hes making improvements and strengthening the team every day in lots of ways.
And so thats just an ongoing process.
I dont know how to give you a map of where he is now versus the future in terms of his so-called imprint.
I can only tell you I think hes off to a great start.
Hes making positive contributions and I look forward to us continuing to get better on an ongoing basis.
Okay.
Thats helpful.
And then my follow up question I know the institutional equities business beyond impact isnt necessarily that bigger part of your overall asset base but it does sound like institutional demand for more concentrated equity strategies is picking up.
So just wondering if youre seeing signs of that trend and how you might be positioning the franchise to maybe capitalize on that dynamic.
The most important thing on that dynamic is going to be continued improvement in investment performance by our concentrated equity strategies.
And as you know weve been through some changes in terms of portfolio management leadership on those strategies.
Doug Rao on the 40 and Marc Pinto on the 20 are our two most prominent concentrated equity strategies on the US side.
And I think theyre hard at work strengthening those track records.
That would be the most important element to allowing us to participate to a significant degree and increase the institutional demand and were not there yet.
Were not seeing institutional demand for those products play a significant role in the near term.
Maybe a question on performance; it seems like as you point out your three year performance is improving but also your five year is declining a little bit and I know -- I dont know if this is rolling off 2009 or something else and I know it doesnt drive performance fees.
So in that sense its less important but Im wondering if maybe it drives Morningstar ratings somewhat.
And if you could talk a little bit about whether Morningstar ratings when you look in your crystal ball how they look and could that be any headwind to retail flows.
Thanks.
Thank you Cynthia.
I dont have a roll forward forecast on the Morningstar 10 year ratings handy.
Obviously the five year accounts is part of that 10 year period that the Morningstar looks at.
We care about those Morningstar ratings over time and theyll move around a little bit as quarters roll on and roll off from distant history.
The three year number is particularly important not only because of the performance fee but because I think a lot of the marketplace focuses on that in the most significant measurement period obviously not Morningstar but a lot of the other folks in the marketplace pay a lot of attention to that.
But were focused on the Morningstar numbers.
We present them here regularly as an indication that we think theyre important.
And small variations are not too too meaningful but we need to keep moving up the curve with stronger performance on a go-forward basis.
Im afraid I dont have what youre really asking for which is just a roll forward view of those 10-year Morningstar numbers.
Okay no problem.
And then maybe a question on the added disclosure that you gave its really interesting on flows by channel.
And one question I have is on the international the annualized redemption rate as you say its very lumpy but it seems fairly elevated for a new business and Im wondering is that the nature of the clients or the channel or is there something else going on because it looks like averaging 30% or so.
So would INTECH for instance have to replace those assets at a 30% rate all the time? It really is a combination of things.
Its a combination of some retail and some institutional.
International retail tends to be a pretty darn high redemption rate business.
It also is true that the business that we sell in Japan tends to be a pretty high redemption rate business as a structure of those marketplaces.
So that plays into it.
And then obviously some of it is the lumpiness of institutional mandates on the INTECH side as well.
So its a combination of those features.
Its not easy to sort of simplify it into a single thread of explanation.
Right but it doesnt sound like its necessarily something that will come down to something more like the U.S Retail rate of 25% or something.
Really hard for me to predict but I think you understand it as well as can be understood.
Predicting it is going to be difficult.
And Ill add on to that Cynthia that a lot of the retail markets that we are growing in overseas they have high churn or high redemption rates but they also have high fees.
So on a profitability basis theyre attractive but they are not the same dynamics as you see in the U.S retail markets.
Well now move to Ken Worthington with JP Morgan You indicated one of your priorities is to strengthen global distributions.
And youve got some very strong performance in Contrarian Global Life Sciences balance and some other products.
In terms of expanding distribution within the U.S is this selected performance strength starting to either change the nature or number of conversations youre having with potential new distributors? And if you can give any color in terms of the question that would be great.
I think were clearly seeing interest and opportunity in Life Sciences and in Contrarian.
The managers there have done an excellent job in -- I cant narrow it down to new distributors versus preexisting distributors quite so neatly.
We have a lot of relationships with most of the significant distribution already.
So Id be speculating if I talked about it in terms of new distribution versus preexisting distribution.
But those things are a story of excellent performance in areas where folks have significant interest in and were obviously working every day to maximize those opportunities.
Okay.
But it doesnt seem like its opening new doors for example? Everything helps right? Of course it is.
The thing is I cant  I dont have an isolated fact set for you.
I dont have data to back up whether a couple of anecdotal things that have been reported in this.
So I cant really give you a rational picture of that story but obviously in this business strong performing fund enhance reputation and enhance relationships and that Im sure is happening out in the field.
I just dont have data on new distribution relationships and how much of that is due to those two firms.
And then in the past youve updated us on quarter end DIAM and Dai-ichi AUM.
Would you be willing to do that again? Im fumbling for the number here.
We did not have in this quarter significant new DIAM and Dai-ichi sales in Tokyo.
As of March 31 we managed $1.1 billion of assets for them but the quarterly flows did not reflect a big delta from those sources.
Well now move to Marc Irizarry with Goldman Sachs Dick can you give us some color on fixed income? The organic growth rate picked up there but it looks like it was more about redemptions slowing while small gross sales for fixed income maybe slowed a little bit too.
Can you just give some perspective on your fixed -- more perspective on your fixed income business maybe the on the Retail side.
Are you gaining? Where do you see the share gains coming from? And maybe just speak a little bit to the ins and outs there on fixed income.
Sure.
I think the team has done a terrific job.
I think they are subject to the fear-greed cycle around rising rates and in fixed income markets more generally.
But they have opportunities as clients are looking to rotate out of some of the more traditional players and looking for new things to add on to their menu.
I think with some of the upset in the fixed income markets at other houses our team has had an opportunity to do a little better and hopefully that continues going forward.
We watch the retail redemption rates like you do.
We dont always know everything that goes into those decisions.
It seems like a big part of the retail flow decision is fear of higher rates.
And as that fear ebbs and flows it seems to drive a lot of the retail redemption rate story at least thats what it looks like to us.
But our guys have consistently put up good numbers.
They stay true to their philosophy and there are opportunities that will ebb and flow a little bit with those forces but I think it continues to be good.
Okay.
And then just in Perkins and value I guess thats the one area where you saw redemption rates pick up there.
Was there anything notable in terms of lumpy outflows there? And how should we think about the progression? I guess theres been a little bit of a rotation if you will between growth and value thats happened I guess recently.
I dont know if youd give any recent color on maybe how flow trends are tracking there.
I think Perkins has suffered as a conservative value manager in a fairly straight up market environment.
Thats not going to be fixed overnight.
Clearly we saw the net outflows worsen quarter to quarter and thats a difficult situation.
Its worth noting and I think all of their composites except for midcap outperformed the index in the quarter.
Now midcap is of course their largest product and most economically significance.
So thats a fairly big exception.
But theyve taken steps to strengthen their process and hopefully those will continue to prove that over time.
Weve just got to hang tough through what is a challenging market environment for what they do for a living.
Well now take our last question from Bill Katz with Citigroup.
Okay.
Thank you for getting me on.
First questions I might have missed it and I apologize.
Did you quantify or qualify the pipeline for new business where it stands today I mean institutional business maybe a quarter ago or a year ago? I heard your comments on INTECH the push-pull between U.S and non-U.S but I didnt catch what you might have said on the pipeline away from that.
I didnt comment on the pipeline.
I dont know have those figures for you today.
I think INTECH continues to see significant interest outside the United States and were hopeful that can be converted into fundings in future quarters.
They continue to see a difficult U.S marketplace where the U.S institutions are not really re-equitizing into U.S equities.
And to the extent that theyre shifting some of them are shifting into passive as opposed to active.
And so the US continues to be a pressured market for them and the non-U.S markets continue to be markets of significant opportunity and that hasnt really changed dramatically in recent quarters.
Second question this is on expenses.
Im sort of curious.
If you look at your base comp I know theres some seasonal impacts here.
I think basis of about 35% of revenues which I recall might be towards the higher end of your range.
How are you thinking about the outlook for base comp on a go forward basis particularly if some of the performance fees roll off against where you might be on any further build out for distribution globally? Ill go ahead and take that one Bill.
Thanks for the question.
Youre right on the seasonality of the base comp expense.
I think its about three and change in first quarter seasonal issues.
We are trying to internally manage too our total comp to revenue number and thats why we started providing that in I guess last quarters earnings call.
Looking at that number if you combine our range of low 40s and total comp to revenue and then take out the LTI guidance which were now giving I think that gives you a pretty good sense of where our cash compensation will end up.
It does fluctuate with revenue because of the way -- with revenue and with profits because of the way that we manage our variable comps.
Hopefully that gives you enough to put a good number there.
I guess you envision any step up spend to further build that distribution at this point? If we do it would still be within the ranges of our total comp to revenue targeting.
So yes were growing the business and assets are growing.
Distribution is a good place for us to spend.
Got you okay.
Thank you for squeezing me in and thank you.
And that does conclude our Q&amp;A session.
Were on our way to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Weil for any additional or closing remarks.
We appreciate everybodys attention this morning.
Thank you very much.
I hope everybody had a nice Easter weekend and we look forward to talking to you next quarter.
And that concludes todays conference call.
We thank you for attending.
Good morning.
My name is Levi and I will be your conference facilitator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to the Janus Capital Groups Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
In the interest of time questions will be limited to one initial and one follow-up question.
Before the company begins I would like to reference their standard legal disclaimer which also accompanies the full slide presentation located in the Investor Relations area of Janus.com.
Statements made in the presentation today may contain forward-looking information about managements plans projections expectations strategic objectives business prospects anticipated financial results anticipated results of litigation and regulatory proceedings and other similar matters.
A variety of factors many of which are beyond the companys control affect the operations performance business strategy and results of Janus and could cause actual results and experiences to differ materially from the expectations and objectives expressed in their statements.
These factors include but are not limited to the factors described in Janus reports filed with the SEC which are available on their website www.janus.com and on the SECs website www.sec.gov.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
Janus does not undertake to update such statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arrive after the date these statements were made.
Investors should however consult any further disclosures Janus may make in its reports filed with the SEC.
Thank you.
Now it is my pleasure to introduce Dick Weil Chief Executive Officer of Janus Capital Group.
Mr.
Weil you may begin your conference.
Good morning everybody.
Welcome to the second quarter 2014 earnings presentation of the Janus Capital Group.
I am Dick Weil Chief Executive Officer.
I am joined this morning by Jennifer McPeek our Chief Financial Officer and as usual I will give you an executive summary of the quarter.
Jennifer will take you through the results in some more detail and then we will turn towards some topics for discussion that we have picked up from you all during the course of the quarter and lastly well be very pleased to take your questions as always.
Turning to the executive summary for the second quarter of 2014.
At this point I try in most quarters to give you the overarching story from my perspective.
Candidly this quarter I dont think there is a huge overarching story.
Second quarter 2014 was marked by some deterioration of our net flows to 3.3 billion out which is a worsening compared to the first quarter.
I think that is primarily a reflection of market conditions although it also serves as a reminder to us that the job of healing the investment performance track records and getting ourselves firmly on a path to zero and then growing positive flows.
Its work in progress and were not yet there.
With that said turning to investment performance.
Our one and three year investment track records have improved somewhat from a year ago.
The investment results during the quarter were mixed and Jennifer will give you some more details but mutual fund performance fees for the fund side were essentially flat.
Our operating margins increased to 30.6% from a little better than 29% in the prior quarter and substantially up from a year ago this reflects our continuing effort to balance financial discipline with the pursuit of our strategic agenda and we continue to feel good about that piece.
We have also strengthened our balance sheet further with the repayment of $39 million of outstanding debt in the second quarter and there another piece of 60 million that weve returned after the end of the second quarter which will be reported in third quarter but were making it aware of today.
So we are consistent in following through with our multi-year effort to strengthen our balance sheet and Jennifer again will touch that in some more detail.
Finally and most fun and exciting on the list of things is we were encouraged by our recruitment of two class talents.
Myron Scholes and Ashwin Alankar are terrific investment talent that we were very pleased to recruit during the quarter.
They will help us by taking on existing products.
They will help us in some other ways advancing our strategic agenda that we will touch on in a later section of this presentation.
But its also important to note that they represent a strengthening and a continuation of the trend of talent inflow into our firm which weve established over the last several years which we find very exciting and confirming for us that were on the right path to a better future.
With that said let me please turn it over to Jennifer McPeek.
Thank you Dick.
Good morning again everyone.
So I will begin on page five the slide presentation with a quick overview of our operating results for the quarter.
With the help of some strong markets our second quarter average AUM improved to $174.4 billion from $173.0 billion in the first quarter of 2014.
Total revenue increased slightly quarter-over-quarter to $231.2 million.
Operating income was $70.7 million in the first quarter of 2014.
Total revenue increased slightly quarter-over-quarter to $231.2 million.
Operating income was $70.7 million which is up nearly 6% quarter-over-quarter and that was mainly due to lower operating expenses.
Compared to the prior year operating income improved 21%.
Second quarter operating margin was 30.6% which is an improvement of 150 basis points quarter-over-quarter.
Earnings per share was $0.19 for the second quarter and that compares to $0.16 in the first quarter and $0.08 a year ago.
The increase in earnings per share over the prior quarter was primarily due to the improvement in operating income a lower effective tax rate and our seed capital mark-to-market.
Turning now to slide six.
Well summarize our investment performance as of June 30th.
We do not see a lot of change in the complex-wide or fundamental equity three and five year performance statistics compared to last quarters presentation.
However we have seen some market improvement in the one year metrics.
Fundamental equity performance improved quarter-over-quarter from 44% to 63% of assets in the top two Morningstar quartiles on a one year basis.
Our fixed income performance continues to be very excellent and strong.
INTECHs performance which is here on the pages mathematical equity strategies.
Their performance showed moderate improvement in the one and five year numbers.
We did however see a decline in the three year number quarter-over-quarter and that was due to a slight under performance in some of the lower risk strategies.
I will note that the magnitude of under performance in the majority of strategies at INTECH that are not meeting their benchmarks remains quite moderate.
Slide seven this is our flows presentation.
During the second quarter we had outflows of $3.3 billion which compares unfavorably to first quarter which had $1.5 billion of outflows.
However if you look at the five quarter trend youll see that it is an improvement over all of 2013.
Fundamental equity flows which again represent both our Janus equity and Perkins value franchises had second quarter net outflows of $3 billion which compares to the first quarter net outflows of $2.3 billion.
Later in todays discussion I am going to discuss some of the quarterly changes in this fundamental equity discipline in more detail.
Moving down the page mathematical equity or INTECH saw an increase in net outflows quarter-over-quarter.
Turning to fixed income.
Were pleased that we continue to grow our market share.
According to some data from strategic insight our second quarter annualized organic growth rate was 18% for fixed income and retail mutual fund flows and that compares extremely favorably to the active taxable bond growth rate for the industry overall which was only 3% so market share gain there.
Also of note our second quarter fixed income flows do include a $400 million redemption from a single insurance general account.
Flipping to slide eight.
This is our standard revenue and average asset slide.
Revenue increased marginally as management fee gains were partially offset by lower separate account performance fees.
The mutual fund performance fees were flat quarter-over-quarter so the decline you see was due to separate account performance fees in INTECH.
The weighted average management fee for the quarter was 48.4 basis points which compares to 48.8 basis points in the first quarter.
Now lets move on to slide nine which is our operating expense breakdown.
Operating expenses declined $2.8 million or 1.7% compared to last quarter with the largest driver being the $2.7 million decline in compensation expenses.
This was primarily due to a seasonality in retirement contribution and payroll taxes that happens in the first quarter of every year.
Now lets look at LTI our long-term incentive category of expenses.
We are now giving you an estimate for the full year LTI expense in each of our quarterly presentations and our current estimates for 2014 LTI is approximately 55 million this projections assumes that we have flat assets going forward so the actual results may vary.
Our total compensation to revenue ratio which includes that LTI line it was 39.1%.
As I stated before this metric include some non-cash items and we expect quarterly variation.
Looking forward we continue to expect this ratio to average in the low 40s over the near to the medium-term.
Now lets turn to slide 10 and look at our balance sheet.
Total cash and cash equivalents increased by 16% compared to the prior quarter this was driven by strong cash flow generation partially offset by the repayment of our 2014 senior notes as planned.
This quarter we returned approximately $15 million to shareholders by way of our quarterly dividend and additionally we spent $25 million on share buybacks in the quarter which was a substantial increase versus the prior quarter share repurchases of $11 million.
Of note and which was not depicted in these charts last week on July 15th we retired $60 million of our convertible senior notes that they mature they were retired with cash on hand.
Our credit strength is the highest its been since before the financial crisis.
Now as weve done on prior calls we would like to address a few of the frequently asked questions and discuss topics that have come up in conversations over the course of the quarter with our shareholders and our analyst.
Im going to turn it over to Dick to discuss our strategy first.
Thank you Jennifer.
As you all know as we discussed on prior calls we continue to execute our strategy of intelligent diversification.
First and foremost we are committed to delivering excellent investment performance for our clients is our first and highest goal.
Second of course we need to deliver excellence in client relationships.
Following those sustained commitments through time we look at what do we need to change in order to become stronger and we have referred to that change agenda as intelligent diversification.
Here on slide 12 we outline its basic components growing our fixed income business expanding outside the United States increasing our U.S.
institutional market presence and solutions based product development.
The terrific exciting new hires we had during this quarter Myron Scholes and Ashwin Alankar.
These gentlemens are taking over our asset allocation efforts on the Janus platform.
This involves taking leadership of some existing products but very importantly we expect overtime that they will be able to develop some additional leading ideas to offer some better cuts at asset allocation for our clients and this of course fits into the solutions based product development bucket.
So I thought it would useful for us to have a quick review of that intelligent diversification strategy to reconfirm our commitment towards that path both because it leads to better client relationships and because it should help overtime to moderate volatility in our business results delivering long-term benefits to our owners as well as to our employees and clients.
And so with that let me turn it back over to Jennifer.
Thank you Dick.
So on the page that Dick just discussed the top circle in our little graph and the continued focus on our fundamental equity franchise.
Given the quarter-over-quarter change in flows and fundamental equity we thought wed focus in a little bit on it in the special topics of intersection.
So on page 13 weve broken out fundamental equity flows over the last five quarters into two pieces in Janus equity our growth in core and global international sub-disciplines and also Perkins.
This is information that we put out in our press release each quarter but I think its helpful to look at this over a longer time horizon that would capture all of its data for you here.
So first looking at Janus equity.
The $1.4 billion decline in growth sales in fundamental equity was primarily coming from the Janus products this quarter and growth and core we had $700 million decrease and that resulted largely from our small and mid-cap growth strategies.
The industry overall experienced a slowdown in net sales in these products in the second quarter based on some data again from strategic insight.
The annualized net sales rate for active equities in the mid-cap growth Morningstar category in the second quarter was 6% out compared to 1% in the first quarter.
For active equities in the small growth Morningstar category the net sale rate decreased to 11% out versus 1% in the prior quarter.
So our flows change was very consistent with the overall industry move in those sub-categories.
Moving down the page our global international strategies had a $600 million quarter-over-quarter decline.
This was really largely concentrated in one strategy which is global life sciences and frankly the story is really just one of very successful first quarter.
This strategy has been performing extremely well for quite is really largely concentrated in one strategy which is global life sciences and frankly the story is really just one of a very successful first quarter.
This strategy has been performing extremely well for quite some time and that long-term positive performance track record translated into really positive flow story in the first quarter.
Second quarter was also positive but had cooled off a bit.
So turning to page 14 the last page of our presentation today.
Weve put quite a bit of information here about our seed capital program.
How we think about it and how its been changing overtime.
We typically dont provide this level of detail on our seed capital portfolio but we always get questions and so thought it would be helpful this quarter to give you a little bit more context.
I am going to process this by saying that this should be interesting to our shareholders for three reasons.
First and probably least importantly every quarter we have this below the line earnings fluctuation due to marking the portfolio to market and portfolio and the hedge.
So obviously that flows through our P&amp;L but Id say thats probably the least important reason you should care about seed.
Second reason over the last few years seed has clearly been the largest internal use of incremental cash flow that weve generated.
And as you are looking forward and trying to anticipate how much capital we will have in excess how much well be able to return to our shareholders in future period its helpful to get some view into how we think about that strategy for funding internal growth.
And thirdly and probably most importantly understanding our philosophy on how willing we are out to put our capital to use in implementing our strategy of intelligent diversification will hopefully give a greater comfort and confidence in our strategic success going forward.
So thats the purpose for this slide and Ill just walk you through it in some detail.
The table on the left hand side describes how we internally breakdown situations that we consider investing capital in our investment strategies during our funds.
First on the left hand side is youre really typically early stage or and what we call here launch capital we see the strategy at its inception we usually put the minimum amount necessary to effectively manage the strategy in whatever vehicles and share classes we want to launch it in and then we give it time we allow that seed to germinate if you will over the next three to five years establishing a track record thats saleable prior to really actively marketing that strategy or fund.
The second type of candidate for capital injection falls into a bucket that we call ramp capital.
Ramp capital is intended for season strategies that already have a proven track record and also have some investor demand but they may need a larger co-investment from Janus in order to increase their marketability.
This ramp capital is typically larger in size than launch capital for a given strategy but it stays outstanding for a shorter time period.
I will note that our strategic shareholder Dai-ichi has been very helpful in supporting us through ramp capital funding.
The third column on the right of this grid is different than launch capital and ramp capital mainly and that it has an in-determinant time horizon.
So we will put seed capital into these strategies we call maintenance capital without a ticking clock on when we need to take it out.
Typically this is used for referenced track records in institutional strategies where we may be looking to do customized separate accounts for clients but we keep the maintenance capital in the reference account even as we bring in more clients.
I will note that maintenance capital is actually less than 10% of our portfolio today.
So back to the page and the graph on the right hand side.
You can see that seed has diversified as we are executing our diversification strategy over the last five years.
The two pie charts show our seed book in December of 2009 and June of 2014.
Obviously its both grown and has diversified.
So we often get the question are you going to continue growing the seed book well the answer is yes but definitely not at the pace that we have been growing it.
And one of the benchmarks that we look at internally in our treasury group and in the strategy group is what is the seed capital required for a certain size of company? And we look at seed capital per AUM to determine whether were putting enough money into new strategies to fuel growth.
The peers that we look at so its really just the public peers to disclose this recently calculated an average of 11 basis points of seed to total AUM.
Five years ago we were pretty small relative to that average we were only at 4 basis points.
Now we are still within the group but above average and at the higher end of the group at 15 basis points.
Thats where we want to stay we want to continue fueling growth through funding internal strategies and thats were diversifying our offerings to clients were going to continue to seed.
So really Id expect to see our seed book grow but really not at the pace that weve seen before.
I expect to see our seed book as the company grows.
One final note again this is questions we often get for those of you are modeling our P&amp;L going forward.
We do hedge the seed book against volatility in the larger markets larger data exposures and equity interest rates and foreign currency.
So looking at how the seed book is split into equity fixed income and alternatives is really not going to be that useful to you in modeling what the mark-to-market is.
When you see the fluctuations below the line thats largely either unhedgable strategies that dont have data embedded in them or are alpha that weve generated.
So with that I am going to turn it over to the operator and open it up to your questions.
Operator?  Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
And we will go to our first question from Ken Worthington with JP Morgan.
Hi.
Good morning and thank you for taking my question.
In terms of capital management the buyback increased this question.
What is the philosophy going forward on the buyback I guess is this a good run rate given that you have paid out a bunch of debt should it increase  should it increase with cash flow.
Whats the outlook here for the buyback or the philosophy more generally? Thanks.
Thats a great question Ken.
We do have a philosophy and I think thats the best way to think about it as you build your model.
The philosophy is that were going to be trained to return somewhere in the 70% to 80% of cash flow from operations over the long run to shareholders and thats going to vary from quarter-to-quarter.
We are actively managing it but if you look at our rate this past quarter we returned in both dividends and share repurchases about $40 million and thats about an 80% payout ratio of the last 12 months cash flow from operations.
So its going to vary from quarter-to-quarter its not something youll necessarily get on the nose in your modeling but as a long-term objective thats our philosophy.
Okay.
Great.
And then I am sorry there is three parts to this one but in terms of LTI the $55 million you are referencing what is that is that the annual grant or is that the expected amortization thats number one.
Number two the amortization is running well below the annual rate of $55 million should we expect it to ramp.
And then three you guys had expectations for $65 million at the end of 13 in 1Q it fell to $60 million this quarter its falling to $55 million why the big decline in estimates given that AUM is up earnings are up and EPS is up? Again I guess that question is to me.
The answer to the first part of your question is that it is the expected amortization so were trying to give you guidance on what you can put in your models for the actual line item of LTI not future grant.
What was the second part of the question Ken? Its $55 million you have been running at $12 million or $12.5 million so well below the $55 million rate I assume this means that it should ramp in the second half of the year? Sure.
So a key part of our guidance is that were not projecting flows or market in any of our guidance so we have to make an overlying assumption that we have flat assets and assets drive some part of our LTI expense the biggest chunk that youve seen in the last couple of quarters thats driven by asset movement is the Perkins SPI amortization.
So that was $3.8 million this last quarter if you add that to the 55.
So we dont forecast movement in assets at any of the subs but in in some of the subs if assets move our accounting charges change.
Okay.
And the decline from 65% to 55% over the last two quarters.
Thats explained by the same thing so at the beginning of the year we had a flat asset assumption and at Perkins weve seen decline in assets and that results in an SPI charge or an SPI reversal so its a negative expense contra expense in both the first quarter and the second quarter.
Got it.
Thank you.
And well go to our next question from Cynthia Meyer with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi.
Good morning and thanks.
I think last quarter you supplied a slide on flows by channel including international.
I just wondered if you could give a little color on that and in terms of international how DIAM sales are going.
I was talking on the fund global [symphony] data and suggest that the overseas flows revert to outflow this quarter.
So just what the outlook is there? Thanks.
Thanks Cynthia.
Thanks very much for that question.
Were not going to break out that flows by channel every quarter going forward but youre correct we saw some significant slowdown in the international business from quarter-to-quarter first quarter to second quarter.
I think we recognized it and discussed a bit on the first quarter call that some of that international business is lumpy and we saw some good lumpiness in the first quarter.
Its still a positive flow for us because of channel its not an outflows but it definitely there was a period-to-period slowdown that said we continue to be optimistic about the prospects for non-US business but again as weve talked about now for several quarters in a row because a significant part of those flows are particularly institutional flows there is a fair amount of variation and expected lumpiness in the path forward.
And Ill go onto Cynthia that as I broke out the sub-disciplines and the fundamental equity flows in the presentation a big chunk of that global international slowdown which I highlighted in a particular strategy is overseas and you probably saw that in the [symphony] data.
Great.
Thanks.
And then more generally INTECH is now actually growing a little bit faster than the legacy Janus assets.
You know Im wondering is that still a higher margin business if that were to continue with this give you potentially more operating leverage? The INTECH business model is one that has a lot of leverage in it so you dont have the concentration of personal expense and security coverage research coverage that we have in fundamental strategies.
So yes its highly scalable and you start to see increasing margins as that grows so thats very positive in terms of their operating model.
Okay.
Thank you.
And well go to our next question with Robert Lee with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Thank you.
Good morning and thanks for taking my questions.
You know maybe the new initiatives whether its liquid ulcer or asset allocation products I mean its its something I guess in a few years back.
Can you maybe give us some color on do you think you have some of the strategy than for example I think few years back.
Any color on what you are seeing on some of those in a newer product in terms of the sales initiative or sales momentum that would be my first question? Yes.
There have been a range of new products over the last several years probably most successfully at INTECH with the development of volatility focused and volatility managed line up strategies that have accounted for a very significant part of their new flows over the last year or two.
Their ability to customize and to offer these new strategies is relatively new and its work that and Adrian team have put in over the last several years that greatly strengthened the firm.
Liquid [inaudible] is still coming out of the blocks their early returns in terms of investment performance was sort of unremarkable not particularly bad or not particularly good that sort of return from file doesnt lead it to fly off the shelves so we dont have the significant sales result for that one yet.
We continue to be optimistic that its the right product at the right time but in addition to the right product at the right time one needs to put up the return profile to gather the assets and thats still work in progress.
On the bond side weve added global bonds recently that is a success story doing well both in terms of asset gathering and in terms of investment performance most recently the bond side added an unconstrained effort which is far too new to really comment on at this point but but our fixed income team continues to do a good job and were optimistic about the prospects for the opportunities and those things.
All that said this kind of change that the margin has to be looked at as a sort of a five year kind of plan none of these things are likely to make material differences in the one two potentially even three year timeframe.
These sort of R&amp;D development takes 5-ish years even when you get out right.
There are examples in the industry and you will probably know them better than I do around hitting the hard dart at a lucky time but thats certainly not the reasonable expectation and not the plan.
And the build out and development of these things takes significant time.
So were work in progress not everything weve done has worked perfectly but we continue to believe strongly passionately that this is the right path for us to diversify the margins down these road this helps us serve more client needs which is the best reason to do it it builds a broader and more stable relationship with clients and it also helps with our business model.
So were committed to this kind of development and we are we understand although its not our favorite thing but it takes a good long while to get it right.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay.
Thanks.
And maybe a follow-up focused a lot on the new product side and seed capital but one of the things youve seen the industry is a lot of firms changed their distribution strategy or feel like they had to invest excuse me structural their distribution particularly on the retail side of the business.
Could you talk a little about what changes you have made there or respective changes you think you know you are in the process of undertaking possibly to adjust that the changes are on the distribution side of the business? Sure.
Thanks very much thats a great question.
And its a proper focus weve invested a lot in developing our distribution side on the U.S retail side we in recent years built out the data management underlying the business to do a better job of focusing and targeting our activities and candidly measuring our success as well and that kind of systems development was multi-year and reasonably significant expense for us on that side.
We moved to a much heavier mix of internal sales support people as measured as a percentage of our wholesales team are sort of almost a 1:1 ratio of internals to externals weve moved in recent years and that was a significant investment in change for us as well.
And then weve talked a lot about the international distribution build out but thats been very significant for us and were excited about the prospects and finally weve talked about the fact that weve invested and we will need to continue to invest in building out our U.S institutional efforts and that remains work in progress and a continuing focus for us.
So building out the distribution client relationship efforts has been a high priority for us weve invested significantly in it and we will continue to treat it as extremely important on our agenda.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
And well go to our next question from Michael Kim with Sandler ONeill.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
First question I think there is generally a lag between fund investment performance track record starts to really improve and when that ultimately translates into a pickup in new sales.
So just wondering how you see that timeline potentially playing out for your fundamental equities business just given what seems like lingering uncertainty around asset allocation trends across the industry maybe a brand in a more secular move toward more flexible or unconstrained solutions? Thanks Michael.
Ill do my best to address the more specular move toward more flexible or unconstrained solutions.
Well thanks Michael.
Ill do my best to address.
There were lot of things mentioned in that question.
I think I lost the thread of the question candidly thinking about all the parts.
I apologize.
Would you remind me that the essential question there? Yeah.
Just trying to understand the timeline or sort of your expectation in terms of flows ramping up for the lag between when the performances there but ultimately translating into a pick up and flow just given kind of some of these headwinds across the industry as you will.
Sure.
Thanks again.
I apologize for making you repeat that.
But that was helpful to give me the chance to organize my thoughts.
I want to say a few things.
The first thing is the specific question around the timeline it varies circumstance to circumstance.
It varies with the length of time that the PM has been on it varies with sort of the prior track record.
It varies with market interest around the segment youre talking about.
Its really an individual case by case timeline that one can focus on.
If you look at success stories for us in recent years our contrary and fund has turned around the record and delivered really exceptionally good performance now for three uses plus.
And thats really starting to be a very important asset gathering both fact and opportunity for us on a go forward basis.
That record was in pretty rush shape three years ago and it took most of the three years to get that to where its really moving forward so that kind of timeline can apply in that circumstance and has but thats in good shape.
I think the broader message looking across our funds is if we can put together a pretty strong three year track record as we have in bonds as we have in some of the products mentioned here our distribution has proven it can sell at the front of the pack and that Janus remains a brand and a distribution that can be very successful in terms of relative peer rankings of distribution where we have that pretty good three year track record in an area that folks care about.
The other thread you mentioned was sort of asset allocation trends and other things.
Look everybody is aware of that equity havent been the biggest gatherer of assets in all periods especially institutionally everybody is aware that there is a great interest in passive compared to active but active done well continues to have a very important place in peoples asset allocation.
And we believe that will continue as far out as we can see and project.
And we are active managers first and foremost and thats where were going to play most of the time.
Thats most of our focus.
We also do see a rising focus from the client side on asset allocation and candidly we think that is proper and well thought by the client base.
They should be focusing more attention on asset allocation and that explains why were so excited to add Myron Scholes and Ashwin Alankar to help us improve in that area.
So I hope thats not too jumble to response.
There were lot of things in your question but thank you Michael.
No thats helpful.
Thank you.
And then maybe just a question for Jennifer you talked about balancing spending with growth in the past so just wondering where you are in that cycle are you still sort of in a bit of wait and see mode or might there be an opportunity to maybe more fully leverage AUM growth to ramp up infrastructure or advertising initiative a bit ahead of a pickup and float.
Thats such a loading question.
Thank you Michael.
There is a lot of inputs into the decision about when to ramp up our marketing spend.
I think we have given indication not direct guidance on past calls that were prepared to invest and then when performance and market demand come together were going to take advantage of that and were not going to hold too tight on the pocket book when there is a real opportunity to grow.
I think your question is how much are we going to front run that and it really depends on those two factors.
That depends on the performance of our funds and the demand in the market.
So I cant give you very specific guidance but if you start to see our performance numbers get very attracted we will spend appropriately to monetize that performance.
Okay fair enough.
Thanks for taking my questions.
And well go to our next from Dan Fannon with Jefferies.
Good morning.
Historically you guys have outlined some scenario analysis around performance for use going forward.
And I just want to make sure is the reason we assume some decline in negative performance fees in the back half of this year given just the roll off of previously under performance? Sure.
Ill take that question Jennifer.
Yes in the latter half of 2011 we had some largely negative performance in our funds that had performance fees and so those performance track records will be rolling off in the latter half of 2014.
How much that translates into or whether that translates into of course completely depends on what performance we put on during the next two quarters.
But yes youre correct.
There is  There is an opportunity.
There is an opportunity.
Got it.
And then with regards to the buyback this quarter did you buyback from Dai-ichi I mean last quarter you talked about some piping and the agreements I think between the two to make it easier for you but just given their limitations and ownerships are you buying stock.
Sorry about the feedback there Dan.
Our share repurchases in the second quarter were in the open market.
And from here realistic to the reason going forward that would have to come from there? It all depends on the rate at which we buy them back so the real restrictions in the agreement are around how high their ownership can get on a percentage basis so when we get to that point we will execute as weve called in the past the plumbing that allows us to keep them at their appropriate level of ownership they are not there now just depends on how fast we continue repurchase when we get there.
Got it.
Thanks.
And well go to our next question from Marc Irizarry with Goldman Sachs.
Great thanks.
Just one more follow up on the seed capital portfolio.
I just want to clarify another 275 million are you at a point now where most of that capital is fungible i.e.
maybe start to pull some of the seed out and we deploy that.
Should we continue to expect that to grow? And then just Jennifer in terms of any financial criteria you can share with us in terms how youre thinking about allocating capital can buyback in other usage? Thanks.
Thanks Mark.
So the first question was around seed capital and its growth.
Thank you for asking the question because we spend a lot of time talking about it in the prepared remarks.
On the slide that we showed there was one chart which I didnt walk through which was the weighted average time outstanding in the portfolio.
And the takeaway there is just as youve articulated in your question which is yes the portfolio is maturing.
Were starting to see some of the funds there and strategies that we seeded in growth of the portfolio getting to their three year track record.
Some of them are successful and will pull the capital out as flows come in.
Some of them are not successful and those will pull the capital out as we look at potentially shutting down the strategies.
So yes well start recycling more of that capital.
That said we recycle it constantly so were always looking at where is the best place for seed capital.
Its very actively managed that middle piece so which we call the ramp capital only stays out for one to two years.
And so were always looking how to best allocate that and thats driven by really distribution opportunities.
What was your second question again? Sorry.
Just in terms of any financial criteria that you can share with us what youre thinking about allocating capital I guess just trying to get a better sense on the buyback are you going to be more opportunistic or how should we think about sort of maybe financial benchmarks? The main financial benchmark that were looking at Mark is how much were returning to shareholders total in dividend and share repurchases in a payout ratio.
So that will the absolute dollar amount of that will be driven by our cash flow so if we saw a market correction we would scale that back so we would rate that against the opportunity of repurchase shares at an attractive price so that guidance I can give you is that were rally managing that program actively and trying to be opportunistic and do the right things for the shareholders.
Okay great thanks and Dick I guess just a big picture industry question theres a lot of talk about fundamental factor base investing in the equity world called smart beta or enhanced beta strategy so Im curious to know when you look across your fundamental equity business and quantitative businesses do you see a sort of big sort of opportunity in the future for you and this is a little bit more maybe a competitive threat right now to the core equity business? Thanks Mark.
I guess we see this both I think your question is accurately describing both elements of it we see both the opportunity and the competitive pressure of it.
We think it is likely to be here to stay we think smart beta or rules based products are probably going to have a growing market share on a go forward basis in an ETF format youre challenged by transparency which raises issues of market effectiveness in terms of being able to execute the strategy and if that strategy is also one year offering and other client say on the mutual fund side you got to make sure youre maintaining your fiduciary duty to the first client as you make public your strategy.
So its complicated to execute for say INTECH to make public all of their execution thats a challenge and a constraint on what we might do in that space.
Obviously easier for us as to offer rules based strategies in a format thats different than what were offering in our say our mutual fund or a separate account strategies and avoiding that conflict.
So its a little complicated for us.
We see the opportunity were focused on it.
And there maybe chances for us to push forward in that space in the days ahead and who knows maybe Myron and Ash can contribute in that format as well.
Well have to see in the future here.
Okay great.
Thanks.
And well go to our next question from Bill Katz with Citi.
Okay thanks for taking my questions I appreciate it.
First question I have is you mentioned you sort of ramp up the asset allocation business that it does seem to be impacting ahead sort of curious in terms of how quickly you might see a growth in this business and what strategy you try differentiate the business? Bill I think Im not going to be able to satisfy your question very effectively Myron &amp; Ash have not even started on their first day here and we have not gone through the necessary steps of working with them to develop any ideas and offer any products so Im not in a position to sort of outline that path forward and then project success or failure so with apologies its just its too early days to make that kind of forward-looking projection.
Okay my second question is if you look at the previous settlements performance is a bit of mixed when you look on both percentage of assets and percentage of funds and you know that you had some improvement which is fair but it seems like its mostly within the second quarter bucket rather than the first quarter bucket.
Second its two part question is the movement in just in the second quarter grill up to lose gross sales and we think about the whole gross sales a platform what strategies are you doing right now to build up the gross sales? I think the performance as we said during the quarter was mixed isnt strong enough to know I mean will I ever really admit it strong enough no we always need to make it better.
But clearly were not add any form of destination in terms of strengthening the track records with very much in work progress.
We have pockets of tremendously strong track records which I think youre probably aware of our fixed income and some of our equity products are terrific and we have other products where we need to do a lot of work.
And the mix of that is what weve talked about now for many quarters but no were nowhere near declaring the victory on that front.
In terms of influencing of forward flows I feel like youre drawing me to dangerously close to trying to forecast flows on a go forward basis which of course we dont do so Im not sure Jennifer is there more to say to try and respond to this question Im a little bit.
Bill was your question focused more strategically on what were doing about gross sales because I dont think we can give you a forecast on gross sales.
Exactly Jennifer Im more interested in youre doing to trying to grow sales right specific number yes so would be helpful to understand what youre trying to grow and how? The core strength of our distribution is and has been advisor sales group here in the U.S.
retail market and earlier in the call I alluded to big investments weve made in technology and in people to better support that marketplace and we continue to look to invest in and develop distribution relationship management side of our US retail business its our highest priority its our biggest business.
I also mentioned that we have probably more opportunity in some ways outside of the United States where the markets are a little less mature and there is chance for change at a more rapid pace weve been investing in our non-US business including building our retail in Taiwan and many other efforts and that has been an important part of our distribution strategy.
And then third and sort of more slow and cautious to develop is working with the consultant community on the institutional marketplace and that remains the focus and a priority but we also acknowledge thats going to be a slower thing to bring around.
Ill just add on to that Bill that were focused on trying to get to a consistency of gross sales overtime now you saw this quarter-over-quarter change that was entirely consistent with the specific strategies and movements of inflows out of favor across the industry so were diversifying as were adding asset allocation as were building more capabilities for clients were really focused on getting on a consistency of gross sales even a specific products has volatility in those numbers.
Due to time constraint this will be our final question from Craig Seigenthaler.
Please go ahead.
Thanks guys for taking my questions.
First on share repurchases Im just wondering why dont you simply restructure the Dai-ichi stands still now removing the roadblock for future buyback? Craig its not something I would characterize as a roadblock at all so I just wanted to be really clear that there is no impediment here us to doing future buyback we have a structure where we will repurchase from Dai-ichi and would be able to keep their proportionate ownership the same.
Its definitely not a roadblock to future buybacks.
Yeah please let me underline that because this is something thats come up now several calls in a row when we are making decisions around buybacks our relationship with Dai-ichi as good partners has facilitated the necessary plumbing so thats not a constraint or an issue for us.
When we make the decision about when and how much to buyback its not a constraint decision or even seriously influenced by Dai-ichis ownership thats not an impediment in any way its not a factor on the board we have the necessary arrangements with them to allow us to execute what we think the right answer is for our shareholders and its really that part that drives us what is the right answer for our shareholders and so I hope weve been clear about that were certainly trying real hard.
All right and then just one really follow up how do you view the attractiveness of the buybacks here given the maturity of this whole market versus special dividends? Well were constantly looking at all opportunities to return capital to shareholders as I stated in the past.
You can comment on the overall market softness but then you can also look at our relative multiple and where we come out on that and intent on you be on our stock so its not a clear conclusion around what the right way to return capital what we try to do is strike a balance and we also talk to our shareholders we talk to some of our large holders about their peripheral  and thats an ongoing dialogue.
We dont use just to be bought we dont use a forward macro forecast for equities as a big input factor in our business decision making for the most part around here are motive business decision making is to assume flat markets on a go forward basis and most of the business decision making is driven by that core assumption and it would be pretty unusual for us to have such a high conviction around our forward forecast for the direction of equity markets that we change behaviors as a result of that macro.
All right great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thanks Everybody I guess were done for today.
Thank you so much for your time and attention.
John Groneman and our Investor Relations team is available for any follow-ups and if we havent adequately addressed to your questions wed be happy to talk to you separately on the phone but thanks for your time and attention today and we look forward to talking to you next quarter.
This concludes todays conference call.
Thank you for attending.
Good morning.
My name is Mar and I'm your conference facilitator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to the Janus Capital Group Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] Before the company begins I would like to reference their standard legal disclaimer which also accompanies the full slide presentation located in the Investor Relations area of janus.com.
Statements made in the presentation today may contain forward-looking information about management's plans projections expectations strategic objectives business prospects anticipated financial results anticipated results of litigation and regulatory proceedings and other similar matters.
A variety of factors many of which are beyond the company's control affect the operations performance business strategy and results of Janus and could cause actual results and experiences to differ materially from the expectations and objectives expressed in their statements.
These factors include but are not limited to the factors described in Janus's report filed with the SEC which are now available on their website www.janus.com and on the SEC's website www.sec.gov.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
Janus does not undertake to update such statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date these statements were made.
Investors should however consult any further disclosures Janus may make in its reports filed with the SEC.
Thank you.
Now it is my pleasure to introduce Dick Weil Chief Executive Officer of Janus Capital Group.
Mr.
Weil you may begin your conference.
Thank you operator.
Welcome everybody to the Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Presentation for the Janus Capital Group.
Let me turn first to our quarterly results which will be found on Page 3 of our regular presentation.
In the third quarter of 2014 we earned $0.22 versus $0.19 in the prior quarter.
We had $2.1 billion of net outflows compared to $3.3 billion in the prior quarter obviously reflecting some mixed investment performance.
It's important to note that these flows don't include anything which may result from our addition of Mr.
Bill Gross.
His first day was September 29.
Our margins on the quarter were almost flat and reflecting a continuous commitment to financial discipline.
As you know we're very committed to our financial strength.
We'll talk about that more in a minute but during the quarter we repaid $60 million of debt.
On a trailing 12-month basis we continue to generate good free cash flow $222 million over the preceding 12 months.
We paid $15 million in dividends in this quarter and we repurchased $25 million of stock.
But of course the real story of the quarter and what I want to get even more than just the results is about our future.
During the quarter we took 2 significant steps forward.
First and foremost in the press release heard around the world we added Mr.
Bill Gross to the Janus Capital team.
He's widely understood to be the best fixed income investor out there over the past 4 decades or so and it is a tremendous honor and very exciting for us to have him on our team.
The second step more recently we announced the acquisition of VelocityShares who was the sponsor of ETPs predominantly ETNs exchange-traded notes and also in a smaller way ETFs.
This was an idea that was motivated by a desire to serve clients focused on primarily the ETF vehicle and it was a good idea I think made much better in combination with the addition of Bill Gross.
So we're particularly excited about that.
And we clearly conceived of it and we're pursuing it prior to -- now that Bill is joining us but that's a happy confluence of events for us.
Let me try and explain these events to you in the context of our strategy which we've talked about a number of times before.
Recall that our strategy rose from the notion that all of our owners all of our stakeholders deserve profit growth with reasonable risk.
They deserve a stable business model and in fact our clients and our employees demand it.
The truth of the large cap equity mutual fund business is that the beta is volatile.
The alpha on top of that beta is volatile.
In our particular case we have performance fees having volatility on top of that and historically we had a pretty leveraged balance sheet.
So we developed a strategy to focus on 4 key areas.
We said "Look we're going to focus on investment performance first and foremost.
We're going to focus on clients and client service second.
We're going to be committed to financial strength in the form of a strong balance sheet generating free cash flow and being effective in controlling expenses.
And lastly looking for a change at the margin we're going to focus on intelligent diversification." And we talked a lot about this strategy and steps we've taken in each of these 4 key areas on recent calls and I hope this isn't too redundant for you.
But let me focus today on that fourth step that intelligent diversification.
It's fair to ask what makes diversification intelligent? How are you targeting your diversification? We're looking for ideas that build into adjacent spaces in effect that leverage existing strengths as a first principle.
As a second principle we're looking for ideas that develop more and stronger client relationships.
That means adding new client relationships or indeed broadening existing client relationships.
Third and very importantly we're looking for ideas that lie at the intersection of what are clients will need in the future and what we can manage what we can deliver with differentiated excellence.
And those are the 3 principles which define and focus our efforts at intelligent diversification.
So if you'll allow me let me think about our current developments and some recent steps in this context.
The first principle was adjacent leveraging existing excellence.
A good example of this was our early commitment at least early in my leadership as CEO to developing our fixed income business.
This was an effort to leverage our company focus on bottom-up company research that has historically been a deep part of our equity roots and build into the fixed income space.
More recently with the addition of Bill Gross we're building on that growing strength in fixed income and the adjacent space is really the global macro approach that Bill Gross so famously brings to the table.
The second principle I mentioned was adding client relationships.
Certainly you can think about our commitment to international distribution over the last 4 or 5 years as reflective of that principle.
Most recently I think our addition of VelocityShares adds reach for us to clients and advisers who are very focused on ETFs.
Of course we're also optimistic that Bill Gross's addition will add plenty of strengths and additional clients for us and pretty much that's probably a common principle among lots of other things as well.
Our efforts with Myron Scholes and Ash to develop our asset allocation will hopefully do that same thing.
The last thing is we want to focus on the intersection of future client need and what we can manage what we can deliver with differentiated excellence.
And again this is a pretty broad principle you find underlying a lot of what we have done.
But in particular think about the addition of Myron Scholes and Ash Alankar in asset allocation think about Bill Gross in managing unconstrained bonds these are areas that lie at the intersection of future client need and what we can deliver with excellence.
And so I hope these comments help you understand the meaning that we take behind the words intelligent diversification and how this principle actually informs and guides our strategic development.
With that please let me turn it over to Jennifer McPeek.
Thank you Dick.
Good morning again everyone.
So I'll begin on Page 5 of our presentation with a quick review of our operating results for the quarter.
Despite a weak finish to the quarter for the equity markets overall our third quarter average AUM improved to $176.5 billion from $174.4 billion in end of the second quarter of 2014.
The increase in average asset led to an increase in total revenue by 2.5% quarter-over-quarter to $237 million.
Operating income was $71.6 million which was up in line with the change in revenue over the second quarter.
Compared to the prior year operating income improved a little over 21%.
Our third quarter operating margin was 30.2% and that was roughly flat to the prior quarter.
Earnings per share was $0.22 for the third quarter which compares to $0.19 in the second quarter and $0.17 a year ago.
The increase in earnings per share over the prior quarter was primarily due to the aforementioned improvement in operating income lower effective tax rate which we had expected and lower interest expense as we retired $60 million of debt which matured in July.
Turning now to Slide 6 to discuss our investment performance as of September 30.
We saw mixed results in the complex-wide and fundamental equity performance statistics when compared to last quarter's presentation.
The 1-year metrics declined slightly while the 3- and 5-year metrics improved.
This quarter marks the first quarter end since the fourth quarter of 2009 that at least 50% of our complex-wide mutual fund assets are in the top 2 Morningstar quartiles on a 1- 3- and 5-year basis.
Fixed income performance remained very strong nearly unchanged from the prior quarter.
Performance in our mathematical equity strategies declined slightly compared to the second quarter.
Similar to a prior quarter commentary the magnitude of underperformance in the majority of strategies that are not meeting their benchmarks in mathematical and INTECH remains moderate.
Now let's move on to our flows presentation on Page 7.
The main story here is the quarter-over-quarter improvement in our net flows across 3 main disciplines.
Third quarter net outflows were $2.1 billion translating into a 36% improvement compared to the $3.3 billion that we saw out in the second quarter.
This improvement resulted really from better growth sales more than offsetting a slight increase in gross redemption.
So it's really a sales story.
Fundamental equity flows which is on the upper right-hand side of this chart combines both our Janus equity and Perkins value franchises and we had a third quarter net outflow of $2.1 billion in fundamental equity which compared favorably to the second quarter outflows.
Gross sales improved in equities by $2 billion primarily in several Janus equity strategies.
A large contributor to that was retail sales in Japan which were aided by our strong partnership with Dai-ichi and the increase in redemptions that you saw there was a result of institutional redemptions.
Those institutional redemptions totaled approximately $800 million across a few different strategies.
Moving down the page next to our mathematical flows.
We saw a $300 million improvement in net outflows quarter-over-quarter again driven primarily by the increasing gross sales.
In fixed income net flows remained flat compared to the prior quarter at $300 million positive.
Our organic growth rate continues to be higher than the industry which means that we've been gaining market share in fixed income consistently.
We fielded a lot of questions about the impact of the Bill Gross hire on the fixed income flows.
I'd just like to remind everyone that there's only 3 days post the announcement that are reflected in this quarter flow numbers.
Bill didn't start as portfolio manager until October 6 in the fourth quarter.
It is not our policy to forecast or provide interim flow numbers.
So unfortunately you'll just have to wait until next month's Simfund data release to see what's happening now in the fixed income fund.
We'll try to give some more color around the longer-term client demand for fixed income that we're seeing in institutional and international channels in some future calls.
Obviously it's a little bit premature for us to call it right now.
The dramatic range of external forecasts that have come out kind of underline how difficult it is to pinpoint the future.
I think it's safe to say though that there's increased visibility now to our excellent fixed income track record and that should influence flows in a positive manner.
All right.
Let's move now to Slide 8 revenue and performance fees.
Revenue increased 2.5% primarily due to management fees and improvement in mutual fund performance fees.
Performance fees improved to a negative $14.4 million.
That's performance fees on the mutual funds in the quarter.
That's compared to $17.9 million negative last quarter and $22.3 million negative a year ago.
Private account performance fees for the quarter were $0.4 million.
Weighted average management fee for the quarter was 47.9 basis points which compares to 48.4 basis points in the second quarter.
On Slide 9 we have our operating expense breakdown.
Operating expenses increased $4.9 million or roughly 3% compared to last quarter.
The primary drivers are compensation expense and some of our discretionary items.
Increasing compensation this quarter was mainly a result of higher commissions which of course is related to that increase in sales volumes we commented on in the flows page 39% increase in firm-wide gross sales.
In addition when we see an increase in overall firm-wide profitability our variable compensation pools move with that.
G&amp;A was up about $1 million the majority of that which is nonrecurring deal-related expenses.
Now let's look at our long-term incentive expenses.
LTI declined approximately $1 million compared to the second quarter due to the mark-to-market impact on our mutual fund awards.
Our total third quarter compensation-to-revenue ratio or total comp-to-revenue ratio which does include that LTI line was 39.6%.
As I've stated before this metric includes some noncash items and we expect that to vary quarterly.
Before I move on to the balance sheet page I just want to take a short moment and give some comments around operating expenses looking forward into the fourth quarter and also into 2015 to help you from a modeling standpoint.
First with respect to the compensation line.
This line has 3 big drivers: base salaries commissions and our variable cash compensation.
The impact on our ratios is driven by the combined effect of all 3 of those items.
So anytime we're adding any new investment capabilities the headcount and the base salaries will go up usually in advance of the revenue.
Also during a period of high sales rates we see commissions expense surge relative to revenue.
So those 2 pieces we're looking at potentially driving up the comp-to-revenue ratios in 2015.
Depending on what outlook you have for sales for Janus you can build your own expectations.
Variable cash comp of course moves with the operating profit.
Next the LTI line.
So LTI in the fourth quarter based on what we know today is expected to be $14 million to $15 million and that assumes a flat market.
Looking forward into 2015 it's quite important to remember that year-to-date we have experienced a benefit that is a negative LTI expense of approximately $10 million as a result of lower value on our Perkins SPIs.
This benefit is not expected to repeat in 2015.
So if you combine that effect with the compensation line drivers I just discussed I think it's fair to say we would expect to see higher total comp-to-revenue ratios in 2015.
How much higher they are really depends on the pace of investments and sales and other big unknowns at this point.
Looking at discretionary expenses which included marketing and G&amp;A we are expecting to see some increase spend in the fourth quarter as we have been investing in the business around some of the announcements that have recently been made.
In the fourth quarter I expect to see the total of these 2 items increase by approximately 15% based on current plans.
Looking forward to 2015 it's a reasonable assumption that discretionary expenses will increase slightly.
I'll update that outlook in the next call once we're through our annual planning cycle.
Now moving on to Slide 10 and a look at our balance sheet.
Total cash and cash equivalents remained almost flat decreasing only $3 million.
This quarter $60 million of our convertible senior notes matured and were retired with cash on hand.
We also spent $25 million on share buybacks in the quarter which was roughly the same as the prior quarter.
Additionally we returned approximately $15 million to shareholders by way of our quarterly dividend.
You can see our seed book increased by approximately $35 million in the third quarter.
Very late in the quarter we seeded $48 million into the global unconstrained bond U.S.
mutual funds as well as a similar amount in the same strategy in our government-based non-U.S.
trust.
This increase in capital was offset by reductions in outstanding seed from several strategies which occurred earlier in the quarter.
We don't generally disclose individual strategy seed amounts as the book is actively managed.
So a snapshot view isn't going to be very helpful for modeling purposes.
It probably won't be all that fruitful for you to ask during Q&amp;A for additional detail on our seed book.
So now we have come to the point in the presentation where we devote a few slides to topics of shareholder interest.
I've been preparing to discuss in some great detail how our marginal corporate tax rates can be estimated.
The IR team has somewhat delicately informed me that there are perhaps some other topics that investors have a little bit more interest in this quarter.
So stay tuned for the riveting tax discussion in a future quarter and I will turn the mic over to Dick to talk about some of our recent additions.
Thank you Jennifer and yes I think we do have some news that take precedence over the future tax discussion.
We've made some serious world-class additions to our investment talent over the last year and we outlined that in the first page of this special topic Page 12 in our presentation.
Obviously as we've mentioned Bill Gross joined in September.
He's an icon.
He's one of the most recognizable names in the fixed income industry and widely respected as the best income manager over the last 4 decades.
He's managing our global unconstrained bond strategies and in this sense he's managing a product which is just perfect for a unique breadth of experience.
And it also offers a differentiated investment strategy compared to our existing strategies offered by our excellent team of Gibson Smith and others who have developed such a fine track record over recent years.
So we're really pleased how that one is developing.
In addition a little further back in time we added Myron Scholes of course a Nobel laureate and his colleague Ashwin Alankar and the 2 of them are working on modernizing and developing a leading approach a market-leading approach to asset allocation.
And we're excited about their work and hope that in the coming year we'll start to be able to share some more specifics with you around their cutting-edge developments.
A little further back from that if you look back we added Enrique Chang in September of 2013 as a Chief Investment Officer of equities and asset allocation.
And he's really been hard work for the last year strengthening our equity team and of course he played a huge role in attracting Myron and Ash.
There are lots of other folks who we've been lucky enough to have joined us here on the team.
But I think this prominent list of 4 names should make it clear to you that there's something exciting going on here at Janus.
These hires demonstrate our commitment to attracting the absolute best talents in the market to serve the needs of our clients.
If we flip over to Page 13 let me take a little deeper dive into what Bill Gross's addition means for us.
We think of it as 4 areas of near-term opportunity.
Bill's decision to join Janus is something much bigger than just Janus.
It puts a huge percentage of the fixed income landscape into potential transition.
Every fixed income firm in our industry is obviously focused on its potential.
Our Janus core plus our flexible bond approach led by Gibson Smith is very well positioned to gather additional assets from this set of potential transitions.
As we think about how that might happen it's important to note that not everybody is going to make a decision on the first day.
So it's important to note that I think the opportunities created in the fixed income market for us and for others is probably a 1-year plus kind of transitional period rather than anything that is immediate.
The second area that I would call your attention to is specifically for Bill Gross and his new product from a Janus unconstrained bond strategy.
Obviously having such a terrific leader and portfolio manager as Bill Gross leading that product we expect that will attract considerable attention over time.
The third area that I would call attention to is our brand.
There's a positive halo effect primarily for our fixed income team but also for the whole firm also including our equity and our asset allocation efforts.
I think the fact that Bill Gross chose to come here when he obviously could have chosen to do so many other things or join any number of other firms speaks highly to the quality of the work and the team that we have here.
It's a very high compliment.
I think clients and external folks understand that and it serves to enhance our whole brand and the opportunity set for our whole firm.
Lastly we have a special opportunity.
As we mentioned we had previously conceived of the idea that acquiring VelocityShares could give us access primarily to growing ETF market or rules-based ETF market and we could share some of our intellectual capital and investment excellence in that format and expand our reach to clients who were very focused on ETFs.
With Bill's arrival that acquisition obviously becomes a much smarter idea for us and a much bigger opportunity set.
So we're looking forward to taking advantage of that.
So overall it's a uniformly positive story.
The addition of Bill Gross is significantly strengthening our company and diversifying our brand and that's good.
Now turning to Page 14 let me turn it back over to our CFO Jennifer McPeek.
Thank you Dick.
Well as Dick mentioned fast on the heels of the hiring of Bill Gross we were once again in the news with this exciting announcement about VelocityShares.
This is the first new company acquisition that Janus has made in many years.
So VelocityShares on Page 14.
As noted in the press release we expect to close on the purchase here in the fourth quarter.
We're buying 100% of the stock of the parent company VS Holdings for an upfront consideration of $30 million.
There will also be a scaled earn-out which is spread over 4 years which will pay out if the impressive growth in VelocityShares revenue continues.
The total earn-out potential is capped at $36 million.
The senior management of VelocityShares are joining Janus as is the whole team of VelocityShares.
The senior management are also selling shareholders and they will continue to participate directly in future growth through that earn-out.
So with you as typical Janus fund shareholder you may not have heard of VelocityShares.
But in the world of tactical volatility trading they are quite well known and recognized for their innovation.
The company built their company brand and their revenue initially around exchange-traded notes or ETNs in the volatility space.
These are products designed for sophisticated institutional investors with very short holding periods.
They have expanded their ETN product set and more recently launched a second business line in the exchange-traded fund ETF space which is oriented towards U.S.
long-term investors like Janus's clients.
Their ETFs are not passive ETFs nor they strictly active rather they are built around rules-based index construction which the VelocityShares team has designed to deliver some desired outcomes in client portfolios.
So that's kind of a summary of their current business.
And the deal rationale which I think Dick has articulated already quite well really has 2 parts.
One is we are able to apply our distribution strength to their long-term investment-oriented products that is their ETF offerings and we're getting a great proven design and development capability in their team.
We are expecting that team to apply their skills their creativity and their approach across the breadth of all of our investment disabilities.
We are very excited to have VelocityShares onboard.
So before I turn it over to the operator to take some Q&amp;A I just wanted to take a moment to express some appreciation for some of the people working behind the scenes here in particular our Investor Relations team which is only 3 people normally completely slammed during an average earnings season.
Obviously this has been unprecedented level of news and they also service our internal public relations team.
So I just wanted to thank John Jim and Tammy for all your hard work that's been going on over the last several weeks.
With that I will turn it over to questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go to our first caller Michael Kim of Sandler O'Neill.
This is actually Andrew [indiscernible] calling in for Michael.
So I assume a number of investors that are going to go fund shareholders may be a bit reluctant to transfer assets into the global unconstrained bond strategy just given the fund's lack of track record and scale.
So I'm just wondering if there's any color on how you're dealing with that potential issue and how you're thinking about the timeline for that process.
Thanks for the question this is Dick Weil.
I think that Bill Gross is unique in our industry for having a multi-decade proven excellent track record across a huge number of different kinds of strategies.
And so while there are -- there will be some potential investors potential clients who are concerned about waiting and seeing his track record I think a great many more folks recognize that he has proven himself over such an extended period of time across such a breadth of environments and strategies that he will get attention much more quickly than any other investor might in a similar situation.
So we'll do our best to communicate what he's up to and why people should have confidence in it and we would expect he'll get that usual range of reactions.
But I think a great many people are already telling us that they're excited and interested in what he has to offer and we expect that to continue.
Great.
And then how are you thinking about potentially leveraging the hired Mr.
Gross to ramp up the build-out of your initiatives to further penetrate the non-U.S.
and institutional channels? And from an infrastructure standpoint do you have the resources assuming you'd start to see some chunky ones? Well I think Bill's presence combined with some excellence that was already here is going to give us the chance the opportunity to succeed in a bigger scale than we have been able to in the past certainly.
As that develops I think it's quite possible quite likely that we'll have to make some modest developments in various places in the firm to strengthen some of the pipes and capabilities around the house.
I don't think it'll be extraordinarily significant but we are committed to delivering excellence in this format and supporting this initiative with the necessary resources.
So to use a little slang we're not going cheap Charlie it.
We're going to go ahead and invest if necessary to support it.
I think you can put this in the context of what we've been telling you about our commitment to expense discipline for years now which is I think we've been consistent in saying that we believe in a strong level of expense discipline as a philosophy but that has to be balanced with making the necessary investment to maximize your opportunity set.
And clearly in this case some modest investment to support the opportunity set I think is likely inappropriate.
We'll move now to Mike Carrier at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Dick just on -- when you look at the recent hires that you made and not just Bill Gross but just over the past couple of quarters you guys just did the acquisition.
Do you feel like from the types of products or the types of strategies you want on the platform most of that is there an out on your executioning getting that stuff even to the distribution channels and accelerating the sales over the next couple of quarters? Just want to get a sense of -- are there still gaps out there that you're still thinking that you'd want to build over time? Or is a lot of that stuff in place now? Thanks for the question.
I guess the answer depends on your time frame.
I think in the near term we certainly got more than enough in the way of new opportunities on the plate and focusing on winning in those opportunities.
On doing an excellent job in those opportunities will be much more significant than adding additional new ideas and opportunities.
Over time I think we'll continue to express the strategy and philosophy that we talked about earlier in this call.
But for the near term certainly I think our plate's pretty full with what we've already undertaken.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Jennifer just on some of the guidance that you gave looking out to 2015.
I know there's a lot of moving pieces.
But when you think about the operating margin when you look at both the non-comp and some of the things that are moving on the comp side is there still the ability to be around that 30%? Or obviously you're just depending on the environment backdrop meaning in terms of the market backdrop that could fluctuate but just in terms of what you're -- I don't know when you pool all that together particularly on the compensation side what you're thinking over the next maybe 1 to 2 years.
Sure.
Thanks Mike.
We -- as I talk a lot about compensation obviously that's the biggest piece of our expense base both on the cash compensation and the LTI.
So if we're seeing that move up in 2015 which with success it will move up then we're going to have to expect that all other things being equal we have a lower margin.
I think we ran a lot of scenarios here internally.
I think under a strong market scenario we could be close to those numbers you threw out the 30% but it have to be a strong market scenario.
And for our next question we move to Robert Lee with Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question is just talk a little bit about how you're thinking about building the business around Mr.
Gross.
I mean certainly what we've read in the press is he's going to be in Newport in his office with a small staff and I think one of -- some investors' concerns maybe that hey he's got this phenomenal track record but what are you actually building around him.
So if 5 years 10 years down the road it's time for him to step away what's left? So how are you thinking about building a franchise around him that will outlast his contribution? Well thanks for that question.
Obviously that's something that will take some time to build out.
We're clearly aware that while we expect Mr.
Gross to have a successful and happy and lengthy career here at Janus none of us goes on forever.
And we'll be building around with additional talent around him to support that and ultimately hopefully a long long time from now to deal with transition issues.
But today the electric feeling we have is much more around his arrival and not so much around planning for his eventual transition.
So I think the question is fair.
I think it's smart.
I think the time frame is we have some time and of course we have the plans and intention to build out that small team in a way that would allow us to make an eventual succession at the appropriate time.
But first and foremost there's a ton of excitement and electricity here and amongst our clients around what we can do with leading the charge.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And maybe following up to some of Jennifer's comments.
Obviously you talked about some trend expectations around compensation and LTI heading into next year potentially.
So if -- but again related to Mr.
Gross I think it's come up a bunch of I know conversations with investors that if his products if his product that he's running starts gathering a lot of assets is that -- is there anything about what you worked out with him that's going to change kind of the relationship of how we should think about the comps-to-revenue ratio? Is it -- is he going to be kind of -- have an outside economic relative to the outsized -- excuse me economics relative to maybe some of the existing portfolio management teams? I think I understand what you're getting at and the answer is no.
We have brought him on under our regular portfolio management compensation structure.
So there's nothing that you should put in some giant compensation hit or something like that.
But the scenario that you laid out where there's a huge gathering of assets results in a big commissions expense.
So you'll see the timing of commissions expense happen with sales.
We obviously anticipate that growth.
We hope it will happen.
We don't know how big it will be.
But as a result of that forecast I wouldn't expect to see total comp to revenue where you've seen it this year which is around 39% 40%.
It's probably going to be more in the mid-40s.
We move now to Ken Worthington at JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First to take a step back on Bill Gross can you just talk about really what the long-term vision is? He's been hired as a PM but is Bill Gross at Janus to manage assets in a -- in one or a couple of funds? Or is he really at Janus to spearhead the building out of the franchise? Thanks Ken.
I'm not sure I understand precisely the line between those two cases that you suggest.
At the moment Bill is managing a domestic mutual fund.
He's managing an offshore Dublin-based mutual fund which is sold around the world.
He is available to manage separate accounts.
He's focused on unconstrained bond strategy and I think the opportunity set for Bill Gross in that space is quite significant and potentially worthy of the name franchise.
I also know that we're thinking hard about how to put Bill's reputation and excellence together with the VelocityShares folks and in the ETF space and that'll take some time.
ETFs are not immediately launch-able.
There's filing period and development period and other things.
So I wouldn't expect that to roll out immediately.
But over time clearly we're committed to exploring and delivering something smart in that space.
Bill is also going to work with Myron Scholes and Ashwin Alankar in trying to strengthen their efforts in asset allocation and participate on their asset allocation committee and those are the things that we have identified and committed to in the first 2 weeks.
As time rolls on we'll see what else makes sense.
But it's worth noting that unconstrained bond has been a rapidly growing area of interest for institutional clients around the world.
And if it should come to pass that duration is no longer your friend and rates start heading up I would only expect that level of interest to increase over time.
And so I think it's fair to say that given what we've identified in the first couple of weeks there's a lot of opportunity set there and then we certainly won't limit ourselves over time to adjust that.
But it's fair to say in no world are we trying to recreate some huge new PIMCO-like franchise and no world are we building a separate thing out there.
This is a separate investment team from the existing fixed income team but a lot of common resources in the infrastructure side.
And he's -- Bill is on the team as a partner probably as our most important partner but that's the structure and that's how it's going to continue.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then a little more flavor on gross sales.
You obviously ticked up smartly slightly during the quarter.
You mentioned Japan.
Are there other distribution channels that are helping to drive the improved flows? I think we've seen some success for you in the large retirement plan business.
But what other areas seem to be helping outside of the Japan which you had mentioned? Well first before I take that question on outside of Japan let me just underline Japan.
Our relationship with Dai-ichi Life has been just a terrific success.
You knew the basic outlines in this relationship when we signed the papers with them but you never really can tell how the people will interact and how the quality of their relationship will evolve over time beyond the initial contract.
And this has just been a great success.
They've been terrific partners and owners and supporters.
We managed $2 billion for Dai-ichi Life out of their general account assets.
In addition their affiliate DIAM raised an additional almost $900 million in the preceding quarter bringing their total assets to approximately $2 billion of additional.
They did it across a range of equity and fixed income strategies.
And so that combination of $4 billion so far that's growing and very strong relationship is something that deserves underline.
In terms of flows by channel beyond that I don't know.
I'm going to pass the ball here a little bit to Jennifer to see if she has any color to add.
I don't have any numbers at my fingertip to share with you.
We do have a lot of the growth coming -- growth in sales coming from our U.S.
intermediary distribution.
You had asked specifically about insurance large plans and I don't have any of that information to disclose right now.
But certainly our intermediary U.S.
distribution channel is contributing a lot across-the-board in all the strategies.
For our next question we move to Dan Fannon at Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I guess to getting a little bit more qualitative commentary from -- around the Gross hire and what you're hearing from your intermediaries and distribution folks and whether that's -- to your comment earlier about the halo effect with some of the other products.
But if you could talk about how the fixed income was being sold previously potentially with the existing products and maybe how that can evolve as a result of the hire and kind of what you're hearing thus far in the first few weeks from those distributors.
Sure thanks.
Our existing fixed income franchise was a little north of $30 billion in assets under management and that was a combination U.S.
retail U.S.
institutional and some retail and institutional offshore including a significant piece in Tokyo as we previously mentioned.
So it's been present already in all the major channels effectively.
The opportunity set for that preexisting team just radically increased with the potential for assets in motion resulting from Bill's departure from PIMCO.
And so I think those products are well positioned with good track records already in the major channels.
And so the first thing to mention is that's alive and significant opportunity set that we have to go out and do our best to serve.
Second with respect to Bill his reputation is obviously so significant that everybody knows when he came to Janus.
There's a tremendous amount of interest in understanding what he's doing potentially putting money with us.
And so we've had very exciting active conversations with our clients domestically and outside of the U.S.
in retail and institutional.
And that opportunity set is also I think quite significant for us on a go-forward basis and it falls to us to do a really good job and capture as much of that and service as much of that as we can.
So everybody's taking our call.
Everybody's calling us.
It's an extremely busy period.
It includes institutional and retail it includes domestic and international.
It's just -- it's exciting for us but it remains -- this is the beginning not the victory lap.
It remains for us to take advantage of those opportunities and grow our business in a way that serves those clients well and that's where we are in the cycle.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And I guess to start is he see more in the fundraising mode? Or is he actually -- is it more focused on investing? Or is it about getting to a certain size and getting his name out there to get certain amount of assets in and then really just back to portfolio management? Well my handshake with Bill is that we need to make this fun and successful for him as well as for us and part of that is respecting that his first love is investing in markets.
And so he'll -- he has done already and will continue to do some significant client work which hopefully will help us gather assets.
But the first thing he needs to do is make sure he's doing a great job as an investor and we need to respect his time and resource commitment to that function.
So whatever gets dedicated on the client side after that is definitely second to investing.
And we're making every attempt to keep it simple and effective for him so that he enjoys it and that he does it for a long long time.
We move now to Tom Whitehead at Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I guess jumping back to VelocityShares.
Can you comment on how you think it's going to complement the existing product suite? And as we look at this as a more mature Janus with a broad diversified product set and the existence of ETFs how do you combat cannibalism so to speak by ETFs of what you guys do currently? You know what? I think to the extent there's going to be cannibalism of some of what we do by ETF-based products that is going to happen whether or not we participate directly in the ETF business.
So if the question is are you worried about cannibalizing yourself? I don't ever worry too much about cannibalizing ourselves in the sense that if you are available to be cannibalized somebody else will do it if you don't do it.
So we're not fearful at that level.
We have in the adviser community which is our most prominent -- our most significant set of clients there a lot of advisers who are clearly very focused on using ETF's tools for their clients.
Previously we have been limited and almost unable to serve those folks in a way they wanted to be served with that kind of vehicle.
So if you can imagine one of our people going in and talking to a key adviser and key adviser says "Well I'm really interested in doing this part of my asset allocation using ETFs." Our folks would have to get relatively quiet in response because we didn't have anything like that to offer.
And I think there's a lot of industry data which shows that this has been a growing segment maybe primarily around passive which we're not going to serve but also around rules-based sort of quasi-active solutions in ETFs and -- that we are going to serve through this vehicle.
So this gives us a great way to strengthen and build relationship particularly with those advisers who really are focused on ETFs as an important vehicle as they execute their jobs for clients.
And so it's an extension of what's possible in our existing relationships and can even allow us to add some new relationships as well and that's why we're excited about it.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And I guess as a follow-up.
This one is sort of for Jennifer.
But just on capital return.
Your buybacks have been a little bit elevated the last 2 quarters.
You've taken some steps to delever pay down some debt.
So how should we think about that going forward appreciating that you have a lot of investments currently going on with Bill and with other things that you're looking to build out? Well to put it simply I would not view the last 2 quarters as being an elevated level.
I think we talked about getting to the point where we could return capital to shareholders on a payout basis that was more in line with industry averages let's say kind of 70% to 80% cash flow over the course of a cycle.
And that's actually where we've been over the last couple quarters.
So I wouldn't characterize them as being an elevated level but maybe more as a new norm.
We move now to the Bill Katz at Citi.
Research Division</strong> So when you think about the dynamic between the margin update and volume how are you thinking about volume against that sub-30% margin as a possible offset from an earnings perspective? What's implicitly in your forecast at this point in time? So I'm not going to give you what's implicitly in our forecast in terms of volume.
I think you're trying to get at at what's in our flows numbers and really we run the gamut in our forecasting exercise.
So I'm sorry Bill.
I'm not able to kind of give you that.
Maybe what you -- what would be helpful is understanding that there are economies obviously in the global unconstrained bond space as we're building out infrastructure to support that.
So there's a big economies of scale there.
Our fixed income business outside of Bill Gross which also has a tremendous growth potential is kind of more mature in their cost structure and so you'll see better incremental margins there somewhere around 50% which I think we've talked about earlier.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just from a -- looking at the third quarter results where you had the pick up in the fundamental equity gross sales a little bit.
And just sort of triangulating that relative to some of the still heavy outflow you're seeing in the growth and the value fund and maybe that you had in your comments in terms of what's happening in Japan.
But where are you seeing the leverage for the business? And how you think about the growth and value platforms? Any signs of stabilization there? Well I think we try to say -- to use the word mixed in terms of some of the results.
We have some products that are truly doing outstanding work.
I think the Wall Street Journal recently recognized our contrarian fund as being the #1 actively managed fund in the universe that they were appearing at for their competitive purposes.
So the contrarian fund with Dan Kozlowski is doing a terrific job.
And we have other areas about our global life sciences some of our other sector funds technology that we have -- very strong in small and mid-cap growth.
We've got a lot of things that are working well.
We've also got some things that are working less well and some of our value products are doing quite well.
The small-cap value has done well recently.
But some of the other stuff has a been a little bit more challenged.
And so we thought the word mixed was a fair representation of that.
And what have we done to sort of strengthen and build that I mean I think you know.
I think the most important thing we've done is the addition of Enrique Chang.
He brings a proven approach to investment process and people leadership stability and discipline.
And I think over time that's going to deliver a lot of forward progress.
We have terrific talent already preexisting on the team.
We've added new investors to that over my years here who have also been really good.
So I don't have anything particularly insightful to say other than I think we're on the right path.
I believe very much in our team and I think these records will continue to get stronger in the years ahead.
We have time for only one more question which comes from Craig Siegenthaler with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Both my topics here have been covered but just a short question here left.
Are there any restrictions or maybe a non-compete out there that could prevent the unconstrained bond fund from targeting certain investor groups? Essentially large institutional investors are -- is it kind of free right now.
No we're free to pursue business.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And actually one follow-up.
How large is the unconstrained bond fund in the C cap product across border European channel? I -- you've just confused me.
Can you repeat your question? Research Division</strong> Yes.
So the global unconstrained bond fund...
We have a Dublin-based international trust so we don't have a C cap product.
It's a -- you said.
But I don't have that specific number for you but there is a global constrained bond fund in that international trust.
I guess operator it falls to me to put a close on this call.
So let me say thank you everyone for joining us today.
Obviously we have some very exciting news.
We're hearing terrific interest from clients in every one of our channels and there's tremendous enthusiasm in the employee base here.
Compared to a month ago the electricity in the halls here at Janus has stepped up incredibly.
Everybody here I think recognizes that we have in our hands a very very special opportunity and we're all absolutely committed to making the most of it.
We have extraordinary people and we have a terrific supportive relationship with Dai-ichi Life we talked about.
We've been already committed to building out asset allocation with Myron and Ash which in the coming calendar year should be something we can detail more but we're very excited what that brings.
Bill Gross is clearly just a game changer for us.
VelocityShares is a huge positive and allows us to serve clients in a whole new way.
And I personally believe our firm's best days lie ahead and couldn't be more excited certainly have not been more excited in my tenure here.
It's just a great time for Janus.
So thank you all very much for joining us today.
This concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for attending.
Good morning.
My name is Tracy and I will be your conference facilitator today.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to the Janus Capital Group Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question and answer period.
In the interest of time questions will be limited to one initial and one follow-up question.
Today's conference is being recorded.
In today's conference call certain matters discussed may constitute forward-looking statements.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to a number of factors including but not limited to those described in the forward-looking statements and risk factor section of the company's most recent Form 10-K and other more recent filings made with the SEC.
Janus Capital Group assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during the call.
Thank you.
Now it is my pleasure to introduce Dick Weil Chief Executive Officer of Janus Capital Group.
Mr.
Weil you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you operator.
Welcome to the fourth quarter and full year 2014 earnings presentation for the Janus Capital Group.
Before I start this morning let me give a little bit of unusual preamble.
I'm going to say some things today about some very positive accomplishments that we're proud of both in terms of the fourth quarter and on our full year basis.
I would like to just set the tone very clearly from the top while a number of things have gone our way and we will review some very important positive developments were reporting on progress rather than victory.
There needs to be a sustained level of net inflows and success in the vein that we're going to talk about here in a minute for a much longer period of time before we'll be feeling secure in having made the strong turn towards the company that we all know we can be.
So please take today's comments in the vein of marking progress and in that context let me turn the page to page 2.
Fourth quarter 2014 company net flows were positive $2 billion.
That's the first quarter of positive net flows for the company since the second quarter of 2009.
Ill talk a little bit more about that in a second but let's turn to annual net flows.
The company's total net flows for the year were $4.9 billion outflows.
That reflects a really substantial improvement from the $19.7 billion of net outflows in 2013 but again its still a negative number and much work remains to be done.
Looking at the rest of the story of the quarter I think its important to note that fourth quarter 2014 investment performance showed progress as well.
Complex wide track records improved markedly at the end of the fourth quarter 2014 57% and 82% of mutual fund assets were in the top two Morningstar quartiles for the one and three year basis respectively which is up from 46% and 46% a year ago.
In terms of business discipline we continue to exercise strong discipline.
Operating margins were above 30% for the third consecutive quarter which reflects higher AUM and better performance fees but also reflects our continued commitment to be good stewards of our shareholder capital.
Our balance sheet continues to strengthen with $797 million of cash and marketable securities compared to $451 million of total debt.
As you know we like to look at annual cash flow from operations on a trailing 12 month basis because of some of the cyclicality or seasonality of that number and on that basis we generated approximately $220 of free cash flow over the last 12 months.
And we returned approximately 65% of that to the shareholders in the form of share repurchases and dividends.
So we're proud of that record.
Let's turn back for a moment to the net flows and let me say a little bit more about that.
Obviously it's much more than just Bill Gross.
As we said earlier total company flows positive for the first time since the second quarter of 2009.
Janus equity net flows were positive for the first time since the first quarter of 2010.
Retail and intermediary net flows were positive for the first time since first quarter 2010 with an annualized growth rate of 6%.
Our non-U.S.
business had its sixth consecutive quarter of positive net inflows and our fixed income business had $2.8 billion of net inflows led by flexible bond and our global unconstrained bond strategies which meaningfully outperforms the industry.
I think thats the sixth consecutive year of net inflows for our fixed income business and that's a mark that were certainly proud of.
Finally there has been a lot of talk about Bill Gross's personal investment in his own funds.
At the end of 2014 Bill had invested more than $700 million of his personal money in the global unconstrained bond fund.
He fundamentally believes that investing alongside of clients aligns interest he believes in eating his own cooking.
And thats a concept that actually has much longer history at Janus than Bill's short time with us.
A number of consultants and analysts have marked over the years that Janus has been an industry leader in the amount of internal investment in our own products.
And so were proud Bill's proud of investing in what we do for living we think that should give clients additional confidence in what we do.
With that said let me turn the page to page four.
The effort on page four here is to try and place some of this progress in the context of our strategic plan and initiatives.
As you all know from prior calls pretty much since I got here about five years ago weve been focused on these initiatives.
Improving our fundamental equity franchise and you can see some data in the box on page four around improving performance.
Again grow fixed income business.
Again sixth year of consecutive net positive flows growing at an organic rate of 15% very proud of that progress.
Expanding our non-U.S.
distribution this has been a long project for us with full year net flows of $3.4 billion inflow.
Its the strongest record of net flows in history of this company and were proud of that as well.
Were working on increasing our U.S.
institutional market presence and obviously Bills addition gives us a very strong shot in the arm to try and drive that further forward.
And we've been focused on developing solution based products and as I think you all know the addition of Myron Scholes and Ashwin Alankar gives us an entry into the world class asset allocation game and our acquisition of velocity shares has allowed us to serve new clients in the form of exchange traded notes and also in the future some new exchange traded funds Just to put a little additional light on VelocityShares their year-end 2014 number should assets invested in their sponsored products of approximately $2.4 billion which is up from about $1.7 billion when we signed the deal to acquire them and up from about $1.1 billion at the start of 2014.
So the folks at VelocityShares are doing a really job and were very excited to have them on the Janus team.
With that please let me turn the rest of the presentation over to Jennifer McPeek.
Thank you Dick.
Good morning again everyone.
I will begin on page six of the presentation with the quick review of our operating results for the quarter and for the year.
Average assets under management for the fourth quarter improved to $179.2 billion from $176.5 billion in the third quarter of 2014.
Please note that these AUM figures and also our flow data do not include the VelocityShares products the VelocityShares transaction closed on a last business day of November.
So we have one month in our results for this last quarter for the month of December the products from VelocityShares average approximately $2.5 billion in assets for that month.
Moving on the increase in average assets led to an increase in total revenue of 8% quarter-over-quarter to $254.8 million and the full year results reflect revenue of 9% versus 2013.
Operating income was $80.5 million and that represents a 12% increase over the prior quarter.
As compared to the prior year operating income improved 21%.
Operating margin also improved and increased 140 basis points in the quarter to 31.6%.
Earnings per share was $0.24 for the fourth quarter which compares to $0.22 in the third quarter and on an annualized basis our earnings per share improved 31%.
Turning now to slide seven well discuss our investment performance as of December 31.
We saw some mix results in the complex-wide performance statistics with the decline in the one year number but improvement in the three and five year time period.
Fundamental equity performance improved for all three periods presented here and we continue to be encouraged by the performance strength in most of our fundamental equity strategies.
Fixed income performance remains very strong for the three and five-year periods.
However as you can see on a one year basis the percentage of assets in the top-two Morningstar quartiles decline meaningfully.
As any of you who follow this segment closely probably already know our funds had less interest rate exposure to the long end of the curve which dramatically outperformed in 2014.
We continue to be very proud of the many successes of this team and were encouraged with the future opportunities.
Our risk adjusted fixed income metrics continue to be extremely competitive over longer periods and we see nothing in the recent performance that is concerning.
Performance in our mathematical equity strategies was mix with the decline in one year performance but improvement in the three and five-year performance metrics compared to last quarter.
The decline in one year performance occur primarily in INTECHs global strategies as non-U.S.
markets generally underperformed in fourth quarter.
Moving on to our flows presentation on page eight.
Dicks already commented extensively on our flow success in this quarter but you can see some of the details on this page.
Additionally for your reference weve included a breakdown our quarterly flows by distribution channel and that is in the appendix and also the annual flows by advisor.
I hope that information is helpful to all of you.
So lets look at slide nine and get in some of the detail of the revenue.
Revenue increased 8% over the prior quarter.
This is mostly higher management fees and significantly better performance fees.
Management fee revenue was up in line with the increase in assets and the weighted average management fee for this current quarter was up slightly compared to the prior quarter at 48.1 basis points.
Performance fees on our mutual funds were negative $9.5 million for the quarter thats 34% better than we saw in the third quarter.
This improvement was led by our Twenty Fund or Forty Fund and the Research funds.
In a few minutes Ill give a little bit more detail around our outlook for 2015 performance fees in our mutual funds.
Private account performance fees for the quarter were $8.7 million versus only 400 000 in the third quarter.
These fourth quarter private account performance fees were generated primarily from annual performance fees at our INTECH subsidiaries which resulted from strong performance in INTECHs flagship strategy which is the U.S.
Enhanced Plus strategy and this was INTECHs best performing relative return strategy on a one year basis.
These numbers also include an annual performance fee on an alternative Janus private fund.
Finally VelocityShares revenue and expenses for revenues we will be including revenue from their product in the other revenue line on our P&amp;L.
And for expenses those will be obviously embedded in the appropriate lines.
Theyre fully consolidated.
Turning to slide 10 which is our operating expense breakdown.
Operating expenses increased $9 million or roughly 5% compared to last quarter and the primary drivers there were long term incentive compensations and discretionary expenses which are the marketing and G&amp;A lines.
The increase in LTI was a result of a lower credit for the Perkins SPI in the fourth quarter and an increase in LTI relating to INTECH.
And looking at our LTI expense for 2015 we currently estimate the amount to be about $70 to $75 million for the year.
This assumes the flat market in 2015 and also an assumption on our February 2015 grants of new LTI which is yet to happen.
Well provide updates on our expected expense on future quarterly earnings calls as we started doing last year.
As I mentioned the discretionary spending was up 17% this quarter compared to the third quarter.
This expectation is consistent with what we talked about in the third quarter call and the guidance we gave you.
Youll see an increase in marketing and advertising as well as the portion of G&amp;A and that was partially due to some investments we made around the hiring Bill Gross and the building out of that global macro franchise.
Additionally in the fourth quarter we also had about $1.5 million of deal-related expenses with VelocityShares.
Normally this is where I would discuss our quarterly total compensation to revenue ratio.
However weve received many calls and questions this quarter regarding the ratio because I gave some guidance on it last call.
So weve decided to include it in the special topics of interest section.
Now lets look at slide 11 a year-over-year review of our balance sheet and capital management activities.
Just walking through the bullet points our net debt position improved by approximately $60 million over the course of 2014 as strong cash flow generation more than offset our repayment of debt and acquisitions and return of capital to shareholders.
Cash and cash equivalents increased $108 million driven by strong cash flows and investment security redemptions.
Total debt decline $94 million as our 2014 senior and convertible senior notes matured and we retired those with cash on hand.
Also in the fourth quarter we closed on our acquisition of VelocityShares and we paid an upfront cash consideration of approximately $28 million.
In addition we return 55% of our 2014 cash flows from operations to shareholders through $84 million throughout the year in share repurchases and $58 million in dividends.
So now lets turn to some of these special topics.
Slide 13 may look familiar as we presented on past calls.
This is a slide where we talk about what could happen in this upcoming year under certain performance scenarios through our mutual fund performance fees.
As weve gone through some educational materials over the last couple of years I know that most of you that follow our stock have build these bottom-up fund-by-fund performance fee models.
So this may not be additional information for you but hopefully it will help you fine tune your models if you need it.
I want to emphasize again that this page is not a guidance on fees as it is not intended to be a forecast to fund performance.
Rather its simply an illustration of how this revenue line item is expected to move as we roll off historical performance and see how it varies with a range of under an outperformance in the coming years.
I do want to also note that not only fund performance but also assets levels and the performance of the benchmark will affect the actual results.
So on the right hand of the slide weve included the three potential performance scenarios for 2015.
The scenarios show range of performance from 400 basis points over the benchmark to 400 basis points below the benchmark across all of the funds that have these fees.
And you can see on the right hand side the change the delta year-over-year as that would result in for this mutual fund performance fees.
So conclusion 2015 financial results can vary significantly based on this factor.
The modeling scenarios weve shown here result in a $34 million swings from the upside to the downside scenario.
Now moving to slide 14 in last quarters call I made the comments that due to a number of factors we expected to see our total comp to revenue ratios rise in 2015.
So after the call and the meetings with the analysts this quarter you all have repeatedly asked a clarification on this guidance and a number of you have tried to use the guidance we gave to infer our internal flows expectations.
While unfortunately predicting the ratio its not that simple we dont disclose our expense planning to the level of granularity that you would need to nail it precisely and in fact we cant even nail it precisely ourselves in our internal modeling.
So Im going to attempt to explain to you why that is and in order to do that Ive broken down the ratio into some of its sub pieces and just going to comment briefly on those.
Theyre laid out on the table in the middle of the page.
First lets walk through some of these numerator pieces in compensation.
So in the compensation line some of the sub pieces there are laid out here we have cash salaries.
The cash salaries is obviously a fixed expense and were seeing some upward pressure on that in 2015.
We are giving raises across the firm to employees this year particularly in some functions where we are seeing a lot of competitive pressure in the industry.
Were also increasing headcount.
Id say my best guess at this time is that youll see a 3% to 4% increase over the course of 2015 in our headcount.
That is the largest annual headcount increase weve had since the financial crisis.
So while we feel its an important investment and continuing to grow the firm and were being very selective about where we make those hires.
The fixed costs that come in are going to be adding to the operating leverage in our model and thus they make the comp to revenue ratio more volatile as we see movement in asset levels.
Another piece of that compensation line is commission.
Some of our commissions move in concert with revenue but other pieces of commissions move in advance of revenue so their upfront commissions it really depends on what channel our sales come in through.
This can create some timing imbalances during periods of rapid growth.
The other piece that is underlying that compensation line is significant is our cash bonuses.
Cash bonuses do flux with operating income and unlike with some others in our industry are not tied directly to revenue.
Its actually an offset the way the model works to the operating leverage and the salary line so we are sharing some of that financial benefit from operating leverage with our employees as the business grows.
We think this also aligns our incentives further so that were all trying to be prudent and thoughtful with our spending decisions.
The other piece of the LTI line and this is always difficult to forecast and explain because there are so many moving pieces and a lot of what goes into this line is not cash related theres a lot of accounting driven LTI expenses.
Grants that we give LTI grants they are expensed over their expected vesting period so if we are making key hires key high profile hires yes you are going to see the LTI line expenses go up.
Also importantly we had reversal in this line in 2014 related  well were going to have a reversal versus 2014 related to some of these complex instruments that were issued a long time ago in the Perkins transaction.
In addition weve also put in place a very long term incentive plan at INTECH that generates some non cash charges the details to that are in Note 7 of our most recent Q.
Lots of moving pieces difficult for you to build without seeing this underlying pieces and thats why we are giving you the high level guidance on LTI.
What you probably need to know is that right now were looking at the LTI expense for the full year 2015 being forecasted to be $70 million to $75 million.
So thats the numerator.
In the denominator revenue theres also a lot of very difficult predictions that have to be made to get at this.
The other revenue bucket stems some VelocityShares product; we see performance fees that move they have no tie to compensation.
So lots of moving pieces where does that end us at the end of the day? Well we run scenarios that put all of these drivers in have all of their relationships embedded in our models and ultimately the stress is on our models come from running up and down market scenarios.
When we look at these scenarios we end up with a range for 2015 of total comp to revenue its anywhere from 40% to 45%.
I hope thats helpful to you all.
I know that doesnt tell you what you need to nail it precisely but at least it helps you see all the different moving pieces.
I will say that for the next quarter we have a little bit more visibility because its just a shorter time horizon.
We are looking at probably 42% to 44% of total comp to revenue for the first quarter of next year.
So with that long explanation I would like to turn it back over to Dick for some closing remarks.
Thank you Jennifer.
Ill just return to the theme I started with.
In 2014 I think its clear weve taken a major step forward.
During the year we added significant talent to our already strong team.
And weve seen considerable improvement in our fundamental equity franchise.
We continue to make progress on each important element of our strategic initiatives but it's not a time to declare victory.
This progress is not been sustained for a long enough period of time to be secure.
Were proud of our record in talent acquisition in innovation in our efforts to expand.
Our vision continues to be -- we plan to deliver excellence and active management across equities fixed income and asset allocation through strengthening our legacy franchises and also continuing to innovate in new ones.
Today we are financially stronger and more stable than we have been.
We have better investment talent and better opportunities with clients than weve had certainly at any time since Ive been here it still requires strong delivery strong execution from here and that has our full attention.
So with that well turn it over to you operator to take questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Dan Fannon from Jefferies.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Looking at the chart on the flows by channel I was hoping you could give a little more color on the retail intermediary channel and the improvement in gross sales you're seeing and maybe focus a little bit on what's changed particularly within the equities franchise and separated from fixed income and talk about where you're seeing the most success.
The number thing that drives our retail sales is investment performance clearly.
And we had some funds on the equity side in particular that have put up some very strong performance in recent periods and then successful at gathering assets domestically and abroad.
It comes to mind our healthcare fund is terrific and has had very strong record and is one of the big drivers of flow success in the channel.
So I would say that sometimes people look at this state and try and make it more complicated than it is.
For the most part long term performance it takes the outcome and then it's intersection of that with investor appetite where people are currently focused in their investing.
And we've done a good job improving our standing across a number of funds global life balanced enterprise contrarian to name a few.
And have put up very strong records in our gathering assets effectively in the retail channel.
So thats as good an answer as I can give you.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just can you quantify what -- was contributing in terms of flows in the quarter? And then discuss potentially the opportunity for growths through that channel and his products as well as you know other potential areas within the franchise that you see them as potential distributors for Yes I guess the story is slightly more broad and complicated than just Dai-ichi.
Dai-ichi has a 50% affiliate ownership with the company called DIAM and DIAM distributes through banks including the other 50% owner of DIAM which is Mizuho Bank in Tokyo.
So if you look at Dai-ichi Life together with its affiliate DIAM they have done a terrific job in partnering with us.
We managed as of December 31st approximately 2.5 billion assets for DIAM up from 2.1 the prior quarter.
And that reflects some very successful selling of global life balances and Smith strategies by DIAM which is part of that broader story we've talked about across the quarters which is that Dai-ichi Life has just been a really terrific owner and partner for us.
And the potential opportunity you see with Gross through that channel in his products? Yeah.
I don't know how to predict that.
Tokyo especially retail tends to go in waves.
And they tend to be interested in certain product areas at certain times.
And we'll try and take advantage of that with respect to Bill Gross and certainly all of our other products but I can't give you a prediction for that right now.
Great.
Thank you.
And we'll go next to Ken Worthington from JPMorgan.
Hi.
To expand on that.
So Janus is having great success in distribution outside the U.S.
you mentioned Dai-ichi and the others.
Can you take us beyond what's happening in Japan and talk about the success that you're having in Europe as well? And then also in the U.S.
it seems like you're getting put on new platforms it looks like the supermarket platform has been adding Janus products due to better performance.
So what are the platforms that seem to be adding Janus products to their lineup most recently? I don't need the names but just like what types regions general information would be helpful.
Sure.
Thanks Ken.
First in response to your question about Europe; in Europe our multi-asset and balance strategies are continuing to gain traction and they are leading the way for us there.
In Asia high income products seem to be losing a little ground on the balance funds to U.S.
equities and other things.
Traditionally I think we all think of Asia we think of high-income products but it's a broader story there for us outside of Japan.
And certainly our strength in life science global life that sort of product is reflected there also.
So that's really the answer for outside of Japan in our non-U.S.
business.
The second part of your question was Inside the U.S.
sort of The platforms yes.
Yes.
We don't typically disclose this.
But currently we have about 19 funds listed on Fidelity and Schwab select guidance list which is one way of thinking about an answer to your question compared to 11 at the end of last year.
So that's a significant improvement for us on those two platforms.
And I think that's hopefully reflective of the progress we're making more broadly and hopefully gives you a sense of that in answer to your question.
Right.
Thank you.
And then just secondly on the fee rate the management fee rate had been declining for a number of quarters it reversed this quarter; and again this is extra performance fee.
There's a number of components that would drive that.
Can you tell us like how the mix is changing or what the drivers of the mix had been more recently to cause that fee rate which has been declining to actually turn around and start to improve? Sure Ken its Jennifer.
Actually the biggest driver is the relative move of markets right now.
So we're seeing flows across the franchise and that really doesn't affect the balance between fixed income and equity.
But when you see the lift in asses due to market moves that's going to move it around.
I don't think that the move from last quarter to this quarter which was I think 0.2 is significant.
Its moves around quarter-to-quarter so it's not a trend that extrapolate.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
We'll take our next question from Tom Whitehead from Morgan Stanley.
Great.
Thanks for taking my questions and congrats on the strong quarter guys.
Just wanting to touch on the comp quickly.
I guess the comp this quarter was a little bit light especially when you consider the improvements on the Gross sell side and the improvements in the performance fee.
So may be if you could give us some more color on what was going on in this quarter.
And then secondly as we look ahead the fixed sort of component of comp that you broke out Jennifer in the slide on 2015.
I guess about how much of the comp is fixed and how much should we think about is little more variable? To your first question if you saw compensation come in a little bit lower a lot of that happened -- that movement happens in the fourth quarter because we don't make decisions on how we allocate our bonus pool between final decisions between LTI and cash until the end of the year.
So a lot of those decisions are made based on what's driving the growth of the bonus pool.
And then they're within ranges but when you see changes in the fourth quarter it's often due to in this case it was due to some decisions made on cash versus LTI.
So our bonuses sometimes go more into LTI than cash.
And when you see that throughout the year we're accruing at the basis that we expect to occur but we don't make the final decision until the fourth quarter.
So that's going to drive that difference.
The second question you asked is how much of our compensation is fixed versus variable; and I'm sorry we don't really disclose that so I can't really give you that information.
Okay.
And then I just had a second question on VelocityShares.
Basically if you could provide us an update on the plans for that business and how I guess how we should think about your investment in growing that business and launching new products over say the next 12 or 18 months thanks.
Sure.
I think we've already called out that there are assets in products they sponsor have been rising nicely.
I'm looking at Jennifer; did we call out there the one month's revenue contribution? We didn't but I can certainly provide it.
So we only had a month of revenue in there this quarter and that was I think about $1.2 million so hopefully that's helpful to you in modeling that separately.
Their assets have gone up but they move day-to-day so this is a little bit more volatile of the asset stream than you see in kind of long-term investment products because they are used by very short-term investors.
Right.
We recall that substantially all of their currents assets are in exchange-traded notes and those notes are tools for professional investors and they are not aimed at a buy and hold clientele so much as tools that would be used on a shorter-term basis by professional investors.
And there's a consequence the potential volatility of those numbers is quite high.
But that revenue that Jennifer mentioned is substantially driven by their ETN business.
And looking ahead I think we've been clear that we're looking forward to using their strengths to launch some ETFs.
In particular we've signaled that we're looking hard at the opportunities for Mr.
Gross to manage an ETF and certainly we are and we'll be getting back to you with more information on that as it becomes appropriate in the coming months.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
We'll take our next question from Michael Kim from Sandler O'Neill.
Thanks.
Good morning.
First I know you called out the separate account win for the unconstrained bond strategy last quarter but just wondering if you could provide any additional color on sort of how you're planning on more fully penetrating the institutional fixed income channel both from a strategic standpoint as well as sort of from a marketing perspective.
Sure.
Happy to do that.
Thanks for the question.
Institutional fixed income in many places is driven by consultants.
The consultants are famously slow to adopt new things.
And so the efforts to get them to adopt a new global unconstrained fund managed by Mr.
Gross are sort of a balance between his obvious and long-term excellence and huge reputation and their discomfort with new things.
And so candidly that's a daily battle we fight.
And they drive us crazy we probably drive them crazy but that's the balance.
And so what we need to do is to continue to work with those folks to try and gain their comfort to gain more placements in global unconstrained in institutional space domestically and abroad.
And then there are some opportunities with institutional clients that are not so focused on consultant recommendations the Soros investment was clearly one such and there should be opportunities to capture excess with some folks who are perhaps less driven by the slower moving consultants and so we'll be focusing particularly on those.
And lastly it depends of course on the appetite for the strategy itself the global unconstrained bond strategy which is a particular strategy which like all others has varying levels of sort of investor demand through time depending on anticipated rate movements among other things.
And so the intersection of all those things is just darn hard to predict.
And we have stayed away from predicting and will continue to do so but we are working really hard at those things and we'll continue to do so.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then second question now that we're approaching the three-year anniversary of Dai-ichi's investment just wondering if you could walk through any potential changes to the structure of the investment as it relates to holding requirements and/or the stand still agreement.
I think it's fair to say that this investment has been very successful not only for us but as they communicate to us for them as well.
It has benefited from some strong improvement in performance at Janus; it's also benefited candidly from currency movements in their favor since they made an investment.
So for a lot of reasons from the relationships to the financial results they've indicated a lot of confidence and satisfaction with the way the relationship is working.
And certainly we've made no secret that we're equally thrilled with that.
The contract that we have with them provides periodic review points where we can get together and talk about whether things need to change.
I think one of those comes up towards the end of 2015.
At this point we don't anticipate that there would be any changes or anything significant that would be altered.
But it's fair to say that if you go back and look at those contracts there are periodic review points and we'll come up on one towards the end of the year.
But the main message is I think this is a relationship that's working very well both from our perspective and from Dai-ichi Life's perspective and we don't anticipate anything significant that needs to change.
Okay.
Fair enough.
That's for taking my questions.
We'll go next to Michael Carrier from Bank of America.
Thanks.
Jennifer just on two things that you hit on.
It's on the performance fees.
This scenario kind of analysis is helpful.
On the private accounts just want to try to separate the annual new impact versus what we can see in sort of on a quarterly basis.
So any -- I know it's -- you're predicting the future so pretty tough.
Just want to try to meet out the annual.
And then just on the share count we think about grants versus the ongoing level of buybacks.
Any outlook on what we should be expecting just given some of the key hires.
Sure.
So first question is around the private account and how much comes in annually versus on a more steady state basis.
So the biggest driver of our performance fees is our separate accounts from INTECH.
And those -- I'm looking at a chart I don't have a specific number for you but something like half of them or somewhere between 40% to 50% look like they're more on an annual basis.
But the real driver here is going to be which strategies outperformed right.
So it is going to be difficult to predict.
Actually my assistant is telling me two-thirds of them actually are annual so we've counting the numbers but not looking at the actual asset levels.
So a little bit more on an annual basis than on a quarterly basis.
But you really need to know what strategies are outperforming.
I know that this quarter there was a big surprise.
People weren't expecting that big performance fee jump up from INTECH but that came largely from the Enhanced Plus strategy which had a really positive fourth quarter.
And so it is difficult to predict because you don't see that performance in the separate accounts at INTECH until we release our results.
So by its nature that has to be a surprise.
And I'm sorry what was the second part of your question? Yeah.
Second was just on the share count going forward as we think about grants given some of the key hires versus the ongoing level of buybacks.
So we have a really strong commitment to offset dilution from share grants.
Its a philosophical commitment.
We dont want our shareholders to be negatively affected when we opt to compensate people in the form of stock.
We want our shareholders to be largely agnostic to the form of compensation and in some cases LTI grants are the right thing to do and they have the right retention features.
So we do have a philosophical commitment to offset those over time and share dilution.
Our recent level of share buybacks have been higher than when we needed to offset that dilution and that really reflects our commitment over time to try to hit an industry level of cash payout ratio which I think is in the 70% to 80% range.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Sure.
We will take our next question from Robert Lee from KBW Securities.
Great.
Good morning everyone.
Maybe following up actually Jen from the share repurchase so I understand that thinking about -- I just want to offset a share issuance but just kind of curious in the quarter you did actually have a sequential jump despite share kind of been coming up and kind of jumped up.
So it looks like there was a fair amount of shares issued and I dont quote seeing that kind of seasonality in terms of vesting or restricted stock grants in the past.
So is there any kind of one-time thing that helped drive that or I know Well I hope its not a one-time thing but that was largely driven by our share price going up.
So hopefully thats a repeated thing.
Let me explain that a little bit.
We have some convertible notes that are outstanding and so we have to account for dilution that comes from those convertible notes when our share price moves dramatically and the weighted average share price for the quarter was a lot higher than it was in the prior quarter.
So thats really what caused that increase in the fully diluted share count.
Okay.
Great.
Thats helpful.
And then just one simple modeling question on velocity share.
So I guess I am still not clear to me I am sorry.
Could you speak up a little bit? We are not hearing you well.
Sorry about that.
On velocity shares from a modeling perspective so are you not going to include those assets in your AUM going forward just kind of call them out separately.
Correct.
We're not going to include the exchange traded note assets which are the bulk of their assets in AUM because they are not the name manager they are not a managed product.
We get paid under a separate contract.
So thats technically how we're supposed to account for them to not include them in AUM.
They are ETF products if we get those put under a trust that Janus is the name manager for which currently is not the case then those would be included in AUM but we'll have to update you on that going forward.
Okay.
Great thank you.
And we have time for one last question.
We will go to Patrick Davitt from Autonomous.
Hey good morning thanks.
Youve been pretty consistent on letting the debt maturities roll off and I assume a lot of people will start rolling out 2017 estimates at this point.
Do you think its a fair assumption for us to assume that that $345 million maturity rolls off? Its a long way away but all else being equal benign markets and what not is that something that you would imagine would happen? Well I hope the rating agency guys are listening right now but that is -- it has been our stated intention to retire our debt and to take it down to levels that are more commensurate with the little cash flow that we are generating.
Right now we're cash flow positive.
So there isnt a need for us to have that leverage.
Great.
Thanks.
And then on the gross money I am assuming there is no fee on that or is that a wrong assumption? No that comes in an unusual way accounts just like there is no special arrangement around it.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
At this time I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Weil for final comments.
Thank you operator and thanks everybody for joining us this morning.
Again we're proud of the progress that weve made but one quarter of positive flows is not a strong enough trend for us to declare any sort of victory.
We need to sustain this progress through a long period of time and thats what we're about.
So I know you will keep watching and hold us accountable.
Thanks for your time and attention and have a good day.
This concludes todays conference call.
Thank you for attending.
Good morning my name is Dana and I will be your conference facilitator today.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to the Janus Capital Group first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] In today's conference call certain matters discussed may constitute forward-looking statements.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to a number of factors including but not limited to those described in the forward-looking statements and risk factor sections of the company's most recent Form 10-K and other more recent filings made with the SEC.
Janus Capital Group assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during the call.
Thank you.
It is now my pleasure to introduce Dick Weil Chief Executive Officer of Janus Capital Group.
Mr.
Weil you may begin your conference.
Thank you operator.
Welcome everyone to the first quarter 2015 earnings presentation for the Janus Capital Group.
Thanks for joining us this morning.
As usual I'll start with a little overview of the quarter.
I'll hand off to our CFO Jennifer McPeek who will take you through the numbers in some more detail and we will take a moment to go through some special topics at the end and then we'll take questions.
Looking at the first quarter of 2015 let me start by reflecting a bit on the context that we've been talking about for several quarters.
In these quarterly calls we've spend a lot of time talking about our strategy; our focus on intelligent diversification; our desire to build out our fixed income business our non-U.S.
businesses our U.S.
institutional business; to pay down debt and strengthen our balance sheet; and to further develop our product line up with some uncorrelated returns and some asset allocation.
That story really focuses on evolution and I try to context that story for you with the headline that nothing is more important than taking care of our existing clients in our existing business.
Nothing is more important than delivering excellent risk adjusted returns and excellent client experience to our existing clients.
And in that context clearly our most important business is our Janus actively managed equity business with approximately $90 billion in the AUM at this point.
The real headline for this quarter is of course the second quarter in a row of overall positive flows.
Underneath that it's fundamentally driven by $2.2 billion in positive flows in our Janus equity business in the first quarter of 2015 which is the strongest quarter of inflows for this business in nearly seven years.
And that was primarily driven by the combination of significantly stronger investment performance and really good work on the client sales and client relationship side maximizing the benefit of that improved performance.
And so the story of this quarter is not so much about the Bill Gross and Myron Scholes that we've talked about in prior quarter although that all remains valid and very important to our future.
But the really good news of this quarter is a continued strengthening in our core Janus equity actively managed franchise.
It's also worth noting that our fixed income business added $800 million in positive net flows.
That was primarily driven by $700 million in positive flows in our fundamental strategies on the fixed income side.
I'd also like to call out in the quarter we had two funds win important awards for outstanding performance.
Our Janus Balanced Fund received Lipper Award for its excellent performance over a 10-year period.
And our Contrarian Fund received Lipper Award for its excellent performance again this peer group over a three-year period.
Finally as you all will have heard already by now we were able to increase our quarterly dividend to $0.09 up from $0.08 a share.
With that headline let me turn it over to Jennifer.
Thank you Dick and good morning again everyone.
I'll begin on Page 5 of our presentation with a quick review of the operating results for the quarter.
Average AUM was up 3.8%.
Total revenue was up 3.1%.
Recall that the first quarter had two fewer days than the fourth quarter.
Our operating income was down 6%.
The first quarter typically has higher expenses that are seasonal and you see that on a year-over-year basis our operating income is about 14%.
Earning per share for the quarter were $0.23 and that include $0.0150 of investment gains.
Turning now to Slide 6 which is our standard format for our investment performance.
A couple of highlights.
First with respect to our long-term performance on a five-year basis we had 50% or more of our assets in the top-two Morningstar quartiles for all of our sub-groupings.
In particular in fixed income we've had 82% in the top-two Morningstar quartiles which represent some extremely strong long-term performance.
However the short-term performance in fixed income jumped off the page as an outlier on the low side.
I'd like to highlight that this statistic is not representative of the very strong risk adjusted performance for these strategies.
As an example our largest strategy in fixed income which is core plus is actually in the first quartile in sharp ratio and information ratio which represent risk-adjusted performance in both the year-to-date three year five and ten year periods.
We also see 73% in our one year performance for fundamental equity.
This is an extremely strong number and it's very important to our overall business financials that Dick is going to talk a little bit more about that performance in the special topic section.
Mathematical equities have seen an improvement in the one and three year numbers to 40% and 69% respectively.
And in the overall complex-wide mutual fund statistic we continue to have very strong numbers of 51% of our funds getting a four or five star rating.
Recall that across the industry that's only 32%.
Next let's look at flows which are on Page 7 of your presentation.
First quarter total company net inflows were $1.1 billion which represents an annualized organic growth rate of 2.4%.
Our fundamental equity flows had first quarter inflows of $1.6 billion continuing to build on the improvement we have seen over the last few quarters.
32% in gross sales was the primary reason behind the increase.
A little later in the presentation as I mentioned we'll give some more detail there.
Looking at our mathematical flows there was a $700 million decline in net outflows quarter-over-quarter.
Although sales and redemptions are lumpy in this largely institutional business INTECH performance continues to be strong which increases our optimism about future flow trends.
Fixed income net flows remain positive in the first quarter.
We continue to increase market share in our fundamental business which is run by Gibson Smith.
The global unconstrained bond strategy contributed approximately $100 million of inflows during the quarter for a total fixed income annual organic growth rate of over 9%.
Flipping to Slide 8.
Total revenue increased 3% over the prior quarter mostly on higher management fees which were up in line with the increase in average assets.
Weighted average management fee for the current quarter was up slightly at 48.5 basis points.
Performance fees on our mutual funds were negative $8.7 million for the quarter which was slightly better than the fourth quarter result.
The private account performance fees in the first quarter were $6.4 million.
Given that these private account performance fees can fluctuate meaningfully quarter-to-quarter we've decided to cover this in our special topic section in greater detail.
Finally I want to remind everyone that we are reporting VelocityShares revenue in the other revenue bucket.
This last quarter represents the first full quarter of revenue for VelocityShares since we acquired them and revenue from that business totaled approximately $3.6 million.
Since we've received a number of questions on how this business works we've included them in the special topic section as well.
Page 9 is our operating expenses breakdown.
Operating expenses increased $12 million or 7% compared to the prior quarter.
The primary drivers were employee compensation and LTI.
The increase in comp and benefits in LTI result in a comp-to-revenue ratio of 42.5% which is in line with our expectations and also within the range that we communicated on the prior call.
Looking a little closer at LTI for the full year our current estimate which we have in a footnote on this page is $75 million to $80 million which is a slight increase from the guidance we gave you last quarter.
The reason for the increase is twofold.
First the grant that we gave in February was slightly larger than we had estimated in our guidance from the January call.
And second positive market in the first quarter leads to some additional mark-to-market expense through this line.
As always our guidance assumes flat markets going forward and variance can come from realized up or down market.
Looking ahead at the full year comp-to-revenue ratio we have no change in our guidance there we're still saying 40% to 45% range.
Lastly before we move off of operating expenses discretionary expense was down 11%.
This decrease was driven primarily by lower G&amp;A which included deal-related expenses from the VelocityShares transaction which were booked in the fourth quarter.
Flipping to Slide 10 we look at our balance sheet and our capital management activities for the quarter.
As I discussed on previous calls our strengthening financial position is enabling us to return more capital to shareholders.
In that vein we have just announced a 12.5% increase in our regular quarterly dividend.
Share repurchases for this past quarter totaled approximately $23 million which is an increase over last year's first quarter which saw share repurchases of $11 million.
So now I'm going to turn it back over to Dick for our special topic section.
Thank you Jennifer.
Turning to Page 12 we have a breakout discussion of our Janus equity mutual fund performance inflows.
As we noted earlier in this presentation that's really the most important thing driving the results of this quarter.
And at $90 billion of AUM which is the highest level of AUM since 2Q 2011.
That business will have the biggest impact on our near-term results certainly as a firm.
So turning to Page 12 the upper left is the depiction of performance weighted by assets.
And as you can see as of the end of March 78% and 76% of mutual fund assets were in the top two Morningstar quartiles on a one and a three-year basis respectively.
This improvement reflects better results across many of our largest strategies and we try and give you some perspective on that in the chart on the upper right of Page 12 where we show Morningstar percentile ranking based on total returns for each of our top 10 largest funds.
On a one-year basis eight out of these top 10 funds are top quartile compared to two a year ago.
Five of these eight are in the top decile.
On a three-year basis seven out of our top 10 funds are in the top quartile compared to only three year a ago; and five are on the top decile.
Looking out at the 10 year basis it remains very strong with eight of our top 10 funds in the top quartile.
Looking how that performance has been turned into flows we can turn to the chart on the bottom of Page 12.
With $2.2 billion in positive flows this is our best quarter in our Janus equity business in quite sometime.
This reflects excellence not only in the performance as noted above but it reflects the strength of our distribution team building client relationships and selling effectively where we have track records that are strong in places where clients have great interest.
With that let me turn it back over to Jennifer McPeek.
And I'm on Page 13 of the deck.
So when we announced our acquisition of VelocityShares the call following that announcement had a lot of other company news and perhaps not as much Q&amp;A around this very exciting transaction as we otherwise would have gotten.
So subsequently we've gotten a lot of questions from both the analysts' community and our shareholders around what this business is currently and how the revenue works from the business.
So we put together this slide that illustrates the current business and exchange-traded products which we purchased in our acquisition of VelocityShares.
In the first quarter we had $2.8 billion in exchange-traded product average asset and that contributed $3.6 million of revenue.
The revenue that we collect on the bulk of these assets which are the tactical assets shown in these dashed lines are collected net of issuer expenses in fees.
Those are exchange traded notes sold under the VelocityShares name.
You can see that we have three suits of exchange-traded notes: equity volatility energy and metal.
And these instruments have grown in usage and popularity over the last two quarters.
As the underlying indices for these notes become more volatile there is greater interest in trading them and thus the volumes go up and the revenues to Janus goes up.
So it's a nice diversifying dynamic for us albeit a small one and that the underlying factors that drive revenue in VelocityShares historical core business are not correlated with the factors that drive our core business revenue.
Going forward we have hope to see more revenue coming from products that are targeted at our core long-term investment clientele which include exchange-traded funds both active and rules-based.
And now on the final page of our presentation today we have a breakdown of our private account performance fees.
Spend a lot of time in prior calls talking about the calculation of our mutual fund performance fees.
And I think everybody who participates in these call has pretty good handle on those.
Recently we've seen some very positive trends in the separate account performance fees and these have caught some of our investors by surprise.
So this final slide attempts to give some cuts of the assets that generate those fees.
Hopefully you'll get a little bit better at predicting them but more likely you will come to the conclusion that these are just much more difficult forecasts than our mutual fund performance fees.
So first no surprise nearly all the performance fee accounts today are in INTECH strategies.
INTECH as you know has a predominantly institutional client-base.
So tracking INTECH performance is probably the best indicator at a high level than any other factor if you want to predict a separate account performance fees.
Current AUM subject to performance fee is $17.5 billion less than half of the total private account assets.
We've seen it grow generally as assets grow but the fee structures are very client-specific segment-specific and geography-specific.
The lower chart on this page confirms that we do expect seasonality all other things being equal.
The pie chart shows how the assets under performance fees divvy up by their timing of performance fee payment.
You see that 40% occurs in the fourth quarter 30% in the first quarter and that results in quite a of bit seasonality when we recognize these.
I'll also note that of these performance fees more than 40% are based on measurement period that are one year or shorter.
That makes current quarter performance particularly important in driving the magnitude of the performance fees.
And obviously it's going to make it more prone to surprises.
Lastly let me remind you that these separate account performance fees are not structured like our mutual fund performance fees.
Those can go negative and these are only on the positive.
With that I'll turn it over to Dick for some concluding remarks.
Thanks Jennifer.
In conclusion we're continuing to make progress.
We're working hard to make sure we're delivering excellent investment performance and excellent client experience across our businesses.
We are working hard to integrate and build out the strategic additions we made last year including global macro fixed income asset allocation exchange-traded products and in the future we'll provide more detailed updates on that progress as we move.
But the key store here is the gathering strength in our very important Janus fundamental equity business and I hope we've done a good job of translating that to you.
With that we'll take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Robert Lee with KBW.
Maybe first question is if it would be possible to get a little bit more color on the kind of where you're seeing strong sales which channels you're seeing the strong sales from the fundamental equity and I guess fixed income businesses that predominantly the RIA channel kind of the Schwab platforms.
Any color you can provide on that and where you're seeing kind of the most strength? We're seeing strength across a range of channels.
We're seeing good momentum in our retail and intermediary business.
We're seeing some pretty good momentum in our non-U.S.
business in particular.
And perhaps even more importantly we're seeing that occur over a good range of strategies including our Global Life our Balanced our Flexible bond our Enterprise our Triton and Venture as examples of places where we're seeing some strengths.
So it's been broad.
I think you mention Schwab specifically.
Currently across Fidelity and Schwab we have 23 funds on their selector guidance list which is up from 19 a quarter ago.
So we're seeing strength across a range of channels but I think in particular our retail and intermediary and we're saying it across a range of strategies.
Jennifer may want to add something here.
Yes Rob I have some statistics that maybe helpful for you.
We have seen this quarter about two-thirds of our fundamental equities were coming from domestic channels about one-third from international.
I guess in fixed income much more concentrated this quarter than domestic channel.
In our retail business really across the firm the advisor channel saw the biggest sales and net flows.
And then maybe Jennifer my follow-up question.
Just kind of curious on capital management I guess for the past year or so the rate of share repurchase has certainly been stepped up and I guess running at a just call it an average of 1.5 million shares a quarter roughly.
But at the same time the share count is pretty much flat.
Actually it was up this quarter if I think of it versus the end of 2013.
So if you could talk a little bit about your general goals as it relates to share repurchases? Is it really just geared towards immunizing the share count on future share issuances maybe you have a long-term goal of actually trying to drive down the share count? And as profitability improves should we expect that the pace of share repurchase could accelerate? That was a compound question.
I'll try to address as many of those as I can.
We do think about share repurchases with long-term objectives in mind.
As a minimum threshold we're trying to offset dilution that comes from our choice of compensation vehicle because we want our shareholders be agnostic as to whether we choose to compensate people with stock or with cash.
So at a minimum level we are looking to offset dilution from compensation.
As you see some of the share count movement particularly in the fully diluted count over the last few quarters is moving up.
A big factor there is our outstanding convert which flows through.
We're not looking to try and offset that all in one big chunk but over time we do want to offset dilution from all of the different factors including a convert.
And so you'll see our long-term objectives are to slowly move the share count down as we're looking to return capital in excess of cash flow that's produced.
So you'll see that really play out in longer-term share count numbers but quarter-to-quarter it's definitely going to fluctuate.
And a big driver right now is what happens with our share price as that dilution from the convert plays through in a fully diluted number.
And we'll go next to Ken Worthington with JPMorgan.
I think I've got two compound questions too.
First on marketing you've got a number of new products that you've launched in various regions.
As you look out over the next say 12 months or maybe pick your own time horizon what is the marketing and branding strategy? So what new products are you putting marketing dollars behind? What regions are getting the changes in the incremental dollars? And I'm sure your marketing people want more dollars so how closely tied do you expect incremental marketing dollars to be to product sales? I'll do my best to answer that complex of questions.
In general what we did early -- as you know I've been here about five years what we did early in the 10 year was we pulled back on some of the marketing spending which I thought was appropriate given our business condition and given the progress we had yet to make on strengthening the performance.
And as we talked about in prior quarters as we strengthen the internal story it becomes more appropriate to invest and so taking that message on road.
And so that's what I think we're going to be doing now.
So all other things being equal I would expect to see us increase marketing.
Around which products and strategies well clearly we have a big opportunity for communication around what Bill Gross is doing based on his own market influence.
Whether that costs us a bunch of dollars or not most of that really is driven by media that we don't pay for but that clearly changes the exposure for not just for our fixed income but for our entire firm and it's a great strength.
We have Myron Scholes a Nobel Laureate working on asset allocation with Ashwin Alankar.
That's a new product coming out.
We'll expect to put some significant push behind that.
And then as I mentioned earlier in the call we're seeing strength across a breadth of fixed income and equity and balanced strategies that we'll be investing in more.
Net-net I think a modest increase in marketing is appropriate but I wouldn't expect it to be any kind of radical increase.
We're still fundamentally trying hard to be very disciplined about how we run the business.
And I'll add to that Ken you asked us a specific question on whether it's tied to sales.
Certainly in our budgeting process when we think about how we allocate the marketing spend we are looking at kind of a 12 to 24 month sales outlook that our distribution folks are putting forth.
And if they are wanting to generate more sales we're going to give them more marking dollars.
So there is a very explicit tie there.
And now for the bad topside personnel turnover.
Can you talk about the turnover in investment professionals at Janus? I think the PM ranks have been pretty stable but it seems like there has been elevated if not really elevated turnover in the ranks of the analysts particularly the team leaders over the last call it six to nine months.
So can you give us some background on the changes that have taken place? And maybe how you are managing the risks on the transitions particularly in the context of performance which has gotten much better over the last couple of years? Well thanks very much for recognizing what I think is true which is that we've had a significant amount of stability on the portfolio management side over recent periods.
Overall I don't think our turnover is remarkably different than industry turnover.
And to get more specific to your question I don't believe our turnover at the analyst level is particularly remarkable at least I haven't personally remarked on it is as exceptional.
Let me talk about one element.
A long-time Head of Research the boss of all the analysts here at Janus Jim Goff retired not too long ago and we appointed Carmel Wellso as our New Director of Research.
She is absolutely first class.
We're thrilled to have her in that seat.
And we are very optimistic that she can continue the good work of attracting and retaining the best talent.
So I think for a long period of time if you look at the results of our analyst-led products like our research products we've had great strength.
A core strength of this firm has been excellent analyst and excellent research.
I think that continues to be true.
In fact I think its gathering positive momentum.
And I think we've added a few analysts recently that I think are quite strong and will be a great addition to the already very strong team.
So overall I'd say strong records strong team and great new talent would be the way I'd tell the story which admittedly has had some odds with the implication of your question but that's how I see it.
And we'll take our next question from Michael Carrier with Bank of America.
This is Adam Beatty in for Mike.
Appreciate all the additional disclosure on the performance piece.
I was just wondering in terms of seasonality whether there were certain products or measurement periods concentrated during the year? For example are interim one through three quarters more likely to be short-term measurement or is there any other correlation we should be aware of? Adam Jennifer and I'll try to give you some current statistics.
I don't have any more kind of correlation that would help you do forecasting.
But if it is helpful we can talk about what's drove the INTECH performance fees in the first quarter.
We had the Global Large Cap Core product and the U.S.
Enhanced Plus both driving a significant portion of those fees in the first quarter.
And then turning to commutation you mentioned some mark-to-market in the quarter.
Do you disclose that amount anywhere or is there a balance that we should be looking at to get a sense of sizing that? We don't disclose that.
But in lieu of disclosing it very specifically we're giving you guidance each quarter on where we expect the year's LTI to come out.
So hopefully you can triangulate from that.
We'll go next to Dan Fannon with Jefferies.
Could you disclose what was the Dai-Ichi contribution of flows? And I think historically the last couple of quarters the life sciences has been a big component of that.
I'm wondering if that's becoming more diversified if that shifted at all? The flows from DAIM weren't significant during the quarter but I think your context is exactly correct.
The relationship at March 31 overall was about $2.6 billion through DAIM and they've been a terrific partner.
And our great strength in life science was and has been a crucial and very significant part of that flow story.
What's happened more recently in Tokyo is investors in Japan have turned towards local investing.
And they are buying JGB's they're buying the local stock market and that's not really the strong suite of our product offerings with our partners at DAIM in Tokyo.
So I don't take any sort of negative implication from that.
But as appetites rotate in Tokyo we'll have periods where we have greater opportunity and those where we have somewhat less opportunity.
Now I would say it's somewhat less given that you're buying the local bonds and local stocks.
And then just on the expense side with G&amp;A.
I think the quarter-over-quarter change you highlight around the deal expense removal is this what you can consider to be kind of a normalized level for the remainder of the year or with some modest growth or how would you characterize it? I'd characterize it as having some modest growth going forward while there were some one-time expenses in the fourth quarter that you can back out which I highlighted during the presentation.
Going forward I think we'll see some increases in T&amp;E a lot of that comes with sales.
And we also have a slight increase anticipated in some of our software spend.
So as we're investing in our infrastructure we're seeing that go up a little bit.
And we'll take our next question from Bill Katz with Citi.
This is [ph] Jack Lew filling in for Bill Katz.
My first question is on fundamental equity.
Were there any lumpy wins or losses in fundamental equity in the first quarter? And just in general where you're seeing lift in that? I'm not aware of a lot of lumpiness in those flows.
So I think the answer to that is no but I don't want to be too strong in that because there maybe a lump I'm not focused on.
But I'm not aware of any significant lumpiness to call your attention to in those numbers.
What I would say is the numbers are being driven in significant part by retail and intermediary.
As we talked about before we're seeing momentum and strength in that channel.
And as I mentioned we're seeing it across a pretty wide range of equity in fixed income and balanced products.
And so I can't just highlight one or two.
And then on the INTECH side I know you mentioned it a bit earlier on but flows looked weak for this quarter while BlackRock saw an upturn in mathematical equity.
Do you think this is more of a share loss issue or a mixed shift; A.
And then B what do you think the upside is in general for this business going forward? INTECH business is substantially institutional and as we've talked about in prior quarters their flows are subject to some significant variation lumpiness quarter-to-quarter and so some of that remains true.
They have some large cap U.S.
equity strategies that are under a fair amount of pressure.
They have some other strategies like their traditional their longest track in Enhanced that's been very strong.
They have some global and other strategies that are strong.
And they continue to have positive flows coming from outside the U.S.
which has been a consistent contributor over recent periods.
And lastly when talking about INTECH I'll call attention to the fact that they've done some early significant new product development around managed volatility that I think creates opportunities for them.
In the short-term on the institutional side and in the long-term I think on the U.S.
retail side I think that's a valuable product offering for them.
So overall I think the leadership team there is doing a very good job.
And the quarter-to-quarter lumpiness in flows I don't think speaks loudly to their trajectory.
We'll go next to Michael Kim with Sandler O'Neill.
This is Andrew Disdier sitting in for Michael.
So first focusing on the growth in blend platform obviously a strong quarter.
But just going forward curious to get your thoughts on the sustainability of trends in light of some investment performance trends and the strategy that you're currently seeing interest? And then may be some less favorable seasonal trends going forward as well? I don't know if that I have a lot to say on the seasonal trends.
In some of the channels you see some seasonality around changes and strategies and reviews in the first quarter and such.
But I think more importantly we are really getting paid to produce risk adjusted returns that beat the index first and then if we do that consistently beat our peer group substantially.
And where we do that I think we'll be rewarded by flows.
A lot of those flows are going to be market share.
And so for us to grow significantly I don't think we require active equities as an industry to grow.
Significantly I think there are plenty of opportunities to capture market share from less successful managers.
And so in terms of sustainability I think that the business is so large and the opportunities for us to substitute for others is significant enough that it could be sustainable so long as we deliver the core promise of strong risk adjusted returns beating index and then overtime beating peers.
That's obviously a high bar.
It's a high standard.
But we have been increasingly successful at meeting that across the range of products we've been talking about this morning.
And that's frankly the business plan to continue to do that.
And so long as we do I think we have a very very bright future.
And then secondly just curious to get your thoughts on the recent proposals from the DOL related to holding brokers to fiduciary standards really when you're dealing with the retirement accounts.
And so it seems like from an asset management standpoint the rules promote lower cost of funds with strong investment performance track records which is really just business as usual.
But it also seems that there could be an impact to the underlying economics of sales and the retirement channel so just curious to get your thoughts on the potential issues more broadly.
And also how they might impact Janus if at all? I think everybody agrees with the basic goal of these efforts.
Everybody wants to have a strong and clear set of legal duties creating boundaries around the services and products we give to our clients.
So the thrust of the effort I don't think is controversial.
The devil is always of course in the details.
And I don't think we fully understand the details yet.
And so it's hard for me to predict the application of those details on the various business channels.
I read with interest Larry Thinnes comments during his earnings call about his thoughts in this area.
And maybe he's got access to different information or a better insight into how it's going to turnout.
But for now I don't feel like we're well enough informed to make strong predictions about this new standard and the application through the different channels in our business.
And we'll take our final question from Robert Lee with KBW.
I guess while I was just curious about going to INTECH is it possible to get maybe a little bit more color are there specific strategies or books of business where you're kind of seeing more of the outflow pressure than others? And if there's any maybe you could size those for us so we maybe have some sense of at least as it relates to that business where is some of the risk maybe.
I don't have that data for you this quarter.
We can talk about breaking that out in a special section in future quarter.
In general large cap U.S.
equity space a lot of the clients are public institutions and plans in the U.S.
and that has been a pressured space for them for three reasons.
First it hasn't been the side of their strongest investment performance and they're accountable for that.
Second some significant number of those clients are barbelling their portfolios and then moving a significant portion of their large cap U.S.
equity business to passive.
And then they're taking active risk in other places and that has put pressure on them.
And then third if you look back a couple years the U.S.
quantitative management industry was under a whole lot of pressure certainly that included INTECH.
I think that pressure is ameliorating as we speak especially outside the United States but that sort of the industry-wide trend certainly affected their outcome.
So they struggled particularly in the large cap U.S.
equity space and they have a handful of strategies in that space.
So apologies for not being more specific but we can take a look at doing a breakout in that in the future quarter and give you a little more specific information on how big each of their strategies are.
End of Q&amp;A And I would now like to turn the conference back to management for any additional or closing remarks.
Nothing special here.
We just appreciate everybody's time and attention.
We're pleased with the results of this quarter but two quarters in a row of positive flows are not enough.
And so we recognize that while we're pleased with the number of elements of the story so far we've still got a lot of work ahead of us.
And we look forward to talking to you next quarter.
And this concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for attending.
Good morning.
My name is Dana and I will be your conference facilitator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to the Janus Capital Group Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
In the interest of time questions will be limited to one initial and one follow-up question.
Before the company begins I would like to reference their standard legal disclaimer which also accompanies the full slide presentation located in the Investor Relations area at janus.com.
Statements made in the presentation today may contain forward-looking information about management's plans projections expectations strategic objective business prospects anticipated financial results anticipated results of litigation and regulatory proceedings and other similar matters.
A variety of factors many of which are beyond the company's control affect the operations performance business strategy and results of Janus and could cause actual results and experiences to differ materially from the expectations and objectives expressed in their statements.
These factors include but are not limited to the factors described in Janus' reports filed with the SEC which are available on their website www.janus.com and on the SEC's website www.sec.gov.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
Janus does not undertake to update such statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arrive after the date these statements were made.
Investors should however consult any further disclosures Janus may make and its reports filed with the SEC.
Now it is my pleasure to introduce Dick Weil Chief Executive Officer of Janus Capital Group.
Mr.
Weil please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Welcome everybody to the second quarter 2015 Janus Capital Group earnings call.
As usual I'll make some introductory remarks and then I'll turn it over to Jennifer McPeek who will take us through the financial information a bit more precisely and then at the back half we'll turn to some special topics that have been raised by investors and folks who cover us during the quarter and lastly we'll take your questions.
So with that second quarter 2015 I think the first headline is obviously that we've had the third consecutive quarter of positive long-term net flows led by our Janus Fundamental Equities team.
The second thing which I think leaps off the page for this quarter is of course our acquisition of Kapstream which is an Australian company that is focused on the unconstrained bond business and we're very pleased to add them to our team and we'll talk about that much more specifically here in a minute.
Turning away from sort of the headlines as I said total company net flows were $200 million positive for the third consecutive quarter.
Janus equity net flows were positive $1 billion also their third consecutive quarter of positive net flows that represents an organic growth of approximately 5% versus a 1% organic decline for active equity U.S.
Mutual Funds per Simfund.
So we're gaining market share in that effort and we're proud of that.
Fixed income had $300 million of net inflows led by our fundamental fixed income business.
Their annualized organic growth rate of 3% also is a little bit ahead of the mutual fund industry as reported by Simfund.
Complex-wide investment performance continues to be pretty strong with more than 50% of the assets in the top two Morningstar quartiles on a one-year three-year and five-year basis.
And finally I will call your attention to the fact that in the second quarter our operating margins were north of 30%.
Over the last 12 months we've generated $217 million of cash flow from operations indicating I think that we continue to do a pretty decent job on business discipline and looking out for the shareholders' interest in terms of cash flow generation.
With that I will turn it over to Jennifer McPeek.
Great.
Thank you Dick and good morning everyone.
I will begin on page five of our presentation with a quick review of our operating results for the quarter.
Average AUM for the quarter was $193.0 billion which is up 4% over the prior quarter.
Revenue is also up 4% at $271.9 million.
Operating income came in at $82 million and that is an 8% increase over the first quarter.
Earnings per share were flat at $0.23 for the second quarter and that EPS number includes a one penny net impact related to three one-time items.
I will discuss those in more detail when I get to slide nine.
Turning now to slide six we will discuss our investment performance as of June 30.
On a complex-wide basis we saw some improvement in our three-year numbers with 75% of our assets ranked in the top two Morningstar quartiles.
This compares to 69% last quarter and 63% a year ago.
Quarter-over-quarter improvement was driven primarily by improving results in several Janus global equity strategies as well as improvement in several of our fixed income strategies.
Quarter-over-quarter there wasn't too much change in the results of fundamental equity strategies.
On the one-year basis we actually have 67% of assets in the top Morningstar quartiles so that's the top one Morningstar quartile it's not on this page has 67% of fundamental equity strategies.
Fixed income performance saw the biggest improvement in its three-year number which is back to 100% of assets ranked in the top two Morningstar quartiles.
That statistic had briefly dipped to 68% last quarter.
Quarter-over-quarter improvement in fixed income was driven primarily by results in the high-yield and short-term bond strategies.
In our mathematical equity strategies we saw a decline in the three-year and five-year metrics as 43% and 58% of relative return strategies outperformed their benchmarks at the end of the second quarter.
This compares to 69% and 75% at the end of the first quarter.
And on a complex-wide basis 50% our mutual funds had a 4-star or 5-star rating from Morningstar which again compares to an industry average of 32.5%.
Looking now at our standard flows presentation on page seven you can see that the second quarter total company net inflows were positive $200 million.
This marks the third consecutive quarter of positive net flows.
On the right hand side of the page we break it out into three subcategories.
Fundamental equity outflows were $100 million out in the quarter and if you recall fundamental equity includes both Janus equity which was positive $1 billion for the quarter and Perkins strategies which were outflow into the quarter.
Mathematical flows were breakeven and now was actually a $1.3 billion improvement over the first quarter flows.
Fixed income net flows remained positive in what was a very volatile quarter with a lot of a macro headwinds.
Beginning in the third quarter flows from Kapstream will be included in the fixed income category.
On slide eight we see total revenue increased 4% over the prior quarter.
This increase was driven by the higher average assets and it was partially offset by the expected quarterly timing of private account performance fee revenue.
Weighted average management fees for the current quarter were 48.6 basis points and that compares to 48.5 basis points last quarter.
A little bit more detail on performance fees.
Performance fees on our mutual funds were negative $6.6 million.
This was about $2 million improvement over the first quarter.
Our private account performance fees declined to $2.2 million and that compares to $6.4 million in the first quarter due to that previously mentioned seasonality.
Our VelocityShares ETN revenue is reported in the other revenue bucket and that was $3.5 million for the second quarter.
Turning to the next page we detail our quarter-over-quarter operating expenses.
Operating expenses increased only 2% compared to the prior quarter or $3.1 million up.
This increase was primarily due to $2 million in non-recurring deal expenses so one-time deal expenses that related to our Kapstream transaction.
That is captured in the G&amp;A line and the net impact of that to earnings per share is approximately $0.01.
Total compensation for the second quarter which includes comp and benefits and LTI was $110.9 million and that was down slightly from the first quarter.
As you recall these figures are seasonal with a higher number in the first quarter.
Our total comp-to-revenue ratio for the second quarter was 40.8% compared to 42.5% in the first quarter.
As we look forward to the second half of 2015 we anticipate that our comp-to-revenue ratios will continue to be in the low 40%s.
Our full-year 2015 estimate for LTI expense remains unchanged at $75 million to $80 million.
I'll also note below the line this quarter we had a few items that I'd like to highlight.
They're not on this page but you will see them in our filings and our press release.
First other income this quarter included a $3 million FX loss and that reflects moves in the Australian dollar/U.S.
dollar exchange rate which occurred after we purchased currency for the Kapstream transaction.
This one-time loss was offset by another one-time net gain relating to state taxes which is the reason that we have a lower effective tax rate this quarter.
Turning now to slide 10 and our balance sheet our cash balance decreased by $56 million at the end of the quarter.
This was largely due to funds transferred into the non-current asset bucket in advance of the Kapstream transaction.
That transaction occurred on July 1 so isn't included in this quarter.
Investment securities increased during the quarter by $20 million.
That largely reflects changes in our seed capital (11:34) book including the launch of our Adaptive Global Allocation strategy.
We also continue to return cash to shareholders this quarter which we had share buybacks of about $11 million quarterly dividends of $17 million and generated cash flow from operations of $217 million over the last 12 months.
Now we're going to turn to the special topic section.
I'm going to cover some facts about our recently-acquired subsidiary Kapstream and some of the transaction terms and then Dick will put the acquisition in more of a strategic context.
Here on page 12 we detail some of the facts around Kapstream our recently-acquired subsidiary in Australia.
Kapstream currently has about $7 billion in assets under management that's in U.S.
dollars.
They have 10 employees and they distribute primarily in Australia and New Zealand.
Company is actually headquartered in Sydney and they have a key member of their leadership team already based in Newport Beach.
As you can see on the right-hand side of the page the revenue growth has been extremely impressive and the business has also experienced excellent organic growth underlying that.
They have an average annualized organic growth rate of 20% over the last three years.
As we noted in our press release the deal included upfront consideration of $85 million for 51% ownership stake with the minority 49% stake remaining in the hands of management.
While we purchased the distribution partner Challenger's equity stake we also preserved the distribution relationship there with a long-term agreement.
We have call rights on management's minority stake beginning three years post the transaction close.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Dick to walk us through some of the strategic backdrops for the transaction.
Thanks Jennifer.
So as we look at the Kapstream transaction in the context of our intelligent diversification strategy why did we do this? Well the first answer is standalone in Australia this is a great business.
Over the last five years the total revenue has grown at a CAGR of 55% and has had very strong organic growth as Jennifer underlined a moment ago.
So standalone it's a great business.
Separately they are great investors that are leading this business.
Kumar and Steve Goldman and the team are really first class people and investors and they have been hitting their performance targets and keeping their promises to their clients and we expect that will continue.
The third reason is Australia is a terrific market for asset management.
The Australian asset management market's been growing at a CAGR of 9% over the last 14 years and they have an international or globally leading structural commitment to saving for retirement with their superannuation fund structures.
So it's a very attractive market and this advances us in that market very substantially.
The next point to make is obviously there are potential synergies.
This team is uniquely positioned to reinforce Bill and his effort to grow his unconstrained bond strategy.
They have common history some history back at PIMCO and they understand his strategies and can help Bill push his business forward and so we think the potential synergies there are substantial going forward.
And lastly in the context of our intelligent diversification this transaction increases our total non-U.S.
as well as our total fixed income AUM by 20% each respectively while providing future opportunities for additional growth outside of the United States.
And so for all these reasons we thought this was a special transaction that offered great advantages for us and we've very very happy to welcome Kumar and the Kapstream team on to the Janus Capital team.
Turning now to slide 14 let's segue from the Kapstream business to a non-U.S.
business update for Janus Capital.
On slide 14 in the upper left you can see our distribution footprint.
Very obviously we've just made a major investment in strengthening our hand in Australia and hopefully that team and that effort will bring benefits well beyond the borders of Australia in a global business over the coming years.
On the upper right of slide 14 we outline the assets under management development over recent years.
With a growth rate of 21% since December of 2010 I think the message is this has been and remains a very important strategic priority for us and it's working.
And with that said the addition of the Kapstream business and team just further adds strength and adds to our optimism for our ability to capitalize on this momentum in the future.
In 2015 we're seeing net flows in a lot of different regions across different strategies across some institutional pockets as well as retail.
Year-to-date we've experienced nearly 14% annualized organic growth and so we continue to be making good progress in this area.
And in analyzing that it's important to note that a lot of this progress has been made with the help and support of our strategic partner Dai-ichi Life in Japan and their 50% subsidiary DIAM that have helped us immensely in developing our business in Tokyo and they've been great partners for us and that's been a really important part of this very successful development of our non-U.S.
business.
Currently we're managing $2.1 billion of Dai-ichi assets across our advisors.
Additionally our relationship with DIAM continues to grow and as of June 30 we're managing approximately $2.2 billion of assets with DIAM.
With that said thanks for your time and attention.
I will turn it to the operator to take questions.
And we will take our first question from Robert Lee with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Jennifer I appreciate some of the color on Kapstream but can you maybe dig into that a little bit more maybe get a little bit  from a modeling perspective maybe get a little bit more detail on what kind of their fee rates are kind of how we should think of it flowing through I guess will be a non-controlling interest that flows through the P&amp;L going forward and then maybe also they've had organic growth but can you maybe give us a sense of kind of how it's been running in the last quarter or two in kind of maybe an absolute dollar sense couple of questions there? Yeah you threw a few at me.
Sure I will start with your question around how we bought about modeling the transaction.
So the business at Kapstream has had as you've seen in our presentation some really healthy revenue growth and they have some really strong distribution so we look at that business we valued it standalone I look at it compared to other Australian asset managers and felt that the valuation was very consistent with their performance their recent performance their recent growth.
I think we gave a stat in the presentation of 20% average three-year organic growth.
In the last year it's been 17%.
The year before that it was 25%.
So that gives you a sense it's been consistently high.
We weren't using the three-year average to try to create a higher number.
It's been very consistent in the high-double digits.
I think that was something that was put up in one of the analysts' reports that was a little bit off.
It's been very high organic growth.
And then what was your other question Rob? Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Well I guess just really from a modeling perspective it'd be helpful just to maybe know what their kind of blended fee rate is and how we kind of mix that into revenue forecast and then I assume they will be a non-controlling interest and I guess really just trying to get some of the finer points of modeling blending it into the model going forward? Sure.
So they have pretty consistent fee rates to fixed income managers and they have about 60% institutional and 40% retail.
So we're not disclosing their client-by-client fee rates because that's proprietary but these are actively managed strategies.
They're not passive so take an estimate of actively managed fixed income fee rates on put that split on it you'll get pretty close.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay and well maybe my second question I mean you've got Kapstream you rolled out bunch of allocation products you got VelocityShares so just kind of curious how we should be thinking of your marketing and distribution spend back half of this year into next year lot of things to talk about so what kind of  how should we be thinking of that in terms of rate of increase or not? Sure.
I would expect to see some increase in our marketing spend but nothing extraordinary as we're seeing all these products and all these great performing new stories to tell.
We're supporting that with marketing spend.
I'm actually looking at our Head of Marketing right now who is smiling but we're being very cognizant of the good return on those dollars but yeah you should see that go up a little bit over the next few quarters.
Hope that's helpful.
And we'll take our next question from Michael Carrier from Bank of America.
Thank you and good morning.
This is Adam Beatty in for Mike.
Just a question on Kapstream regarding distribution obliviously variety of opportunities there.
I want to get your thoughts on what other Janus products might be suitable for the Australian superannuation market? And also in terms of Kapstream's Newport Beach office were they starting to get into U.S.
distribution or what's their intention there? Thanks.
Hi Adam thanks for the question.
This is Dick.
Yeah let me take your second part first.
There were three equity partners in Kapstream and one of the three had already committed to building the U.S.
business basing himself out of Newport Beach California and that all predated our discussions and agreement with Kapstream.
So the Kapstream team had made a strategic commitment and had done the analysis and determined they thought there was some opportunity for their cash plus 200 basis points or so version of unconstrained bond effort and their push in the products is little bit different.
Bill Gross does more cash plus 500 basis points in his unconstrained bond effort.
So there are presumably opportunities for both versions on a go-forward basis and they had already committed to developing that on their own and I think they look forward to doing that in a better way in partnership with us and certainly most importantly with Bill Gross who is the best there has ever been in the fixed income markets at least in my lifetime.
So I think that's the first point.
The second question was what else do we have that might be salable in Australia? We've had a decent business in Australia now for some time.
We've managed to have some developing relationships down there with some equity products with some of our fundamental fixed income products that are I think appropriate for that marketplace but they're a very sophisticated marketplace.
They buy products across a pretty full range and spectrum and I couldn't tell you it'd be hard to exclude pieces.
I think there are opportunities for a lot of different pieces.
It's worth saying that I think our subsidiary INTECH has had some pretty substantial success in Australia as well in the past and we hope that continues and grows.
We think that the Kapstream team brings stronger market presence relationships and brand strength that we can combine with ours to create not only opportunity for themselves but for the broader product set for Janus.
But it's not just one or two particular things.
It's a pretty broad spectrum of opportunity.
Thank you.
I appreciate the detail.
And just a follow-up on INTECH it looks like net flows and gross sales got somewhat better in the quarter.
Was there anything lumpy there and what are you seeing in terms of the outlook for INTECH? Well INTECH always is  as an institutional business they are always somewhat lumpy.
In terms of generalizing about INTECH it's challenged by the fact that they have  if I get the number wrong then somebody is going to kick me here but 30 or 40 different strategies that operate on the same investment principles but in any given quarter they can generate some pretty differentiated investment returns and so talking about them as a lump can be challenging.
First and foremost I think they have a terrific investment team.
I think they have a great process and I think the process works.
So we're optimistic about their future.
We have acknowledged in the past that in some of their U.S.
institutional large-cap growth product space they had been challenged with industry trends as well as some of their own performance trends and we've talked about that in prior quarters and I think that remains true.
You've also noticed that their newer targeted  Managed Vol Targeted Vol kind of products seem to have a great receptivity particularly outside of the United States and there are lots of opportunities for those.
And so overall I'd say the message on INTECH hasn't changed materially.
We believe in their team.
We believe in their process.
We believe in their growing success in the future but on a quarter-to-quarter basis it's going to be lumpy.
Got it.
Thanks for the detail on Managed Vol.
Appreciate your taking our questions.
And we'll take our next question from Ken Worthington of JPMorgan.
Hi good morning.
I want to focus on actually U.S.
retail distribution.
Maybe can you talk about the Art of WOW campaign and what is the strategy to increase the sales power of the organization within the U.S.? And then I guess the second question would be like to what extent are you having success in terms of getting more brokers and advisors to sell Janus product and are there any figures that you could share with us that indicate progress here? Thanks.
Thanks Ken.
I'll take the first part and I don't have any numbers to answer your second part.
So I'll maybe kick that over to Jennifer.
And if she doesn't have any numbers we'll just plain disappoint you apologies.
But on the first part obviously the success on our business is building long-term sustained relationships with happy clients.
I mean that's really what it's all about.
We need to help people have investment success and compound those happy results and relationships through time.
Turns out when you survey folks really pretty much institutionally and retail they care about investment performance a lot.
That's table stakes.
That's qualifying to hire us but then they also care about a lot of other things and they care about the thought leadership the problem solving ease of access through the interface.
They care about all kinds of do they get timely fast accurate insightful information.
They care about all this basket of other things.
And we've worked hard as a firm not only on investment performance but we've worked hard as a firm on delivering improving other elements so that we can be the partner of choice when folks go to invest.
The Art of WOW is a program that we started as a value-add service to financial advisors where we were helping them with their practice management by helping them create positive surprises with their own client base.
It's been hugely successful.
It's a pretty unique program run by our Janus Labs folks here and it's been great.
What we try to do is take that externally facing program about the advisors business and apply those principles to our internal business so that as we conduct our daily business we try and learn the same lessons about how can we create positive surprise for clients in our relationships.
It's hard.
When a client opens a statement how do you a create a positive surprise? That's not a moment that's usually associated with positive surprise.
We had to solve (28:17) the riddle in lots of these places.
It's a constant and serious challenge but it's the work and the bar against which we have set ourselves and measure ourselves and we will continue pushing in that way because it's critically important that we deliver not only the right investment results but the package of relationship and services et cetera around it that can make us their choice when they go to find an investment partner.
With that I will turn it to Jennifer on your question on the numbers of brokers et cetera.
So I may not have the exact answer you are looking for Ken but I can tell you that we do focus on the market metrics statistics which really measure qualitative aspects of our relationships with advisors and we are seeing a lot of improvement there.
So that's not the hard numbers that I think Dick's looking at me to deliver but it's definitely a positive trend outside the advisor channel and the supermarket channel similar success.
We have currently 21 funds on the Schwab and Fidelity select list so at the end of the first quarter we had 19 funds so that's improving number and good positive momentum there.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
And we'll go next to Michael Kim with Sandler O'Neill.
Hey Dick.
Hey Jennifer.
This is actually Andrew Disdier filling in for Michael.
So first just focusing on investment performance strengths across the  on the equity side of the business.
As you go through your attribution analysis just curious to hear what some of the drivers behind the more recent improvements have been? Yeah.
Thanks Andrew.
It's a good question but as you'll no doubt already understand it's a complicated answer.
Doing contribution attribution analysis underpinning investment performance is a tricky deal.
Some of it is  I think the market conditions around the performance within our marketplace particularly in equities has created conditions that are more conducive to us generating better performance.
Some of that is the amount of diversity and the way the market has performed has given active managers I think broadly speaking in Janus more specifically some better opportunities to generate performance and you don't want to confuse market conditions with genius and some of it clearly has to be that.
But some of it I think is we have some pretty amazing talent here and it is working together in I think increasingly effective team work and I think some of the attribution of better performance is certainly around that.
We have succeeded in bringing online a new Equity CIO in Enrique Chang.
We succeeded in bringing on a new Director of Research in Carmel Wellso and I think their leadership has been effective in improving alignment and teamwork and it's not only important to have great talent it's important to have great talent that works effectively together in the team and I think we're doing better in that space also.
Great.
I appreciate the color and then aside from Bill Gross your fixed income business continues to gain momentum.
Just wondering how you could  if you could talk about some of the success drivers that have driven the market share gains and then kind of going forward how do you think about relative flow patterns playing out as rates trend higher? Our fundamental fixed income team has been really a model of consistency.
They start with the premise that they want to protect capital so they're inherently a conservative process.
They're mostly credit focused but clearly they also invest across a range of other risk factors and ideas like rates and some currencies and other things but they're credit-first kind of approach and they've been really good at it and generating strong risk-adjusted returns through what have been some pretty darn volatile fixed income markets over the last 5 years and 10 years.
And so that's really the piece of the puzzle that has been driving a lot of fixed income success and we hope we'll continue to do so.
They are what they are and they do it consistently and with excellence and we're very proud of that result and that contribution to the team.
I'm sorry was there a second part? Yeah the second part is just how you think about relative flow trends playing out as rates trend higher? Yeah my crystal ball isn't that good.
So I won't go all Greenspan on you and suggest I can see the future.
But I'll say this.
Eventually rates are going to go higher and I'm not the one to tell you exactly when that's going to happen.
My personal handicap thing is it's not tomorrow but I wouldn't put a huge amount of money on my timing handicap.
What we have done as a firm is we've acknowledged that when that happens I think there is going to be a serious bid for things like unconstrained bonds which are essentially bonds with a lot lower duration and I think people are going to be looking for that kind of risk return pattern with less rates exposure as they anticipate higher rates and then as they experience higher rates.
I think it's also true that that would create a bid for some more absolute return products potentially our liquid alts team potentially some of the asset allocation work that Myron Scholes and Ashwin Alankar are doing.
So we're trying to position in front of investor demand in smart ways for that eventual market condition when rates are higher but I don't put a lot of stock on my own ability to call the turn of the market and we don't run the business in those sorts of short-term ways but longer term clearly we hope we positioned well for that kind of a marketplace.
Great.
Thanks.
Appreciate you answering our questions.
Okay.
And we'll take our next question from Dan Fannon with Jefferies.
Thanks good morning.
My questions around  the first one is around Dai-ichi.
You're coming up on your three-year anniversary in August.
I guess does that trigger anything in terms of the change in the relationship and also kind of just an update on the quarter in terms of what they contributed to flows? I will comment on the relationship.
Thanks Dan.
As we've said numerous times it's been a traffic relationship.
I have acknowledged I think we've been public about the fact that the way the contracts work Dai-ichi has an opportunity and a legal right to withdraw from the relationship if they want to starting at the end of the year through a process that's outlined in the contracts.
That said I think Dai-ichi and Janus Capital have both benefited and enjoy the relationship and I don't anticipate any change in the nature of the relationship and indeed they've made quite specific comments to me that I can say that that reflects their attitude also so I think nobody expects any change but it is fair to note that the contracts provide this legal right to them starting at the end of the year.
And in regards to the question about flows in the second quarter we were actually slightly negative from DIAM.
Our assets at the end of quarter were $2.2 billion and I think that's largely reflecting some currency moves and rebalancing and profit taking relating to dollar/yen.
Great thanks.
And as a follow-up I guess we've talked about a couple of the opportunities both internationally and the question was asked earlier about retail.
I guess as you think about your three distribution channels and you think about the next 6 months to 12 months I guess what are you most excited about or enthusiastic about in terms of the gross sales opportunity between those three channels? You're asking us to pick favorites.
Yeah.
I don't have a great answer for you.
I am optimistic that we can make progress in each of those baskets.
I think clearly the most important business we have without any question is our U.S.
what we call retail sold through intermediaries business and I think we continue to make progress in that.
I think the second thing to state quite obviously is we've made a lot of progress in our non-U.S.
businesses and in the aggregate that's probably the next biggest opportunity for us and then I think we've also been candid that we've been working hard to do better in the U.S.
institutional space.
And we're chip chip chipping away at that business as well and making some progress but that's probably slower developing and a little bit of a smaller near-term opportunity than the other two.
Great thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Great thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Question for you guys on some product specific basis so the Global Life Sciences Fund obviously has been an important contributor to flow for you guys given the fact that a large competitor recently closed theirs.
Can you talk a little bit about I guess the opportunity to sell more? What are you guys hearing from FAs and consultants selling that product and just maybe a little bit more about capacity constraints that you could see in that business? Yeah sure.
Thanks Alex.
We always try and be a little bit careful about how much we talk about individual strategies particularly if those strategies exist in a mutual fund form because we don't want to get all tangled up in regulations around selling so I don't want to be perceived as selling a mutual fund on this call by any means.
I think it's fair to say Andy Acker with this healthcare strategy is doing an absolutely world-class job.
He knows his space.
He has done terrific job in creating value for his clients and he has communicated his strategies well in a way that are selling rapidly domestically as well as around the world and it's been a really wonderful success for us.
I think when it's a single sector that's been so hot we are working really hard to try and make sure that our relationships are broader than just one product.
And you're always a little bit challenged when you have a single sector fund that's so red hot quite the compliment to Andy what a great job he's doing but we want to make sure we grow relationships that are broader than just investments in a particular sector.
And so we're working very hard to do that but we're not at any capacity constraints at the moment.
And we see opportunities to continue to grow that very special product on a go-forward basis.
So we continue to be optimistic.
We're working to maximize that but to diversify relationships in addition to that and mostly Andy has just done a fantastic job.
Great.
Thanks.
I shouldn't say just Andy Andy and the research team that's contributed to that as well.
Thanks.
And Jennifer just a quick follow-up for you on performance fees in private accounts those are a little bit tougher to see so maybe given where we are today and knowing what you guys know about performance so far year-to-date any sense of how the full-year performance of your number of private accounts could shake out? Thanks Alex and welcome to the coverage team.
We did a little bit of a breakout in last quarter's presentation where we talked about the split of the performance fees which are largely at INTECH when they get paid and what the term is.
And one of the key insights from that is that there is a substantial proportion of the performance fees that are on a one-year or shorter basis and so it's hard for us to forecast that.
We do know that we get a lot more performance fee contracts paid in the first quarter than the second quarter.
So the decline quarter-over-quarter is very consistent with that.
But I really hesitate to do any prognosticating on those because future performance is as much of a driver as historical.
Yeah no that makes sense.
Great thanks.
And we have time for one more question.
We'll go to Chris Harris with Wells Fargo.
Thanks for squeezing me in here; question on your non-U.S.
business.
Thanks a lot for providing the historical growth rates on Slide 14.
Just wondering if you could comment what do those growth rates look like if we excluded Japan and away from Japan where are the regions or areas that you're seeing a lot of traction? All right.
I'll try to do some quick math and see if I can get that for you and let Dick answer the more qualitative question.
Yeah I think we are seeing certainly growth opportunities in Japan within those (45:11).
I think we're optimistic that with Kapstream we're going to see very significant growth opportunities in Australia for their historic products but also hopefully broadening out to a strengthening footprint across a broader set of products.
We are seeing some inroads and opportunities in other sort of key non-U.S.
institutional marketplaces.
We're optimistic that we'll see some growth in places like the Middle East and some other key institutional marketplaces but that stuff's lumpy.
It's really hard to predict and it's not a quarter-by-quarter kind of a prediction.
It doesn't fit well into a quarter-by-quarter kind of thought process.
And we're also seeing kick-up in retail.
We're seeing some growth in retail in the new effort that we've made in Taiwan some growth in retail in Singapore some growth in retail in Hong Kong.
It's pretty broad-based growth across a lot of different markets and it recovers both institutional and retail so by its nature a little bit defied easy summary with apologies.
I don't have an ex-Japan growth rate number to share with you.
Maybe we can include something like that on a future call or Jennifer's  did you do quick math you have some? Maybe not exactly that number but I am looking at the breakdown for sales overseas.
In the last two quarters we actually had the largest amount  largest regional percentage coming from Europe so the last two quarters have had more sales from Europe than Japan than Asia ex-Japan Australia or are other various geographies so yeah Europe has been the recent driver of sales over the last two quarters.
Great thanks very much.
All right.
With that let me bring us to conclusion.
Let me just review.
I think it's clear I hope we've been consistent that we understand our success to be founded on delivering a strong and stable partnership first and most importantly for the clients; second for our employees; and third our owners.
And I think we try to take the right steps in strengthening the balance sheet in strengthening the culture and the leadership and bringing in the right talent in all those kinds of ways and then in focusing not only on investment performance but in all the other elements that matter to our clients so that we can be a trusted partner for each of those client owner and employee groups.
We're gaining market share in equity and in fixed income but it's critical as always that we maintain investment performance so that we can continue to do that.
This call we're obviously excited to welcome the Kapstream team.
Janus needs to be a place where great investors come to invest and I think the Kapstream team is clearly qualified and is welcome.
Looking forward  looking ahead we see our industries facing some challenging trends.
They've all been positive in recent quarters.
We've seen a lot of elevated risk in markets from China through Greece challenging investors and creating challenging business conditions alike.
And so our best forecast is we'll continue to see a lot of volatility going forward at least for the rest of the year and probably beyond that.
The good news is we have greater investment talent better teamwork better reputation and client opportunities than at any time in recent memory so despite that volatility we hope and plan to continue to succeed.
With that thanks very much for joining the call.
Thank you.
And this concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for attending.
Good morning.
My name is Danny and I will be your conference facilitator today.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to the Janus Capital Group Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
In the interest of time questions will be limited to one initial and one follow-up question.
In today's conference call certain matters discussed may constitute forward-looking statements.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to a number of factors including but not limited to those described in the forward-looking statements and risk factors section of the company's most recent Form 10-K and other most recent filings made by the SEC.
Janus Capital Group assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during the call.
Thank you.
Now it is my pleasure to introduce Dick Weil Chief Executive Officer of Janus Capital Group.
Mr.
Weil you may begin your conference.
Thank you operator.
Welcome everybody to the Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Presentation for the Janus Capital Group.
As usual I'll give you a bit of an executive summary to start us off.
Jennifer McPeek will take us through the results in some more detail.
We will then turn to some topics of special interest that have arisen during the quarter and finally we'll take your questions.
So on to the executive summary.
The story of the third quarter from my perspective has really three primary pieces: flows performance and strategy.
On the flows total company net flows were $3.3 billion out compared to slightly positive in the second quarter.
This was driven by a couple of different things.
First and most significantly there were $2.9 billion of that $3.3 billion outflow which were institutional or lumpy individual decisions.
Obviously they count and we don't want to say they are one-time only but neither do we expect them to repeat every quarter.
The second thing is the third quarter was a challenging market and industry background for us.
Active equity strategies across the mutual fund industry saw annualized organic loss of 3% during the quarter and active fixed income strategy saw an annualized organic loss of 6% all according to Simfund.
So I think we know that this summer had a lot of market volatility with the bond with the equities and the treasuries.
And we know that it was a difficult environment for mutual fund flows and active investment flows in particular.
So I would say the combination of those two factors made a tough quarter for us in terms of total flows.
That said we did see organic growth and strong market share gains during the quarter across a number of our really well performing strategies.
We saw it in mid-cap growth in global life in global tech and global multisector fixed income and balanced and emerging market strategies.
And so we're encouraged.
As I said at the start the story of the third quarter has three primary pieces: flows performance and strategy.
We've just addressed flows.
Let me move on to investment performance.
Despite a very volatile external environment both from an investment perspective and a business perspective in the third quarter we saw some very good performance across our product offerings.
Complex wide 70% of our assets were ranked in the top two Morningstar quartiles relative to peers on a one-year basis and 79% were ranked in the top two Morningstar quartiles relative to peers on a three-year basis.
During the quarter 78% of assets were ranked in the top two Morningstar quartiles.
Obviously the third quarter is an unreasonably short period of time in which to measure investment performance but it's nice that many of our strategies were succeeding during that time albeit a short time.
Let's look at it in the various business pieces.
Janus Equity.
Performance in this our most important franchise continues to be very strong with 66% of the assets ranked in the first quartile relative to peers on a one-year basis and 63% ranked in the first quartile relative to peers on a three-year basis.
This strong performance is really a meaningful improvement from recent years and reflects a lot of great work done by Enrique Chang our CIO; by Carmel Wellso our new DOR and by the whole team.
On the fixed income side fixed income performance saw the biggest improvement in its one-year number with 75% of assets ranked in the top-two Morningstar quartiles compared to 6% last quarter.
Now remember as we discussed last quarter the fixed income numbers can move around a bit more volatile because they're a fairly conservative approach to fixed income usually ends up being not so distant from the midpoint.
And so we can see some more dramatic swings in these statistics which really don't reflect huge swings in investment performance.
But that said our Fixed Income business continues to do very well through this volatile market period.
80% of the assets are ranked first quartile compared to peers on a three-year basis.
Let's turn to mathematical equity.
80% of the relative return strategies were beating their benchmarks on a one-year basis net of fees.
On a year-to-date basis 90% of the relative return strategies were beating their benchmarks net of fees.
A newer area of development in addition to their relative return strategies are their INTECH's absolute return strategies.
We're very encouraged by the performance of this new area of business.
100% of these strategies were beating benchmarked returns on both year-to-date and one-year basis net of fees.
During the third quarter for just that small period of time again 100% of INTECH strategies both relative and absolute beat their respective benchmarks.
Now let's turn to Perkins.
While longer-term performance metrics at Perkins continue to lag peers and benchmarks we're encouraged that during this most recent period of market volatility their performance has been strong.
Over the last three months 100% of Perkins mutual fund assets were ranked in the top-two Morningstar quartiles relative to peers.
And on a year-to-date basis Perkins largest strategies are beating their respective benchmarks as an example small cap in value is outperforming about 455 basis points.
So let's turn finally to VelocityShares.
While assets in the existing ETF suite are pretty small today we're very pleased that they also performed well during the third quarter specifically during the window of elevated market volatility in late August and early September the Janus Velocity Tail Risk and Janus Velocity volatility ETF significantly outperformed the S&amp;P.
So the takeaways I think on the investment performance side are our investments teams are doing a really good job.
They're taking advantage of this market volatility to establish good relative performance which is exactly what they should be doing and it's very encouraging to see that the strategies are designed to perform well under more difficult market conditions are doing their jobs through this summer period.
I mentioned the third piece of the story of the quarter for me is strategy.
As we've discussed on these calls previously over the past several years we've been executing a strategy which we call intelligent diversification.
A key pillar of that strategy has been expansion of our non-U.S.
business which continues to generate strong growth.
Today our non-U.S.
business makes up about 20% of the firm's AUM compared to 8% in 2010.
I'm proud to say that year-to-date this business has had $3.6 billion of net inflows which is an annualized organic growth rate of 17% driven by strong results both in Europe and Japan.
As part of our strategic execution we've also made two acquisitions over the last year and we're happy to report those are both bearing fruit albeit it's early days but during the third quarter VelocityShares had a 16% increase in average assets led by its Exchange Traded Notes it's ETN's most specifically its equity volatility offering.
Since the acquisition a year ago average assets in this business are up over 80%.
Turning to Kapstream.
Kapstream's been fully consolidated into our business this quarter and we're excited to welcome them.
They're a terrific addition to the team.
As I mentioned they have a great business driven primarily by strong organic growth in Australia.
They are great investors delivering consistent and positive absolute returns for their clients and the Australian asset management market in which they primarily participate today is a terrific market with government-mandated structural growth characteristics.
And so we're very excited about Kapstream and we note that they contributed a positive $300 million to the net flow total this quarter.
With that let me turn it over to Jennifer McPeek.
Thank you Dick.
I will begin on page five of the presentation to walk through the financial highlights.
Our average AUM was down slightly 1% compared to the second quarter.
Average AUM was negatively impacted by the decline in markets and the outflows and these were partially offset by the addition of Kapstream's assets which started on July 1.
Not included in assets under management is VelocityShares their average assets were $3.3 billion which as Dick mentioned was up 16% from the prior quarter.
Revenue was $273.8 million.
That's a 1% increase over second quarter and a 16% increase compared to last year.
Operating income was $83.4 million.
That's a 2% increase over the prior quarter and 17% year-over-year improvement.
Adjusted earnings per share was $0.22 for the third quarter which compares to $0.23 in the prior quarter.
The adjusted EPS excludes a $0.12 one-time charge related to debt retirement that occurred during the quarter.
Turning now to slide six this is our standard investment performance disclosure.
I think Dick has probably stolen most of the thunder here as he's given quite a bit of detail around the performance which is a great performance across all time periods and really across the whole platform.
You can see it here reflected consistently in our standard presentation.
So I'll move onto slide seven which is the flows.
Third quarter total company net outflows were $3.3 billion and that does not include the funding out of Japan that has been mentioned in the media recently.
That mandate will be reflected in the fourth quarter flows.
Fundamental equity outflows were $1.5 billion and that includes $500 million in outflows from Janus Equity and $1 billion in outflows from Perkins strategies.
Mathematical outflows were $1.6 billion for the quarter which results from a 32% decline in gross sales and a 41% increase in redemptions.
Fixed income which includes our fundamental fixed income and global macro businesses both Newport Beach and Kapstream Australia had net outflows for the quarter of $200 million during a challenging market environment.
Not obvious from these flowcharts is the fact that actually all three of our disciplines were in inflows in the non-U.S.
client segment for the quarter.
This is the ninth consecutive quarter of positive net flows in our non-U.S.
business.
Turning to slide eight.
We'll start breaking down some of the financials.
Revenue and performance fees total revenue increased 1% over the prior quarter.
Performance fees for both mutual funds and private accounts were better than the prior quarter and that's the reason that revenue increased on a decline in AUM.
Performance fees on our mutual funds were negative $3.9 million which is an almost $3 million improvement from the second quarter and I'll note it's $11 million better than we saw in the third quarter last year.
Private account performance fees also improved they were $2.7 million positive compared to $2.2 million in the second quarter.
This reflects that extremely strong performance in INTECH specifically in INTECH Enhanced Strategy.
VelocityShares revenue is reported in other revenue and was $4.3 million in the third quarter.
Turning now to slide nine operating expenses.
Total operating expenses were about flat compared to the prior quarter increasing less than 1%.
However there are quite a few increases and decreases underlying that result so I'll walk through them.
Starting first with G&amp;A.
G&amp;A increased $5.1 million from the prior quarter.
Since we had deal costs which we called out to you in the second quarter this increase may not be intuitive and it was largely related to two factors.
The first factor in the increase was an unusually large trade error in the third quarter.
The second factor was an adjustment in the expected VelocityShares earn-out which is a result of their increased assets and revenue.
This is obviously a positive and it occurred this quarter.
Note that with this adjustment we now have accounted for 75% of the potential earn-out under the acquisition.
Normalizing out both of these items I would expect to see a more run rate G&amp;A in the low 30s.
Compensation and benefits for the third quarter was down 6% from the second quarter.
The decline was primarily a result of the lower profitability's impact on our variable comp pools and a decline in commissionable sales quarter-over-quarter.
LTI was $17.6 million which is 11% lower than the prior quarter.
This decline was driven primarily by market moves.
Many of our LTI instruments get re-marked each quarter.
Our full year 2015 estimate for LTI expense is in the $75 million to $78 million range.
As a result of these declines our total comp to revenue ratio which we follow each quarter was 37.8% compared to 40.8% in the second quarter.
Now as we look forward I would expect both the fourth quarter and the year in total to have a total comp to revenue ratio in the low 40%s and that's consistent with the guidance that we've given previously.
Below the line and not shown on this page we had a few items that are substantially changed from the second quarter and I'll walk through them quickly.
First investment losses totaled $7.2 million which reflects losses incurred in the seed (15:13) book.
Second the other income line was positive this quarter for $1.2 million and that compares to a negative $2.2 million in the prior quarter.
As you may recall the prior quarter included a currency loss related to the Kapstream transaction.
Now on slide 10 our balance sheet.
Cash balance decreased by $7 million at the end of the third quarter.
This reflects the net impact of our debt transactions and also an increased level of share repurchases.
As you can see we have reduced our debt on the balance sheet by issuing $300 million in senior notes which mature in 2025 and subsequently retiring the $345 million of 2017 senior notes on August 30.
We did that with proceeds from the new issuance along with cash on hand.
With these combined transactions we've accomplished some real positives on the balance sheet.
We successfully extended the firm's debt maturity.
We've improved our leverage ratios substantially as was reflected in our ratings upgrade by S&amp;P this quarter and we reduced our annual interest expense by $8 million.
Going forward you would see the quarterly interest expense be about $5 million per quarter.
So as a result of the early retirement of the 17s the P&amp;L for the quarter was hit with a one-time non-operating charge of approximately $0.12 per share.
That reflects the make whole-call premium for the 2017s that we retired.
I will note that even taking this premium into consideration the net present value of the transaction is significantly positive because of the interest savings.
Now I'll turn to the special topics section.
We have two special topics both related to accounting and presentation of financials and I'm going to walk you through those separately.
Start on slide 12.
See our pie charts here; it's been some time since we updated how we report our asset groupings.
These pies are not typically included in our standard verbal presentation but they are included in the appendix each quarter and so are presented for your information.
You may recall that we previously have reported our assets in three buckets which don't overlap: international institutional and retail intermediary.
We've replaced that view with two separate cuts.
One is a cut by client domicile and the second is a view by channel across the globe.
These two pie charts will be included in the appendix going forward.
First you see the geographic split as Dick mentioned earlier 20% of our assets are held by clients outside the U.S.
today.
The second pie is split by channel and we've added a new category label here which we're calling self-directed.
Included in the self-directed bucket is our legacy Janus direct channel; the fund supermarket such as Fidelity and Schwab and also VelocityShares ETNs.
Many of you ask us questions each quarter about these various channel assets and hopefully this new grouping does provide some more transparency.
The second slide of pie here in the dark blue is those funds we sell through financial intermediaries to end investors all over the world.
Our distribution strategies in this channel are focused on getting platform placement and providing great client service to our partners until we're including in this category the wire houses RIAs banking networks DC platforms.
Third we have the traditional institution segment.
In our past breakout in institutional only included the U.S.
business but our new split includes the assets that we manage for overseas institutional clients as well.
You can see that we have approximately one-third of our assets being managed for institutional clients.
And I'll repeat for clarification our categorization puts DC platform assets in intermediary not in institutional.
If you want a more detailed breakdown of these buckets we've put it on appendix page 17.
And now finally turning to the last page of the presentation this quarter will see for the first time the impact of our acquisition of Kapstream.
We've gotten a lot of questions about this specific to modeling the impact to our P&amp;L and to our balance sheet.
We've broken this out in a little bit more detail.
I hope that this gives you enough guidance to successfully forecast and model these assets revenue and balance sheet impacts going forward.
However we're not going to break out the Kapstream financials in the future.
In fact I'll note that the business has already been integrated functionally in many ways with our Newport Beach-based global macro business.
So I'll highlight a few figures on this page.
The column on the right shows the impact of the Kapstream acquisition to our consolidated financials which is the column on the left.
We own 51% of Kapstream Australia which remains a distinct legal entity.
The P&amp;L reflects a fully consolidated i.e.
100% view of the business.
Kapstream Australia 100% contributed $2.1 million in operating income this quarter.
This impact is actually net of an intangibles asset amortization charge at the parent company which is $0.6 million this quarter.
That charge is going to vary based on changes in the Aussie dollar/U.S.
dollar exchange rate.
As you can see the business on a standalone basis has a very healthy margin $2.7 million of EBITDA on $4.9 million of revenue.
The 49% we don't own is deducted through the non-controlling interest line below the operating income.
On the balance sheet we're also consolidating 100% of the entity.
Kapstream has $7.8 million in cash and investments and the bulk of the remainder is in intangible assets and goodwill.
Kapstream has no debt with the exception of compensation-related liabilities which accrue and also a deferred income tax liability which is approximately $30 million.
The transaction also included a small performance-based earn-out of about $6 million that's U.S.
dollars selling shareholder Fidante and that is reflected in the other liability category.
With that I'll turn it over to the operator for Q&amp;A.
Ladies and gentlemen at this time we will conduct our question-and-answer session.
Our first question comes from Ken Worthington from JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
You stole a little bit of my thunder but first INTECH 2015 has been a really good year.
The track records look good to great maybe even understated by the way you report them.
You made a number of changes a couple years ago and it seems to be having a very positive impact on performance and the Managed Vol series for retail is awesome.
But sales stink.
What is holding INTECH back? How are you addressing it? And then given their institutional focus are there issues that keep INTECH unattractive to institutional investors almost regardless of performance? Thanks Ken.
Dick here.
Yeah.
INTECH's investment performance their leadership their culture it's all good.
And I think it's a fair and reasonable question to say given that why aren't the flows better? The issue I think is something we highlighted and tried to be very forthcoming about was it one or two quarters ago when we did the...
About a year ago.
About a year ago I'm being told where we did the special section on INTECH.
Their U.S.
business continues to be under some pressure which it can often not even be related to investment performance where some of the big institutions that had previously hired them take a look at their asset allocation and move to a barbelled portfolio with a lot of passive and some very active pieces.
They have continued to face very competitive circumstances in the U.S.
market as we highlighted in that previous breakout and as remains true today.
The other side of their business on the institutional side is their non-U.S.
where they've been growing consistently.
They continue to grow and that's positive.
So that's really the bulk of the results and the financial impact.
The other thing is they've done very exciting new product development.
You mentioned that their retail effort in Managed Vol has been very well performing and appears to be off to a great start.
We certainly agree with that assessment.
We're really excited about the long-term future for that business but it's probably going to be a slow accumulation of success as we look forward if they continue to do what we expect them to do.
There is something a little bit non-intuitive about the mathematical approach to managing money which makes it a little bit of a tougher sell and they don't have a huge retail following or name based on their history and so this is something that is going to take some time.
The good news is I think our retail sales force is terrific.
I think you can see that they're doing a very fine job across a lot of the rest of our business and they're excited about having the intake Managed Vol in their hands.
And so we're optimistic about its future but we acknowledge it's going to take some time to build.
I hope that's a good answer to your question.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
And secondly Japanese postal system changing asset allocation.
What are the opportunities you see for Janus in this evolution? Obviously some of it's made the press but I was thinking more longer-term.
And then does Janus take steps to improve its position? And what are the assets under management that Janus can realistically hope to compete for? Thanks.
Actually it was GPIF in Japan who made the award which was announced in the press although the size hasn't been announced.
That'll be in our flows next quarter but we're deferring comments specifically on that out of respect for that client.
What can we expect going forward in Japan? I don't think we have a great way to predict that that's a lot better than you have.
We have seen significant success out of Japan in recent years including significant positives in this quarter.
The number from Japan in the third quarter of 2015 was $900 million contributed to net flows.
So it continues to be a positive story for us.
We have opportunities there in the retail side working with the Dai-ichi Life affiliate DIAM and we have opportunities on the institutional side and those things are a result of good work by our team but also a little hard to quantify but materially the arm around our shoulders that our friends at Dai-ichi Life have placed on us through our relationship and so that's a positive contributor to our reputation to our brand presence to the familiarity and comfort with Janus in Japan and so that's been a wonderful thing for us.
You know projecting the future is not something we try to do on calls like this very much and it's pretty hard to do.
The truth is it's not because we're refusing to do it it's just pretty hard to talk about it.
But you can see now we have a pretty good operating history including this recent quarter and certainly we think we can continue to grow and improve that success over time if we do our job well.
Great.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Credit Suisse Craig Siegenthaler.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
First I just want to hit on the total comp ratio.
Why is the total comp ratio tracking so low versus the original guidance you started giving us about a year ago? Sure Craig that's really a phenomenon that's specific to this quarter.
As I noted we had a couple of expense items that were not tied to any revenue.
So when that happens profit is lower as a percent of revenue and since our variable comp is driven off of profit that goes through this quarter's accruals for our bonus pools.
Got it.
The original guidance was low to mid-40s right? And it's tracking right now in the low 40s.
So it is even low if you back out the third quarter and look at the first two quarters.
So it is lower than the original guidance.
Yes.
And there's some movement depending on where assets come out and where sales come out.
At the beginning of the year we didn't know and gave a big range because commissions tend to be front ended and that goes through that total comp ratio.
I think we're on the lower end but that's due to a combination of overall market lift and general profitability.
Got it.
So just a follow-up here on asset allocation can you update us on the product launch and capital raising efforts of Myron and Ashwin? Sure.
I'll take that one.
Myron and Ash have done some terrific research development work to bring a product to set and a set of tools really to life for us here in the last four to six months they've been able to come out.
And during that relatively brief period of time Myron has been an incredible engine.
He travels the world relentlessly and there's always an endless number of folks who'd like to meet and learn from him.
And in that process he's spreading the word about what they're building here.
But it's very early days and it's going to take some time for that to grow to be something that's significant.
We've very optimistic about the work they've done and we believe strongly that the adaptive global allocation approach is an important new contributor to sort of leading-edge thinking in asset allocation.
But it's not just going to appear magically out of thin air.
It's going to take some time and effort to take this new product and build it into the marketplace.
Thank you.
And next we'll take Alex Blostein from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everybody.
Question for you guys on Index just a follow-up to Kenneth's question earlier.
The dynamic you described about U.S.
versus non-U.S.
is pretty helpful.
Any way to size the amount of business that is still kind of in the U.S.
more of a legacy block that could be at risk of further being squeezed to help us better understand what the net opportunity for that business could be? It's about 80% U.S.
and 20% non-U.S.
at the moment.
Got it.
Thanks.
And then on performance fees fourth quarter tends to be I think seasonally higher for you guys given a lock for some of the INTECH-related strategies.
Any sense I guess given decent performance for them this year how fourth quarter kind of some of the separate account performance fees could look like? Sure.
I think you've keyed in on the key element right which is that they've had really great performance and a lot of their annual performance fees do hit in the fourth quarter.
Looking over past history the fourth quarter tends to be about somewhere between a half to three-quarters of the total separate account performance fees and so I know that's a big range.
It really  a lot of it is driven by how the fourth quarter goes but hopefully that gives you some guidance.
Got it.
And is it all based on relative investment performance versus the benchmark? Yes.
Got it.
Great.
Thanks so much.
And following from Bank of America Merrill Lynch we have Michael Carrier.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks a lot.
Given the new disclosure you've given on the distribution side by channel I just want to get a sense when you think about the three segments that you guys are looking at now and particularly just given the performance in some of the product launches and the acquisitions that you've made can you kind of give us a sense where you see the growth outlook in each of those channels? Meaning if there's more opportunity even less what you've been doing on the distribution side to kind of position in each of those channels.
Sure.
I think it's clear that we're continuing to see strong results from our intermediary channel led by our advisory group.
Year-to-date intermediary channels posted about $1.6 billion of net inflows and that's a very good mark.
I think that team is performing very well.
And the other thing which we have tried to highlight a lot is our non-U.S.
business has been a consistent and strong grower and that includes both institutional where we have really good bellwether accounts in the U.K.
in Europe in the Nordics in Japan in Asia X-Japan and Australia.
And it includes retail where we're seeing some positive flows out of places like Taiwan and Hong Kong and Paris and even Zurich.
So it's pretty broad success and as we mentioned it's nine quarters in a row of net inflows in the non-U.S.
businesses in the aggregate.
So that's another area where we continue to see a lot of forward progress.
I'll just add onto that.
I don't think I would characterize any of the three channels as having superior growth prospects to another.
I think they each have pockets of real strength in them.
Institutional as Dick just said has really strong momentum overseas.
And the self-directed channel a lot of that is driven by performance and we also have our ETNs in that bucket and those are all high potential areas for us.
So really all three of them have different characteristics and different drivers but good growth prospects.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Then just as a follow-up just on the capital deployment both on the debt side the buybacks you guys have been active and then on the deal side.
When you look at valuations on deals out there kind of the current set of or lineup of products that you have versus the cash generation and the pickup and buybacks this quarter.
When you look over the next maybe 12 months or so where are the priorities now given kind of the layout? Well that's always a tricky question to answer in a really forthright manner.
I guess what I can say is that we have a lot more flexibility given our balance sheet restructuring that we successfully completed this quarter to both pursue strategic options and to return capital to shareholders.
So I don't think it's an either/or choice for us.
I think we're just always looking at everything that's out there.
Got it.
All right.
Thanks.
And we'll take Dan Fannon from Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I guess on the expense side Jennifer if you could give us a sense of the budgeting process for next year? And how you're thinking about it at this point? And maybe compare it to last year? And what the deltas might be from going into next year versus this year in terms of growth? That's an excellent question and it's extremely timely.
We are going through the budgeting process for next year.
And as you'll recall in 2015 we deliberately invested in key areas.
We increased our head count significantly.
We put in a larger marketing budget.
We focused on pockets of technology and distribution and we are pretty happy with that investment.
So I think that continuing that growth trajectory and fixed costs is not needed.
I think our year-over-year growth will be more consistent with longer term trends in the 2015 to 2016 timeframe.
So 2015 was a big period of increased investment not the start of a hockey stick trajectory if you will.
Great.
And then Dick you mentioned the $2.9 billion in lumpy redemptions and well on that one time I guess if you could just give a little bit of color on where those came from and the rationale behind some of it if you know it? Yeah sure.
It came from all the different parts of our business really.
It came from Janus Equities it came from fixed income it came from INTECH.
The biggest piece came out of the Janus Equity franchise in a very very well performing product where the client made a structural decision and reallocated despite excellent performance and that was $1.3 billion of the $2.9 billion.
And so it was broad and not a  not able to sort of be described by a single summary and not always related to any investment performance.
Great.
Thank you.
And we'll take Michael Kim from Sandler O'Neill.
Please go ahead sir.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
First maybe just a follow-up on Japan.
Any update in terms of the relationship with Dai-ichi? I guess there's been some speculation that they're sort of reconsidering or making some changes as it relates to their asset management business.
So just wondering now that it's been about three years since the investment if you could sort of give us an update on that front.
Sure.
Absolutely.
I can tell you that in direct conversations with the top management at Dai-ichi Life they continue to convey their happiness with our relationship.
They continue to convey their strong ongoing support and so we have no reason to understand from our communications with them that they have any desire much less intention to make any changes in the relationship.
It's also true though that their affiliate DIAM in Tokyo with whom we've done a lot of business is 50% owned by Mizuho.
And Mizuho is and has been announced that Mizuho is restructuring their approach to asset management in trying to bring their three different asset management pieces including DIAM under a common framework and they're doing that in cooperation with Dai-ichi.
And so that's change to one of our key partners in Japan.
There's always some risk in change but of course there's always great opportunity in change also and we're focused on taking the opportunity side of that trade and hopefully with a bigger stronger DIAM partner in Tokyo we'll do even more.
But it's fair to say there is some uncertainty at this early stage in that kind of a restructuring over there.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Then second now that it's been a year or so since bringing on Bill Gross.
Just wondering if you could maybe make some comments in terms of how you might characterize the progress that you've made in terms of folding him in and sort of leveraging his franchise? Sure.
I mean first and foremost what an honor to have Bill Gross on the team.
He's the best in the fixed income business for our lifetimes and it's been a real thrill to have him on the team.
He's had a gigantic brand effect I think over the whole firm much larger than his assets or even the fixed income assets.
He's caused a lot of the world to stop and look at recognize the name and the brand of Janus.
And the good news is when folks do that and they take an actual hard look at what we are here they find an awful lot to like.
And so I think that he's contributed very significantly to the brand strength and position across the whole franchise.
He's building something with a new track record in his unconstrained bond fund and in a couple of other institutional relationships and that we hope and believe will continue over time because as I said he's just a class by himself as a fixed income manager.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
And from Citi we have Bill Katz.
Please go ahead sir.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks very much.
So it just seems like Kapstream and Velocity have a lot of momentum to them.
Could you talk a little bit about what the early returns are in terms of what you're seeing from retail or institutional distribution partners? And where you might see maybe geographically or by product the greatest growth opportunity? That's a complicated question.
Let me do my best.
Let's talk about VelocityShares first.
The big piece of their existing business right now is ETNs Exchange Traded Notes.
And those are tools largely for professional investors which are not designed for sort of buy and hold investors.
So the majority of our distribution doesn't really distribute those.
Those are done by the VelocityShares team and they're a little bit of a different business from our traditional business.
They also have a small ETF business that we're optimistic that we can develop and grow over time.
We've talked about that before and we still intend to do that.
Kapstream their core franchise is really built around delivering cash plus 200 basis points to 400 basis points.
We think there's a huge appetite for that kind of an approach to fixed income investing and so we're optimistic that over time we can help them expand and accelerate their growth not only  not so much in Australia where I think they have things pretty darn well in hand by themselves but outside of Australia in the U.S.
in Europe and in Asia and Tokyo we're hopeful that we can take their excellence and help them grow in this very important sort of cash-plus approach to fixed income investing.
So it's pretty early days and so I can't give you a lot of specifics.
We'll report as it rolls but I'll tell you that they're terrific.
We're thrilled to have them on the team.
They're good people good investors.
They have a great footprint in a strong market in Australia and we're optimistic we can roll that forward in other jurisdictions over time.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Then just maybe more of a tactical question.
I appreciate the new disclosure.
It's actually very helpful to understand the breadth of the business.
Can you  you gave us I think $1.6 billion of flows into your intermediary channel year to date.
Could you break out what you're seeing year to date in the other two channels? And then could you actually provide what you did in the non-U.S.
this quarter? Okay.
You're asking for specific numbers.
So I'm going to give you to Jennifer.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
Thanks.
I do  I can give you the non-U.S.
because I have that right in front of me.
We had $500 million into Janus Equity $500 million into INTECH and $600 million into fixed income.
So as I said earlier in the main presentation there were positive inflows across all three of the disciplines this quarter in non-U.S.
I don't have the  correction.
I just have gotten the flows by our channels year to date.
So $1.6 billion into intermediary $2.6 billion negative outflows in institutional this is again year to date the first three quarters.
And $0.9 billion or $900 million negative net in self-directed.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And we'll take Robert Lee from KBW.
Please go ahead.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
Most of my questions were asked but I just wanted to follow up on some of the mandate losses.
I know you gave some color there but I'm just curious as kind of the nature of those.
Were those kind of more traditional institutional separate accounts or they're kind of platform losses where  or sub-advised accounts? It was both types of accounts.
Again it's really hard to summarize because they're each a different situation with a different story.
So I don't mean to give you a bad answer but certainly it was both traditional institutional kind of business and also some platform.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And just one follow-up kind of bigger picture question and I guess in a way Jennifer maybe kind of answered it.
But you went through this past year a step-up in your investment in personnel and resources and as you look ahead do you  while maybe the pace of investment will slow do you feel like you have the right or enough of the right distribution resources particularly maybe in the U.S.
to really leverage your improved performance as much as you'd like to? Or do you feel like that's one area you have to continue to invest and then maybe specifically which distribution channels do you feel like you need to do the most work on? Well I think that's a great question.
As Jennifer indicated earlier we're right in the middle of our budget planning process for next year and I think that's the sharpest thorniest question that we're addressing.
As Jennifer indicated we invested significantly in this past year; that involved a significant bump up in expense growth.
That's not something that we intend to continue at that rate on a go forward basis so like all budget processes ours includes some very hard choices.
We think we have some great opportunities based on a lot of hard work and success in some of our particularly U.S.
retail distribution some of our non-U.S.
We've already invested significantly in our institutional distribution in the U.S.
So we've got to ask ourselves that thorny question and I won't front run the answer.
I apologize but we've got a process working here and at the end of that process we'll be able to report back more fully.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks for taking my questions.
And we'll take Michael Cyprys from Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
Good morning.
Just a question on the non-U.S.
build-out.
Certainly some nice flows year-to-date coming from outside the U.S.
Just curious if you could talk about some of the priorities in your international build-out just in terms of what's next on your to do list and what sort of gaps are you looking to fill there.
Well the world is a big place and so you've always got gaps.
You're always feeling badly about your lack of production in one place or another while you may feel good about it in other regions.
So it's always possible to point to things in areas where you wish you were doing better.
One of my favorites is to point at how big a market Canada is and how little business we're able do there as a whole that I struggle with feeling accountable for that.
But you know we also can't do everything everywhere and if we tried we wouldn't do anything very well.
So we're a reasonably small company.
We have a finite set of resources and we have to keep our focus in order to succeed.
We've made some significant expansions and investments in recent years.
We've opened up retail in Taiwan with a big effort.
We've added some new people and refocused on some markets in Europe.
And so we have a lot of things that have been investments.
Obviously we've made significant investment in Australia.
So we've got a lot of chips that we've placed out on the table.
And for us I think the priority is to make sure those go well and pay us back rather than putting a ton more chips out on the table at this time.
Great.
Then just on the intermediary side as you're targeting the wirehouses could you talk about some of the opportunity set there that you see in terms of growing your market share? And also perhaps using some of the big data share by your wirehouse partners perhaps to better target and identify specific advisors that might be better long-term fit to your products? Yeah.
Taking your second part of your question first look we've invested pretty heavily around here based on our scale of investing in taking in better information and making our sales efforts with the wirehouses and intermediary folks better informed and better tracked and measured.
And that's been a huge effort for us.
We see that as essential to success essential to making good resource decisions and we think it's working very well.
Drew Elder and the team in that part of the business I think are avid consumers of that data and we're rightfully demanding that we make those investments.
So that's working and we have better information today about where we're succeeding and where we're not and that helps us guide our efforts.
More broadly on where do we see the opportunities I think that has been sort of the main part of what we tried to communicate to you.
We think that we have really strong franchises in fixed income in equities and we're trying to build them with INTECH and their Managed Vol.
We're trying to build that out.
Perkins has been a powerful player in value and small and mid for a long time.
So thinking about it on a product suite basis a lot of our products that we talk about throughout this call represent the right answer to your question.
In terms of other ways of thinking about it I don't think I have great information for you.
I think we already have a pretty good footprint in most of the retail and intermediary places and we just have to work on the core bedrock principles of delivering excellent investment performance and excellent relationships.
And that's the key to winning in those places.
So I don't know that I have better answer for you than that.
Great.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen at this time we have no further time for questions and we would like to turn the conference back over to Dick Weil.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Thanks everybody for your time today on Hillary Clinton and Benghazi day.
We really do appreciate your taking the time to get to know us better.
Look we view the $3.3 billion in outflows as disappointing but we're really encouraged by the work we're doing on the things we do control.
We're encouraged by our investment performance.
We're encouraged by the work that our distribution teams are doing and we don't see this quarter as invalidating or knocking us too far off course in those strong trends moving forward.
So we look forward to talking to you in future quarters.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for attending.
Good morning.
My name is Elizabeth and I will be your conference facilitator today.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to the Janus Capital Group Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
In the interest of time questions will be limited to one initial and one follow-up question.
In today's conference call certain matters discussed may constitute forward-looking statements.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to a number of factors including but not limited to those described in the forward-looking statements and risk factors section of the Company's most recent Form 10-K and other more recent filings made with the SEC.
Janus Capital Group assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during the call.
Thank you.
Now it is my pleasure to introduce Dick Weil Chief Executive Officer of Janus Capital Group.
Mr.
Weil you may begin your conference.
Thank you operator.
Welcome everybody to the Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Earnings Presentation for the Janus Capital Group.
As in prior calls Ill start with an overview of summary from my perspective.
Our CFO Jennifer McPeek will take you through the results with some more specificity.
Well turn to a couple of topics which have been raised by folks over the past quarter that we think and hope youll find interesting and informative.
And finally well turn to your questions.
So looking back on 2015 from my perspective the Janus story has three pieces.
Strengthening investment performance is clearly the first significant accomplishment of the year.
We continue to improve the net flows and in-performance fees which is the second element Id call your attention to.
And third we continue to make progress on our strategic initiatives.
So lets look at the first element the investment performance.
2015 was no doubt a volatile year across global markets.
However we are encouraged that we took those opportunities to maintain strong investment performance across our firm on the whole.
At the end of the year 84% of our complex-wide assets were ranked in the top two Morningstar quartiles relative to peers on a one-year basis and 74% on a three-year basis.
This is the strongest collective one-year performance in our firm in more than seven years.
Now lets break the strong equity performance down into the various investment platforms.
Janus equity platform first and foremost performance in this franchise continued to be very strong.
84% of the assets were in the top two quartiles relative to peers on a one-year basis and 73% on a three-year basis.
Turning to Janus fixed income.
The fixed income performance saw the biggest year-over-year improvement with its one-year number.
82% of the assets were in the top two quartiles compared to 2% this time last year.
As you all know our fundamental fixed income process is a credit based process that runs fairly conservatively and a relatively modest number of basis points around the index can cause the relative rankings to shift rather dramatically.
And you are seeing some of that to the positive in this change.
Three-year performance continues to be extremely strong with 100% of assets in the top two quartiles relative to peers and thats obviously a more important mark.
Our fundamental fixed income franchise continues to be strong with excellent relative total returns strong risk-adjusted performance and we are delivering on our promise of good downside protection.
Clearly weve had a leadership change in that business and I will address that a bit more a little bit later on.
Turning to mathematical equity 74% of our relative return strategies were beating their respective benchmarks on a one-year basis net of fees which compares to 15% a year ago.
So we are seeing some good improvement at INTECH.
I think as you would expect with relative volatility across the markets higher over the last year that taken advantage of those opportunities.
As I mentioned last quarter INTECH has a new area of development with their absolute return strategies.
And in the face of the volatile markets 100% of these strategies were ahead of their benchmarks during the year net of fees.
Turning to Perkins as we know Perkins has been through some challenging times but on a one-year basis 95% of Perkins assets ranked in the top two quartiles relative to peers.
Additionally on a one-year basis Perkins largest strategies the mid-cap and the small cap value strategies beat their respective benchmarks by 98 bps and 481 bps respectively.
So I think the takeaway from investment performance is that during the volatile year an active manager such as ourselves has an opportunity to differentiate itself on an absolute basis and on a risk-adjusted basis and we took good advantage of those opportunities I think.
Were seeing a continuation of strength in our Janus equity franchise in our fixed income performance and were seeing improvements at Perkins and at INTECH.
Turning to the second element I highlighted above flows and performance fees.
Company net flows were $2.6 billion out compared to $4.9 billion out a year-ago.
Thats a meaningful improvement obviously thats not a destination we intend to get to significant net inflows but were continuing to make progress on the journey.
In particular I call attention to our fundamental equity franchise which of course is our Janus platform and our Perkins platform combined.
In 2015 the fundamental equity business experienced net outflows of $1.5 billion compared to net outflows of $7.6 billion in 2014.
This is a very significant year-on-year improvement for us.
And a big part of that improvement was driven by a 34% increase in gross sales.
So we were taking market share and driving an increase in gross sales thats good news from our perspective.
In addition to better net flows as a result of the much improved investment performance weve also seen significant improvement in negative mutual funds performance fees which in 2015 were minus 29 compared to minus 60 in 2014 and minus 88 in 2013 so that continues to improve.
And again thats a journey were not at a destination.
We hope and intend to make those positive numbers over time rather than negative numbers.
But thats very significant progress again year-over-year minus 60 turn to minus 29.
Last piece of the story is progress on our strategic initiatives.
As weve discussed in prior calls weve called our strategy Intelligent Diversification.
The pillars of that strategy have rested on expanding our international distribution and continuing to build diversity through growth of our fixed income business.
I think weve made very strong progress in both areas during 2015.
On our international business Im proud to say that after a strong fourth quarter we had a total of $17.2 billion of gross sales and $6.6 billion of net inflows during the year which was an organic growth rate of 20% thats the strongest year weve had for our non-U.S.
businesses combined in the firms history.
The strong growth was fueled by tremendous work by our international sales teams.
And of course we have to say thank you and respect the contribution of our good partner Dai-ichi Life and their affiliate DIAM to our success.
Looking at gross sales in Japan we had $6.3 billion of gross sales during the year.
Additionally in Europe we had $5.5 billion of gross sales.
Turning to our fixed income business our fixed income business posted its seventh consecutive year of positive net flows growing at an organic rate of 9% in 2015.
We also announced in July our acquisition Kapstream which reinforces our efforts to build a world-class global macro fixed income business.
Kapstream has a terrific Australian business driven by strong organic growth and we hope that and intend that continues.
We also hope to add to that by partnering with Bill Gross and the rest of our global macro team and our international distribution to build success we hope in time around the world.
Before moving on I also want to turn to the leadership change we are having in our fundamental fixed income business.
In December Gibson Smith Chief Investment Officer of our fundamental fixed income business announced that he will be leaving Janus at the end of March.
In connection with the news we announced a series of promotions of team members to fill the various roles and step up in light of Gibsons decisions.
We are fortunate to have a terrific team in our fundamental fixed income business built over long years of working together and we are confident that they can continue to deliver in the same philosophy and process as has been demonstrated to be excellent in our fundamental fixed income business.
We recognized that with the change like this a lot of clients will take a hard look at what we are doing in this area and asses their relationship with us.
Its far too early to speculate on the impact that this might have on our business.
But at this very early date client response has been pretty good and we are pleased with the start to the succession process.
I have really strong confidence in the continuing team and I know that we can continue to do a good job for those clients so and long-term optimistic but again at this early date its a little bit too early to give you a real assessment of any short-term impact of that leadership change.
Moving on another important element of our strategy has been to continue to invest in our distribution presence in the U.S.
In 2015 we saw some encouraging market share gains that I think are validating this part of our strategy.
The U.S intermediary channels to organic growth in our Janus equity mutual funds of 1.2% during the year which compares to an organic loss for the industry of 2.6% according to Simfund.
Similarly our fixed income mutual funds saw organic growth of 1% during the year which compares to a minus 1.6 for active fixed income strategies across the U.S mutual fund industry according to Simfund.
So we are gaining market share and Im proud of the good momentum we are building in these channels.
Finally as part of our strategic execution we have been focusing on product development in order to ensure that we are able to meet our clients future needs.
In June we announced the launch of our adaptive global allocation fund developed and led by Myron Scholes and Ashwin Alankar with Enrique Chang our CIO of Equities and Asset Allocation.
And were excited about the long-term future that that new products has the potential to bring.
In November we also announced that we had a registration statement filed with the SEC for two ETFs which draw on the expertise of our fundamental small and mid-cap management teams and are further steps down the road to build on our acquisition of the VelocityShares business and build out in the ETFs space.
Were excited about the opportunities represented by these steps although we recognized that with all new products its a long multi-year journey before they can deliver very significant financial returns that will be noticeable across the whole group.
With that let me turn to Jennifer McPeek.
Thank you Dick.
So Im going to begin on Page 6 of the presentation with a summary of our financial results for the fourth quarter and for the full year.
Average AUM was down slightly less than 1% compared to the third quarter.
The fourth quarter revenue was $267.8 million thats a 2% decline from the third quarter and for the year revenue was up 13% compared to 2014.
Operating income was $80.8 million thats a 3% decrease from the third quarter and 11% increase year-over-year.
Earnings per share were $0.25 that compares to $0.22 in the prior quarter.
Flipping to Page 7 this is our standard investment performance disclosure.
Dick went into this in some detail in his opening remarks.
So I wont walk to anymore detail at this time.
But instead flip to Slide 8.
Slide 8 is our flows presentation with a five quarter trailing deals.
The fourth quarter total company net outflows were $0.6 billion compared to $3.3 billion of outflows in the prior quarter.
This change included 15% improvement in gross redemption.
On the right side of the page we break it down by advisor.
In fundamental equity outflows were flat the prior quarter at $1.5 billion out.
It was a decline in both gross sales and gross redemptions.
Of the net outflow $800 million was from Janus Equities and $700 million was in our Perkins value strategies.
Mathematical outflows were $1.5 billion which compares to $1.6 billion in the third quarter.
And finally fixed income net inflows were $2.4 billion that $2.4 billion in inflows and that includes the funding out of Japan which I mentioned in last quarters call.
Although there has been some questions about this from the analyst community we will not be disclosing the exact funding amount per our agreement with the client.
Turning next to Page 9 we go into the financials here the revenue and performance fees.
Total revenue decreased 2% over the prior quarter that was largely due to lower average AUM as well as a slight decline in management fee rate.
Our weighted average management fee for the current quarter was 47.0 basis points and that compares to 47.7 basis points last quarter.
Performance fees break into mutual fund and private account performance fees.
On the mutual funds we had negative $9.6 million in performance fees for the quarter.
It compares to negative $3.9 million last quarter.
The calculation youll recall is based on a rolling three-year investment performance period and while our fourth quarter performance was largely good the fourth quarter of 2012 investment performance which rolled off the calculation was even better.
Private account performance fees were $7.7 million in the quarter which compares to $2.7 million in the third quarter typically the fourth quarter is our highest private account performance fee quarter as roughly 40% of the assets with performance fees have their annual fee determined and paid in the fourth quarter.
Next to Slide 10 a breakdown of our operating expenses.
Total operating expenses decreased $3.4 million or 2% compared to the prior quarter.
You may recall that last quarters G&amp;A was elevated by some one-time items and as expected it has decreased by $2.7 million.
LTI was $19.3 million and this is 10% quarter-over-quarter increase.
Looking forward to 2016 our full year estimate for LTI expense is $70 million to $75 million range.
This assumes a flat market but we will update that in future quarterly earnings calls.
Total comp to revenue ratio for the fourth quarter was 38.6%.
Our total comp to revenue ratio includes both compensation and benefits line as well as our LTI line.
For the full year of 2015 our total comp to revenue ratio was 39.9%.
Ill discuss the 2016 outlook for this metric and other operating expenses that towards the end of our presentation in the special topics section.
Moving to Slide 11 Ill walk through our balance sheet activities from the past year.
Cash and cash equivalents decreased $88 million we had strong cash flow from operations and we use the cash flow to reduce our debt to acquire majority stake in Kapstream and to return capital to shareholders.
Our total debt declined by $44 million that reflects a third quarter transaction whereby we issued $300 million in 2025 senior notes and subsequently retired our 2017 senior notes.
In addition we returned approximately 57% of our 2015 cash flows from operations to shareholders.
We did this through $92 million in share repurchases and $65 million in dividends.
Now lets turn to the special topics section.
Last quarter we revised our bucketing of assets by channel to present a global view and one that's consistent with peers in the industry.
Many of you have asked to look at our history through that lens.
And so on Page 13 we present flow trends over the last four years in those channel buckets.
I will just walk down the three channels on the right side of the page.
First at the top we show our intermediary channel.
This channel consists of our domestic advisory channel variable insurance defined contribution along with mutual funds sold in the non-U.S.
business through financial institution distribution partners.
Over the last two years we've obviously seen some significant improvement in flows in this channel.
And in fact in 2015 the flows turned positive.
A key factor in this improvement has been better investment performance in Janus equity funds which have a large percentage of the assets in this channel.
In the early years that we show here 2012 and 2013 a particular headwind was experienced in Perkins but we're starting to see improvements in their strategies.
Second is our institutional channel.
Our institutional channel as we are presenting at here is not just U.S.
institutional; it's a global view of all of our institutional clients.
And you can see that on net there has been improvement from 2012 and 2013 but we still have some strong outflow headwinds in the U.S.
I will break it down a little bit for 2015.
We had international institutional inflows of $4.8 billion offset by domestic outflows in institutional of $6.8 billion.
And finally what we are calling our self-directed channel includes both our retail-direct Janus-direct channel as well as funds pulled through the fund super market.
As of December 31 2015 we had 16 funds on the Schwab and Fidelity Select Lists.
And I think you see that there has been consistent improvement in flows in that channel as well which corresponds with performance.
And finally I will close with some outlook on our 2016 expenses.
As we look forward we are planning to invest further in our intermediary distribution channel.
We are looking for a particular focus in U.S.
advisory where we see some real opportunities to grow market share.
We're growing our wholesaler force in a moderate but really focused way.
And we are also increasing marketing spend around some of our new solutions capabilities and product offerings.
We also have to look very closely and be willing to spend resources around competitive salary needs regulatory requirements and risks.
So we're not cutting corners there.
When we put all that together what does it really mean for next year? Well were going to have some modest headcount increases probably about 15 to 20 heads net  again predominantly in distribution roles.
As a result of these ads and some raises we currently have an outlook that we'll see some higher comp-to-revenue ratios than we had in 2015 in the low 40s.
That will range a little bit depending on what happens with market.
We are also expecting that you'll see about 10% increase in marketing spend thats in the marketing and advertising line.
Obviously these are strategic needs for us and were making these investments with a view to the long-term.
If conditions change dramatically we always have the flexibility to moderate our spend to flex it.
But I do want to emphasize that we have put in place a lot things that makes us a lot more flexible to response market moves and to maintain our stability and commitment to investments.
We have a variable bonus pool that flexes with the bottom line we have reduced our leverage significantly we only have about $15 million in interest expense per year now.
And so we are not going to need to manage the margins we can remain committed to investments.
With that Ill concluded our prepared remarks and turn it over to the operator for Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen at this time we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
In the interest of time questions will be limited to one initial and one follow-up question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today comes from Michael Kim with Sandler O'Neill.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
First maybe just a follow-up on the expense discussion it sounds like you remain committed to product development and building out distribution and service capabilities with  what sort of an eye to long-term growth prospects.
I guess first what areas might youd be able to cut back on to partially offset some of that spending and then more broadly just given ongoing market volatility is there a point where you might start to maybe slow some of that  some of those strategic initiatives in light of tougher revenue headwinds? Thanks for the question Michael its Jennifer McPeek.
Ill take the first one around areas that we might find cuts.
So theres not a specific product area or distribution channel that we are cutting back and significantly its more a question of  holding the line in some areas.
Weve also looked across our discretionary spend and found lots of small areas to cut which add up to something significant.
So in our prepared remarks I talked about areas that were increasing to help you looking forward I actually expect to see a slight pullback in the G&amp;A line and thats really a combined effect of a lot of smaller cuts that are just being prudent in light of really volatile markets.
And let me take your second question as to whether there is a point at which we re-examined plans and change plans in light of new market and business conditions.
Of course there is we look at this thing on an active basis.
So we make business decisions on a run rate in real-time.
I think Jennifer was absolutely right to point out that the decisions that we are making to invest are not casual.
And they are intended to be strategic investments that are important to our firm.
So we wouldnt back off lightly.
That said if the market volatility really turns significantly more negative and looks to be a sustained problem we'll go back and take a look at everything we're doing and make new decisions as the business conditions would dictate.
At the moment we don't see that reality in the marketplace.
But we are aware in particular that Myron and Ash with their tail risk analysis have fled that there is rising distress in the financials globally.
And that is a sign that this downturn could be more troublesome than any of us would like.
We monitor that closely and well have a view as time progresses as to how serious we expect these market turns to be.
And at an appropriate point we would of course go back and re-examine our decisions.
Got it.
Thats helpful and then maybe in terms of the follow-up you remain active on the buyback front but just wondering how you're thinking about sort of the sustainability of the pace of the buyback just given sort of market volatility and potential impact on your cash flows? Well I think you've keyed in on the right metric Michael which is our cash flow generation and cash flow from operations.
We are still pretty robust I mean our assets started the year at the highest level they've been since I got here.
So while we have seen some decline we are able to manage our return to capital in response to changes in cash flow generation.
And we tried to be tactical in managing that so it's not something you can predict with great certainty quarter-to-quarter.
But we have a lot of levers we can pull to react to changes in cash flow and frankly that's one of the reasons that we like share repurchases is they give us that flexibility.
Got it okay.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Sure.
Our next question comes from Ken Worthington with JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
First on regulation the SEC is proposing new rules on leverage and inverse ETFs.
How would the proposals impact velocity shares if the rules go through is written? If at all? Thanks Ken.
I don't know precisely how it might affect VelocityShares.
Im not aware that it affects their existing business at all in their ETNs.
And obviously we are working with them to build outs and ETFs which strictly speaking are not targeted areas we would identify as the center of that regulatory push.
We may have other products that we have to do careful analysis around Bill Gross unconstrained bond fund could potentially see some change in investment behavior depending on how those final rules and regulations turn out.
And so we are aware of it we will keep an eye on it but it is not a huge focus for us at this moment.
Okay great.
And then the integration of Kapstream can you kind of flush out how its progressing and anything you can give us on both the product strategy globally and maybe the time horizon around such global product development? Sure thanks.
The Kapstream integration is going superbly really primarily due to the fact that weve been smart enough and lucky enough to get a really first class team of people coming along with the Kapstream business.
They have worked very well to integrate with Bill Gross and the global macro fixed income team in California as well as with the broader firm in our various distribution efforts in the U.S.
and around the globe.
So were optimistic about the start.
Its early days but the combination there gives us the strength to have a continuing excellent business in Australia which is just a wonderful market for investment management under their Kapstream as pretty much as its been historically.
And adding to that they can work globally and markets outside of the United States to offer really two kinds of products offer global macro platform.
The first time Okay The first time is Bill Gross cash plus 400 to 600 basis points which is a more aggressive form of unconstrained bond.
And then the traditional Kapstream had cash plus 200 or so which is a more conservative form of cash plus investing which we believe there will be a great receptivity to both of these global macro fixed income strategies.
And we believe we can achieve good client base in the U.S.
in Europe and hopefully in other places around Asia to add to Kapstreams strength in Australia.
Any timing on when the European and U.S.
versions of the Kapstream products launch and concert to grow? Were obviously working on these ideas.
But I cant give you a specific timing at this time.
Okay okay.
Great thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Bill Katz with Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Okay.
Thank you good morning everyone.
Appreciate you taking the questions.
I just want to come back to the mix of the business.
What might be coming in versus where you seeing some attrition.
Looking at your fee rate its been sort of continuing to blend down back in the fourth quarter.
And the markets were up a little bit in the fourth quarter.
Can you talk a little bit about what youre seeing I know you have U.S.
non-U.S.
and the equity versus fixed income in light but any general terms what type of business youre bringing in relative to the  sort of the legacy fee rate for the company? So Ill just shortly address the fee rate question and I think you had another some underlying question around what were seeing in terms of flows.
The fee rate trend that youve seen over not just the quarter but from a more sustained period its really a reflection of mix.
So as we look at the underlying fee rates in all of our different product channel combinations were not seeing fee compression.
Yes certainly theres a lot of macro factors out there that could push fees down over the long-term.
But what were really seeing is a result of mix shift.
So when we talk about trying to diversify the company its really a success that were seeing some of these growth in areas like institutional and fixed income which will take that management fee rate down but dont take the profitability down.
Its helpful.
Okay and just as a follow-up perhaps and thank you for the extra disclosure it is very helpful.
Within that you sort of broke out some of the institutional volumes by U.S versus non-U.S.
Could you talk a little bit about what you are hearing or seeing qualitatively and quantitatively around pipelines and decision making where you seeing the incremental demand made by geographies just try to get a sense of the forward prospects of that line item? Sure.
Thanks Bill.
I think we have been clear that in our biggest institutional business which is INTECH.
They have faced a continuing pressure on some of their U.S institutional base.
And some of their newer and more customized products outside the United States have been growing quite successfully.
Obviously the balance given that they have the very big bulk of the stock of their business already based in the U.S has resulted in some continuing negative flows.
And that pressure is  has been significant and thats driving a lot of what you see in the institutional numbers.
Outside of that as you know weve had some significant successes in our fundamental fixed income in institutional space outside of the U.S.
which have added some additional positives both in the Asia and in Europe.
And so hopefully that gives you better color.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
The next question will come from Dan Fannon with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Hi thanks good morning.
I guess could you quantify specifically what Dai-ichi contributed in the quarter if anything.
And then kind of thinking about demand from that subset into next year or there certain products I know Life Sciences at point in time weve been  the big contributor others that you're looking at that might through that channel be poised to see an increase in demand.
Sure.
As I think weve said in prior periods we are managing about $2.2 billion of Dai-ichi assets of their general account assets that they have given to us and thats not new in the quarter.
In addition through their fairly DIAM we have had relationships with others in both retail and institutional Japan grow.
And the total DIAM related assets are now up to about $4.3 billion.
I think thats the best color I can give you.
Okay.
And then I guess a follow-up on the ETF launches that are coming you highlighted.
Are these just mirroring your active strategies within the small cap and the mid-cap and just putting them in an ETF wrapper or is there anything else to that and how should we think about maybe product evolution from here after that.
Well these are rules based ETFs and the rules are developed in conjunction with the portfolio management team in our Janus platform in our small cap and mid areas and the rules capture I think a significant part of the philosophy and the bit of the process of how they pursue their active management.
But obviously theyre different in the sense that these will be rules based where there is a lot more going on in a fully active product.
Weve had a lot of demand over time for these products in our active management.
And were pleased to be able to bring a sort of related version a cousin of these products to the table in a rules-based form in ETF space and were excited about the possibility.
Our distribution folks are wholesalers and folks who work with advisors know these products very well know the space very well.
So were optimistic that familiarity can give an extra boost to our start into ETFs.
Great.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Michael Carrier with Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Jennifer maybe the first one for you.
You mentioned 70% 75% for LTI assuming flat market.
I dont know if theres any sensitivity if the markets are down 10% like they are beyond that.
And then on the performance fees I think youve mentioned in the past the first quarter is around 30% the separate accounts portion.
I just want to make sure  nothing shifting there? Okay.
Thanks for the question Michael.
The LTI range that we gave is updated as of the end of the close of markets yesterday.
So movement from here would bring that well it could move in either direction.
So theres been significant portion of the LTI to get mark-to-market.
And so depending on what strategies that LTIs invested in which is generally at the discretion of the LTI holder.
You could see that move up and down market-to-market.
So theres a lot of things in play there and so we cant forecast it all that precisely.
You know if our LTI holders are risk-averse they may move out of equities.
And we dont control that decision.
Second question you had was around the split of the performance fees and when those that timing occurs? Were not seen any material change in that since the last time we gave you a split and a guidance.
Okay.
Thanks and then just a real quick.
Dick maybe  just from a strategic standpoint and I think when we step back.
You look at the firms investment performance thats  you gotten a lot better in turning to right direction.
You guys have done a lot on the product side and on the acquisitions.
And you have some maybe industry headwinds with environment and impulsive.
But when you think about  what you kind of set out to do on transitioning the platform and the business.
How far along are you  I think the organic growth relative to the industry this year held up pretty well do you think thats sustainable and where do you think you can take like the growth of the firm in a longer term? Thanks Michael.
I think were pretty far along if you want to think about it in product sense.
If you want to think about the products weve added and to complement and diversify our business Im not sure that we need do a whole lot more in product space to be as developed as we need to be.
What we need to do now is work of these initiatives and make them more successful to execute better and to increase the level of success in many of the areas that were already doing.
And so I think theres lots of opportunity for us to get better in these spaces.
These new spaces that weve targeted as well as in our existing traditional business.
And so that has to be the biggest priority for us marching forward now.
The second thing I think to emphasize just as you think about our strategy is its easy to talk a lot about products but the coin of the realm is relationships.
And so I think going forward we need to maintain a very strong focus on becoming an ever better relationship partner for our clients in institutional and in retail.
I think that has to be a huge priority for us going forward.
And there is lots of work you can do in infrastructure and in culture and in how you approach relationships to make sure youre doing as good a job as a partner for your clients and were going to focus on getting better in those spaces.
So I would say our product development is pretty far along but in lots of other ways we have a lot of room to improve.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
The next question comes from Patrick Davitt with Autonomous.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
My question is on INTECH demand.
It seems like that the kind of outflow monkey continues to kind of hang around.
Despite what should be a better environment for that product.
And you and other players in the space continue to have a point to having less correlation of having more volatility theoretically being good for that business but you kind of talk broadly about why the flows arent getting better there.
For you and the industry and if youre concerned at all about competitor or competitive technologies and products maybe that seem to be hitting that permanently? Thanks Pat.
I guess just going back to the basic facts.
In 2015 we saw significant negative growth a little worse than 18% for INTECH in the U.S.
institutional space.
And we saw a little better than 12% organic growth outside the U.S.
And we think those trends have been sustained for a while not in  necessarily those precise numbers because of course as weve discussed INTECHs institutional business can be lumpy and certainty quarter-to-quarter its hard to predict with precision.
But that general trend has been present for a while.
We think it has a lot to do with the trend inside the U.S.
have a lot of their traditional client base looking hard at passive.
And in essence barbelling their portfolio going for big risk big alpha and then passive is the combination of how theyre managing their asset base.
And often those decisions arent necessarily pointed at specifically at INTECH but they can be caught up in that mix.
And that remains a challenge but we see that with relative volatility increasing and for them its really volatility of stocks within an index more than the volatility of the index overall.
That creates opportunity for them to deliver better performance.
And I think theyve also done an excellent job in product development in recent years with volatility managed and absolute return solutions and a lot of customization available for institutional clients.
So we think that theyre doing a good job and were looking forward to seeing improved results and were not particularly worried about them being outcompeted by some of the other efforts out there.
We dont see that as the main problem.
Obviously look were all in a competitive industry and I do want to disrespect any of their competitioners theres good competition out there.
But that isnt the biggest problem I think that we face.
And so its been a slower journey to health than we would have wanted than they would have wanted.
But these are really excellent folks who are doing a good job and theyre chipping away at these problems and I think over time theyll get back into the winning column on the basis of their processes that actually work and on the basis that theyve been innovative in developing a lot of new stuff.
Okay.
Thats helpful thanks.
And then a quick follow-up on the $4.3 billion of DIAM assets.
Does that include the large mandate funded from the pension in the fourth quarter...
Yes.
It does.
Yes.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Robert Lee with KBW.
Please go ahead.
Thanks and good morning.
I just had a question on kind of the status or progress within you trying to do lot more allocation products I mean I know Myron Scholes I guess its been about two years since he came onboard give or take.
But before that you had also taken on a team I think they originally built maybe a risk parity product so it feels like been talking for a while about trying to build up capabilities within more kind of I call it allocation type products or how if you want to define it but maybe feel I could  its been a lot of traction.
Can you maybe update us on why do you feel like maybe hasnt build up the traction as it changes youve needed to make or need to make in  how you distribute the products or educating your distributors as it  at least what you have come up with at least some of the initial products there is a performance issue.
Just try and get a feel for kind of where you feel like you stand now and maybe when do you think we can really start seeing some of those investments payoff from sales perspective? Sure.
I think youre right.
Thanks for the question Robert.
We havent  progress in our liquid alts area that we would have hoped for  where its three years plus.
And I think your analysis is fair.
We havent seen the progress that we would have hoped for.
Why of that is performance has been a little bit volatile I think along with that market segment there are a lot of folks in that liquid alt space that I think have suffered some similar result if you think about a number of the traditional market factors that products like that tend to bet on whether its emerging markets versus developed market stocks whether its small or mid-cap stocks versus large cap stocks whether its some forms of commodity exposure.
They are big pieces of the traditional range of those liquid alt products that havent worked in recent market conditions and thats true for us as well as for others.
But its frustrating its frustrating that we havent been able to do better in developing that uncorrelated low beta zero beta return stream and building better client interest.
So were continuing to work hard on that and think about it.
But we openly acknowledged three years in were not as far along as we might have hoped when we set out on the journey.
I think the adaptive asset allocation product that youve referenced that was started by Myron Scholes and Ashwin Alankar.
I think its in a very different position.
I think that product was launched about seven months ago.
I dont have daily performance in front of me.
But I think its done  its kept its investment promises pretty darn well.
And we remain optimistic that can build.
But clearly seven months for that is a very short period of time and a little bit too early to be saying anything important about results at this early juncture.
Its a very impressive team theyre terrific people theyve done very good research and thought.
They have prior experience that they bring with them to this particular problem.
And were excited about the opportunities for frankly for both adapted global allocation and also for liquid alts if we can start get in that moving forward in the right way.
But transparently I think your question is right we havent yet delivered the assets in these areas and the revenues in these areas and were accountable for that.
Thanks.
And maybe just as a follow-up also a strategic question.
As you and Jennifer pointed out your balance sheet has been cleaned up youve done a couple of smallest size acquisitions.
Casually whatre you thinking about in terms of  if you look at strategically in terms of product holes and maybe one-way you fill them is through doing some more bolt-on.
So whats kind of  what do you think those product holes maybe and whats your appetite for additional bolt-on transactions to fill some of those or is it more kind of  maybe want to focus on building things organically? I think in a talent based business such as we have our judgment is clearly our first job is to build it organically.
And these little acquisitions are sort of quasi-organic if you will.
They dont create big separate bolt-ons in either the case of VelocityShares or Kapstream theyre pretty darn integrated and thats first choice in job one.
That said we keep our ears and eyes open to other opportunities.
We just recognize that the challenges of execution culturally and financially are significant.
And were cautious about how we approach any such things.
Lastly Ill say I think your use of the word bolt-on evokes this response.
I think when you bring a whole another brand in a bolt-on standalone kind of separate thing into your company in a multi-boutique frame introduce a lot of complexity.
Introduce complexity in the eyes of the client introduce complexity in the eyes of the rest of the organization.
Your salespeople already are covering a fair amount of diverse product across what we do how much more can ensure they cover.
There are lots of reasons to be hesitant about increasing complexity through bolt-ons and I would say we are hesitant.
Thats not to say we wouldnt do one if we thought the benefits that way those costs.
But I think were pretty realistic and experienced about challenges that those things can bring.
So we look at it cautiously as well.
So organic is clearly plan A.
And then we look at these other things.
I wouldnt say that they are likely or by any means they are long shots by their nature.
But we get educated and learn things from exploring the marketplace and talking to smart people.
Never say never something could happen but I just wouldnt view it as the most likely outcome.
Thank you Dick.
And ladies and gentlemen we do have time for one last question that will come from Chris Harris with Wells Fargo Securities.
Please go ahead.
Well thanks a lot for all of your commentary regarding the performance and the improvement there.
Just hoping you guys might be able to give us a little perspective on what is that Janus as a firm is doing? Whether its your investment process or perhaps style drift thats helping to contribute to the strong performance we are seeing? I think true for Janus but also true for any of our investment platforms.
The first thing you have to have is the right people you have to have great talent.
Its a highly highly competitive industry when you are trading against our liquid markets well that is a hard job.
And fortunately in the Janus equity team we have some really terrific people both on the portfolio management side as well as the analyst side.
And then and lots of ways to trading and others to support so we are proud of that team.
Second I think you need that talent to be working together very effectively as a team.
With a clear eye vision about what kind of portfolios you are trying to build portfolio construction and risk management.
And I credit our CIO Enrique Chang with leading the process the philosophy the people and getting the talent aligned to deliver really improved results.
And hopefully consistent results through time and also as you may be aware we have a new Director of Research Carmel Wellso shes not new to Janus shes been here a long time but she was relatively recently promoted into the role of Director of Research.
I think at the end of the first quarter of last year and she has done superb job of maintaining talent attracting new talent and aligning that talent behind the portfolio goals.
And so I think those things are all really important and I think you have a very good team as well that and strongly aligned.
And we are just pleased with the progress and proud of that team.
Okay my one follow-up really quick.
The departure of Mr.
Smith Gibson Smith I understand that you guys really cant talk to the potential impact on the firm.
But hoping that you might be able to share a thought or two about why he ultimately decide to leave Janus it just struck us as a bit of a surprise given all the success he has had at the firm? Yes we get that question as you can imagine a lot.
And some people commented I think very genuinely as you have and just said it looks surprising given his success.
In a way thats true but in a way we are all just people and Gibson has worked an awfully long time building his team and his business and he reached the point just personally as a personal decision that he wanted to spend time with his family and in his personal life and doing other things.
I think thats very genuine and I know a lot of times when folks put out a story like this to cover for some sort of big hidden whose whom to kind of story.
In this case its just not.
Its just the personal decision by Gibson there isnt a lot more behind it than that.
And its a challenge for us to be sure but its also an opportunity given the great team that he has put together to offer those folks increased scope and chances for growth.
And I think we will see exactly how we get through this transition it is too early to sort of know.
But we are off to a good start and the team looks well positioned and strong And Im not sure we could be doing much better in that transition than we are doing right at the moment.
But its just too early days to know for sure how all the clients are going to react.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
And Mr.
Weil at this time I will turn the call back over to you for any additional or closing comments.
Well thanks very much operator and thanks everybody for your time.
As I alluded to a little bit earlier we look at this down market.
And we are concerned obviously about the potential effects on our clients and the potential effects on our business.
In particular I think if this transitions into a lot of systemic stress in some way through the financial institutions.
It can get worse we just dont know whether this is a more temporary sort of correction or whether it will get more serious and more sustained.
And we are going to keep an eye on that and if its the latter obviously we will go back and take a hard look at what we are doing and try and be even more efficient over time.
But as we face these challenges our investment teams are continuing to deliver really good results for our clients.
Our distribution seems strong and increasing in strength and we are seeing opportunities to get market share in various places around the globe and in certainly  in particularly in the U.S intermediary markets which is very exciting for us.
We are seeing a positive contribution from recent strategic transactions; we are really pleased with the excellent folks and businesses that joined us in VelocityShares and Kapstream.
And we think that helps diversify and strengthen our business.
And again our balance sheet has never been stronger and at least the last decade its in very good shape which positions us to withstand the challenges I think quite well.
So as a firm we are aware of these challenges but we are still excited about our future and maybe I like some other challenging periods in the past.
We think we have opportunities now to be on the front foot and take market share from other folks and thats our intention.
So thank you very much for your time today and we will talk to you next quarter.
This concludes todays conference call.
Thank you for attending.