Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to JPMorgan Chase's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase's Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon; and Chief Financial Officer Doug Braunstein.
Mr.
Braunstein please go ahead.
Thanks operator.
It's Doug here.
I'm going to be taking you through the earnings presentation.
It's available on our website as you know.
We'll take questions after walking through the presentation.
And with that let's turn to Page 1.
For the quarter we generated net income of $5.6 billion $1.28 a share and that was on revenues of $25.8 billion.
As we've done historically we're highlighting several significant items in the quarter right up front.
I'm going to try and cover them in some detail here but they are included in the numbers for the lines of business.
First item is a $0.29 per share increase in earnings and that comes from a reduction in the Credit Card services allowance for loan losses.
I'll talk you through the specifics of net charge-offs and our delinquency rates when we get to Credit Card later on.
Second item is a $0.16 per share decrease in earnings.
That's from a fair value adjustment to our MSR servicing asset.
And this adjustment really represents the impact of the actual and our anticipated increases in servicing costs including the compliance with our anticipated requirements that are going to be imposed through the OCC and Fed through a consent order that we anticipate receiving later today.
The third item is a $0.10 per share decrease in earnings and expected cost for foreclosure-related matters and these costs are really our best current estimate for affidavit-related delays as well as certain legal expenses.
We don't view these costs as one-rate expenses but to be clear there could be further costs around this matter before we're finished.
We ended the quarter with Tier 1 Common of $120 billion strong Basel I and Basel III ratios of 10% and 7.3% respectively.
You see those on the page an increase of about 20 basis points quarter-over-quarter.
You'll also see on the next page ROE of 13% ROTCE of 18% also strong results.
And broadly speaking we had solid performance across our businesses but I'll dive into those.
I've covered all the items on Page 2 so if you skip to Page 3 we'll start talking about the Investment Bank.
Circled net income here on the page of $2.4 billion that's on revenues of $8.2 billion.
Investment banking fees in the quarter were $1.8 billion up 23% year-on-year.
We continue to be ranked #1 but it remains a very highly competitive market.
Results this quarter reflect record debt underwriting fees and if you go to Page 19 you can see our League table results.
Markets revenues this quarter $6.6 billion.
That really reflects very strong client-based revenues and we've generated in part through the volatility that we experienced in the first quarter in the markets and us helping our clients manage through that volatility.
While these numbers are slightly down from a record first quarter 2010 still very strong results.
$5.2 billion of revenue you see on the page in fixed income.
There was strong performance across all of our asset classes there: rates FX credit securitized products and strong performance in commodities; $1.4 billion in revenues and equities this year and that also represented strong performance across cash derivatives and prime services.
DVA for the quarter relate to the structured notes both in fixed income and equities it was not a material number it was a positive $20 million.
And it really didn't change quarter-on-quarter performance.
You'll see here CPG reported a revenue loss of $190 million.
And just a reminder there's three items in that number.
Typically NII and fees on retained loans are going to be about $200 million plus or minus on a quarter.
And then you have the market impact of hedges on the loan book which were negative this quarter and the impact of CVA and DVA which were also negative in the quarter and that led to the result.
Credit cost $429 million benefit and that really reflects the reduction in loan loss allowances largely related to loan sales and net repayments.
And just a reminder again here as we approach a more normalized credit environment this item is going to return to being an expense item on an ongoing basis.
Expenses in the quarter you see were $5 billion up 4% year-on-year.
That's really due to higher performance-based compensation and that's partially been offset by lower non-comp expense.
Comp to revenue ratio you'll see on the page is 40% this quarter.
And just a reminder it's going to vary slightly quarter-on-quarter based on business mix but we continue to expect our full year guidance to be consistent with what we shared with you at the end of the fourth quarter which is 35% to 40%.
One final note here you see the loan balances in the Investment Bank up 2% modestly and you'll see that uptick to the extent that we continue to have active participation in the investment banking market particularly the Strategic Advisory business and you'll see that in an uptick in our loan balances.
With that I'll turn to Page 4.
RFS just a moment on this page this is a consolidated view.
RFS for the quarter lost $208 million on $6.3 billion worth of revenue.
And let me jump into the details really on Page 5.
At the top retail banking had solid performance.
Net income of a little under $900 million on revenues of $4.4 billion.
Revenue was up modestly year-over-year and that was net of an impact of lower deposit-related fees.
There were some key drivers on the prior page.
I'd highlight the positive growth of 4% year-over-year.
Investment sales revenues up 11%.
We built 33 new branches in the quarter.
Expenses in the quarter were up 9% year-over-year and that's really the continuing theme in investment.
Our branch builds or sales force build out were up a little under 4 000 sales force year-over-year in the branches.
Mortgage Banking Auto and Consumer Lending there was a net loss of $937 million here on revenues of a little under $700 million.
And the results here were impacted both on the revenue line and the expense line by the two significant items that I covered on the first page.
I'm not going to talk about those.
Revenues of $1.9 billion excluding the MSR risk management results really reflect $36 billion in mortgage loan originations this quarter higher volumes wider margins in the first quarter of last year but lower volumes and lower margins than the fourth quarter of last year.
Revenues here also reflected solid performance in the quarter for our Auto business.
The other number that's included in that $1.9 billion you'll see is repurchase losses of $420 million for the quarter.
That's a contra-revenue item.
The repurchase losses here are really slightly above the trend line this quarter and it's primarily related to some refinement of certain of our repurchase estimates but I would say going forward we continue to expect repurchase losses to be on a quarterly run rate consistent with our $1.2 billion plus or minus for the year.
I've covered really the significant issues in MSR risk and expense and other than those highlighted issues the other line items for costs and servicing really reflect our production and volumes in the quarter.
With that I really want to turn our attention on Page 6 to the Real Estate portfolios talk briefly on this page.
Net income loss of $162 million.
That's on revenues of $1.2 billion.
That's down a little under $400 million year-over-year.
The lower revenue number is really a decline in NII.
And it’s a result of the portfolio runoff.
Balances declined year-over-year a little under $32 billion $7.5 billion quarter-on-quarter and we told you about that.
Consistent with that you'd expect full year NII to be down around $700 million.
NII was also down on some spread compression.
On the credit side what I'd like to do is go through the details on Page 7.
So if you turn to Page 7 and the Home Lending update you see circled net charge-offs on this page for the quarter were $1.1 billion.
They're modestly improved from our prior quarter but they're certainly in line with the delinquency trends that we saw in Q3 and Q4.
If you exclude the one-time adjustment that we talked about in the fourth quarter you look at Home Equity and subprime net charge-offs are relatively flat.
And you see the prime mortgage net charge-offs actually improved quarter-on-quarter.
And then if you took a look at that graph we put on Page 16 in the Appendix what you'll see is delinquency rates have really declined modestly across all of our portfolios.
And all other things being equal that should have a positive impact two quarters out on our future charge-offs.
The other comments I'd make on this page is you'll see we didn't make any changes at all to our reserves in either our noncredit-impaired or our purchased credit-impaired portfolio in the quarter.
And we continue given some of the uncertainties in the market to maintain our net charge-off guidance of $1.2 billion plus or minus in the quarter.
Page 8 let's shift focus to Card Services.
Circled net income on this page was $1.3 billion.
Revenues of approximately $4 billion.
Credit costs really the focus in this quarter they were down significantly to $226 million.
And if you look first at the bottom two circled numbers on the page you see 6.20% is the charge-off rate for our Chase portfolios.
That's an improvement of 88 basis points quarter-on-quarter.
That follows a 98-basis point improvement from Q3 to Q4.
And then you see the 30-plus day delinquencies declined to 3.25% in this quarter.
That's down 41 basis points quarter-on-quarter and we'd expect to see modest improvement there in the second quarter.
The results of that improvement is the reduction in our future estimated losses and as a result of that the $2 billion pretax loan loss reserve release that I covered on Page 1.
Just one other moment here on our guidance for the second quarter we'd expect the charge-off rate for the Chase portfolio to be 5.5% plus or minus and we do hope there's some modest upside at the ultimate rate for the second quarter.
On the revenue line of $4 billion it's down 10% year-on-year 6% quarter-on-quarter.
And again there's a consistent theme here on revenues that lower revenues are driven by a $23 billion lower average balances outstanding year-over-year.
And also we had 100% run rate impact for the CARD Act in this quarter relative to the first quarter of last year.
Positive note here you look at sales volumes Chase volume was up 12% year-over-year a little over $75 billion of spend from Chase cards.
And as I mentioned last quarter we really believe we continue to outpace the industry sales growth data and that reflects itself ultimately in improved market share which means when customers are going to stores they are taking out their Chase cards more often than any other.
It also does reflect some underlying positive sales trends for consumers in general.
One other quick note before I move on on January 1 you'll see on this page and in the supplement we transferred our Commercial Card business from TSS to Card Services modest increase in revenues increase in loan balances and actually a reduction in margin as a result of all of that.
Page 9 Commercial Bank.
You see circled net income of $546 million that's on revenues of $1.5 billion.
Revenues are up 7% year-on-year that's a function of growth in loan balances growth in liability balances actually some wider spreads year-over-year higher investment banking fees year-over-year.
And that's offset by a continued spread compression in our Deposit-Taking businesses.
Credit costs in the quarter $47 million you see that on the middle of the page.
That really reflects stable to improving credit trends in this business.
Losses really continue to be weighted towards our Real Estate portfolio but the losses in Real Estate also declined in the quarter.
And again I just caution that we will expect this portfolio over time to trend towards the normal through the cycle net charge-off rate of about 50 basis points that we talked about at Investor Day.
Circled EOP loan balances you see on the page of $100.2 billion.
That's up modestly again this quarter but I want to dig a little deeper.
Loan volumes for the C&amp;I portfolio have increased now for four consecutive quarters.
Middle-market loan balances the average balances are up $4.3 billion or 13% year-over-year which is quite substantial.
And balances have been up now for 12 consecutive months.
And while we know that our loan growth in that area is a mix of market share gains and demand this type of trend speaks more in part to what we believe is increasing demand in the space.
Utilization rates in the first quarter have begun also to show the first signs of modest improvement and it's the first time we've seen uptick in several quarters there.
And one last comment you see the growth in liability balances 17% year-over-year growth.
We've had $156 billion of balances.
And clients continue to generate cash and we hold that cash for them.
And I think that speaks again to the quality of the customer base.
Treasury &amp; Securities Services on Page 10.
Circled net income of $316 million in the quarter that's up 13% year-on-year 23% quarter-on-quarter.
Revenue was $1.8 billion that's up 5% year-on-year.
And if you dive into WSS revenue was up 9%.
That's really driven by net inflows and higher market values of assets under custody.
You see the other circled number on this page $16.6 trillion of assets under custody.
That's a record number.
TS revenues were up 1% but if you exclude the move of Commercial Card to Card Services revenues were actually up 7% in the quarter.
And you'll see in our supplement the build out as we've talked about of our international businesses it's really reflected in trade loan balances.
Those are $25.5 billion in the quarter that's up 86% year-over-year.
It's up 21% quarter-on-quarter and we hope to continue to grow that business.
Expenses continue to be up 4% year-on-year and that is a function of the discussion we've talked about in terms of investment particularly around international.
Although this quarter it was offset by the transfer out of the Commercial Card business.
And then one other quick item here you see this credit allocation income expense.
The details are in the footnote but we're basically trying to capture the sharing of the economics associated with the corporate bank credit book.
That's actually a net benefit this quarter of $27 million.
And this line item is going to be a little more volatile than what we've done historically which is charge through the credit cycle charge to Treasury &amp; Securities Services.
Page 11 Asset Management.
You see circled net income of $466 million in the quarter that's up 19% year-on-year.
Circled revenues $2.4 billion that's up 13% year-on-year.
And revenue growth was really based on a few factors.
We continued to have strong net inflows into products with higher margins.
Record asset under management inflows actually into long term products this quarter of $27 billion.
That's the eighth consecutive quarter of long term flows and that was offset by outflows in liquidity products of about $9 billion.
We also had the benefit of higher market levels this quarter.
And on a quarter-on-quarter basis lower mortgage production but higher year-over-year.
Expense growth the same theme we've talked about up 15% largely reflecting higher headcount.
We've added a little over 1 100 people to our front office in the last year.
Page 11 – I’m sorry Page 12 now Corporate and Private Equity.
You see the top number $383 million worth of net income from Private Equity in the quarter.
That's really reflecting gains in the number of realizations also improvements in the market value and our positions in the quarter.
And just remember here financial results are going to vary based on the timing of those realizations market valuations.
But you should expect to see an appropriate return over time for this portfolio.
Corporate net income reported $339 million.
This line item is also going to be lumpy but over time trending to $300 million plus or minus.
CIO Treasury will contribute to that.
It's consistent with the guidance that we gave you this quarter but it's going to be volatile based on timing of our investments and gains in our positioning.
As you'll see when we release our Q we continue to be positioned with a portfolio to take advantage of a rising rate environment and that's reflected in our NII in this quarter.
Also there are going to be a number of onetime items in the quarter.
This quarter we had litigation expense of $350 million in corporate.
Page 13 Fortress balance sheet.
I think I've really covered most of the points on this slide.
What I will remind everyone that hasn't focused on it is we did as you know increase our annual dividend to $1 a share up from $0.20 a share.
And we also authorized this $15 billion multi-year share repurchase program $8 billion of which we can repurchase in 2011.
Page 14 is the outlook page.
I think I've covered all of this in the discussion and so what I'd like to do operator is open up the line and have Jamie and I available to answer questions.
[Operator Instructions]  Your first question comes from the line of Guy Moszkowski with Bank of America.
Just a quick question on the Investment Bank first of all.
Obviously revenue was very strong relative to I think probably what a lot of people might have expected.
But you had a little bit of negative operating leverage in that your expenses moved up more than your revenue.
And in fact revenue was down ever so slightly.
And your comp ratio in particular was 40% as an accrual I guess from this quarter versus 35% a year ago.
Can you give us a little color.
Is that a mix shift? Is that you're trying to be a little bit more conservative on bonus accruals? What's driving that? A little of each.
And to the extent that it is a mix shift can you describe it to us a little bit? It's just more client-related business.
We accrue higher in client-related business.
Got it.
And there has been some concern I think over the last few months in the marketplace that large dealers like yourselves given some of the uncertainty about capital costs Basel III et cetera are a little bit reluctant to put long-tail derivative positions on? Is that being reflected at all in your results and might that have something to do with the decline in the margin? No.
So first of all the capital and the risk weight that already represent in effect Basel very close to -- or at least our best estimates at Basel III.
And while it's possible that some people are doing less long-tail derivative stuff I would not put it in the material category.
There's a lot of client volume a lot of clients a lot of activity.
Thanks for that.
Your balance sheet shows a really significant increase in your deposits both year-over-year and sequentially $65 billion $70 billion.
Can you give us a sense for what the big drivers are there? Yes I'll answer this question but you got to let someone else ask a question okay Guy? So first of all if you look at the deposits commercial bank deposits are way up TSS deposits are way up private bank deposits are way up retail deposits are up.
The clients have a lot of money and they're investing a lot.
And as you know we keep on saying there's a lot of money wash around the world and obviously we're a beneficiary of some of that.
You can see it by business if you go in deeper into the supplement.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Goldberg with Barclays Capital.
In respect to -- you gave the Credit Card guidance of improved losses going out I guess the 5½%.
Yet you're still carrying a 7¼% reserve.
I guess ultimately where I guess should we see that number go to and I guess how much does it lag the improvement in NCOs? Well the reserve look obviously the reserves are coming down over time precisely because of what you mentioned.
The reserves are based on a forward-looking view of charge-offs.
As charge-offs come down the reserve will come down.
And eventually they'll be the same.
If you're reserving effectively for 12 months of losses and things are steady eventually they'll be the same.
A normalized charge-off ratio will eventually be 4½%.
That's through the cycle.
It'd be obviously lower than that or higher than that.
Got it.
And then Doug on just one of the comments you made when going through the first on the onetime items you mentioned that some of those foreclosure costs should continue.
With respect to the MSR adjustment is that I guess one-time and we shouldn't expect any other change go forward once we get this consent order? Yes Jason.
The $1.1 billion is both our existing and our anticipated costs right? That's the net present value of those changes.
And that's a one-time item.
That's not to say the MSR asset we're going to constantly revalue.
The $650 million we don't believe is a run rate item but what I did say is there can clearly be further costs associated with the foreclosure and affidavit issues before we're finished.
And it does not include any related penalties? Right.
And then just lastly in looking at you gave the Basel I and Basel III Tier 1 Common ratios.
It looks like the spread between the risk-weighted assets on both those numbers is up $400 billion this quarter but it was also about $400 billion in the year ago quarter.
I guess through mitigation and the like would we expect I guess a further reduction or further – for that spread to narrow? Or how should we just think about it in terms of -- it doesn't look like there's been much mitigation on the RWAs for Basel III? Yes because a lot of things run through RWA.
But I think what we said last time is that mitigation most of which not all of which most of which will happen by the end of this year was $150 billion of risk-weighted assets.
And I would say it's towards -- in fairness Jason you'd expect to see more of that towards the back end of the year as we get closer to the sort of market-based market risk rules.
And that's all things being equal which they're not.
We're going to be very -- look we've got ample capital and we're going to be very careful to the extent that we choose to mitigate.
It's got to make sense for us over the long term as an economic matter.
We're not going to do it and lose money.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Najarian with ISI Group.
Question really regarding capital again.
You talk in the release about managing at least in the near term to perhaps a 9% Basel I-based Tier 1 Common Equity Ratio versus your 10% level currently.
And obviously the Basel III base ratio of 7.3% continues to build.
So I'm sort of wondering if you can give perspective on what that means in terms of how you're thinking about driving excess capital into buybacks each quarter.
It looks like you could literally drive all of your retained earnings into buybacks and still be very adequately capitalized.
Are you thinking that you could do that much? If you're not willing to buy back that aggressively how else would you consider soaking up excess capital or would you indeed let those ratios just continue to build? Just trying to get some perspective because capital seems to...
Okay so it’s amazingly simple.
We can only buy back $8 billion of stock according to the guidelines from the Fed.
We are going to buy back regardless of price $3 billion which is what we issue or approximately what we issue every year for stock-related compensation.
And the other part's discretionary.
We're not going to automatically do it.
It will be price sensitive and if we build up excess capital so be it.
Ed the other thing I'd just remind you we've got a lot of growth opportunities.
And we're really actually focused on investing that excess capital in those growth opportunities and that's where our priority is going to be.
We also know the final Basel III guideline is where we're going to have to hold to.
I mean we think 7% is plenty but that may not be the final guideline.
Okay.
So I guess the answer is you're willing to let those ratios continue to build in the near term? I would assume that that's going to happen because there's obviously very little we can do to stop it.
Your next question comes from the line of Glenn Schorr with Nomura.
Doug just a quickie on the average rates on the balance sheet on Page 6.
Looking at the trading assets and it went up like 45 basis points.
That's a pretty big jump on a one-quarter basis.
Is that just duration extension on the mortgage assets or hedging related? Is this investment banking or the whole company? Is this investment banking the whole company? I think is the whole company? The whole company.
Whole company.
Yes I think that's really just a function of some better cost in dollar-roll financing but I'll get back to you specifically on it.
No problem.
And sometimes this next line is just an allocation thing but leverage at the IB if you just look at average assets to the equity allocated is creeping up a little bit.
And I just didn't know if the high teens to 20 range is an okay resting range if regulators have any commentary on that lately? Well I think we’ve said the $40 billion anticipates the IB being at 8%.
We're assuming some mitigation here in the IB kind of by the end of the year on a stand-alone basis.
So remember of that balance sheet the $250 billion or so is very very short-term liquids.
So the adjusted assets are like $600 million and the equity is $40 billion.
Okay.
That’s cool.
Last one is Jamie you made your points well in your shareholder letter on why the 7% is enough and your thoughts around the SIFI buffer.
But I guess my question is with Switzerland going at 10-plus and now the U.K.
coming out this week at 10-plus how much if any impact do those markets have on -- to your understanding with our regulators and do our regulators take into account say risk-weighted assets? Tangible assets or total assets or bank assets to GDP other metrics that might not make this an apples-to-apples comparison? So I think the baseline Basel stuff is attempting to be a global agreement to have a level playing field for everybody.
There are some flaws with that which are also in my letter because there are different laws now in the United States regarding derivatives Volcker the uses of preferred dividends et cetera.
But I think it's an attempt by regs to have a global agreement.
Each country is going to set its own they call this SIFI or global SIFI surcharge.
So each country can do something in addition to the 7%.
But I personally don't think that because the U.K.
and Switzerland does it that the United States should feel like it has to do it.
I mean each country is a slightly different thing.
In Switzerland their banks dwarfed at the size of their economy.
That's not true here.
I also have a chart in my shell letter about that.
So there are other reasons why other countries might go to higher ratios.
Do you have any idea of timing? I think the United States [indiscernible] should do what's good for United States not what's good for Europe.
Understood.
Do you have any idea on timing Jamie? I believe we'll get more guidance maybe sometime late this summer.
Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Two questions; one just a follow-up on the SIFI question.
Does the size of the SIFI charge change how you think about allocating capital or how you would think about doing M&amp;A? Well honestly if it's just a little bit more no.
If it's a lot more probably.
And we're going to have to wait and see.
I also think it's very important -- if you think about it a little bit the market is going to price things.
Just because the bank holds 10% doesn't mean the market’s going in effect use 10% to price something.
So your competitive market is going to be based upon something different so it's hard to figure out exactly what that means.
My attitude would be we'd run the businesses at a 7% or 8% Basel III and hold the excess at corporate.
Okay.
And then on -- separate question just on mortgage.
There's some discussion from the FHFA on changing the servicing fees for the conventional Fannie Freddie loans.
Can you just give us a sense as to how you're thinking about how that would impact your business model and what you would do differently if this fee change were to occur? I actually think it's an intelligent thought about having different for performing versus defaulted loans.
It's far more expensive to default a loan.
So look the devil’s in the detail but it’s a good thought a good concept.
And in general it would eventually reduce the size of the MSR which would be fine with us too.
But you've been under-invested in mortgage relative to your peers.
I mean would you be looking to take more share if this were to go through? It really depends how the home Mortgage business turns out.
I mean we really got to wait and see what the future liabilities are for future mortgage origination et cetera before you decide to do something like that.
Okay.
And then lastly on QRM and other risk retention proposals that came out a couple of weeks ago? We think it's the skin in the game concept’s a good idea.
We think that it would be fine with us.
It has a lot of consequences but we'd be fine with that.
And the QRM either way can work as long as it's all properly designed.
So we really have an ax in this fight about how it's going to take place.
But we just hope that however it takes place it's really well thought through.
And we'd be happy to work with people to help -- to try to make sure that it’s done.
Okay.
Does it become more balance sheet intensive though right? Yes but balance sheet intensive wouldn't bother us if they're good assets.
Your next question comes from the line of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Trying to get a handle on what might be a normalized expense run rate relative to the $6 billion base this quarter.
So you pointed to the $650 million provision Doug for foreclosure issues.
And I think you said $350 million for litigation expense this quarter? I guess...
That was only in Corporate.
Inc.</strong> Just in Corporate? Okay.
Were there litigation expenses elsewhere that you...
Yes we'll have across all the businesses.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
But that's the only one you highlighted correct? Yes.
Inc.</strong> And then maybe just broader Jamie or Doug you can give some thoughts about where expenses are cyclically elevated today throughout the company and might come down over time as we start to think about what a normalized expense base is relative to what we see today? We really do this by business but you had a chart Doug that you showed me that showed...
You look at IB comp back that out.
And you look at the overhead.
Overhead is largely consisted as a percentage of revenue.
The nature of those expenses are different right? Because we're investing a lot in various businesses to grow them over time.
You're going to see some of that in the revenue items.
But if you back out all this one-time types of items and you sort of separate out the IB comp expenses are largely consistent as a percentage of revenue for the last several quarters.
But a little elevated this quarter than a normal… A little elevated because of largely IB comp.
But backing that out is other expenses are modestly.
Inc.</strong> But then from a broader perspective I assume in RFS you're carrying a lot more people related to mortgage workouts and mods? That's going to stay at an elevated level for a period of time.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
But that would be the main area for thinking about a few years out where expenses might be cyclically [indiscernible]? Eventually.
Overhead expenses from default and foreclosure will probably drop $300 million or $400 million a quarter.
And that's not included in the repurchased stock which is another couple of million a quarter.
And John I think one of the charts just to be helpful if you go back to one of the charts Charlie did it at Investor Day I think he tried to quantify over time what those expenses ought to come down by.
That's a good place to look.
Inc.</strong> And any thoughts for this year more near-term on the size of higher FDIC expenses that you might see when that kicks in later this year? Yes you're talking about the number for us that's now going to be north of $1 billion.
And I think last year it was $800 million.
So I think it may be $500 million more than it used to be.
I kind of object to how they went about that and so there'll be more conversations about how those charges go through.
The FDIC was supposed to be deposit insurance.
And remember we pay for the deposit insurance JPMorgan paid -- it's a government program paid for by banks so we’ll have paid through this crisis about $5 billion in FDIC.
But this is going to increase that for us.
And John just as a technical matter you won't actually be able to see -- even though we know there's an increase on the way you won't actually see that in our numbers until the actual increase is implemented which is third quarter.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just one other separate question what factors are driving your outlook on card balance growth for kind of a stabilization midyear and maybe a little growth in the back half? Well because we had two books of business that are kind of running off running down; WaMu and some of this balance transfer stuff.
And we actually had broken that out in an earlier presentation too.
And those predominantly will be completed by the third quarter so there we just know we're getting to stable kind of balances.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And the card NIM net interest margin was up even as the balances shrank.
I’m just wondering how is that happening.
Is that less suppression going on or is there some repricing benefits also in there? It's a lot of different things but remember there was some repricing but it's also a runoff of low return balance transfers so there are a lot of things in there.
And remember also John in the NIM you get the reversals from declining charge-offs and so you're going to see that benefit.
We're going to -- that number is going to move around a bunch.
It'll generally head up a little bit.
Your next question comes from the line of Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
I was just wondering Doug you had alluded to the fact that the trading profits had been kind of driven by the facilitating client activity.
Was that activity kind of uniform during the quarter? Was it lumpier? And if you would did it continue into April? Fairly uniform.
Okay.
And just maybe a little more broadly as it relates to the Mortgage as it relates to the Mortgage business and all of the related issues that you're going through with the servicing can you relate that to the administration's plans for Fannie and Freddie and could there be -- are they talking to one another in terms of those two sets of issues? And is there some way that this could be kind of -- the banking industry could kind of help out and perhaps get either assets or assets and revenues out of this over some period of time? I wrote about this a little bit in my Chairman's letter.
The government laid out three kind of baseline ways to set up the GSCs in the mortgage markets.
And one of the points we've made is that whichever one happens is we all agree it should protect the taxpayer that we want a healthy mortgage market but it has to be designed properly.
Any one of the three can actually work to do those things.
And I think that's one of the reasons the charge related [ph] – so you can have a conversation and respond and think through the effect on the markets how quickly you can do it.
Obviously there's a lot of politics around the GSC so hopefully we'll have a really good healthy mortgage market when it's said and done.
But the healthy mortgage market means it's got to be good for consumers and it's got to be good for investors.
Otherwise you will not have a healthy mortgage market.
And moving on to the next question your next question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC Capital.
LLC</strong> Could you guys share with us -- you had great success in your market share numbers on the merger and advisory role in the investment bank in the U.S.
I think it was over a 40% market share.
How'd you guys get such a great market share? Those market share numbers are going to move around.
Large deals are going to move it.
We really do focus on longer-term trends and we also focus on the revenue line because folks can be involved in things and they're not making a lot of money.
So I would focus really on the revenue line.
Generally speaking we had a number one share in fees.
That's because we've got a great client franchise across the investment banking platform.
We're like in most big transactions.
Yes we're in most of the big transactions this quarter but that will move quarter-over-quarter.
LLC</strong> Does your strength of the balance sheet help with that M&amp;A work as well? We look at our total relationship with clients and the ability to actually provide them financing is clearly one of the benefits that we bring to a client.
And it works in significant transactions.
The AT&amp;T transaction's a good example of that.
And some of the smaller [indiscernible] not having a balance sheet is helping them.
Sometimes it's both.
LLC</strong> Can you share with us what you think the process is if you wanted to raise your dividend again later this year because your earnings are stronger than expected do you have to go through the formal process that you just went through? Or is it less formal with the regulators to raise the dividend sooner than a year from now? I wouldn't be looking for a dividend increase if I were you in a couple of quarters.
But the regulators have made it clear that -- which I think is a reasonable thing that you have quarterly stress tests and stuff like that.
We would have permission to do more on the dividend we wanted to a little bit more.
But at one point we would obviously go ask them in this environment.
LLC</strong> Sure.
And then finally recognizing your business has changed quite a bit in the last 10 years if we get to normalized net charge-offs possibly 75 to 100 basis points similar to what JPMorgan had in the late 90s do you think the loan loss reserves to total loans could come down to 200 basis points and less? Sure the answer is yes but you also have all these new accounting laws and rules and stuff like that.
So we believe in strong reserves.
We think it's a good thing to have an unquestioned balance sheet.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
In TSS you have record assets under custody but revenues versus the fourth quarter were down a little bit.
What's going on there? Are you cutting prices or what? No that's -- we have dividend season in WSS and that's going to have a positive impact on the second and the fourth quarter.
It's nothing more than that.
Okay.
And then the middle market loan utilization what is the actual number this quarter versus last? This quarter's 35% and last quarter was what? Of middle market? Yes.
It was a little bit less.
And do have the same figure for large Corporate? No because it's not a relevant figure for large Corporate because large companies can access bonds loans bilaterals that go in and out for a whole bunch of different reasons so we don't really actually track it.
Okay.
And capital markets what's the backlog like? It's fine it's good.
Is it flat up? It was about 100 basis points less.
Again the backlog itself is a very volatile number and there's a lot of things that are being worked on that are not on the backlog.
The flow of business looks good and that's what it -- it looks like it's going to be fine.
Companies are pretty active financing and...
On that topic in terms of syndicated lending? Last quarter the middle market utilization was 34.1% if this number's right.
So 34.1% to 35%? Yes about 100 basis points.
But that's just for the $38 billion in middle market? That's correct.
I think it's more relevant than some of the other ones.
The other ones bounce around a lot.
And then lastly on syndicated lending you've been in the news so how much in fees did you get this quarter as acting as an arranger? And how much did the syndicated loans contribute to the $9 billion of growth in your wholesale loan balances? So we had in aggregate for our debt underwriting businesses it was a record quarter and syndicated loans were a meaningful part of that.
Our growth in loan balances one of the comments I made is you saw balances up quarter-on-quarter.
No it was a $2 billion number.
I was looking at on the supplement overall wholesale loans to companies is...
That's across TSS Asset Management to Commercial Bank and the Investment Bank.
And that's quite frankly trade loan rate loans...
Trade loan is up $5 billion middle market's up a couple or $3 billion that's across the whole spectrum of businesses.
So how do we measure -- how much did syndicated loans contribute to the loan balance? Predominately it's only in the IB and not a lot.
Maybe $1 billion or $2 billion but it wouldn't be a lot.
Yes not a lot.
So who buys a lot of this tape or any of the -- the AT&amp;T deal clearly was in the news but you were able to offload it pretty well.
What's the demand for buying and who's buying it? It's mostly other banks but there are other buyers in there certain funds and investors who are also buying.
And then in terms of the covenant-light deals it seems like you're doing a lot more of those.
Do you feel good about the quality since you had more covenant-light deals in the first quarter than you did all last year for the industry? Yes I wouldn't say we're doing covenant-light deals uniquely.
I think deals -- the covenants have gotten lighter as lending’s eased a little bit.
But again if you're looking for the countries it’s probably a pretty good thing.
I don't think it's gotten to the point where you would look at it as like it was in the summer of '07.
And also covenant light is only one factor.
You can have covenant light and great credit.
It means the credit the deal the leverage not just the covenant.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Harte with Sandler O'Neill.
A couple of things left.
One when I look at the Corporate segment and I know the guidance is to Corporate net income of plus or minus $300 million over time one of the things that really drove that higher was the spike in the investment securities portfolio in the second quarter of a couple of years ago.
We're seeing that investment portfolio start going up again sequential quarter.
Is that a function of just there's no loan demand out there on the consumer side so that's where you're kind of putting capital? Or is there something else as far as -- I guess I was expecting the size of that portfolio to be declining not increasing.
Right but you've got to look at both sides of the balance sheet here because we have a lot of deposits which when we get the deposit obviously there's a -- we invest it.
So I would say it's largely related to both the deposits and then our own how we want to manage the interest rate exposure of the company.
And remember it's costing us money how we're managing the interest rate exposure of the company.
And some of that product that's in the CIO portfolio a lot of it – I forgot the exact number.
A lot of it is what I call spread product.
It's like zero duration but it's got a spread in it to protect us from rising rates.
Okay.
And you talked some about -- I mean with middle -- I guess what I'm going to try and get at is the trend in kind of commercial clients’ outlook or confidence I mean we see utilization rates up in middle market the investment banking backlog is still pretty good trading volumes are up.
Have you noticed any change in kind of how your commercial clients are maybe looking at the world over the last six months with some of the volatility and events we've seen? Corporate I think if you look at corporate mid-corporate middle market and even small business they're generally across the board stronger than they were.
And that's anecdotally surveyed.
It's capital it's cash it's deposits it's lending conditions financial conditions.
So you're seeing confidence come back.
Now obviously laying on top of that a little bit is some of these things happening around the world from Europe to Middle East and Japan but it's not clear that that's going to derail these companies going about their business hiring people and even small business demands.
Small business loans were flat for our total company quarter-over-quarter.
But this quarter is generally a very low quarter so it's a very good sign in our opinion.
We're starting to see real small business loan demand.
Yes loan demand was up year-over-year in RFS over 50%.
And I assume we're going to see that with the competitors too by the way that that's not just us.
Okay.
Because I mean certainly things are stronger across the board than they were when we were on the gates of the abyss.
But just even over the last year you've continued to see that trend it appears? You almost -- most things are better than they were a year ago even the bad things are better than they were a year ago.
So we point it out mortgage losses were -- we're losing $2 billion a quarter in charge-offs and mortgages.
It's now down to $1.1 billion.
And remember the early signs of delinquencies will drive foreclosures six months 12 months from now.
Now remember those are going to start coming down at one point later in the year early 2012 not go up.
That's a good sign not a bad sign even though they're still very elevated right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
You mentioned some of the strength in trading or the bulk of the strength in trading was client driven.
And I guess specifically on the stake revenues they held up quite nicely year-over-year.
I was wondering if you could give a little more color from a product mix point of view.
There's the Sempra deal in there and I think you have maybe a little more commodities focus? Before we do that we're thinking about hiring Deutsche Bank to help us in our capital structure here in the United States.
Matt it was really -- in fairness it was across the board.
Almost every asset class in fixed income had very strong performance and commodities was one of those asset classes that had very strong performance.
Part of that is we've made a number of investments in that business that commodity revenue like all the other businesses this quarter was predominately client flow.
And can you just remind us from a mix point of view how much of FICC is commodity driven? We don't give percentages because it's going to move obviously based on quarter performance.
It's had a very good first quarter but it isn't outsized of any...
Emerging markets credit FX rates...
That's right.
It's not outsized in any way shape or form relative to all those other businesses very consistent.
And then I was debating we hosted a dinner the other day and there was some debate on the FICC fee pool over the next several years.
And some were debating that it would be a lot higher some were debating it would be a lot lower.
And obviously this is something that's it's virtually impossible to predict but you do have to have some view as you think about staffing levels.
And as you think about a continued macro recovery higher interest rates maybe some leveling off of commodities what does the FICC revenue pool look like a few years down the road? So if you just put aside for a second spreads and put aside for a second how good you are at trading the underlying growth is going to be pretty good.
If you look at global capital flows global network global balance sheet the growth of multinationals the need for FX the need for trade the need for -- the underlying number is actually pretty good over a decade.
You can -- any one quarter that those -- you can be dramatically different because of spreads how you actually trade in them.
But I would say it's a pretty -- the needs of investors are going to grow a lot over the next 10 to 20 years not a little.
That includes corporations governments super nationals sovereign wealth funds.
Remember if you go to my Chairman's letter I actually talk about some of these flows over the next 10 or 15 years.
And then just separately it's sort of a follow-up to Glenn's question about the average rate table on Page 6.
The securities yield also went up quite a bit from 2.44% to 2.89%.
And I guess that's a line item that doesn't fluctuate all that much unless you reposition a securities book and trying to get a better sense of maybe what's going on there? And then obviously we're all trying to figure out what the overall NIM might look like going forward as well.
The portfolio we have we obviously move around.
It’s also global okay? And I think I just mentioned we went to more spread product and we invested more money.
And we have a lot of mortgages so 2.89% you can go buy mortgages at far higher rates than that.
We also put on some prime like $2 billion of prime jumbos coming out of private bank at much higher rates.
So we can get you a better answer than that but I think it's just those things I just mentioned.
Okay.
And any thoughts on just the overall NIM percent? I know you don't manage that you look business line by business line but the NIM's relatively stable this quarter.
Any thoughts going forward? I think you'd expect just from some mix a little pressure on NIM -- modest pressure on NIM overall next quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Ron Mandle with GIC.
Just following up on the NIM.
You said maybe a little pressure in the second quarter and then you also said Jamie that it's expensive protecting against higher interest rates.
So do you think the NIM will keep going down or will it stabilize now that market rates have stabilized? What's your thinking beyond just the next three months? I think Doug answered it.
The underlying trend is down a little bit.
But obviously we can make big decisions that change that very quickly.
And if rates go up our NIM can actually expand a little bit which is not -- if you look at the implied curve it's not going to happen right away.
But if it does happen our NIM will actually go up not down.
Right.
Okay.
And then you also referred Jamie to the valuation reserve loan loss reserve eventually matching charge-offs.
But right now the reserve was let’s say in round numbers about 200 basis points higher than the charge-off rate in the quarter.
And with the new accounting proposals do you -- will we really see that match? Or do you think that we’ll have provisioning and reserving over the cycle that will be less volatile and have a bigger difference than just the match that you're referring to? We don't know yet because they’re all just proposals out there.
And the proposals are different for consumer for defaulted for wholesale but I hope when it’s said and done you have a better matching and less pro-cyclicality.
It would be more countercyclical that would be my hope.
I think we all share that opinion.
And just one other question in regard to Private Equity you noted in the outlook comments that it's likely to be volatile.
But with the Private Equity shops looking for exits and trying to monetize their investments and being pretty successful it would seem like there's a possibility that you could stay at that high level for well into this year and maybe longer.
So I'm wondering if you have any elaboration on that point? Yes so I think Doug mentions it will be lumpy but we like lumpy as long as it's 20% average.
And I think our folks particularly one equity partners have done more than that over time.
So yes we hope -- we're optimistic but we don't count on it.
We tell them to just run your businesses make your investments and when you want to do what’s right for the investment do it then don't worry about the timing for the company.
But yes we expect profits from them over time.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> An administrative question and I'm sorry if I missed this if you said it before.
But what were the amounts of CVA DVA included in the trading results this quarter? Just in fixed income and equities $20 million.
Almost nothing.
I said it was nonmaterial.
LLC</strong> Right.
And then in the Investment Bank it looks as if nonaccrual loans fell by about 24%.
I'm curious as to whether or not that was driven entirely by sales or what else is going on there.
It was one big restructuring.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then finally in terms of the RFS portfolio -- and Doug I think you talked about this earlier in the call.
Core overhead ratio appear to be in the low 60s.
How much of that includes some of the organic branch expansion Charlie talked about in the Analyst Day or is that largely just due to the mortgage costs that you're bearing right now? In Retail itself in that division it's all about branch builds and the expenses associated with that in retail banking.
In aggregate for the division there's the two significant items we highlighted have a material impact on both the revenue and the expense line.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And in terms of the expenses how much run rate is in there for the branch builds specifically? Dollar amounts? I don't know the answer to that specifically.
But I think a lot of the headcount add quarter-over-quarter was because of adding sales people at our branches.
That's right.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So that's not necessarily branch build out per se but it's more headcount in the current branches? We built 33 branches in the quarter.
But we added over the year we added almost 4 000 sales force to the system.
So we're adding salespeople both in our existing branches and the new branch builds.
And I think we're expecting to build out for the rest of the year 200 branches.
LLC</strong> So that build out should accelerate over the course of the year relative to the Q1 run rate? That's right.
Your next question comes from the line of James Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
Just a quick question on capital allocation in the Card business.
I saw that you guys cut your capital allocated to that business by $2 billion.
Is that mostly because of a reduction particularly in the WaMu portfolio? Or is there some other driver of that? Mostly the reduction in portfolio.
Okay.
And if we think about the retail -- the RFS business as that mortgage portfolio runs off should we also see some similar types of declines over time in the allocated capital to that business? Over time yes.
A little bit because we already gave them some credit for that the number.
Basically the baseline assumption should be to run these business 7% Basel III and I'd be a little bit higher.
That's the bottom line assumption.
Sometimes we get more benefit from mitigation and we know it’s going to take place or something like that but that's the bottom.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer.
Actually that last comment was what I was wondering about.
You've always said that you didn't care so much about what reregulation was as long as it's an even playing field.
And the SIFI buffer obviously would be targeted at companies like you and Bank of America and so on.
And I'm wondering about those kind of plain vanilla middle-market retail banking small business kind of lending businesses.
If at the Corporate level you're forced to have 1% or 2% extra capital can one still price effectively in those businesses or does it really...
I guess you have to right? You're not going to price to lose.
You're going to price to win the business and the markets set the price.
And if the market's using 7% capital to set price then that's the capital you're going to use to set price.
Regardless of whether you're holding a little bit more or not.
That's really my whole point.
Your next question comes from the line of Guy Moszkowski with Bank of America.
Okay I just wanted to follow up on the level playing field issue.
One of the things Jamie that you pointed out in your shareholder letter was the less conservative calculation of RWA for some non-U.S.
banks.
And I was wondering if you could drill into what you think are the most harmful aspects of that? And then also maybe you could comment on what we were hearing yesterday about Deutsche Bank separating its noncommercial Banking businesses in the U.S.
away from its bank? I'm not going to comment on that because all I know is what I read in the paper this morning too.
The other one is I guess you've got to look at regulation.
I mean we always believe in higher capital and higher liquidity.
And the regulators are talking about a level playing field.
And I understand that the risk-weighted asset calculations aren't done the same everywhere.
So that they say that they'll make sure they incorporate that in their thinking.
That's not the only -- you got to look at all of it.
If American banks can’t have tax deductions for [indiscernible] and overseas banks can well that's one thing.
If American banks have to demand margin from end users which I'm not sure is going to be the case from nonfinancial end user derivatives well the business will go elsewhere.
And so we just want to make sure it's fair in total including SIFI charges because if every country does that differently that may not be fair either.
So to me I think the regulators and the government officials do say they want to have the level playing field.
But why was MSR deducted from capital? It's a perfectly good asset.
Why would that be a deduct directly from capital but not plant and equipment or some other assets or highly liquid loans? Why is the Ex-Im Bank treated differently then super national things are treated overseas? So when you dig into it there are a lot of things in here that just -- they need to be clarified and cleaned up.
I think people want to do that and obviously the banks have to run a good business.
I would also point out by the way that when America was still in Basel I when the rest of the world was in Basel II and it didn't hurt us to be in Basel I.
So you don't have to have exactly the same stuff either to be able to compete.
And we have no further questions at this time.
Thank you everybody.
You've exhausted us folks.
We'll talk to you all soon.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the JPMorgan Chase's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase's Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon; and Chief Financial Officer Doug Braunstein.
Mr.
Braunstein please go ahead.
Thanks operator.
I'm going to walk you through the earnings presentation.
It's available on the website.
We'll take questions after walking through the presentation and please refer to the disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements at the back of the presentation.
So with that let's turn to Page 1.
For the quarter we generated net income of $5.4 billion $1.27 a share on $27.4 billion in revenues.
We're highlighting several significant items in the quarter.
They're included in the numbers for the lines of business throughout the presentation.
And I'll walk through them quickly.
First as we've done in previous quarters we're noting significant loan loss reserve releases.
This quarter we have a $0.15 per share increase in earnings from a reduction in Card Services allowance for loan losses.
We're identifying $0.12 per share increase in earnings from securities gains in the investment portfolio in Corporate.
Third you'll see a $0.15 per share decrease in earnings related to incremental expected costs of foreclosure-related matters.
And I'll talk about that later.
And then finally $0.19 per share decrease in earnings from additional litigation reserves predominantly for mortgage-related matters and that runs through Corporate.
We ended the quarter with significant Tier 1 Common $121 billion.
We continue to maintain strong Basel I and B3 ratios of 10.1% and 7.6% pro forma respectively.
And these capital ratios also incorporate the impact of the repurchase of $3.5 billion worth of JPMorgan shares in the quarter.
You'll also see ROE in the quarter was 12% our return on tangible common equity of 17%.
And those 2 numbers are circled on the next page.
And then broadly speaking we did have solid performance across the lines of business but there were 2 positive trends for credit.
First we are reporting positive loan growth across each of our wholesale businesses.
Total loan growth in wholesale $32 billion year-over-year or 15% and $12.5 billion or 5% increase on the quarter.
And then second we're continuing to show improvement in our consumer credit trends but I'll talk about all those in specific.
So with that let me turn to Page 3 which is the Investment Bank.
You see circled net income of $2.1 billion that's on revenues of $7.3 billion.
With strong IB fees in the quarter of $1.9 billion that's up 37% year-on-year.
We continue to be ranked #1 in fees but it still remains a highly competitive marketplace.
We demonstrate a particularly strong results in our advisory and equities revenues this quarter.
And for those who like to look at the league tables they're in the back on Page 19.
With solid market revenues of $5.5 billion up 20% year-on-year down 17% quarter-on-quarter from the first quarter which is seasonally strong.
$4.3 billion in revenues in Fixed Income.
And this generally represented consistent client growth across all of our businesses in Fixed Income despite the difficult macroeconomic environment.
$1.2 billion in revenues in equities.
Very good results particularly given the volume declines in the cash market and the overall volatility.
Prime Services continue to grow this quarter and we launched our international equity prime brokerage platform in Europe.
We expect to do the same in Asia in the first quarter of 2012.
Credit costs you see $180 million reduction in the allowance for loan losses.
That's largely related to net repayments.
And you see nonaccrual loans declined to $1.7 billion this quarter.
And just remember we do expect credit cost to normalize going forward.
Expenses in the quarter of $4.3 billion in the Investment Bank down 4% year-on-year.
And you see comp-to-revenue ratio of 35%.
We continue to expect to maintain a 35% to 40% comp-to-revenue range for the full year.
And the final note is you did see modest loan growth in the IB balances up 3% quarter-on-quarter.
Some of that growth is driven by the build-out in our loan book associated with the Global Corporate Bank.
And on the international side revenues grew for the first 6 months of this year 11% from the first 6 months or first half of last year.
Page 4 Retail Financial Services.
This is as you remember the consolidated view.
I'll just spend a moment here a little over $580 million in net income in the quarter on $8 billion worth of revenue.
Let's jump into the details on Page 5.
So if you go to the top of the page on Page 5 Retail Banking.
We have solid performance net income of $1.1 billion.
That's on revenues of a little over $4.6 billion a little under $4.6 billion.
Revenues were up 5% year-on-year.
That's a function of higher debit card revenue deposit-related fees investment sales and offset slightly by lower deposit spreads.
Key drivers from the prior page we had 6% deposit growth.
Investment sales revenues were up 10% year-on-year.
Business Banking origination is up 31% year-on-year.
We built 52 new branches this quarter.
And then just a quick note to the right you see on Durbin.
We do anticipate the annualized gross revenue impact for the Retail Banking segment to be $1 billion plus or minus.
As you know the final rules won't be implemented until the 1st of October so we won't see that impact until the fourth quarter.
And we would expect mitigating actions to close a significant amount of that gross impact over time.
Bottom of the page Mortgage Banking Auto and Other Consumer.
Net loss of $450 million on revenues of $2.2 million.
Revenues excluding MSR of $2.1 billion reflect $34 billion of mortgage loan originations this quarter wider margins year-over-year solid performance in Chase Auto in the quarter and then you see lower repurchase losses $223 million for the quarter.
Remember that's contra-revenue.
And I'll just comment on repurchase losses.
They are lower than trend line this quarter just for timing-related matters and we do expect the next 2 quarters to be more in line with our guidance of $1.2 billion for full rate -- for 2011 run rate.
You see expenses in this segment of $2.6 billion and that includes the $1 billion incremental I discussed on Page 1 related to foreclosure-related matters.
Other expenses continue to remain elevated as well and that largely reflects the ongoing high cost associated with the default-related expenses.
With that why don't we turn to Page 6.
And the Real Estate Portfolio you see net income loss of $66 million.
That's on revenues of $1.2 billion down about $150 million year-on-year.
And that is a function of lower NII associated with portfolio runoff.
Balances declined year-on-year a little under $30 billion a little under $7 billion quarter-on-quarter but the NII impact is consistent with the guidance we'd previously given you related to a $700 million run rate for 2011.
Details of credit on Page 7.
You see the circled number here.
Net charge-offs of $944 million modest improvement versus the prior quarter.
If you take a look at Page 17 in the appendix you'll see delinquency rates have also declined modestly across all the portfolios and all other things being equal that would have a positive impact on future charge-offs.
I would remind folks that the second quarter tends to be positively impacted by seasonality so you might see modest increases in the back half of the year all other things being equal.
So if you step back here given some of the uncertainty in the economic environment the impact of severities related to potential declines in HPI and future delinquencies as well as some of the industry discussions with regulators we've made no changes to reserves this quarter in either a noncredit impaired or a purchase credit impaired.
You'll also see we've maintained our guidance of $1.2 billion plus or minus per quarter.
Obviously if these trends that we just reported continue well we adjust that guidance.
Page 8.
We've updated a slide here that we used in Q4.
It really lays out all our thoughts related to the mortgage-related reserve positions and I'd say there are 2 pieces to this slide.
On the top you've got Real Estate Portfolio reserves and agency repurchase reserves.
So let's start with real estate.
NCI reserves $9.7 billion at the end of this quarter.
They're more than 2x our second quarter net charge-off annualized rate of $3.8 billion.
On the PCI side we believe we're appropriately reserved based on our best estimates of life of loan losses for this category.
You should know that includes HPI deterioration of approximately 5% from current levels.
And in order to give you some sensitivity an additional 5% decline in HPI which will be a total of 10% from today would add about $1.5 billion to our reserves for that category.
On the agency repurchase reserves side $3.6 billion of reserves.
And remember our guidance is $1.2 billion plus or minus for 2011 for RFS.
So if you stop and think about these 2 items if credit trends do improve and repurchase demands diminish over time which inevitably they will this may lead to a further reduction in those 2 reserve levels.
Now the last 2 items talk about incremental exposure.
So first foreclosure-related matters.
We added $1 billion to previously existing reserves for this category.
We believe our current reserves or our best estimate is for the various costs for a whole multitude of complex foreclosure-related matters but that includes fees and assessments related to foreclosure delays as well as payments for other settlements including the DOJ state attorney generals and others.
For private label we continue to build litigation reserves for this issue.
We added to that in the quarter as I told you.
And so if you step back for these 2 items we believe these reserves are best current estimates but we do have a long way to go until these items fully play out and we could incur additional expenses for both of them.
But ultimately in time we expect the cost for all of these items on the page to normalize.
So with that let me move on to Page 9 Card Services.
Circled net income of a little over $900 million.
Revenues of $3.9 billion.
Credit continues to be the story here.
If you focus on the circled numbers at the bottom of the page a 5.28% charge-off rate for the Chase portfolio.
That's an improvement of a little over 90 basis points from the last quarter.
30-plus day delinquencies declined to 2.73% this quarter.
That's an improvement of a little over 50 basis points from the last quarter and is a very low rate on an absolute basis.
As a result of these improvements in our delinquencies we did reduce our estimated future losses.
And as a result released $1 billion of loan loss reserves pretax.
And then just a quick moment on guidance for Q3.
Because of the continued signs of improvement we're seeing we do expect 3Q charge-off rate to be 4.5% plus or minus.
And that was our estimate as you may recall that we would reach that level mid-2012 so rapid improvement in this portfolio.
Revenue picture similar to last quarter but down year-over-year.
In the lower revenues year-over-year driven by an average reduction in balances outstanding of $21 billion year-over-year.
That's been offset similar to the prior quarter in very positive sales volume.
Chase volume is up 10% year-over-year 11% quarter-on-quarter.
We continue to believe that sales volume is outpacing industry sales growth.
And as a result we think we're improving our market share.
I'd also highlight net revenue rate at the bottom 11.95% excluding WaMu and Commercial Card.
That's up almost 50 basis points quarter-on-quarter and it's in line with the steady-state target of 12% that Gordon shared with you all at Investor Day.
And then a final comment on balances.
We do -- we are experiencing very high repayment rates.
And if those persist outstanding balances could be between $115 billion and $120 billion at year end.
Page 10 the Commercial Bank.
Circled net income of $600 million.
That's on record revenues this quarter of $1.6 billion.
Revenues up 9% year-on-year.
That's growth in liability and loan balances record gross IB revenues this quarter for the customer base.
You see a circled end-of-period balance of loans of a little under $103 billion.
That's up $2.5 billion quarter-on-quarter $7 billion year-on-year.
And that balance has increased for each of the last 4 consecutive quarters.
The middle market end-of-period balances are up 17% year-on-year and they've actually increased 5 consecutive quarters.
And again we think loan growth is a mix of demand market share gains as well as the effects of the build-out of the WaMu expansion states.
The utilization rates for loans continues to remain low but we did actually see this quarter a modest uptick in middle market utilization rates.
And then just a final note you see the liability balances grew almost 20% year-on-year to $163 billion.
That continues to be driven by clients generating free cash flow and their own balance sheet to continue to improve.
Page 11 Treasury &amp; Securities Services.
Net income for the quarter $330 million up 14% year-on-year 5% quarter-on-quarter.
TSS revenues and margin continue to be negatively impacted by the low rate environment we have.
Revenue growth in the quarter up 3% year-on-year.
6% year-on-year if you excluded the transfer of Commercial Card to Card Services.
Record assets under custody here $16.9 trillion in WSS.
Record trade loan balances $27.5 billion up 68% year-on-year 8% quarter-on-quarter.
And just remember as well the second quarter gets seasonal benefit from the dividend season in ADR activity.
Expenses continued to be up as we continue to invest in our international footprint and we're starting to see some benefits to that.
International revenue this quarter represented 55% of total revenue for TSS.
That's up from 49% a year ago and revenue internationally is up 16% year-on-year and 9% in the quarter.
Page 12 Asset Management.
You see circled revenue of $2.5 billion.
Solid revenue growth 23% year-on-year was driven by higher performance fees positive markets relative to last year and positive flows into our long-term products up $19 billion quarter-on-quarter.
This is now the ninth consecutive quarter of positive long-term flows in Asset Management.
Circled net income of $440 million in the quarter.
That's up 12% year-on-year modestly down quarter-on-quarter.
And that's on higher expenses from investment spend and higher performance-based compensation.
Here again international revenue is up for this business 27% year-on-year.
13 is Corporate/Private Equity.
$444 million in net income for Private Equity in the quarter a strong quarter gains reflect a number of specific realizations improvements in the market value of positions we held in the quarter.
You see Corporate recorded net income a little under $60 million.
And 2 items run through this so we already noted the securities gains as well as the litigation expense and we continue to have guidance absent these significant items and absent Private Equity Corporate to generate $300 million plus or minus per quarter.
Page 14 fortress balance sheet.
I've covered most of the items.
We've added some additional items a chart at the bottom and some bullet points I want to highlight.
Remember as it relates to Basel III the countercyclical buffer and the G-SIFI surcharge are going to come in over time and you see that in the chart to the bottom left.
The minimum in January of 2017 will be 7%.
And you see our current estimated Basel III of 7.6% today.
Second observation is we continue to believe we're going to generate significant excess capital over this period.
And I would say after investing for organic growth and consistent with meeting those guidelines over time we expect to be able to return excess capital to our shareholders.
And we don't intend to accelerate the compliance as it relates the G-SIFI surcharge but we'll get there over time.
I think Page 15 I've covered.
Operator so with that why don't we open the line up for questions for Jamie and myself? [Operator Instructions] Your first question will come from the line of Glenn Schorr with Nomura.
A quick follow-up on your comments on the fortress balance sheet.
If you don't plan on accelerating and you're obviously generating a lot of excess each quarter do you have buy-in from the regulators to deploy as you see fit? And I'm not implying that you're going to have 100% payout ratio for the next 5 years but curious on your thoughts on that.
So we have to -- you have to apply under ICAP whatever it's called to regulators to increase dividends and buyback stock.
We already announced we had the permission to do $8 billion.
It's quite obvious to us we have a lot of extra capital and cash not just in the next short run but over next several years and we will apply for more as appropriate.
I can't tell you exactly what they're going to do.
Understood understood.
How about another swipe at capital in a different angle? If you -- I think people are underestimating your ability to mitigate on the risk-weighted asset side and that will actually supercharge actually your capital ratio growth over the next couple of years.
If you look at the buffer itself the G-SIFI buffer the way I calculated you have about an $11 billion capital penalty relative to any given pure play of the businesses that you own.
Is there anything that can be done about that whether it be a spin or shrinkage? I'm almost as frustrated as you about it but curious to get your thoughts on what can be done about it.
You couldn't possibly be as frustrated as me okay? So I think -- so you're right it's how you calculate it.
A lot of things going to happen Glenn.
For example I think it will force competitors in a lot of areas because of the higher number.
So you're going to find a lot of people they wouldn't be able to survive at 7 in whatever business we're in because all the other competitors will be at 8 or 9 or something like that.
So assuming your numbers right it is not a huge drag on returns but it also gives the opportunity to trade and pick the businesses you want.
So I think you will see a lot of very tight management RWA businesses balance sheet items.
And a lot of ways I personally go waste of time but that's what'll happen so that you can get good adequate returns on capital.
In some ways a G-SIFI will be a plus.
You'll win business that other people will have hard a time competing for us.
In other things it could be a negative.
Like for example owning consumer assets might be a negative.
On the other hand you can originate sell securitize so you can still be the generation business but not necessarily holding the asset business.
And I also think you'll see plenty nonbanks good and bad are grow -- to handle and own some of their asset classes and other forms of securitizations do the same thing.
So it's a long road and I still think we have very good businesses when all is said and done.
Your next question comes from the line of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Doug there seems to be a big buildup in liquidity on the balance sheet.
You mentioned that.
Could you give a little color on that? Is this being driven by the lack of investment options the mid low rates? Or is it being driven by the new regulatory rules that might be coming out around liquidity? We just -- we have deposits coming in in middle market TSS and we accept those deposits.
We have to investment them.
So it's not a deliberate building up of liquidity.
It's just dealing with the deposits as they come in.
Remember that liquidity is only 1 side of the balance sheet.
Inc.</strong> And any color on the net interest margin this quarter.
Was that the big driver of the decline sequentially in net interest margin this quarter? It's a combination Glenn of -- we sold some certain assets the Kohl's portfolio a mix in our loan balances towards more lower yielding assets and then deposit inflow as you talked about.
Inc.</strong> And is there any -- do you have any outlook on the net interest margin or net interest income Doug? I think if rates stay where they are you can continue to expect to see modest pressure on NIM.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just a question on expenses.
Did you see the increase in FDIC premiums this quarter and could you tell us what that was? Yes we did and approximately $100 million.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And that's flowing in now? Run rate on a -- for $1 billion change run rate total increase of $100 million this quarter.
We're paying more FDIC insurance and we're paying for all the bankrupted banks.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And last thing for me Jamie could you give some commentary around your exposure to the European countries that are subject to concern and how you think about sizing downside risk for you guys? Right.
So Greece Italy Ireland Portugal and Spain is still about the net exposure so it's net of collateral and it's non-sovereign collateral about $15 billion.
Think of those exposures are to banks sovereign and Corporates.
And we're managing that exposure.
We have a big business in those countries and we intend to be in those countries for long time.
So we're not going to cut and run.
In my Chairman's letter I wrote about worst case which I do not expect to happen even today that if it causes me $3 billion after-tax.
That's my best guess by the way.
So that could obviously be dramatically different but I still don't expect that.
The real impact of failures over there would be on what does it do to the global economy what does it do to other exposures in Europe what does it do to exposures in the United States? And you can guess that as well as I can.
I don't expect it will be a disaster for our French and German banks.
Obviously we have exposures in France and Germany and elsewhere but I think those things will probably be fine.
Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Just a follow-up on that.
Some people look at the disclosure and looking at different pieces of the disclosure you can come to different conclusions just as to whether or not you're a net buyer or seller of protection on your credit.
Could you just give a little color as to how you're thinking about that as it relates to the European exposure that you have? Buyer of credit exposure on the 5 nations I just spoke about? On -- I mean you can't get to that level of detail obviously in the disclosure but you can see whether or not your.
.
.
Here's the problem with the numbers you see because there is a public disclosure that shows those 5 countries like being $100 billion right? But that $100 billion does not include collateral.
It does not include hedging.
And we do a lot of hedging both specific name and country hedging.
So that's the issue with that.
So my $15 billion is net of hedging net of collateral and I mean non-sovereign collateral.
So we wouldn't include Greek collateral -- Greek sovereign collateral for a Greek repo.
We only include collateral outside of Greece.
So that's where the $15 billion comes from.
That's the best estimate of the exposure.
It bounces around all the time.
Then there were some reports in the press today I saw that Greece and -- I mean that Germany and France was $300 billion.
Same issue and those are very gross exposures and the numbers would be 10% of that.
Can you give us a sense as to how big of an exposure you're comfortable with? Yes we're comfortable with the $15 billion right now.
The bulk of that is in Spain and Italy.
And a lot of that is also Corporate and Corporates are -- you've got to be very careful when you talk about -- and even when you had failures in Argentina and Mexico a lot of the Corporates were okay.
So you got to be very careful of those.
We've been doing business with those countries for a long period of time.
So -- well our current thinking is that we're going to continue to do business there and manage those exposures.
We're not trying to drive them down.
And I hope that 1 day some of these European nations appreciate the fact that we're not cutting and running.
And then just separately on the Moody's last night announcement that they would put the U.S.
government debt on review.
How do you think about managing the risk around that? Well when you say manage the risk around that that's a tough one to answer.
The risk around -- when you're talking about just a downgrade risk I think that's manageable but that will cause problems and issues because something people need AAA collateral some people can own.
So it will cause issues.
I don't think like the downgrade issue.
But a government default issue is far more severe than that and that will cut across intraday lines revolvers take down revolvers money market funds securities lending something like $3 trillion or $4 trillion of treasuries that uses collateral around the world.
It would change the pricing of securities.
Some buyers some owners will be forced to sell because they are not allowed to own defaulted securities.
I don't know what the rate agency would do if the United States goes in real default.
If it goes in real default and they keep the United States at AA plus I don't know.
If they move it down to D which is default that would cause a lot of other issues if people will be forced to sell.
So there's a huge cross-currents in that and it's not the kind of thing that I think people should play with.
And what surprises me about the conversation all is in -- you could talk about all the potential catastrophic outcomes but no one can possibly say in my opinion who is semi-rational could possibly say that there's no chance of a catastrophic outcome and therefore why would you take that risk.
And then just lastly on Basel III could you give us a sense as to how you see the RWAs trajecting? I mean should we be looking for this type of shrinkage rate Q-on-Q going forward or how do you think through that? Well first of all it's so far out so we're -- I think what we're saying now is that we originally made a statement we're going to go to the 7% right away.
We're at 7.5%.
We don't need to be higher than 7.5%.
And I'm not sure the regulators want people to move higher than that very quickly because they do believe that would cause a lot of banks to dramatically reduce their balance sheets.
We're going to generate so much excess capital but there's no need to be over 7.5%.
So one of the things that will drive excess capital is the runoff and what I call natural mitigation.
There are certain things in the balance sheet that will runoff that are big users of capital.
Think credit hybrids re-securitizations lower rated things and then there will be other decisions we make over time of business we may not want to be in because they use up too much capital.
And so it'll be a wide variety of things but I think at the end of the day we'll still be able to get very good returns for our shareholders and the capital we do deploy.
But I guess the other thing is as RWAs are coming down you're going to see that ratio drift up obviously all other things equal and there's only so much you can buy back at least at this stage.
So you're basically saying.
.
.
That ratio is going to drive up so fast people are going to be surprised.
And that's not just us by the way.
I've mentioned this before you're going to see a lot of banks in the U.S.
and maybe some banks around the world start to generate huge amounts of excess capital where everyone is in a different time zone.
So maybe some banks maybe 1 quarter or 2 behind us but it'll happen and then they won't know what to do with it.
That's what's going to happen.
We're going to have huge excess capital in the banking system in about 12 months way beyond what the banking system needs and God knows why we have to hold all that capital but that's where we are.
Yes but I guess what I'm saying is we shouldn't expect that you're going to able to manage your 7.5% ratio Q-on-Q-on-Q? All I'm saying is we don't see any need to go over that.
We may not be able to avoid going over that is that what you're saying? Yes.
Okay.
Then if we have that problem we'll figure out what we can do.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Goldberg with Barclays Capital.
I guess within the Card business it looked like NII came down quite a bit and I guess a lot of that's Kohl's but -- or part of its Kohl's at least and then fee income kind of went up quite a bit.
Is there any kind of movement within that we should know about or kind of strategy shift? Kohl's you're right.
We had $3.7 billion of assets out impacted NII.
We had high -- remember that was more of a loan trade as opposed to a fundamental business trade so we had high expenses associated with that.
And then fee income is up because we've got more transactors and that's a function of sales volume.
Which is great I mean the sales volume is up 10% or something it's really extraordinarily good.
If you exclude Kohl's sales volume was up 13%.
Got it.
And then I guess a commentary on agency put back I guess seemed positive.
I guess one of your competitors 1 week or 2 ago I guess took the other taxing they were seeing a change in agency behavior and actually seeing more put backs from Fannie Mae.
Just -- have you seen any I guess adverse changes in kind of what they're doing? No we've estimated agency put backs and obviously it's changing the timing issues but we've given what was our best estimate.
If we see a different thing we'll let you know.
We've been a little conservative on that hopefully.
Got it.
And then just lastly I mean you talked about recouping a portion of the Durbin Amendment and I know it's something you've talked about in the past.
Any terms of being able to quantify that or kind of where you are in terms of kind of putting strategies in place? Yes so it's $1 billion.
It's very clear.
We're not going to do anything that's not consumer friendly.
So a lot of "recoupment" will be and some of this already happened with debit rewards programs and we're going to test various things.
And you already have some checking accounts that have modest fees.
And so we're going to come up with something that will help mitigate that a little bit.
Your next question comes from the line of Guy Moszkowski with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
A question on the home lending net charge-off guidance.
You're under $1 billion now for the quarter for the first time in a long time and I'm conscious of the seasonality comment that you made.
But with the guidance still at $1.2 billion is it realistic to think that it could pop that much based on your models? I mean how much would we need to see unemployment rise or home price depreciation accelerate in order to get back to that $1.2 billion kind of number? Yes so the reason -- you're right.
It should run lower than $1.2 billion but embedded in our thinking is that home price go down a little bit.
There's a lot of uncertainty.
We still have the DOJ and the AGs.
There could be changes in how we have to modify loans and service loss.
We have foreclosure delays and all that kind of stuff.
So we're just trying to be conservative here.
It's not likely to be higher than $1.2 billion next quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Moshe Orenbuch with Crédit Suisse.
Just following up on a couple of the last points you made.
I mean as it relates to the mortgage Doug I think you had said that actually the reserves that you've taken for that including the $1 billion this quarter include your expectation of the costs of an AG settlement.
Would that -- I mean is that correct? Yes.
Yes.
So if there were a settlement announced that was consistent with what you are expecting the P&amp;L impact would be small or nothing going forward? Yes it's just an estimate so it will be plus or minus something but yes.
Sure.
Okay.
And just to also kind of follow-up on the Durbin question.
I mean you mentioned kind of things that could be consumer friendly.
Have you kind of looked at or tested any kind of changes in products that might kind of be able to get better interchange rates than a debit product like switching people to charge cards? Is that something that you've kind of looked at? I mean how should we think about...
We're going to look at every possibility and there are a lot of restrictions to what we can do because they blocked off like a charge card with automatic deductions at the end of the year.
we're going to look at every possibility and hopefully offer our customers great products and great services better than some of the nonbank competitors and get paid for it.
Great.
Okay.
And I guess maybe just kind of following up on the capital question.
Last quarter you kind of felt like -- you kept talking about the stock buyback as being relative to kind of where the price of the stock is.
I mean would it be fair to say that given everything that you see now that in the third quarter you'd still be deploying capital in that direction? Yes but we're not going to tell you what we do day-in and day-out but we brought $3.5 billion around these prices.
And like we said we have good [ph] capital generation so we have permission to buy more.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Miller with FBR.
On the foreclosure expenses that you've taken now I think either with MSR evaluation and this one's a straight up $1.3 billion do you think you got that ring fenced? Do you think you need to continue to take some of these expenses? Or do you think you've taken most of them at this point? So GSE we think we're done.
The foreclosure delays and settlements et cetera we have an estimate.
My guess is it's a little bit higher but it's not hopefully not a huge number.
MSR work will be done.
It could be a little bit -- but it shouldn't be a lot more.
And the private label stuff will probably go up a little bit but I doubt it will go up more than the reserves.
We're going to have to take down in the next 12 months.
It's possible we're very over reserved in mortgage line too.
So that's litigation.
It's going to take -- we think it's going to go to litigation but we don't know how you can do it the other way.
So that's why we have it under litigation and we're not going to disclose exactly the numbers for that.
Okay.
And the other question is on -- going back to the NIM question again.
With rates staying here and I think you said a little bit earlier in the call that you expect modest declines in NIM at what point do you just let the balance sheet start to roll down? And I mean what's that sacrifice? Because if you grow your balance sheet it seems like you're going to have more NIM pressure.
Do you just let it roll-off at these -- with rates at these levels? Well we don't look at NIM okay? NIM is just -- we look at like we have profits and we have clients.
So the clients are paying us deposits.
You don't really want to trim them away if they are good clients.
So even if you have to invest in a very small spread you probably would do that right? It's improving your business.
And obviously what we are constantly managing our interest rate exposure and rates going up will help us whether we could change that tomorrow and increase our NIM but then you're taking far more exposure against rising rates.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
For the Investment Banking revenues quarter-over-quarter Asia was the lowest in a while and Europe didn't go down as much as the overall segment.
Can you describe what's happening there? Yes Mike.
Asia just lower volumes.
It's a heavily equity-related business in Asia both in Investment Bank end markets and lower volumes second quarter.
Europe we had good performance this quarter in our markets businesses and in the Investment Bank.
And the markets businesses why did it get better? Are you benefiting from the volatility? Is there more activity? What's happening there? It's just -- well it's everything we've done a little bit from the last quarter.
But all the businesses pretty much continue to have pretty good flow client flow businesses.
I guess I'll just ask my question straight out.
I mean is there a chance for another scenario like you had in the United States in 2008 2009 in Europe over the next couple of years given what they're going through? Mike your guess is as good as ours on that.
Of course it's possible that some of these things start to get worse and it cause severe problems.
And so we're very conscious of that.
And how it flows back to United States it's hard to tell.
Let me shift gears.
Syndicated lending how much did that contribute to the growth in wholesale loans and what were your syndicated lending fees this quarter? And what's your view on the market overall? It seems like it's really growing quickly.
Yes it's a good business but it's less than 20% of $1.9 billion of total Investment Banking fees.
And the balance sheet -- remember only some of that stays in the balance sheet.
We sell old loans.
We syndicate loans.
We have just great stuff that goes off the balance sheet.
So the buildup most of buildup I think Doug already mentioned was Global Corporate Banking and the conduit business which we still think is a good business.
But the syndicate business the Investment Bank balance sheet loan balance sheet stuff bounces all over the place because corporations always have the ability generally to go to the markets.
So they're always decided between bonds and loans and even of the loans some of that's -- a lot of that stuff gets syndicated.
All right let me shift gears to Credit Cards.
I mean you improved the loss rates by 100 basis points now you expect another 75 basis points lower.
You're typically pretty conservative in your guidance what gives you such confidence that those losses are going to go down so much? Well Mike we have tremendous visibility on next quarter already just by looking at delinquencies and roll rates.
So you have very good visibility 1 quarter out and some visibility 2 quarters out.
If that rolls off -- we won't be that long off next quarter put it that way.
What's your new estimate for mid-2012? Well we're not going to give you one but if things continue the way they are it'll be pretty good.
And then lastly what was the average price where you bought back stock last quarter? You know the number? Yes a little under $44.
Your next question comes from the line of David Hilder with Susquehanna.
LLLP</strong> Two timing questions and then one about the reserves.
Would you expect to have changes in debit card or consumer pricing ready by October 1 to begin mitigating immediately? No so you'll see the full effect of Durbin which will be fully felt in the fourth quarter.
It will be about $250 million and it will be barely mitigated in the fourth quarter.
LLLP</strong> Okay.
And any thoughts on timing of the resolution of the state attorneys general investigation on foreclosures? There had been some speculation that it might be resolved by now.
I would do anything to get it done today but our counsel advises us it could take quite a while.
There are a lot of parties engaged in this and I doubt if people have gotten much closer on it.
But if we get that call we'll be on an airplane we'll be down there and we'll be signing up.
One of the reasons to do that is it's good for the United States of America to get behind us all this stuff to fix it and move on.
The delay in foreclosures and all the insurance mortgages is not a good thing for the economy.
I think you understand that.
So we can't wait to do it as soon as we can.
It's got to be done right.
We're not going to do it and be subject to double triple jeopardy.
We'd rather litigate it.
LLLP</strong> And for the corporation as a whole was the total litigation reserve expense in the quarter $1.3 billion or that's in Corporate or were there additional litigation reserves elsewhere in the segments? There are always other pluses and minuses and you'll see some of that when the 10-K comes out because we have to disclose that now.
The 10-Q I mean.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
I guess first following up on the net interest margin and net interest income dollars obviously the NIM percent was down a fair amount this quarter but the net interest income dollars was down a little less than $100 million.
And where the balance sheet is starting to grow from here do we see continued stabilization and then some growth in the back half of the year in the dollars? You're going to have declined pressure from the portfolio runoffs little less for card over time but continue in RFS and loan balances are going to drive the aggregate dollars and we'll see where demand is.
Okay.
And then just separately as we think about the macro environment and a lot of us have been waiting for higher rates and more activity overall and hopefully it's going to come but it's hard to have too much confidence in that any time soon.
Is there kind of a plan B in maybe it's the investment spend in card retail Asset Management the deposit pricing and just what are some of the contingency plans that you have if we're stuck with low rates for a few more years and we're just kind of hobbling along with 2% 2.5% growth? I'm not sure what you mean by plan B.
We're not going to stop growing our business and hiring bankers and opening branches and growing checking accounts and trying to do more trading business and making middle market loans because you have a peculiar interest rate curve.
And if it squeezes margins a little bit in some places so be it.
We could change that in 2 minutes.
So if you wanted to increase NIM we could just increase interest rate exposure and increase NIM.
Well I guess the concern I hear from some investors is that banks in general continue to hold out hopes for higher rates and that the deposits will be worth more and keep a bigger expense infrastructure than what's needed for the current environment hoping for rates to rise revenues to come back.
And it is this possible looking out 2 years from now that things aren't that much different than what we have right now? It's not that difficult.
This will be fine.
We'll figure out ways to price products and services and make a margin we'll be fine.
Okay.
And then just lastly if I may as we think about your Private Equity business it's continuing to churn out very good returns.
I think there could be some limits on what you can do in this segment with regulation going forward.
Are there any thoughts or opportunities to unlock some of that value or how it might play out in terms of being sold or spun out? Well you're making a good point.
We have a -- we are blessed to have one equity partners which we just think an exceptional group of people and obviously we always say about Private Equity those gains in sales are going to be lumpy.
They're not -- we're not like Warren Buffett in this one.
We prefer 20% lumpy with -- average but lumpy returns than 12%.
And so over time this number go up or down but it's real earnings for the company.
It's just you can't book into your model every quarter but it's real earnings for the company and we expect to get those 20% returns over time.
And I guess my question was about the business as a whole.
Will this still be under the JPMorgan umbrella or over time will it be sold or spun? Yes yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Harte with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.</strong> A couple of questions left.
One as we look at you building a lot of excess capital and as we look at there potentially being a lot of distressed sellers out there how are you thinking about the potential for acquisitions to cross a regulatory capital threshold and maybe push your capital requirements up even higher than the 9.5% kind of Basel number people are talking about now? Look we don't know the final rules in that yet.
And remember that stuff will be in effect for 8 years so give us a little time on that one.
But we would certainly use our capital.
We thought there were things that we can do that were great for shareholders whether it's buying a company or buying assets.
So if you have any brilliant ideas give us a call.
L.P.</strong> Okay.
And secondly when we talk about the 5 European nation exposures and the gross versus the net how can we get some comfort from the outside about the effectiveness of hedges? Because I keep having flashbacks to the crisis where things like monolines were viewed as effective hedges and we found out they weren't.
Right but we didn't have a lot of that either did we? So I've already said it was non-sovereign collateral.
So if some of these things have collateral that's usually pretty good.
We're very careful what we take as collateral.
Some of the hedges are not perfect.
There are some countries CDS hedges that are offsetting company type of exposures and we have specific name exposures that are sometimes directly offset so -- and some of it is in the trading book or derivative exposure would change over time but we're -- that's why we say the $15 billion and we're pretty concern around it.
And obviously you couldn't make money.
You'd be more sort of better than you think but it's not going to move by $15 billion.
You're talking about being plus or minus $1 billion here or there.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> One question on Fixed Income trading.
That held up I think a lot better than people were expecting.
We saw a year-over-year improvement for the first time in 5 quarters I guess a better comparison versus a year ago.
But also is that a sign that we're starting to see spread compression ease in Fixed Income as things normalize here? Or is that unique to you guys just showing some good market share? How should we think about your results there? Was it just lumpy or you think that's indicative of the market industry sort of stabilizing? So I think I can categorize it is that spreads have normalized.
They come back to normal for a while.
Obviously it changes in every business a little bit and that flows have been good.
They have been good fairly much across all the products.
There are some months we're lower than others but it's really those 2 things.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And on the deposit side you had a big improvement I think $50 billion or so sequentially on average deposits most of that seemed to be in TSS.
Is that a reflection of a flight to safety given the macro concerns out there? And if so did that continue into July? I think a little bit was a flight to safety and a little bit was that just people managing their own balance sheets and there's a lot of liquidity around the world and some of it went away early in the quarter but not all of it.
Your next question comes from the line of Meredith Whitney with Meredith Whitney.
I have 3 questions please.
The first is the -- probably the broadest one which is you're stuck with higher capital you may not like it but you're stuck with it.
One thing you can cut expenses or you can reprice.
So can you talk about across the businesses and maybe particularly in Investment Banking what you're doing in terms of repricing and how you manage that with the competition? Yes.
I don't think in the wholesale businesses you're seeing repricing yet because I don't think a lot of these things are actually effective yet.
I think you've seen some repricing in consumer business and more relating to all the other legislation card overdraft and stuff like that.
So I don't think you've seen it exactly yet in wholesale businesses.
But you need to? And I know just to anecdotally you're repricing some of your products.
Where -- are we not even in stage 1 yet is that what you're saying? We're not even in stage 1 of repricing.
Remember there are a lot of other changes coming too margin requirements and how these things get applied globally the liquidity requirements which I think will cause some repricing so -- but very little yet.
Okay.
But even from a cost structure basis to offset that there's got to be repricing.
Yes I think you're going to see repricing in certain types of deposits and certain types of loans certain types of revolvers shorter duration -- I think you're going to see those things.
You haven't really seen them yet.
Okay okay.
The second question is on if you could -- I know this is a stretch but if you could provide some type of outlook on the impending announcement I guess that's coming over the next 2 weeks vis-à-vis Fannie Freddie and a new housing initiatives.
How that -- what the scenarios could be? Either if it's Fannie Freddie backstopping or guaranteeing mortgages or potential cram down what the best policy in your opinion would be? And then what various -- limited various policies how that would affect you? And then I have one last question.
Yes.
I guess again so one that's going to happen is reducing the maximum size what they'll guarantee from like $750 million to $630 million whatever it is.
We don't think this is going to have a substantial impact but we can go in one -- I think there was 1% of the volume was done enough -- in between those levels.
So the impact of that will be jumbos will go up a little bit and where you sell the agencies will go down a little bit.
Most of the changes they're talking about are not in the near term.
They're just talking about them to be effective years from now.
And so there's plenty of time to figure out how to do that.
At the end of the day we'll be in the mortgage business and I think it'll return to being a good business.
It will be much more conservative much more carefully done.
There will be much different servicing standards and -- but I don't think the announcement is going to change that much.
Okay.
On the Investment Banking side your DCM results are so much better than what we have heard from the rest of the Street.
And so what we hear from the rest of the Street is that there's a risk off trade during the quarter volumes were low people got a lot of -- obviously this wouldn't be flow but people got risk-averse because they got a lot of the moves sort of whatnot wrong early in the quarter.
And your results were so strong.
Is that suggestive of the fact that your clients are more risk aggressive? Or can you put that into context with the rest of the industry? When you say DCM are you talking about primary issuance or you're talking about trading secondary? Primary issuance.
So we kept...
And trading.
We kept the #1 share.
And we were more of the bigger more of the lead manager in the #1 share.
That's right.
So kept the #1 share.
Market share actually for us grew a little bit in the second quarter as a percentage matter.
And as far as the DCM numbers also are syndicated loans which we're obviously pretty strong into.
Okay so maybe that makes up the difference? Could be? Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Najarian with ISI Group.
Two quick questions.
Just in terms of the home lending portfolio we've seen that -- we saw that drop about $30 billion year-over-year and that's in line with the outlook that you've given.
Any update on the pace that we can expect that portfolio to continue to shrink over the next year or 2? That would be the first question.
10% to 15% a year.
Forever.
Forever.
Now I guess maybe that's what I'm looking for.
Any idea when you think that might start to stabilize? Obviously not in the near term but down the road? It's going to go down 10% or 15% a year until it's close to 0.
That's where it's going to do.
The world isn't doing subprime any more.
The world isn't doing -- well so home equity will just come back to a number and then stabilize but it's a lot lower than it is today.
And jumbo is a decision that you make whether to put on balance sheet or not and I think that class of asset will be most affected by some of these G-SIFI thing.
So we'll see on that one.
We can buy or sell portfolios anytime we want.
All right so you expect that to continue to come down pretty much at that pace at least over the next several years? Yes.
Okay.
And then second question would be is there anything that would stop you as you continue to deploy excess capital? I know it looks like you have about $4.5 billion left on your current repurchase authorization you may want to increase your dividend.
Is there anything that would stop you from going back to the Fed before the end of the year to get more approvals to deploy even more capital than you have approved right now? Well remember it's the board that is the primary driver of capital decisions and so -- no if the board -- if we think it was appropriate to go to talk to the regulators again about capital we would.
Right prior to the next round of capital stress tests? Right.
So I think it's important to point out the board is responsible for this company not just the regulators.
It's still America.
Capitalism is still alive.
The regulators start making all capital decisions then they should the board.
Your next question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Can you guys share some color on the asset yields? In your loan portfolio we've been hearing anecdotal evidence that competition is very very aggressive.
Did you guys see that this quarter as the yields came down sequentially to 5.36% from 5.62%? So that Gerard was really a mix-related issue.
Spreads on loans if you look at our Commercial Bank middle market stayed very healthy this quarter.
LLC</strong> Good.
The other question I have is regarding Jamie's comment about what could happen if the U.S.
is downgraded to a AA plus.
Would that actually help your business? Would you guys see an increase in business as people start shifting their portfolios? It's possible but we're not wishing for it.
Sure no no I understand that.
It's a bad way to win.
We want to see United States to be happy and growing and jobs.
That's what we want to see.
And if for some reason that's not great for JPMorgan's share so be it.
LLC</strong> And then finally on the comment you guys made about the payoffs or repayments on the Credit Card portfolio you expect them to remain pretty high.
The guys on the frontline are they telling you why you're still seeing such high repayments on the Credit Card portfolios? What's driving the consumers' behavior? Well I guess as part of our repayment has just been a mix to much higher quality clients more transactor clients so some of that was expected.
It's going to stabilize soon.
And so no the rate may not actually change at one point.
We'll eventually have growth in that portfolio anyway.
Your next question comes from the line of Ron Mandle with GIC.
Jamie I was wondering if you could elaborate on your comment you made early on about the fact that G-SIFIs will have higher capital ratios could -- might force the companies that would be in lower buckets to actually have higher capital as well? I wasn't sure I really understood that point.
Yes.
So I'm saying I do this by business okay? If you are a company right below the G-SIFI and some of these G-SIFIs or SIFIs have a lot more capital you may start losing business because of that because it might be easier for boards and investors and people to say "you know what leave those deposits with the G-SIFI put it over here." So I'm saying they may become a small competitive disadvantage for the non-SIFI.
And so I could see that you're going to -- I could see you might hear from some of the smaller banks that they're going to be forced to hold the higher capital numbers for competitive reasons.
I don't know about that but I'm just -- look I think there are going to be a lot -- I think when you do something like this like a G-SIFI where they're going to give all these reasons why you have to do it I think it's going to cause a lot of distortions which are hard to figure out today.
I can win some business because of it.
I think there are things that are not in the balance sheet because of it.
I think you're going to see some small banks complain about it not realizing that's going to hurt them competitively.
So I think -- I just think you'll see a lot of to-ing and fro-ing because of this issue.
Yes I guess I could it more in the commercial businesses or not even commercial in the big wholesale businesses than I could see in the more -- down in the branches' consumer businesses.
Yes I think you're probably right.
It'll be more of the global wholesale businesses than maybe the consumer side.
Yes.
And then my other question regarding litigation one attorney general who operates nearby seems to be going off on his own beyond the 50 or in addition to the 50 states.
How are you thinking about what Schneiderman is up to and are you reserving for what he may be thinking about and the subpoenas that he's been sending out and so on? Look I'm not talking about any one particular person but there are 50 state attorney generals.
And so it's a complex issue which I think why it's taking so long to resolve some of this stuff.
Like I said it's in everyone's interest to resolve it.
Yes.
And then just one last litigation question.
The FHA was taking a look at some things that a company Deutsche Bank had brought regarding the quality of the loans.
Are you -- might you be involved in that investigation at some point? I don't know the answer to that.
I think we've been very careful in FHA underwriting but I can't tell you what those other actors are going to do.
There have been so many flaws in mortgages that it's just -- it's been an unmitigated disaster and we really need to clean it up for the sake of everybody.
And everyone is going to sue everybody else's.
It's going to go on for a long time.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC</strong> Just a question in terms of the branch growth trends now that Todd has taken over the or responsibility for that part of the businesses.
Is there any thought of changing your growth estimation for the number of branches over the next couple of years that you laid out at the Analyst Day earlier this year? Not necessarily.
There has been no change of strategy because there's been a change in management.
But I would always -- ask Todd you can rethink it.
If you think we should do something different in different places different types of branch different locations different pace you should tell us and we don't mind changing our plans but no change right now.
Remember a lot of that is building out -- building out where we are.
It could make a lot of sense even though it may not be a macro thing buy you still might want to build-out cities we don't have enough branches.
LLC</strong> And then one question from a footnote in the slide deck in terms of the WaMu private label exposure.
You noted there that you and the FDIC have different views on how that needs to be approached.
Is that something for which you can focus on in terms of litigation risk? Or is that another type of risk that's not really included in what you would view as litigation risk? No we think they're responsible for the private label issues that came out of WaMu.
We bought the assets and certain liabilities and we don't think that was one of the liabilities we bought.
I'm sure that will be in litigation too.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then Doug just one quick final question.
What were the numbers for CVA DVA this quarter in the trading business? The trading business is about 140 positive DVA.
The CVA was...
CVA is -- that's a wash with some other.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer.
I have to admit I'm one of those nerds that looks at the Fed's H8 data every Friday afternoon and on the total loading volumes.
And just systemically they look like they're turning around.
For most of the last 18 months they were shrinking and now we've got them flattening out and they look like they're going to grow.
And I'm just curious just philosophically if for example systemic -- system-wide loans grow 5% in the year ahead just to pick a number should we expect JPMorgan's loan volumes and then the attendant net interest revenues also to grow kind of in proportion to that 5%? Or do you think that you have a larger runoff portfolios than average and that that would keep you down -- your trends below the industry? I don't know.
We break it apart by business.
So we expect the core bank will grow -- that core bank will grow with probably with the trends.
We think middle market will grow faster than the middle market trends.
Small business was up like 28% or some huge number.
We think that will grow fast than middle market trends.
Credit Card we think will grow faster though with a little bit of runoff a little faster.
And then the -- obviously offsets mortgage.
There's a huge mortgage runoff that's going to continue forever.
Okay.
And then just as a follow-up the home equity lines according to the Fed H8 data are going down about 5% a year.
You said 10% to 15%.
And I mean are you really making a strategic bet that this product is dead in the rest of the world? Well I think the home equity product unfortunately is a good product that just became part of those -- became part of the bubble at the end okay but the product itself is a good product.
And how much did we reach in this quarter? We're originating $1 billion or $2 billion a quarter so we're going to stay in that business.
It just could be that runoff but we're originating what we originated last year.
So origination is a very different than total balances in this one.
They'll never go back to where they were.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Tanona with UBS.
Just 2 quick ones here.
In terms of IB backlog can you give us any color? And also did you see any dramatic changes as the quarter progressed given all the macro uncertainties out there? So backlog is solid but it's dependent on market conditions for execution on that backlog.
Actually...
During the quarter you had a lot of kind of ins and outs in the past few weeks.
It's probably more of that than normal this quarter but...
And just remember third quarter tends to be seasonally low.
Yes that's fair.
And then secondly in RFS obviously there's a lot going on there.
We've seen expenses increase dramatically here in the last year.
But when you think about the Retail Banking segment really expenses haven't necessarily grown.
So just trying to get a sense as to where we should we expect the Retail Financial Services expenses to kind of peak out here given that you guys are actually going to start embarking on a major rollout of new branches.
I think what you just look at is that the retail branches -- it's not a major rollout.
We've been doing 120 branches forever and I was just talking about increasing in to 150 175 maybe 200.
So I think you'll see the retail branch expenses grow over time but not dramatically just grow over time.
The ones that you're going to see dramatic changes in expenses eventually will be mortgage because we are still baring high cost related to the high level of default foreclosure expenses or OREO expenses and things like that.
And I read all the time that we make more money on defaulted loans or foreclosed loans than we do servicing some [ph] loans and I find that mystifying.
I mean it cost us a fortune to deal with these kinds of things.
And so eventually those expenses will come down.
And some of those went to the mortgage MSR and some don't.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Holton with The Boston Company.
Doug you talked about charge-offs and normalized credit costs across a couple of different segments.
And just thinking for the back half of the year overall Corporate provision costs would you expect those to be kind of flattish up a little bit down a little bit? What's your best guess at this point? Overall provision flattish.
For the whole company or just Corporate? No for wholesale.
No no for the entire company.
The whole company? Let's do -- wholesale flattish.
We've given you what we think the trend is for card And we've also given you expectations relative to the mortgage business.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Guy Moszkowski with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I just had a follow-up on the private label securities reserves.
I think I heard you say and I may have misheard you but I think I heard you say that you thought that you were at this point fully reserved for what you think the cost there could be over time.
Should we assume that that's based on your belief that you're not responsible for the WaMu stuff that was originated before and what you believe is the FDIC's responsibility? Yes.
Okay so if in fact the ruling turned out not in your favor on that there would be some additional reserve that would have to be built presumably? Yes.
And WaMu is about 1/3 of our total stuff there.
1/3 of issuance Guy.
1/3 of the total issuance was what WaMu did prior to failing? Right.
Our balances.
And you have no further questions at this time.
Okay.
Well thank you very much for spending time with us and we'll talk to you soon.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to JPMorgan Chase's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
Your line will be placed on mute for the duration of the call.
We will now go live to the presentation.
Please standby.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase's Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon; and Chief Financial Officer Doug Braunstein.
Mr.
Braunstein please go ahead.
Thanks Operator.
It's Doug.
I'm going to take you through the earnings presentation.
As you know it's available on our website.
We’ll take questions after walking through the presentation and then remember to refer to the disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements in the back of the presentation.
With that if you turn to Page 1 for the quarter we generated $4.3 billion in net income $1.02 a share on revenues of $24.4 billion.
There are a number of significant items for the quarter which we’re highlighting upfront.
I want to discuss each of those in more detail actually when we get to the businesses in the presentation.
At the bottom of the page you’ll see we ended the quarter Basel I and Basel III ratios of 9.9% and 7.7% respectively.
And that's after the impact of repurchasing $4.4 billion of JPM shares and warrants in the quarter and that completes our previously approved repurchase authority of $8 billion.
It's worth noting a number of items this quarter for credit.
You see our loan loss coverage ratio is 3.74% on total loans.
Firmwide reserves remained essentially unchanged quarter-on-quarter.
From a loan growth standpoint we saw loans grow across the Company’s $7 billion and that's despite the run-off we see in our home lending portfolio.
We had meaningful year-to-date growth year-over-year in our small business originations up 71% middle market balance is up 18% trade finance up 70% year-over-year just some examples of some of the strength in various categories.
We also experienced significant deposit growth $44 billion quarter-on-quarter total deposits up $1.1 billion and deposit growth year-over-year up 21%.
Finally return on tangible common equity is a circled number on the next page of 13%.
And with that I’d ask you to turn to Page 3 in the Investment Bank.
Results secured were clearly impacted by the challenging market this quarter.
We have circled net income of $1.6 billion that’s on revenues of $6.4 billion.
IB fees in the quarter of $1 billion down 31% year-over-year largely driven by the challenging capital markets environment.
On an absolute basis it was our weakest IB fee quarter since the third quarter of 2005.
But having said that we did maintain our number one market share in terms of fees and we also had very positive league table results which you could see in the appendix on Page 21.
Markets and CPG results as you know from the upfront highlight include a $1.9 billion in DVA and that largely resulted from the firm’s credit spreads widening this quarter.
They actually more than doubled in the quarter.
Now if these spreads reversed themselves we’d ultimately book losses neither the gains nor the losses related to the underlying operations of the Company.
So if you remove $900 million in DVA that’s associated with structured notes fixed income revenue would be $2.8 billion down 34% quarter-on-quarter that largely reflects lower results in our credit-related products and that was offset by solid results in our rates and our currency businesses.
Equity’s revenue of $1 billion down 9% quarter-on-quarter that’s driven largely by the volatility I talked about lower volumes and the continued deleveraging of our prime service customers.
$578 million you see in the credit portfolio remember three parts here; NII and fees to retain loans.
We had $1 billion DVA gain in the credit portfolio and that was largely offset by a $700 million CVA loss after hedging and that's again as credit spreads widen for our counterparties CVA increases as well.
Expenses in the quarter of $3.8 billion that's down 12% quarter-on-quarter up 3% year-on-year and you see the comp to revenue ratio of 29%.
We continue to expect to remain full year in the range of 35% to 40% comp to revenue ratio.
And before I talk about 4Q I just want to step back.
So if you – and everyone will adjust differently.
If you adjusted out the complete impact of DVA net income in the quarter would be about $500 million.
For those that adjust DVA and CVA net income in the quarter would have been $900 million and others are going to make different adjustments as you go through your analysis.
The final comment I'd make on the fourth quarter for the IB is given current markets it's not unreasonable to expect that the fourth quarter is going to look very similar to the third quarter.
With that let me turn to Page 4 just a quick note here.
This is consolidated RFS.
Circled net income of $1.2 billion on $7.5 billion worth of revenues and I want to dive into each of the businesses.
So if you turn to Page 5 our Consumer &amp; Business Banking business that's the retail branch in Business Banking business recorded $1 billion in net income.
That's up 22% year-on-year.
Revenues were up 6% year-on-year and if you want to focus on the highlights deposit growth up 7% Business Banking loan growth up 28% year-on-year actually the pipeline there remains very solid.
And all of that in revenues was offset by lower deposit spreads we saw year-on-year.
Expenses in the quarter up 2% year-on-year and that really is the continuing investment spend.
We opened 60 branches 123 chase private client branches this quarter and we’re going to continue that investment.
And then the final comment is the impact of Durbin which as you know took effect October 1st.
We continue to expect revenues on an annualized basis from Durbin to be $1 billion plus or minus.
We expect $300 million in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter run rate and that’s an elevated amount due to the timing of when we ended some of our debit reward programs.
Page 6 Mortgage Production and Servicing you see net income of $200 million.
That’s compares to $25 million in the prior year.
Production revenues we’ve broken out Production and Servicing so if you go to top Production revenues excluding repurchases were $1.3 billion.
It’s down year-over-year but up quarter-on-quarter largely on the back of $37 billion of originations and the improved margins sequentially.
Repurchase losses in the quarter you see $314 million.
That was below our expected run rate but we do expect losses to remain at $350 million plus or minus a quarter but they are going to vary due to timing differences around settlements and the like.
Servicing revenues of $1.2 billion down 10% year-over-year and that’s been driven by the decline in third-party loan service and that’s been partially offset by reduced amortization year-on-year and that reflects the revaluation of the MSR asset we took in the first quarter.
Servicing expense $866 million this quarter up almost $300 million year-on-year.
Approximately two-thirds of that expense is default related and we expect that number to continue remain elevated likely to be up actually slightly in the next several quarters.
Page 7 the real estate portfolios a loss of $70 million on lower revenues of $1.2 billion that is a function of the decline in NII and that's a function of our portfolio run-off.
We talked about that $27 billion loan declines year-over-year $6 billion quarter-on-quarter.
The expenses are also down 7% year-on-year and you'll see the note that's due to a temporary delay in foreclosure activity.
We do expect FAE expense to increase $20 million to $30 million per quarter as that activity resumes.
Page 8 the Mortgage Banking portfolios just a little deeper dive on credit.
You see circled net charge-offs for the quarter of $900 million and that's a modest decline versus the prior quarter but delinquency trends really flattened at the end of the third quarter.
We've got as you know the additional detail on delinquencies on Page 19 in the appendix.
And given that flattening and the ongoing uncertainty in the environment relative to HPI and other items you'll see we made no changes in our allowances either for our non-credit impaired portfolio which remains at $9.7 billion or our PCI.
You'll also see our guidance remains unchanged at $1.2 billion few plus or minus but it's fair to say that if the current environment remains stable those losses could clearly be modestly better next quarter.
And then just a quick update on sensitivity for the portfolio.
So if you had a 10% decline in housing prices from today.
For the NCI portfolio that would imply a modeled loss of $700 million over the next year.
For PCI given that’s a life of loan it could add $1.5 billion to existing reserves and you should note that the current mark on that portfolio already assumes a 4% decline so that would be an additional 6% decline beyond that.
Obviously given where current conditions are we feel our reserve levels are appropriate.
Page 9 Card Services &amp; Auto.
This now reflects the combination of auto and student lending that we transferred from RFS and you’ll see in the supplement the restatement of all of that information.
Circled net income of $850 million that’s on revenues of $4.8 billion.
Credit costs in the quarter were again the story of $1.3 billion.
That included a $500 million reserve release in card that was offset by $130 million build in student lending.
At the end of the quarter total allowances for card are $7.5 billion.
So if you’re focusing on the Card Services number and you look at Chase portfolio drivers of performance I’d start with credit.
You see the circled number at the bottom of the page 4.34% charge-off rate in the Chase portfolio that’s an improvement of almost 100 basis points over the last quarter.
We also think net charge-offs could modestly improve again next quarter from the current quarter but after that you shouldn’t expect much additional improvement.
Sales volume you see is up 10% in the portfolio year-over-year 2% quarter-on-quarter.
Outstandings while they declined 6% year-over-year actually leveled off quarter-on-quarter and that’s a positive trend but I will caution that payment rates for the portfolio still remain very high.
And if you add all that up on card pre-tax pre-reserve is up almost $1 billion year-over-year $700 million for this quarter and that includes significant growth in our marketing expenses that you see running through the expense line in this quarter.
Auto the performance of auto again was solid this quarter.
We had almost $6 billion of originations and we do believe we’re going to continue to grow and invest and manage this business for what are very attractive returns.
Page 10 commercial bank circled net income of $570 million.
That’s on revenues of a little under $1.6 billion.
Revenues were up 4% year-on-year that’s the same story we’ve been talking about the commercial bank which is growth in loan balances growth in liability balances in fact the $180 billion in liability balances is a record this quarter and that growth is offset by the spread compression we continue to see in our liability products.
On the loan balance side you see $107 billion circled.
That’s up $5 billion quarter-on-quarter $9 billion year-on-year.
It’s our fifth consecutive quarter of loan growth.
Middle market balances which I said were up 18% that's our sixth consecutive quarter of loan growth in the middle market and that's been a combination we think of modest demand increases as well as market share gains.
Just I will note that utilization rates still do remain reasonably constant and low relative to history.
A part of that is that those cash balances reflect very healthy balance sheets on the part of those customers.
Expenses were up slightly this quarter.
That reflects the build-out of our WaMu footprint states.
Just as a measure of performance loan balances and liability balances are each at about $2 billion up almost 100% year-on-year respectively.
And then you see credit trends continue to be favorable declining net charge-offs this quarter and declining non-accrual loans.
Page 11 Treasury &amp; Securities Services you see circled net income of $300 million.
That’s up 22% year-on-year but down quarter-on-quarter.
Revenue growth of 4% year-on-year that was 7% growth if you exclude the impact of the transfer of the Commercial Card business to credit card we did.
And the quarter-on-quarter decrease in revenue is a function of the seasonality we see in our dividend seasons in 2Q and 4Q.
If you drill into the revenue growth really it’s driven by a number of factors.
You see the circled liability balances.
Those are up 40% year-on-year almost $100 billion.
Very solid non-U.S.
revenue growth in this business up 16% year-on-year.
We continue as a function of that growth to build out our GCB Banco footprint and our product capabilities.
Trade loan balances were up almost 70% year-on-year to $30 billion and all of that continues to be offset by the same spread compression I talked about in the Commercial Bank.
Expenses here were up 4% year-on-year and that’s driven primarily by non-comp related expenses as well as the expansion I talked about before.
Asset Management Page 12.
This is a business that was clearly also affected by volatile markets this quarter.
You see circled net income of $385 million.
That’s down 8% year-on-year 12% quarter-on-quarter.
Revenues of $2.3 billion while up 7% year-on-year are down 9% quarter-on-quarter up related to those market conditions and again this is a business that we’d expect to see continued pressure on revenue in the fourth quarter if the current market conditions persist.
Long-term flows here also slowed materially this quarter and that reduced the benefit of that mix shift we’ve experienced over the last several quarters.
We also continue to see outflows in liquidity products as well this quarter.
Expenses were up 21% year-on-year and that's due to a non-client related litigation matter as well as the continued investments we’ve talked about before.
And you see that impacting our pre-tax margin reported 21% in the quarter.
If you excluded the impact of litigation margins would be 26% this quarter but still down quarter-on-quarter and year-on-year.
Page 13 corporate and private equity.
These results were also affected by market volatility.
Private equity you see a loss in the quarter of $350 million.
Majority of that's driven by mark-to-market losses in portfolio positions but we also reduced valuations for companies that were experiencing operating performance weakness and that contributed to the result as well.
Remember going forward these results are going to continue to be lumpy and they’re also going to continue to be impacted by markets and market levels.
Corporate there was a loss of $300 million.
It was a function of three things the challenging trading environment impacted our mark-to-market positions and that was partially offset by higher security gains.
We had lower NII and that's really a result of the repositioning of the portfolio.
We’ve talked about that for a number of quarters but the security gains we took last quarter lowered NII this quarter.
And then we also took $1 billion in litigation expense predominantly related to mortgage matters and you see that in corporate for the quarter.
The other comment I’ll make here is that given the current environment and given our positioning and given reinvestment opportunities we do expect corporate excluding private equity to basically be zero plus or minus in the fourth quarter and I think Jamie will talk a little bit about ‘12 guidance later.
I think I’ve covered much of Page 14 in fact all of 14 all of 15.
So with that maybe Jamie I can turn it over to you? Thanks Doug.
So hello everybody.
Let me just cover a couple of quick things and then we’ll open up to questions and comments.
Page 16 has a page called Comments on 2012.
I just want to point out to you as usual we focus on the negatives and the issues and not the positives.
We have great franchises.
Doug mentioned some really outstanding numbers.
Small business loans up 71%.
Middle market loans up 18%.
Trade finance up 71%.
Deposits retail up 7%.
Deposits commercial bank up something like 30% or 40%.
I won’t include TSS because some of that maybe a little a flight to quality but up $100 billion unbelievable liquidity.
So we feel very good about all the things.
But having said that just a couple of quick comments.
Investment Bank we say hard not to be cautious.
I'd say that right now nobody knows what’s going to happen tomorrow.
So I’ve seen markets like this where things stabilized Europe does some big and things take off.
There are fairly large backlogs.
We’d pointed that our backlogs are very deceptive but you can’t look at these things and not expect maybe go a little bit longer.
We have no major layout programs.
Obviously the Investment Bank will be trimming its sales a little bit getting it tied and there are some benefits we are getting from rolling in some new products or systems.
So we expect to see the headcount going down but no major layout programs.
Asset Management obviously dependent on market levels but we continue to build the business and even this quarter had net inflow.
We don’t know about the people yet but I think that’s probably pretty good.
Consumer &amp; Business Banking Doug has already mentioned Durbin.
This $600 million is the same as the other $1 billion you saw this is just after-tax.
This is the actual revenue effect minus what we’ve already done but not including what we might do.
So we're looking at product services how we want to do it how we’re going to price it and try to be little creative and smart and do something really neat.
So we're just saying that that one thing alone is that there may be other size to that one.
There's a little bit of spread compression given low interest rates but if all things adjusted for now which is kind of reinvest at the same duration et cetera it would impact net income by $400 million.
I just want to point out that's purely up to us.
We can do that or not do that it's really longer-term rates and this is the effect of and we can wait or not wait and so this is part of our decision.
Commercial Banking and Treasury &amp; Securities Services their margins just below kind of as long as rates stay low.
So they're kind of positioned to benefit from rising rates when if that happens.
Our quarterly net income Doug already mentioned I would say Private Equity if things stay like this we shouldn't expect any profit this quarter.
So just to point out we haven't really spoken about it before part of Private Equity is mark-to-market part of it is mark-to-model which means mark that PEs and stuff so that you can think of it.
Several billion dollars are in effect mark-to-market pretty much.
And then obviously in corporate also these are firm decisions depending how long we go in duration depending on how much risk we take depending on how much the rest of the balance sheet we will decide when and how to use some of our firepower to create more income.
We’re just talking about the negative part right now.
Reserve release I mean I think it’s been pointed out by several people already that we didn't take reserves down.
We're fighting not to take them down.
We may not be able to not take them down but obviously we operate over a bunch of accounting rules but our predilection right now is with delinquencies kind of flattening out there are some good signs and some bad signs there; it's all over the place.
We would rather just leave them up until we have to take them down.
So don't read anything inside other than we're just trying to be conservative here.
We are going to spend a lot time literally in next six and nine months particularly to build our budgets dealing with regulatory issues.
So what we want to do is build in at the product level and legal level liquidity capital G-SIFI whatever we have to deal with so we can properly price and manage our businesses going forward.
I do think it will have effects on our whole budget areas and we haven’t calculated yet now but if I had to guess it's going to have $0.5 billion overhead over time as we put all these systems reporting in.
I want to point out that I think some of that’s a waste of money but that’s life we simply have to do it.
And the last point on the other I gave one issue on business issues about branch build.
I think we have built 250 branches this year.
We indicate we might do more it’s possibly not now.
But we’d be looking; we look at lot of business issues.
Take branches for example with NSFOD changing with Durbin changing with FDIC charges changing some branches the margin are no longer great.
So we probably will reduce a little bit of the branch build strategy.
We still need to build branches in certain cities and particularly California Florida to build out our footprint but we will modify that and we'll report back to you when we have that but I would say the same thing about lots of products and services and issues we are going to be taking a look at them.
I am not expecting anything dramatic but obviously there are a lot of issues there we are making so many changes all at once.
Capital generation dividend obviously our Board decision.
Probably we will take that up at the turn of the year.
I'd like we just see it do it kind of steady every year but not much more than that but we are continuing to invest in organic growth.
But there are a lot of issues and a lot of analysts have raised it as which ones might you rethink let me back in that.
So the areas we know that’s building out they’re the areas that you look at how aggressive what the price would be and whether it still makes pretty much sense before.
But organic growth is an important thing you can’t stop-start.
High-end private banks are training people build these systems.
So we'll be certainly doing some of that.
In the last box which is kind of box that says meeting regulatory requirements and stock buyback.
We’ll have enormous capital generation but we are trying to figure out I'll call it capital confusion.
We have a lot – it's hard to tell what we’re supposed to do how we’re supposed to do it and we'll be figuring it out having conversations with regulators.
At one point that capital generation will be used totally to do what makes sense for shareholders.
The question is how quickly we want to get to where you need to be and there are other things like there are new rules coming risk-related assets models models versus European companies what mitigations we wanted to – some mitigations will take place from run-off some we can do more actively but it would cost us a little bit of money.
Why do it quickly if it would cost you money.
So we're going to be talking more about this as we go forward and obviously if you want to make the point we spent the whole $8 billion buying back stocks and yes we’ve been why is there a wait we’re sorry.
And with that I will open the floor to questions or comments.
I am sorry page 17.
Page 17 we try to make this simple.
But I – Cramer if you are on Jim I gather we didn't do a great job at it.
So here is I'm going to take us into top.
AFS securities these are held by treasuries or by CIO we’ll set deposits or other things we need to do that’s a liability management.
The $3.7 billion if you marked it would be about $3.4 billion.
It's mostly sovereign exposure in the five countries mostly obviously Italy and Spain.
Let me go back to potential loss for a second.
Trading $8.7 billion includes $14 billion of gross loan derivatives mainly offset to other side.
We've got collateral which is mostly cash $6.7 billion against that.
Sovereigns do not post collaterals so a lot of the remaining exposure is sovereign exposure so think of it as 65% to sovereigns.
Lending the $7.9 billion is almost all corporate or bank.
It's 75% corporate and probably about a little more than maybe 80% corporate and 20% bank.
Some of those banks by the way are very good banks.
So we are not that worried about it.
So we actually look and a lot of us playing in corporate as a large global multinationals.
So and this number obviously bounces around the true value change and mark-to-market change and the collateral changes but the $15 billion as we’ve been managing to (inaudible).
If you said if everything goes terribly and these countries default and the loss given default is 10% 20% 30% that’s when we came up with $3 billion after-taxes its $5 billion pre-tax.
So you can do it yourself and go across the top how much would you lose in the government security if they default and they got restructured.
And by the way there are other offsets and other positives not exactly on this page and we can manage these exposures.
So the reason we’re doing this is because we do business with these countries.
And again I mentioned capital confusion.
I mentioned banking confusion.
I mean obviously we’ve been doing business in these countries for 100 years.
A lot of these clients you can’t say it will be your bank one day and the second thing is get tough for the way the next day.
So we think we’re earning some points.
We’re helping some companies.
We’re helping a few other banks and we hope that countries appreciate it.
And so we’ve decided to take the risk.
Obviously we can change and pretty quick notice if we wanted to and we still think it’s the right thing to do.
I still don’t expect the worse case in terms of our charge-offs in any event.
So I will stop here and open the floor to questions and comments for Doug or myself.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Jason Goldberg with Barclays Capital.
Jamie I was hoping can we just flush out some of the buyback and capital commentary.
I mean as you mentioned confusion you’ve obviously exhausted the buyback for this that you said for this year? Is there ability for you to do more and now are you going to wait and wait for probably next year or do you have to wait beyond that? I think the way the fed had set it up is that you can request and as we go through our budgeted stuff we are going to decide what to do.
What we used and we usually already had permission for and like I said we have a lot of capital generation.
The only question is when and how you use it.
And how quickly you want to get up to the higher Basel III numbers and do you want to get up to there just by retaining capital or by waiting for mitigation and things like that.
So we'll be back to you on that as there are a lot of issues around them.
I guess on last quarter's earnings call it seemed like you are going to kind of leg into these new capital requirements and you're kind of continuing with the buyback and now it seems like a change in tone.
Just curious if there is anything in particular driving that? I think that you are picking up a real change in tone.
I think the fact is we don't know what the rest of world is going to do.
It's a little confusing about it and I think the regulators need to give not just JPMorgan but the banking industry a little more guidance.
Do they really mean you can leg into this over seven years or do they really mean they want you to do it right away? We could probably do it very quickly if you wanted to I'm not sure it's the right think for the system.
And then just trying to Volcker we got some more guidance late last week and this week.
I guess your initial interpretation of what Dave put out the overall impact either in dollars or direction in terms of your businesses? Yeah so let me take you to the most important thing the United States has the best deepest widest and most transplant capital markets in the world which give you the investor the ability to buy and sell large amounts at very cheap prices.
That's a good thing and I wish Paul Volc understood that.
Okay now we understand why there's no proprietary trading that was fine.
And these are like well I read them all like 178 rules or reporting and compliance around what's profitable market making.
We have to be in the position to do profitable market making for our clients; most of our businesses are in market-making.
And so this can be commentary I think the commentary is going to come from the public which includes you.
I hope all of you in this call understand how important it’s not just for your business but the future of the United States.
And we hope at the end of the day we will be able to make mortgage freely.
If American companies they have put a huge disadvantage to foreign companies now this is just we were told that everyone is going to adopt this which we know is not true but now we'll even bigger deal.
So to me we got to keep all these things in mind and make sure it ends up in the right place.
And we will be giving our comments to regulators and I assume a lot of you will too at one point.
Any chance to kind of put a stab in terms of dollars or range in terms of what the impact would be kind of go forward if you implemented it today? It’s impossible to tell because these are just comments and rules and requirements and it cuts across all of our parts of our company.
So they seem to be more prescriptive.
I would have preferred to keep it simple high capital it’s a number of really double and triple capital and liquidity on trading and proper reporting and disclosure but this is little more prescriptive and may make a little bit hard.
Let’s get to work through the process before we have too many comments about it.
Fair enough.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Najarian with ISI Group.
Mr.
Najarian Your line is open.
Please go ahead with your question.
The question has been with drawn.
Your next question comes from the line of Glenn Schorr with Nomura.
Thanks very much.
So Jamie on your commentary around the Euro-5 is helpful but lately whether it will be valid or not there has been some massive concerns around some of the other parts of the continent.
What’s the key message that we should come away with A your exposures to some of the other big areas such as France was a level of concern for people? And then more importantly how do we move forward here? What needs to happen in your view to gain confidence back that the banks that have enough capital that were not in a never-ending spiral here? Okay so we talk about other Europe – the big European countries okay obviously the exposure to France Germany U.K.
bigger than the ones in Italy and Spain.
Large parts have also large corporate.
So keep that in mind plus the sovereign credits are fine.
It's a whole different issue.
The real issue you're talking about is not separate.
If you go to the bank they obviously do business with the banks.
A lot of the global market counterparties which we track and monitor very carefully those exposures.
Most of our exposures not all but most of our exposures global market counterparties are collateralized sometimes with a bucket and sometimes we have other treasury exposures something like that.
So a couple of rather large but not one of them would make me lose my and because of a direct layering we may (inaudible).
Most of them are in the couple of hundred million dollars net net net but remember those bounce around derivative exposures bounce around.
We'd also think most of those banks are actually quite sound.
They have capital they've got liquidity we think they'll get some kind of – if they needed some kind of support so which needed in Europe or are you talking about the United States? Europe? Okay Greece eventually has been ring fenced and restructured but you don't want to do that disorderly.
So you don't cause a problem elsewhere.
Eventually you go by using ECB ECFS and statements that Italy and Spain are solvent they just need a liquidity help which is by the way is true.
We believe they're quite solvent.
If they had their own central bank and they could print euro we wouldn't be having this conversation at all.
As you know they can't print euro so they have central banks but they can't print in the euro currency so it affects ECB or someone else who is standing as the central bank’s private liquidity.
I think to do that you want other countries France and Germany be very comfortable about I guess the final point is that is some kind of restructuring of the treaty so people feel that they are not continuing that no one is continuing to take advantage of a system that is flawed I think it's all reasonable.
And finally I think it's some kind of national programs for TARP that support banks to need help that’s kind of build to suspend this with other stuff but you obviously might see that too.
If you need all those things this crisis will be over.
It’s complex to get 17 nations involved in it so I am not saying it’s simple and when I was the politician it sounds me to have the will just as hard to find the way.
Yeah understood and then maybe Doug one for you more technical one.
On Page 42 of the supplement we’ve seen a big jump up this quarter in some of the repurchase demand buckets by certain vintages in ’05 and what was surprising is even the post ’08 stuff.
And I guess my question in there is is that the same GSE monoline stuff that we’ve seen or is new player in town with the FHA any color around that would be great? It’s the same that we’ve seen but remember Glenn it’s just going to be lumpy and that’s in part what you are seeing but you did see both demands as well as unresolved demands go up quarter-on-quarter.
Is the FHA going with the GSE playbook and do they have the same rep and warranty? The FHA issue is it different issue and that really that relates only to our Chase activity because that was really the only Chase was the only real counterparty with FHA on that and that issue is one we're going to continue to watch.
We don't think we have issues there but you don't see that reflected in these numbers here.
Okay thanks very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Najarian with ISI Group.
Ed is back.
Can you hear me? Good morning Ed.
Ed your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Can you here me.
Yes.
Okay thanks.
Okay sorry about that I apologize.
Yeah so my question has to do with your trust preferred securities.
I think you have nearly $20 billion of callable TruPS and just wondered what your thoughts are about calling them and the timing of calling them? Go ahead Doug? So there are number of those that would make economic sense for us to call they are callable as a function of a regulatory event and we would expect to see that regulatory event clarified and to the extent that it makes economic sense for us to do so we'd then call them.
So should we potentially think about you calling those sometime next year perhaps? I think the ones that make economic sense for us there are some that are very attractive financing over the long run for those that make sense for us to call because they are not attractive.
Well we expect to have the ability to do so.
But as we read what you referred to as the regulatory event that you know it looks like it makes them callable you agreed that that makes them callable I hear there is a correction? Yes.
Okay thanks.
Different people have different things in their notes.
So that’s why some people were able to do it in a different way.
Okay thank you very much.
That was it.
Your next question comes from the line of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
Yeah.
Hi Doug question on the net interest income and spread compression.
Could you remind us of that repositioning that you’ve been doing that you talked about in the last several quarters in the investment portfolio? And then just kind of at the top of the house your outlook for net interest income and maybe the margin? Yeah.
So on margin we saw it again this quarter there were kind of three factors hitting NIM.
You’ve got the increase in deposits and a lot of that is being kept short-term and so that lowers NIM but it does increase NII.
You’ve got a switch in our loan portfolio.
We’ve got more corporate client loans and that changes the mix and as a result the yield.
And then the third and the most important is this repositioning and that’s we have taken security gains that lowers our NII on a go-forward basis and that’s really repositioned ourselves as Jamie talked about for reinvestment when and if there is a rise in rate environment.
In the interim those reinvestment opportunities are short-term and low yielding.
What about any offsets on that cost of funding side in terms of lowering your deposit rates your CDs paying off longer-term debt? Is that kind of embedded into your outlook and just kind of a reminder when you net all that together how are you thinking about NII in the next couple of quarters? Well again you will have offsets that you’ve seen from that.
Let’s start with how we’re thinking about NIM.
We continue to expect those things I just talked about to continue to play through.
So you’ll see more pressure on NIM.
NII is in part a function of what balances do what loan growth does and generally speaking there are some pieces of the portfolio that we’ve told you all along continue to run-off and so it’s a function of what happens next to NII.
Okay.
And then a follow-up on Glenn’s question on the mortgage putbacks it seems like you’ve slightly tweaked your outlook to maybe $350 million per quarter from $300 million on the putbacks.
Just a broader – are you seeing a change in behavior from the GSEs in terms of their request where they’re increasingly looking to putback loans that have been paying for one two or three years and then go back? Is there a noticeable change in their behavior there? I think that we have changed the forecast.
It’s about $300 million $350 million.
There has been a huge change in how they’re doing it but obviously we’re paying attention just like you are a little bit.
We’ve remodeled into our numbers to some of these factors anyway.
So you really got to look in a different than what we modeled in.
We’ve built $3.6 billion of reserves.
At one point those reserves have not been accessed while we started taking those down too.
And in terms of the WaMu GSE exposure you feel like you’ve substantially done covered in terms of putbacks for WaMu or GSE claims? Yes.
We settled some of those upfronts.
Yes.
Some of its settled Doug or its settled plus reserved right now? That’s right.
For just the simple GSE putback exposure yes.
For WaMu? WaMu.
Okay.
Last thing on the AG settlement talks.
I understand this isn’t done but have you been taking reserves for potential financial penalties that might come out of that? And then on the other side in terms of changes to servicing have you been trying to get ahead of that in terms of adding costs to your servicing base and reflecting that in evaluation of the MSR even though that’s not done on the AG side yet? Let me give you a broad bend.
First of all we would love to have some kind of settlement.
We think it’s actually good for everybody to get some of that move on if it’s reasonable but there are 50 state AGs.
It looks like its getting bogged down so we’ll see.
We’re here.
We’re available.
We would like to work it out.
But last quarter we did take higher servicing costs the MSRs.
If you go back to last quarter’s number we’ve talked about it relating to the consent order and some of the default cost and what was the other question? Just in terms of financial penalties are you able to – you’re building a lot of litigation reserves I was just kind of wondering like what are the kind of – are you getting some of that in there? Last quarter we put up $1 billion for a bunch of various items relating to a bunch of various items that we didn’t disclose okay but separate from the litigation reserves.
Last quarter and this quarter you did $1 billion of litigation reserves and that’s for a host of things? No no.
I’m saying separate in litigation reserves.
We put up some reserves for a whole bunch of other items related to potential settlements.
This quarter? Last quarter.
Right last quarter okay.
Last quarter and several previous quarters before that so this quarter it’s just litigation reserves.
Okay okay.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities LLC.
LLC</strong> Good morning.
Just Doug an administrative question in terms of the CVA.
When you’re referencing the spreads that have doubled or slightly more than doubled over the quarter is it correct to say that those are five years CDS spreads? Yes.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then Jamie you made a comment about.
Wait it’s not really.
DVA and CVA are done by trades so some are 1-year 2-year 5year 10-year but they are all – you may using averages of whatever the maturity of the derivative is the loan or whatever.
LLC</strong> Right but fair enough on a portfolio basis from the outside looking in is the 5-year CDS spread a reasonable proxy for looking forward on those movements? I think so.
Yes it is a reasonable proxy.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Certainly for DVA.
LLC</strong> Right just for DVA correct.
For DVA.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then Jamie you made a comment about a branch growth and if looking at the branch numbers in RFS it looks like those are up about 128 year-to-date.
You’ve talked about maybe not quite getting to the 225 number that you laid out in the Investor Day earlier this year.
I’m just – is that really being driven not only by just the reduced fees that you mentioned but also somewhat more cautious view of the retail banking environment and does that mean that you might reduce your overall branch growth going into ’12 and ’13? That’s what I was referring to because we obviously can’t stop the fourth quarter but if you look at the business and you say okay well Durbin and as that student account is no longer profitable you might modify where you build branches how you build branches.
We’re still going to build them in certain parts of the country because there’s a lot of value in having market shares in certain parts of the country but going forward we’re going to modify that branch when we’ve had a chance to look at the effect of all those things on new branch profitability.
LLC</strong> Doug a final question on the – you mentioned the payments rates on the cards business is up.
It looks like at least from the trust data that that’s up about 200 basis points year-over-year in September.
Are you expecting continued increases of that type in terms of the payment rates going forward or just what’s your expectation for payment rates going forward in the card portfolio? I would expect it to go up.
I mean if we think – some of what we had is mix.
If you look at the other people they had it all go up a little bit too but we don’t expect it to go up from here and then it looks like products.
Some product is 90% some product is quite a bit less.
LLC</strong> Right Okay.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Guy Moszkowski with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Good morning.
One of the questions that investors have been asking a lot is with respect to the sovereign or European exposures how can we get comfortable with the management of counterparty risk when a big part of the reduction in risks that you’ve got is by having essentially purchase protection from other parties especially in light of what happened during the subprime crisis to a lot of people.
So maybe you can refresh us a little bit on how you manage your counterparty risk in terms of diversification developing more information on the creditworthiness your counterparties and maybe you can also tie that into the CVA charge that you had this quarter? When its relating to the five nations Greece Italy Ireland Portugal and Spain the 6.7 whatever the counterparty risk is that is financial institutions to most part out but it is not in those five countries.
So it is on the counterparts okay.
And we do it name-by-name and person-by-person yes it’s diversified and it’s already in the numbers I gave you about the other banks.
So we said that we have $100 million net exposure to X bank in Germany it would include that counterpart exposure and for the most part collateralized.
So we feel pretty good about that but obviously in a financial crisis these things (inaudible) down.
You’ve got to look at your primary risk your secondary and tertiary and all that but it’s done name-by-name date-by-date and the CVA is just the mark-to-market on the receivable.
So if we did our CDS to someone and they owed us $50 million they’re supposed to post collateral next day.
So we take the $50 million receivable we market it as the spreads go up to $55 million or something like that and getting more collateral.
And so it goes every day.
A lot of the counterparts or names you know they are global market counterparties some obviously reside in France and Germany but plenty don’t.
I said with that particular thing we do have mark-to-market everyday.
And can you give us a sense for how much of that CVA this quarter came from European issues as opposed to like monoline stuff? It’s the CVA – the CVA is every single derivative credit exposure.
We have in the United States Overseas Europe Asia of any type of derivative.
Okay.
So I would get 30 percentage Europe and you can go country-by-country and so much is Asia so much is the US and if you go by ratings we go to USA.
We’re going to give Bank of America Merrill Lynch $100 million revolver that’s $100 million.
We may give you a trade finance value of $100 million which you use or don’t use and we may give you a derivative line which is not just what you all want it’s also a stressed amount of what you all want..
All these things will be going to separate clearing houses soon or some of them will be over time.
That’s helpful thanks.
The world went through this huge crisis at these counterparties and it was really a very select few we had failures.
Most of the major brokers and dealers were able to manage their counterpart exposure rather well.
That’s fair.
Let me ask you just a question on cards.
Obviously we’ve seen solid growth across volume metric sales and balances but the marketing spend is up quite a lot both quarter-on-quarter and year-over-year and obviously we are seeing more competition in that space emerging and everybody seems to want the same affluent client base.
Do you think you are going to have to sustain this level of spending in order to sustain the level of growth you are seeing? No.
We look marketing as big as an investment so there is a lot of analysis takes place you can get a return on it.
And it’s not all don’t think of that as all direct mail.
That’s online marketing and we have a lot of partners like United Continental Southwest Airlines Hyatt and so they have requirements and so you see our ads in the paper all the time and stuff like that.
So it really is a wide variety of stuff and it’s obviously a lumpy number.
If you look at it year-over-year it’d probably go up 10% not like you’ve seen the 20% or 30% that was this quarter.
Got it that helps.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Miller with FBR.
Yes thank you very much.
Jamie I think you talked about regulatory confusion.
I think you guys are confused and we are confused and moving back to the Volcker rule there is a huge political process that has to take place before we get the final rule.
But we keep on hearing that some companies including yourself are starting to implement some of these rules.
Can you address when you think you have to implement it? Are they going to accelerate this stuff like they are accelerating some of the capital rules? I don’t know if they are accelerating things.
We want to be prepared for the rules are and we are going to do the best job we can meeting all those regulatory requirements.
So we are getting prepared to like some things like LCR you know will be implemented the calibrations may change over time but the detail by type of deposit by type of counterparty is something we have to do.
So some will start to build just to get ahead of it Volcker rules we've not started to build because it just came out but some of the requirements like we already do.
We’re going to do exactly what they want but we already do it and we look at trading desks and all the Greeks and bars and age inventory and stuff like that.
So they may have reported requirements compliance requirements that'd be heavier so we'll start to build some of that that we know is going to happen and I think the Volcker rules are meant to be done by January [congress] driven by January.
And then I guess there'll be some time after that.
I think by the end of this year we're going to have a lot more guidance on a lot of these various rules and regulations and the coordination among them.
We want to try to embed it in and how we run the business.
So we've not chasing our tails.
We know exact what these things mean for our clients our profitability our trading desk our loans et cetera.
Then on the Mortgage Banking side the MSR dropped drastically.
Now rates dropped almost 100 basis points and it looks like you had a net hedging gain to offset all that MSR loss.
Can you just address that a little bit? Well the MSR when rates go down and things refi it’s like an (inaudible) drops dramatically in value.
So there's no surprise there.
So all in essence we hedged it well.
The drop in value was offset by the hedging we did and the other thing is that the total value is writing off because of higher amortization and that $1 billion write-down from the last quarter which we relate to higher servicing costs dropped by the MSR too okay.
So rates went up 100 basis points.
The MSR gross value go back to 7 to 10 and hopefully the hedge would – we're actually going to hedge at that point to take the gain but that's all that is the constant adjustments to those models.
Okay.
Thank you very much Jamie.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
Thank you good morning.
When you look at your net interest margin your cost of deposits are about 63 basis points and you have been having an outstanding deposit growth.
Your loan-to-deposit ratio continues to fall.
How low do you think you can take those deposit rates down to especially in line of the fact that Bernanke has said that he is going to keep short-end rates low until sometime in 2013? You've got to look it by business because some businesses had results like you have to price certain deposits around the country retail competitively some of the large GSF deposits are already gaining zero.
They would not – waiting for them they are coming to us and then we have got to pay the FDIC 10 basis points or something (inaudible).
So it’s really a little bit of everything but yeah it is hard to go below zero so that might get a little bit of margin compression here.
Shifting over now to the loan loss provision and your credit metrics obviously improved in the quarter the net charge-off ratio declined non-performing assets declined but the loan loss reserve release in the provision being less than the charge-offs wasn’t as large as it was in the prior three or four quarters.
Is it more due to either loan growth? Or do you guys have a more cautious outlook now on credit? (Inaudible) of course they are more cautious outlook category.
Is it more on the consumer side or are you seeing them on the commercial side? I think it was both.
If you go through the details in fiscal supplement there loans to NPLs and loans to charge-offs delinquencies are very strong.
I think it might be hard to keep them up here if it stays here but it's hard I guess we said we have to be cautious now.
And then finally just circling back to the European exposure.
Do you guys have the gross euro exposure or is it just the net number that you have for us? We showed you on that page.
You can go to page 17 it shows us gross derivatives and net derivatives Gerry.
Is that what you are referring to? There are other exposures which were fully collateralized and I have been through them before I want to go through right here.
Okay.
All right thank you.
You’re welcome.
The next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Right thanks good morning.
I just want to follow up on two things one is the capital usage where you were discussing after say increasing dividends.
If we're thinking about the dividend payout ratio you have been hovering somewhere between 20% and 30% for the last couple of quarters and 30% seems to be what the regulators are allowing at this stage.
So are we talking about having an expectation where dividends are going to be going up in line with what you think your earnings growth is going to be able to generate? Is that how we should be thinking about the dividends? Then on the timing do you think you are going to be able to make a change in dividend before the SICAR process which is what January through March? Betsy honestly we've asked that question too because the way the regulatory thing got upset that is a little gap issue.
So we're waiting for guidance on that one.
I'll just wait until we find out.
The Board will take it up.
I think we are going to be consistent I don’t know it can be 30% to 40% I think 30% was consistent growth but based upon what we think the real earnings power of the Company is not based upon just earnings.
Got it okay so Board will make their decision in December but then you have to submit to the Fed when as you as you? I didn’t say December.
I said at the turn of the year.
We started the dividend in June right or April before April.
Okay got it.
And then on the topic of expenses you outlined a couple of different areas where obviously your overhead is going to have to go up probably $1 million or so if we took a guess.
At the same time you are running through each of the business lines with regard to what they can generate over time.
I mean are you trying to – I am asking the question is how you thread the needle because you’ve been increasing expenses to take share which you’ve been doing.
Are you at the point where you need to tilt back towards profitability in line with what you outlined at Investor Day last year? There is no change in strategy at all.
We are still going to grow where we think we can gain share build the very good business.
There is always your expenses come before your revenues but like in GCB for example we think it’s working.
And we are probably going to spend there.
Other things where I feel we have to modify and there are whole products that we may not be in anymore if we look at exactly how they function with capital and liquidity charges so but we are going to be pretty tight expensive.
We are not being relaxed.
We are just adding where we need to add and then we always expect to get improvements in sort of expense ratios as systems come on board efficiencies operational efficiencies.
Doug mentioned the big one we are spending I think it was $800 million a quarter on servicing now with 65% is default servicing that number is not going to stay up there for ever but eventually that default servicing number may take couple of years but close to zero.
And we also expect to make the front-end mortgage far more efficient too.
So we are always working in a more efficiency to help pay for some of these other things.
And then on the top line side you talked about pricing pricing for liquidity for G-SIFI buffer et cetera can you talk through how you think you need to reposition the business in order to do that if any because some of your competitors will say you are carrying a higher G-SIFI charge that you are not charging for today but when you do you are going to become uncompetitive so how you deal with that challenge? See here is the problem with the G-SIFI okay.
There are certain things we are not going to be uncompetitive because we are going to be price in the market and get the business.
If you're going to leave your money with us or them or processing business then you're going to leave with us and then they are going to claim us unfair.
We own more capital we’re going to win the business because we are more sound and which I agree with them but I am not arguing their point.
In other businesses yes we probably want to shut the assets because some of those could hold it with things like take consumer assets.
If you can hold them with 7% and I have to hold it for 9.5% I still might service originate hold the strip I got the skin in the game ship but syndicate the rest.
So it will be product-by-product it would be certain things and some of these things like one of the things in G-SIFI was reduced interconnectedness.
So they don't like inter-bank lending.
I think inter-bank lenders are going to go away.
They don't like certain type of course their business distinguished in secured and unsecured but I think they have much higher charges for exposures to financial companies and non-financial companies and that's not a terrible objective.
That might not happen in a productive way but you'll see that people price lines of credit to financial companies is much higher than lines of credit to non-financial companies and so that can go on and on that was really related to specific rules and that's kind of work we're doing now.
Some will close unintended consequences that helped JPMorgan and some may very well cause (inaudible).
But in no event are we going to price it higher and get price out of a market because of a G-SIFI charge because that's not going to happen.
Whatever competitor told you that probably should have been not thinking clearly.
Got it.
Okay.
Your next question comes from the line of David Konrad with KBW.
Hi good morning couple of quick questions.
One just kind of another follow-up on expenses specifically in Investment Banking.
It looked like if I net up the DVA and CVA the comp ratio was around 36% which is in line with your guidance.
But non-comp expense was up a couple of $100 million despite lower revenues.
So I just wonder if there is any litigation expense in the Investment Banking number as well.
Little bit yeah.
Okay.
And then also maybe Doug the tax rate came in I think around 27% usually around the low 30s.
How should we think about that this quarter and then kind of a run rate over the next couple of quarters? I think run rate will be in the low 30s and we had some benefits this quarter nothing more than that.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer.
I would like to flesh out your comment that it’s not unreasonable to expect markets to be in the fourth quarter like they were in the third quarter.
And just when Jefferies reported earlier this month or last month and I realize it’s a much smaller different platform from you but their commentary was like June July and September were all kind of slow (inaudible) but the real damage all occurred in August when the spreads flew out and that it was the movement in spreads that really did the damage to their P&amp;L.
I was wondering was that your experience as well? And I guess let me see if there is any question there.
We are not going to break out our monthly numbers for you but my experience mostly is as spreads gap out credit products including mortgage and stuff like that get hurt but yes I believe that happened in August but every business is different.
We have a very broad visibility.
We have got rates steady commodities loans to equity you name it a lot of flow business and derivative businesses so you really got to look at the mixes and not just one company.
I don't know Jefferies business that well.
Okay.
And then looking at the Basel III risk weighted assets on Page 14 I guess I think it's interesting that the Basel III risk weighted assets keep on ticking down when loans and Basel I risk weighted assets are ticking up.
And I wonder I mean is that the mitigation and can we expect to see that kind of decrease in the Basel III risk weighted assets continue over the next year or two? That benefit is going to be model driven and you're going to expect to see model applications and improvement in RWA as a result of that and that's what happened this quarter.
There'll be run-off and there'll be decisions we make about what we want to do.
The way Basel III is set up certain products have much higher capital charges than others.
And so we have choices and options to make.
Over the next couple of years certain things run-off or we can just sell things or hedge them differently and that could make a difference.
So yes we're going to manage the hell out of RWA.
Okay.
All right thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Hi what was the $500 million of additional overhead cost for? You said it's regulatory related? It's my guess Mike.
I just think that when you look at G-SIFI LCR I'm not going to conclude in a concept to what are mortgages this year.
I think we have to build a lot of additional systems binding with around the world to accommodate hundreds of new rules regulations reporting and I'm just telling you that that would be my guess right now that's all.
We have real professional teams working today in 75 projects and these are pretty large projects.
They've got risk credit legal systems HR sales traders globally by legal entities sometimes trying to do it as liquidity reporting credit reporting new model building and we’re going to do it all well we are going to do it all well.
This is the new world that we live within but it’s hard to say it’s not going to cost money.
By the way I think it’s going to be again a small unintended benefit for JPMorgan whatever it costs us maybe harder to smaller people.
And you said some of that regulatory cost you wish you didn’t have to do you don’t see the benefit but that’s life? Yes that’s exactly right.
And perhaps the root cause you can disagree with my premise but perhaps the root cause is the perception of the industry and a negative perception leads to all sorts of things protests and everything else which in turn leads to regulation which leads to some of these higher costs.
So the question is what can you do or should you do to help change the image of the industry? And a related question you’ve been out there defending the industry a lot but don’t you want to disassociate yourself from some of the bad actors? Like I put a lot of the bad actors are gone okay.
So let’s be fair here and you have to talk to most clients (inaudible) JPMorgan most of our clients like us a little more clients like us to build our small business our consumer client even our mortgage clients but we have issues and obviously I think they get way we should be responsive to that I’m not playing light of them.
But if you travel around it’s both the clients everywhere we try to do best we can like any other business and it’s hard to make up for and you say change the image.
If you have any great ideas on the phone you guys provide them (inaudible).
Let me just follow-up.
I mean 12 of 13 largest banks would have failed I think you would be the one bank that wouldn’t have failed during the crisis.
Is that correct? And if that’s the case what’s that? I don’t know if that statement is completely true.
So I don’t want to comment because I'm not sure about.
These are all leading to just revenue growth versus expense growth.
I mean revenues are down $3 billion linked quarter expenses are only down $1 billion and it sounds like you're just kind of tweaking around the edges.
Then you have this extra $0.5 billion of expenses coming at you.
Are you going to be able to grow revenues faster than expenses and if not at what point do you say hey we need to be aggressive with expenses? Mike it’s going to back DVA (inaudible) which I think you should do.
I completely understand you normalize.
You should back it out of revenues too.
So $2 billion of that is DVA okay.
So we look at and again it's not I think it’s pretty good look at the underlying numbers number of accounts number of deposits number of branches number of clients number of bankers are keeping some kind of good trading flow with a terrible what seems to be a terrible environment market shares that's what I look at in terms of building the business.
The revenues itself are going to be lumpy.
You and I have been in this business more time we know that and obviously we trim our sales where we think there are products or areas or branches that we can't make money at all.
But obviously we adjust to that and there are a lot that's going on right now we acknowledge that.
All right.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Harte with Sandler O'Neill.
Good morning guys a few more questions.
One looking at the real estate portfolio portfolio continues to decline loan loss reserve kind of stays where it was.
Can you talk a little bit about how much of that maintaining reserves is just macro caution versus is there actually something you're seeing in the numbers to give you concern? We see the delinquency chart to kind show delinquencies 30 to 150 days flat lining but what else are you seeing other things in that portfolio giving you concern? It really is macro conservatism.
If you look at delinquencies roll rates the first time delinquent all that kind of stuff they are kind of mixed.
So you could very well start to improve them but it spreads out it's just presence of caution on our part.
And the fact that they will question them anyway about how these are the reserves sufficient.
Obviously the multiple years coverage charge-off today I think they cover pretty adverse scenario at this point.
Okay.
Within mortgage origination Doug up 35% sequentially is a big revenue number.
Were there pipeline hedging benefits to that? Is it kind of a delay? Should we maybe expect some revenue strengths spill over into the fourth quarter from the refi boom? How should we think going forward do you think? They are crediting very well.
I think it was pretty much just all spread in volume that pipeline hedging profitability.
In fact the pipeline is going to get you in a quarter like this when rates are dropping like that.
Okay.
And tax rate it looks like it declined versus last quarter and this quarter.
Any kind of benefits or stuff we should know about we haven’t seen? And then how we should we think of the tax rate going forward? So I think we've addressed that.
There were some benefits we had this quarter and I think you'd expect it going forward to be back to a more normalized rate.
So look like year-to-date being normalized? Yes there are always going to be ins and outs every quarter so it’s going to move around but right low 30s kind of normalized rate.
Also when profits go down remember the rate goes down a little bit because the margin will exempt income slightly.
Okay.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Meredith Whitney with Meredith Whitney Advisory.
Hi good morning.
I have a couple of questions.
If the stock stays below tangible book value how do you look at compensation when stock is a component of compensation year end set for bonuses? That’s my first question.
Of course I’ll just pass it on to Doug.
I look at it as a very attractive component of compensation in that regard.
I think our employees will get very upset if we said when the stock is high we’ll give you a lot of stock and when we think it’s low we’ll give you no stock.
Okay fair enough.
Just one more on tax rate comment and I have a broader question.
On home price values have you altered your home price expectation in any of your models this quarter and can you remind us what that is? Generally we’ve got it's by product by area by everything.
But general it was modeled into our reserves and our purchase credit impaired is another drop of 1% to 4% depending what it is.
It still seems that that may actually be what ends up happening but as you know as well as we know we don’t know that exactly.
So my last question is there is a lot that’s coming in the market in terms of assets for sale I would call an asset flush.
What would be your ideal product type of assets to look at given the fact that you almost have an unprecedented opportunity to pick up a lot? Beth that’s a very good question.
I should refer to that buying back capital thing I talked about capital confusion that’s another one.
So there are some wonderful things you can buy now that we could probably get a 10% or 11% cash-on-cash return for probably a duration of three or four years as being dumped by other people but we’ve got those very very high RWA that’s like 100% like 1200% type charges but it’s kind of mouthwatering.
And that’s why I am saying when we reinvest in our portfolio we do options but it all comes down to how we wanted to make those decisions and we’re kind of making them right now as we go along we want think it’s a little bit better but there will be opportunities and we are going to use our capital to do that.
Do you think this all happens within the fourth quarter? No.
It won't happen in the fourth I am talking about we expected maybe over I’d say over the next six to nine months.
But you would ask the next question which is which you’re going to ask but it’s okay would you rather buy 11% RWA 11% cash on cash assets (inaudible) get back but buying stocks back much cheaper.
The answer is? I am not going to tell you but there obviously is a little bit of dilemma and then it relates to what you can or not.
We know we can buy the assets; we’re not sure we can buy back the stock.
Okay got it.
Thank you very much.
And we know we can buy the assets and also have a huge lift in Basel III when we want it because it will disappear by that point.
That’s why I am saying it’s little bit around this capital confusion.
Your next question comes from the line of Ron Mandel with GIC.
Hi thanks.
Most of my questions have been answered but just on the reserves the reserve versus charge-offs last year there was about 100 basis point gap between the reserve and annualized charge-offs and now it’s like 250.
As you say you’re being cautious but I am just wondering what the discussion is that you are having with your accountants that they are comfortable with having such a large gap and whether this may be signs that the accountants are more comfortable with less quite cyclical reserving? Okay.
I think you are going too far here.
First of all I would simply say that obviously we would do these things after talking to accountants and they are judgment calls and analysis and facts always updating when we do these things.
For example I pointed out before our second behind a delinquent first we are much different how we look at that and that does not behind going to first.
So we do much more sophisticated reserving in that but I made it very clear we're going to be as conservative as possible and maybe next quarter I'm going to be saying we had to take this down because we were forced to.
Okay.
That's the point I'm getting at what the accountants don't seem to be forcing you now if there was to change on their part? I don’t think so.
I think it’s just the facts are constantly changing and you guys talk to the accountants (inaudible) I think they're stretching to say it'd be that.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Thanks for squeezing me in here.
Two questions.
One how sensitive is net interest income to changes in long-term rates? So for example rates have popped about 50 basis points here if Europe gets resolved and we grow up another 50 how meaningful will that be? Doug may know the number.
Did we disclose the numbers last time? So 100 basis point shift in the curve right would add a couple of billion dollars to pre-tax but that's 100 basis point shift in the curve.
A short-term move in the long-end and no move in the short-end that you're not going to see – you won't see this short-term move materially affect NIM.
The curve went up today 100 basis point I remember the last time I looked at it that is about 50-50 the short and long both would benefit the company.
Okay.
And obviously if loan rates go up then you might spend out your securities or things like that? Excuse me? If loan rates go up enough that would make you change your strategy in your securities portfolio that could be additive as well? Yes.
Yes.
Okay.
And then just separately as you talk about reviewing some of the businesses churning some you mentioned exiting some the mortgage business is one that’s obviously been very frustrating because of some of the legacy issues but one can make the argument that you’ve got a capital hit a political hit during most times it’s only so-so in terms of profitability.
We don’t know what the GSE and the mortgage finance models are going to look like.
Another big competitor I think was getting out about 40% or 50% of their production channels is closing down.
How do you think about the mortgage business going forward in terms of the various channels and just the business overall as part of the company? Okay.
So first of all the corresponding issue is not a big deal so put that to aside as we're basically buying servicing which to me is a pure economic decision you’re buying at a good return on not.
And some of them are clients which we treat corresponding clients like banks who also have – their regulation is very differently regional banks et cetera but we are going to be obviously going to again I think a couple of years ago we cut the corresponding thing really a third of where it was.
And the way I'll look at the other way around I think that we will have going forward one of the best mortgage businesses in the country okay because we tend to build the best front-end middle office back office systems eventually our legacy problems will be gone.
We think we know we made a lot of mistakes here so we are not denying that we made them in other business too every now and then and we have real competitive distribution 5 300 branches salespeople mortgage sales force.
So we think there will still be a real important product which no matter whatever happens to GSEs we will have embedded profit built into it and all the legacy stuff will be some cost.
In fact all the underwrite over the last three years is back to where it was like 30 years ago.
In fact going forward it's going to be a much better business cleaner.
You won't have all these problems from the past.
And so I were in favor of cleaning up the mortgage product disclosures national regulation so that that will make it better but I think it would be mistake.
It's okay when you get out of it because of the legacy problems.
Believe me it is temptation okay like we're still making $10 billion $12 billion $13 billion of mortgages a month a lot from states who are being attacked by AGs and we know we made mistakes.
We want to resolve the mistakes and we're ready to be punished for the mistakes but I think that's the wrong reason to do the business for.
It's too important.
It is still the most important financial product for the majority of Americans and it will be through the rest of our lives.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of James Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
Good morning.
Couple of quick just clean-up questions.
On the $400 million net income impact of spread compression next year in terms of an estimate obviously I appreciate your comments about how you can move things around on the balance sheet but does that also build in some expectations for the deposit and loan growth or should we look at that as additive if that were to occur? Additive this is just ecstatic analysis.
Right okay great.
And on the student loan reserves that you increased those what's driving that just curious? We just extended the coverage from 12 to 15 months and performance net charge-offs are going up though.
Okay.
So somewhat of a catch-up but also not great trends.
And then lastly any comment on the side of the Fed taking away the 25 bps on excess reserves how that might impact you or the market? I mean it seems it’s hard to get a sense of how much you have parked there and if you had to go into the short-term treasury markets and get and buy up six months one year at five to 10 basis points versus 25 is that a material impact or not and how you think that affects the curve overall? I think they have been very clear about their policy and why they have a policy and all that.
It is a real tool for them and we do a lot of money parked there because there is a lot of money – switching around the world there is no place to go.
We would have other alternatives that I might guess we get a lot of that back anyway but you have to take some risk to do it.
You know some things will be 10 basis you know the Fed is 25 some will be 10 some will be 15 there are options around the world at other central banks at higher rates.
We can turn down deposits we don’t want to go negative on deposits but we can do that till we have to.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thanks.
We’re trying to accommodate our clients more than the reason it would take us all to be accommodated not to make that spread.
Remember our spread for most of these things is not even for the Fed it’s not 25 basis points its the FDIC charge.
Honestly we’re asking why you do it at all we wouldn’t want a business doing 15 basis points.
Okay thanks.
Your final question comes from the line of Brennan Hawken with UBS.
Good morning guys.
First quick question on credit I know Jamie that you had indicated you are cautious and you said that you are seeing both good things and bad things as far as trends when you commented before but I was just curious whether I am sure given the size of your credit card portfolio you have a great amount of data and I am curious whether or not you are seeing behaviors in that portfolio that usually lead to an up tick in delinquencies? First of all the wholesale credit is exceptionally good.
I think it's better than – it's almost back to where – that’s a large corporate middle market.
So when we talk about consumer we said delinquency trend is going to flatten out.
At credit cards there's a little bit of flattening out in their 30 60 90-day delinquencies but no other major things.
So what we said about charge-offs that’d probably tick down a little bit next quarter.
It's very hard to tell they are going to be next year.
We always have a lot of visibility to next quarter but I think with 9% unemployment it will be silly to assume dramatic improvement at this point.
Okay that’s fair.
And then on the peripheral European exposure I know you've provided the $3 billion after-tax figure for impacts from the defaults there but it seems as though from the comments out of Europe that Greek default and potentially triggering of CDS are no longer taboo issues so could you walk us through how to think about maybe Greece specifically? Almost none of that number is Greece.
And then as far as the impact on the system could you add any comments about what you think would happen there? We already commented that so I'm not going to do it again but we’re just talking about it extensively actually there's some great research about it.
So if you want you can call Lauren (inaudible).
Okay thanks.
There are no further questions at this time.
Are there any closing remarks?  Doug? No just thanks everybody.
Well thanks for listening us.
We'll talk to you all soon.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Please stand by we are about to begin.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to JPMorgan Chase's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase's Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon; and Chief Financial Officer Doug Braunstein.
Mr.
Braunstein please go ahead.
Thanks operator.
I'm going to take you through the earnings presentation.
It's available on our website.
We'll take questions after we walk through the presentation and remember the disclaimer in the back of the presentation.
So if you turn to Page 1.
For the quarter we generated a net income of $3.7 billion $0.90 per share on revenues of $22.2 billion.
Return on tangible common equity for the quarter was 11%.
For the full year we generated record net income of $19 billion that's up 9% over last year.
$4.48 per share which was also a record per share on revenues of a little under $100 billion.
Return on tangible common equity for the year was approximately 15%.
There's a few significant items in the quarter we highlight them upfront.
I'm going to discuss each of them in the businesses.
So if you see we ended the quarter on a Tier 1 common basis of $123 billion strong Basel I Basel III ratios of 10% and 7.9% respectively.
And for the full year we increased our Basel III ratio by approximately 90 basis points and that's after the repurchase of $9 billion of our stock this year.
As we noted last quarter we continued to see year-on-year loan growth across many of the businesses.
Total loan balances across the company were up $31 billion year-on-year.
And if you exclude the impact of the $30 billion in runoff in our Home Lending portfolio predominantly WaMu related the year-over-year growth of $60 billion would be a run rate of 9% year-over-year.
And just to highlight some of the specifics small business loans were up 52% market loans up 17% trade finance loans up 73%.
We also saw card outstanding growth this quarter and solid mortgage originations.
Deposit growth also continued in the quarter liability balances ended the year at $1.1 trillion.
That's up $200 billion or 21% year-on-year.
I've covered much of the data on Page 2 and 3 so if you turn right into the Investment Bank on Page 4.
You see circled net income of $720 million that's on revenue of $4.4 billion.
We highlighted on Page 1 the first significant item impacted the IB results this quarter.
That's a $570 million DVA loss on a pretax basis and that reduced our reported EPS for the quarter by $0.09 a share and that's largely the result of the firm's tightening credit spreads this quarter.
We've consistently said we don't consider these gains or losses to be part of the underlying operating performance of the business but when it's material to the results we're going to identify that number as a significant item.
If you exclude DVA revenue for the IB in the quarter was $4.9 billion that's up 10% quarter-on-quarter.
It's still down 21% year-on-year.
Net income x DVA was $1.1 billion this quarter.
So if you go into the particulars IB fees of $1.1 billion this quarter are down almost 40% year-on-year up modestly quarter-on-quarter primarily driven by the low industry-wide volumes that we talked about last quarter.
We did maintain our #1 ranking for Global IB Fees this year and we also generated record loan syndication fees we share which again part of that loan story we talked about.
You can find the league table results in the back in the appendix on Page 20.
Fixed Income Markets.
Revenues of $2.6 billion (sic) [$2.5 billion) x DVA.
That's down 9% year-on-year 6% quarter-on-quarter.
We continued to see solid client revenue across most of our products in Fixed Income.
Equity Markets revenue was $0.8 billion.
That's x DVA down 26% year-on-year 23% quarter-on-quarter.
That's primarily been driven by lower market volume.
And I would add we had some consistent results again this quarter in our prime services business so the volume impact was largely in our cash and our derivatives business.
We recognized negative revenues of $31 million in the Credit Portfolio largely driven by the DVA losses and that's offset by the NII and fees in retained loans and then we had a small net CVA gain this quarter.
Credit cost in the quarter $272 million that largely reflected some main specific charge-offs.
And then on the expense side you see $3 billion in expenses down a little under 30% year-on-year that's driven by lower comp and lower non-comp expenses.
The comp-to-revenue ratio for the year we reported was 34%.
If you exclude DVA the revenue was 36% and that's largely at the lower end of our prior guidance of 35% to 40% for the year.
So with that I'm going to actually skip Page 5 as well and drill down to specifics of CBB on Page 6.
You see circled net income of $800 million that's down 16% year-on-year; revenues of $4.3 billion.
Revenues are down $365 million quarter-on-quarter.
That largely reflects the impact of Durbin this quarter.
Year-on-year revenues are down 2% and that was an increase in deposit-related fees that partially offset the impact of Durbin this quarter.
We continue to see very positive growth in a number of the fundamental measures we keep track of for the business year-on-year.
Total deposits were up $25 billion; 216 branch builds during the course of 2011; 246 CPC Chase Private Client branches opened this year; and we added 3 800 new sales staff bankers salesmen mortgage brokers during the course of the year.
Expenses up 6% year-on-year primarily driven by that investment spend I just talked about.
Also I want to remind you the impact of both the rate environment and the regulatory environment on 2012 earnings.
We expect spread compression likely to have a negative impact on earnings next year of about $400 million plus or minus as deposit margins are going to continue to decline in 2012.
And on the Durbin Amendment we've said it will reduce earnings by $600 million plus or minus on an annualized basis in the course of 2012.
If you move to Page 7 Mortgage Production and Servicing.
Loss for the business of $260 million this quarter and that compares to net income of $330 million in the prior year.
Production-related revenues that's at the top of the page and if you exclude repurchases was $1.1 billion that's down 20% year-on-year.
Originations of $39 billion are down 24% year-on-year but up actually slightly quarter-on-quarter and we experienced some lower margin in that business.
I'd also add activity this quarter was largely driven by refinancing.
Repurchase losses in the quarter you see was $390 million that's slightly higher in the quarter based on acceleration of the timing of certain claims with the agencies.
We do continue to expect for next year $350 million plus or minus per quarter in repurchase losses and that's largely in line with our prior guidance.
And I'll remind everyone our total repurchase reserves remain at $3.6 billion $3.2 billion in this division.
Servicing-related revenue in the middle of the page of $1.1 billion is down 9% year-on-year and that's largely a decline in our service portfolio and that was partially offset by a reduction in the amortization of the MSR asset.
Servicing expense you see in the middle $925 million in the quarter.
It remains very elevated as a function of default costs which represent about 75% of that total number and we would expect that number to remain high certainly through the first half of 2012.
We did record an MSR risk management loss of a little under $400 million this quarter $377 million.
The results really are a combination of reduction of the MSR asset of $830 million that's based on valuation adjustments and rate and that was offset by a $460 million gain from hedging the asset.
And for those interested in the MSR I'd point you to a detail in the financial supplement in the footnotes.
Page 8 Real Estate Portfolios.
A modest net loss in the quarter.
That compared to a net loss of a little over $800 million in the prior year.
Revenues same story as we've been talking about down 20% year-on-year consistent with the reduction in the NII from the portfolio runoff as we said was $700 million a year.
And remember balances were down $30 billion year-on-year.
We'd expect to see balances continue to decline somewhere in the 10% to 15% range again in 2012 and that would have the result of reducing NII next year by $500 million plus or minus.
But remember that reduction will also free up capital at the company level.
Expenses up 5% year-on-year and that continues to be consistent with the overall increase in servicing costs that I talked about in mortgage servicing.
I want to cover credit on Page 9.
So if you turn to 9 you see circled net charge-offs of $877 million that's again a marginal improvement versus the prior quarter.
We experienced improvement this quarter in our early-stage delinquencies.
You can see those charts on Page 19 in the appendix and we saw an improvement both in our NCI and our PCI portfolios.
And again we've experienced the consistent improving level of net charge-offs for several quarters in the NCI portfolio.
So the result of those factors is a net release of $230 million in our Home Lending portfolio.
And there are 2 components to that reserve change.
First in NCI we took $1 billion reduction in reserves primarily due to the improvement in our outlook for losses particularly in Home Equity and sub-prime.
And reminder now current reserve levels for the portfolio are $8.7 billion.
The PCI portfolio we actually added $770 million to reserves and that remember is a lifetime loss estimate and while we've seen improvement in the delinquencies in the portfolio they weren't as significant as we had expected in our lifetime loss estimates primarily driven by default frequencies relative to modeled expectations.
And so we therefore increased reserves.
Reserves in the portfolio now are $5.7 billion.
But if you step back from all of this given the improvement in credit performance you'll see over in the right we're revising our quarterly loss guidance to $900 million plus or minus that's down from the $1.2 billion we had in the prior quarter and that's for 2012.
If you turn to Page 10 Card Services &amp; Auto.
Circled consolidated net income for the business of $1.1 billion that's on revenues of $4.8 billion.
Now we continued to see the trend that we've talked about all year.
Credit costs down again this quarter.
You see the details on the Chase portfolio at the bottom of the page 3.93% net charge-off rate.
That's again below us through the cycle target.
30-plus day delinquencies declined to 2.54% that's 112 basis points below the prior year.
And just a quick note here we're going to report Chase and WaMu portfolios as a single portfolio in 2012.
And for the combined portfolio which ended 2011 at a net charge-off rate of 4.33% we expect Q1 rate to be 4.50% plus or minus.
It tends to be slightly elevated versus the year end just literally as a function of seasonality but the absolute numbers should be consistent.
As we highlighted on Page 1 we did release $500 million on loan loss reserves this quarter in our Card business.
And if you add that to the Home Lending actions the combined release across Consumer was $730 million and that had a positive impact on EPS of $0.11 a share.
In fact the Card though total reserves in card will end the year at $7 billion that's 5.3% of our outstandings.
And the final note I'd say on Card is on a sales volume basis it continued to be very solid results for the Chase portfolio up 9% year-on-year 14% if you exclude the impact of the Kohl's portfolio sale that we had.
And part of those increases are really being driven by our new products Sapphire Freedom Ink where sales growth is actually higher than the average.
The result of all of that is we continue to think we've picked up close to 180 basis points of market share in the Visa and the MasterCard systems.
Page 11 for Commercial Banks you see circled net income of $640 million that's on record revenues of $1.7 billion.
Full year revenues of $6.4 billion $2.4 billion in net income are both record performance for the business.
And the revenue growth and the earnings continue to be driven by that same story of loan growth and liability balances 6 consecutive quarter of loan growth balances.
You see EOP balances of $112 billion circled that's up 13%.
Middle Market balances continued strong growth.
They're up 17% year-on-year that's the seventh consecutive quarter of growth.
And we also had record liability balances just slightly under $200 billion up 35% or $52 billion year-on-year.
So our customers are very well capitalized today.
And then the overhead ratio continues to be very strong credit story continues to be strong.
The result is really excellent performance in our Commercial Bank this year.
Treasury &amp; Securities Services on Page 12.
Our revenues are up 6% year-on-year in part we had stronger growth in our TS business.
But you do see circled net income down 18% quarter-on-quarter of $250 million really driven by 2 factors.
We had some expense increases this quarter driven by exiting some unprofitable business we had and also credit costs increased this quarter and that's related to some of those main specific charge-offs that I talked about in the Investment Bank.
We have a share of credit expenses between those 2 businesses.
We did though continue to see some real favorable trends in the quarter for the business.
Liability balance is up 42% over $100 billion.
I talked about trade loan up front.
And then international revenue growth which is a big strategic push for us grew 16% year-on-year.
And for the year international represented 55% of the total revenues for this business that's up from 49% last year.
So very good performance there.
Asset Management on Page 13.
That had a weaker quarter and that was largely driven by market conditions.
Revenues of $2.3 billion are down 13% year-on-year relatively flat quarter-on-quarter but the fourth quarter tends to be higher than normal and we had lower performance fees this quarter.
So for the year however we did generate $9.5 billion of revenue and that was a record revenue number for this business and it does reflect the positive long-term flows that we've seen throughout the year and a little better market on average than 2010.
It was our 11th consecutive quarter of positive long-term flows we had $53 billion for the year.
And we also did experience some significant inflows in our liquidity products this quarter.
Expenses while down year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter for this quarter were up 15% for the full year.
We added 1 000 people to this business 700 of which are front office personnel bankers salespeople brokers.
And all that we expect that to improve future performance clearly had a depressing impact on margins this quarter.
Page 14 Private Equity and Corporate.
Private Equity experienced a loss of $90 million that's primarily due to market valuations and a lack of monetization opportunities in the quarter.
Corporate you see net income of a little over $300 million.
That includes $528 million of an increase in the litigation reserve.
That was one of our significant items that reduced EPS $0.08 a share this quarter.
The increase in reserves was predominantly for mortgage-related matters.
And then you see to the right we do expect Corporate excluding Private Equity and significant items to be at $200 million plus or minus net income number each quarter in 2012 and that's really a result of the positioning of the portfolio as well as some of the RWA implications of Basel III and what we can hold in the portfolio.
I believe I've covered all the items on Pages 15 and 16.
So with that operator if you wouldn't mind why don't you open it up for questions? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about managing expenses in a tough environment.
If the revenue environment remains tough do you have plans to push expenses down company-wide in 2012? And then maybe also just in the Investment Bank.
Do you see the comp ratio moving lower amid all the regulatory changes and the industry pullback or do you expect 35% to 40% again in 2012? Yes.
So on the expense front I think we are constantly working to try and manage the expenses.
As you saw expenses John were down in the quarter versus year-over-year and we're going to continue to manage it and that's what we're expecting of all of our businesses.
On the comp-to-revenue side in the Investment Bank we think we've paid appropriately given the performance of the Investment Bank and I think we're going to expect it to return an appropriate level based on that pay.
Also we're going to constantly be aware of what's going on in the market.
So we'll see where the markets end for 2011 for everyone.
So we basically expect our overhead i.e.
non-IB comp to be about flat next year.
And then that's after a lot of investments too.
So it's not -- I think we have pretty good expense control.
The only thing I want to say about IB comp no I think you'll see it stay around those numbers.
But there's also a lot of pressure.
We get an awful lot of pressure for our bankers and traders to increase our payout ratio to about what newspapers and media have which is a little bit higher.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And the thing that you expect to be flat next year Jamie is your kind of your core overhead SG&amp;A-type x litigation reserves? Yes.
So if you look at the overhead which I forgot it was like almost $50 billion a year and that's x IB comp and things that we have for litigation or something like that to be essentially flat.
But that's -- the way you should think about that is we're making huge investments and we have opportunities to market or -- but we change it all the time.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the net interest margin Doug it was up a bit this quarter.
Looks like maybe some of the trading funding cost was lower.
Can you just talk about what drove that and what kind of outlook do you have for the NIM in 2012? Yes.
So in NIM John for the quarter it was really a mix issue.
In part we had lower cash we had some redeployment in Treasury and we also had some lower rates on the deposit businesses.
So that's what we saw.
I'd say for the outlook for the first quarter we expect to see some downward pressure on NIM in the first quarter and that would be -- well as we continue this mix in our portfolio on the Loan side greater growth in the Wholesale side and some runoff in the Consumer side we'll also see a little lower yielding loans that we add on.
And the other piece I'd say is we've got a lower-yield investment securities I think expected in this rate environment.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a follow-up what kind of regulatory event is necessary for you to be able to redeem that $10 billion in TruPS that you've talked about and when do you anticipate that might happen? Well we talked about that and I think clarification on the Basel III rules we would expect will be the regulatory event.
We're hopeful that that'll happen sometime in the first quarter but that's really up to the regulators.
Your next question comes from the line of Glenn Schorr with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> The other day Jamie you mentioned housing at or near a bottom.
It's a little involved question but curious to say: a what you're seeing to give you that feeling; and then b what needs to happen? In other words I get that affordability metrics are okay but there's a lot of inventory out there underwriting standards are too tight there is lack of agency securitization market.
Just curious if you can expand on that.
Yes so let me answer the first in part.
I think what you need to see is employment.
That's what you need to see because employment in our opinion will drive household formation.
But if you look at the other factors okay we've been destroying more homes than we build in the last several years.
We've added 10 million Americans.
We're going to add 3 million Americans every year for the next 10 years that's 30 million Americans who need 13 million in drawings or something like that.
Household formation has been half what it normally is and in most economy tell you that's going to come back with job creation.
And the so-called shadow inventory is coming down not going up.
So for all the chatter about it it is very high.
Rental in half the markets in America is not cheaper to rent than to buy -- it's cheaper to buy than to rent.
Housing is an all-time affordability and my guess is is that mortgage underwriting will loosen not tighten.
So if we put all of those things together you're going to have a turn at one point.
Look I don't know if it's 3 months 6 months 9 months.
But it's getting closer.
Research Division</strong> In the past when we were going the other way you were kind enough to give us some sensitivities around what happens if housing goes down x percent.
Not sure if you've gotten that optimistic to calculate it but how sensitive is the whole balance sheet and earnings to -- similar to that impediment? It was much more sensitive to going down because we have to take capital losses than going up where we don't get appreciation.
So to me if you have housing get better our charge-offs will just start to rapidly go down.
And yes it's a real improvement in mortgage portfolio and then we would need all the reserves so you got both those things.
Also we have hopefully active mortgage markets and healthy economy and that would be great.
Research Division</strong> I hear you.
And other question is on capital markets related.
As we all sit here and struggle between determining the cyclical versus secular pressure how do you go about sizing the IB and most specifically between the capital charges and potential Volcker changes? How do you think about the inventory businesses which you are so good in and big in as we sit here and wait for the rules? Well I'm going to put Volcker aside okay because that's really hasn't been written yet.
There are a lot of things coming out about it.
You can come up with a scenario which is not good.
I should write or ring the phone that we -- the United States has the widest and deepest and most transparent capital markets in the world.
And you should repeat that over and over particularly when you go to Washington.
The widest deepest and the most liquid i.e.
for buyers and sellers very narrow spreads.
That's a very good thing okay? The beneficiary of very narrow spreads are the investors of the world.
And so if you lose liquidity you lose market-makers.
It's going to cost retirees pensioners firemen retired military more money to invest their money.
So we need those things I think we've got to be very careful we don't destroy that as we try to limit -- a fair limit they want to put in proprietary trading.
So at the end of the day I think we'll deal with that later but -- well I think it's -- secular is pretty much what it is and not permanent.
I think that trading is right.
If we have 16 000 clients around the world the amount of money they're going to need to invest in the next 10 years is going to double.
I think you have underlying growth the same kind of underlying growth you had in the 2000s the '90s the '80s the '70s the '60s.
And of course gradual change and policy change and competition will change that's pretty good.
So we're going to be in the business we make markets actively for people we're very good at it.
And those institutions 16 000 which include pension plans and governments and corporations those are required services.
You need to have people making markets in that so people can move securities.
So we're starting see a lot of people understand that.
The volumes itself in the marketplace obviously go up or down pretty dramatically not just by quarter but sometimes by day.
Research Division</strong> Last one you saw a quick quote earlier that you've felt as the pressures are increasing in Europe.
I think there's a lot of people that feel like some of the liquidity metrics that have been put in place are a good thing.
If you could just comment on that that would be super.
I know the liquidity metrics you're talking about.
I think what I'm saying is that I think what the ECB did was a very very powerful thing okay? Which is extending the collateral in 3-year funding.
So powerful in fact I think you could probably make the statement that eliminates bank liquidity or funding problems for at least next year.
That's a pretty powerful statement.
That was the biggest single risk of an uncontrollable surprise right there.
So if that's taken on the tip that's a good thing.
Now the banks still have to increase capital so therefore they're still reducing RWA i.e.
by not rolling things over you can see them selling aircraft loans trade finance.
They're not participating much in revolvers there are certain conduits they're not doing anymore.
So you see them but that's now just to create capital not because of a funding crisis in any way.
So look I think Europe is trying mightily to solve its problems.
I still think the likely outcome is they will muddle through but the longer you wait the higher you run a risk of something disorderly that you can't really control.
But I think the ECB took off the worst outcome i.e.
a bank failure.
The other thing that I'd say and it's quite obvious I just got back from Berlin yesterday that regulatory policy is completely contradictory to government objectives.
They just start talking to each other a little bit.
Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One on the IB can we just talk a little bit about how you're thinking about bidding for some of the assets that might be coming out of Europe? I guess I'm trying to understand where you're most interested in adding to your footprint.
Yes so this is -- first of all most of the assets we have are just I'm going to call ordinary course of business to maintain our trading books and credit for clients.
So are we going to be aggressively bidding for assets from overseas? No we've done some we see that in the portfolio it's up $10 billion some of that came out of Europe.
But again going back to contradictory policy most of us want to get our capital up and therefore we're not going to do it.
And that's the outcome of all of these rules and that's life.
Research Division</strong> Last quarter you talked on the conference call about the fact that capital weren't really that clear.
They obviously became a little bit clearer between in and out in that.
No they're clear bad.
And I'll give you a very specific example because there's one security we looked at that if you look at -- we believe we've had a 10% cash return and that really required some economic capital.
Basel III statutory requirements was 1 200% capital that's an 8% pretax return 5.5% after-tax.
We're not going to do it.
That's all life.
Not a big deal for us it's not great for the recovery of the global market.
Because remember that's not just one security that filters through what people are doing everywhere.
Research Division</strong> But then on the flip side interest in low RWA assets relatively high? Right.
Well listen we're doing RWA in the budgets at a very detailed level in LCR and all that.
So yes we're going to have to manage really micromanage RWA.
And so yes there are assets we're going to put on that we think are very good RWA returns and we're probably much more sensitive to that for now than we would be in the past.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can we talk a little bit about headcount? Because you're one of the few companies where headcount is growing.
Revenue environment is still on the tougher side given the rate environment.
Can you give us a sense as to how much longer or what your expectations are for headcount? And in addition to that just where your reinvestment spending is and do you have to pull back at all at this stage just now? No we're not pulling back.
In the overhead number I think we already mentioned the $50 billion is I believe going to be pretty consistent so far for next year.
And the headcount let me split it 3 things.
We are always gaining efficiencies which you don't see.
In tech ops overhead a whole bunch of stuff.
And we've added and we break it out and you've got to do it by business with branches.
So we've added 3 000 salespeople in branches in Consumer some of that is in the new branches some of that is in existing branches.
We're adding private bankers we're adding branches overseas.
We opened 20 branches overseas mostly for TS&amp;S.
So all those things add people.
And for the biggest add which we'll not be adding any more was to handle default.
So there's -- I've got the total number we've added 15 000 people the last 2 years maybe more just to handle default mortgage in mortgage.
That number has probably peaked and I think you'll see it coming down in the next couple of years.
Research Division</strong> Are you talking about you'll be dealing with OREO? No no not OREO -- well also OREO but it's 15 -- yes it's 15 000 to 20 000 just to deal with default servicing OREO foreclosed assets and all that kind of stuff.
So those numbers will -- I think is now running we'll break it out to you.
Yes that's the $925 million in servicing expense in that business.
Of which 2/3 is default now.
And that default number is going to come down over the next couple of years and the headcount related to that too.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So that's tied to transaction volume in housing and how you get down bringing down your OREO and the delinquencies.
So my last question just has to do with the outlook for home prices and transactions.
And I'm just ask -- I mean I know the question already asked but I wanted to ask in conjunction to the PCI impairment that you talked and the reduction in the portfolio there.
Let's just keep it simple all right? We're still assuming another 1% or 2% drop across the foreign home prices.
We do it by region and stuff like that.
If they dropped another...
Yes.
So if they dropped another 8 --  remember we said last quarter it's 10%.
80% more and you get $1.5 billion incremental impact in PCI reserves.
All things being equal.
Research Division</strong> Right and so -- but you've made a change in your PCI reserves this quarter...
That's just forecasting lifetime losses.
Remember there's little adjustments that change that quite a bit so...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So your outlook hasn't this doesn't reflect...
My guess I'd go the other way.
We have almost $9 billion of reserves for mortgages.
We've got $3 billion in reserves for repurchase.
Charge-offs are coming down.
It's more likely than not we're going to have excess reserves and this will be reversing at one point.
To me it' will be when the economy gets stronger.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Ramsden with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So I've got a couple of questions.
If we could go back to the LTRO.
A couple of questions.
First is does this in any way change your willingness to engage in interbank transactions i.e.
compared to where we were a month ago? Are you more willing to engage in transactions with European banks? Would you say it's unchanged? Again you're talking about contradictory regulatory policy.
When I was in Berlin they were complaining that no banks were lending to other banks.
Well of course not.
If you look at the  -- the banks are being penalized for lending to banks.
The G-SIFI charged specifically penalizing lending their banks and the FDIC charge of 10 basis points is on interbank lending.
There will be no interbank lending ever again.
Now maybe that's a wise policy in the future that perfectly reasonable if not reasonable now.
But that's what we did.
Research Division</strong> The second link to this.
Do you think this will change the policy...
We do finance banks.
We do have some credit at the banks and we do do some secured funding.
So we do deal with banks.
It's very different with interbank placing when you get to it's [ph] short-term funds.
Research Division</strong> The second thing is do you think this will meaningfully change the speed of de-levering of assets coming out of Europe as a result of European banks having such a significant amount of 3-year funding? I think it reduces the pressure on them but they have this 9% capital target they have to do by June.
So I think you've got ask them.
I think that's what's pushing them to shed risk-weighted assets to get that 9%.
Most of them are not going to issue equity nor would I if I were them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question is...
But I would say we have not seen a huge -- I mean some people are expecting a roll of sales and this wave of sales.
We have not seen that.
We see a more orderly -- particularly in trade finance aircraft some CMBS and some RBS some condo-related businesses it's not a wave.
It's just a kind of orderly movement of assets from some banks to others.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then back in early December you talked about the possibility of getting Basel III-compliant early i.e.
at the end of 2012 which was a change to what you I think what you've said before.
Can you just give us an update both in terms of your thinking on that? And second what benefits you think you would get to getting Basel III-compliant early? You see I think what I said originally I know we've flip-flopped things a little bit.
Originally we said there's no reason to get there early and then at the Europe Conference I said maybe by '09 the near 2012.
We're going to drive it up okay? We've just finished CCAR the Fed is giving out more guidance that they'd like to see people the way I'm going to word is make little progress on getting to [indiscernible]  9.5% of course by 2018.
We're going to do that so it may not be quite 9% so we do we like our stock and we don't mind buying back stock.
But I just think you're going to have people getting there quicker rather than slower.
People want to get out of the yoke of this thing at one point.
I mean we've got to get this behind us.
The good news about the CCAR in my opinion is it should I hope definitively get rid of this capital issue once and for all.
I mean if banks can demonstrate that a 13% unemployment a market down 50% home prices down 20% a catastrophe in the U.S.
market sales and trading a catastrophe in European credit in sales and trading and with all that you're still way above Basel 1.5.
It makes 2 points: we've got plenty of capital and we don't need more.
And we're going to -- I think that points can be quite openly and politely when people release the results of the CCAR.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Najarian with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> We've talked little bit about some of the potential impact or the strong loan growth impact that you've gotten from some of the euro de-leveraging.
But I guess I was just looking at the very strong commercial loan growth Wholesale loan growth and trying to get some idea of how much of that was coming excluding any euro impact just from core customers either using more on working capital lines or investing in capital expenditures and what your outlook for that continuing.
The Commercial Bank is 100% U.S.
and has nothing to do with European banks.
And from what we can see it is continuing and it's very broad-based in terms of clientele et cetera.
It's not utilization it's actually just new lines of credits for the most part.
I think in the Investment Bank the loan portfolio of $10 billion that was about half.
Some of that is...
They're got half of that related to...
Conduits and...
Coming out of Europe.
That's right.
Research Division</strong> So it sounds like you see a lot of momentum there just on the core commercial side continuing this year.
Yes yes.
Research Division</strong> Nevertheless you're saying -- maybe you're gaining share in terms of lines of credit but you're saying you're not seeing an uptick in utilization on the lines of credit.
Modest uptick in utilization but the reason we don't really know is remember we had a lot of bankers particularly in Florida and California which is new to us.
So we know -- and we've added -- I think it was $2 billion of total loans came out of those areas.
So we know some of our growth is with new areas to have obviously got some market share issues as opposed to -- but I think when other banks report you're going to see some good loan growth numbers in Commercial Bank in the U.S.
And okay again if you look at our numbers Small Business up 52% Trade Finance up 73% Investment Banking.
I mean they're all -- we were starting to see pretty good growth.
Research Division</strong> And that's not any sort of just 1 quarter bounce back or 2 quarter bounce back kind of thing? You might decelerate a little bit I guess but it's something that you feel pretty good about commercial banking as well.
The Commercial Bank has been for 6 quarters now.
6 quarters 7 quarters in middle-market.
This is really a trend we've been seeing.
And by the way the same thing in the small business side.
It's been a little slow this quarter yes but it's been up significantly across the businesses all year.
Research Division</strong> So other than sort of the recovery of the business cycle in general.
Do you put any of that into sort of this idea that -- you read some of the stories about that reindustrialization of the United States and more manufacturing facilities going in the United States than before and more decisions being made that maybe we shouldn't but that plant in China or Mexico but if we can eliminate the shipping costs back and we'll put it in the United States is there something like that going on? As I said we're not macroeconomists okay? If you want to know about that you should seek that out yourself.
The next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> First I like to follow-up on the last question.
When you look at Wholesale loan growth it was up 37% annualized in the fourth quarter.
So it just seems as though there must be some sort of re-intermediation by your bank from the capital markets back to traditional banking.
I mean how can 37% annualized loan growth be sustainable? So my question is...
It's not it's not.
The big chunk of that if you take the Investment Bank loans which I think that went from $60 billion to $70 billion or something like that...
That's right.
That bounces all over the place.
That includes bridge loans and it does include like $5 billion or $6 billion of conduits we put in there.
We don't expect to see that kind of loan growth every quarter in that portfolio.
Research Division</strong> But it's still 20% annualized loan growth.
So I'm just trying to understand the flight to quality benefit are people moving business out of the capital markets back to the banks? I would say though Mike the other...
No we're not.
No.
And -- but we had syndicated -- we had record syndicated loan fees so there is a lot of that activity going on.
But you also saw a lot of activity in the capital markets.
So people are I think are doing both and we did see some real fundamental growth in the Investment Bank in terms of year-over-year stuff.
But quarter-over-quarter I wouldn't draw a conclusion.
The Wholesale line you're looking at the consolidated Wholesale right? Research Division</strong> Right yes.
Which I don't -- that include that? That's TSS.
That includes...
That includes trade financing and it's up...
And CB and I think actually AM is also included in that number.
So I mean we did see growth across every single one of those businesses quarter-on-quarter.
Research Division</strong> Well still the more general question the impact from capital markets to traditional banking.
I mean look at noninterest-bearing deposits they're up $40 billion in 3 months.
That's a 50% annualized growth rate.
So it seems like something's happening in terms of people moving at least their money to you if not Wholesale loans.
So...
Right.
The Wholesale loans no other than we've mentioned 5 maybe just a little bit more billion relating to European loans that we bought or conduits.
I don't expect that to continue.
It might.
That's not a flight to quality.
That's just -- so other people are trying to get rid of their assets.
There's no question in the liability side particularly in large corporate.
So TSS you're right it was up 100...
$100 billion year-over-year.
More than $100 billion year-over-year.
My guess is a lot of that was flight to quality.
It's very hard for us to distinguish because some of it was just big -- money sitting there companies are flushed with cash and their cash balances are growing some are new accounts.
So we estimate that a chunk of that might be that but we don't make a lot of money in that.
So the part that whatever you call the flight to quality or something like that I mean we're making very little on it.
We almost do that more to accommodate the client.
Research Division</strong> And then one last unrelated question.
It seems like RFS keeps having negative operating leverage.
I know you're investing a lot and I'm sure we'll hear about this at Investor Day.
But it seems like an awful big branch build strategy that's not paying off yet and during a period of when deposits aren't worth as much in a low-rate environment.
Does that really makes sense? Yes 3 completely different things.
So obviously our operating leverage has gone worse because of regulation the Durbin et cetera.
That's a fact.
That's number one.
Number two we opened branches and I said we're modifying that because a lot of these changes do affect branch profitability.
But to the extent that we could open a branch and get a very good return we're going to continue to do it.
Remember and a lot of this is in California Florida where there's a huge benefit to clustering i.e.
increasing the market share inside local markets.
So we're going to modify the size of the branch locations the types of products and services and -- but we're going to continue to open branch.
Well we think every time you open a branch you get a very good return.
And the third one was...
Research Division</strong> Just the low-rate environment the deposit is not worth as much? And this is a very important thing.
We have decided you may decide differently I think we're wrong but we have decided that the value of the deposits is more and we're not going to treat it like they're very low for the sake of our business.
The vital deposits will come back and we will regret having not continued growing our business as normal.
So and the profits will go up because eventually margins will go back to more normal type of things over time.
And that's a decision we made open to comment or criticism.
But as of now unless they can prove otherwise that's we're going to do.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Goldberg with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> The yield in 2011 and obviously first half trading results significantly stronger than the second half.
I guess typically we've seen a seasonal uptick particularly in the first quarter of the year over the last several years.
I realized we're very early into the quarter but just I guess given all the macro factors out there is there anything that leads you to believe that seasonality won't reoccur or just how you're thinking about that? Yes honestly your guess is as good as ours.
Look it's been -- we've had a pretty good start so far but it's only so many trading days.
And look we could be surprised the upside the downside who knows? Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then in the release you point to the fourth quarter ROE that was modestly disappointing.
When you think about that is that -- I guess do you mean driven by the macro factors or are there specific areas that you think underperformed given the macro environment? Well it was 11% return tangible common equity and we would like to be closer to 15% so that's all we meant.
So a big part of the difference is there's still a huge drag for mortgage.
I mean you're talking about several billion dollars a year just for mortgage alone.
And that drag is going down but it's still a negative.
Eventually that will disappear.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just last thing in the third quarter call you talked a lot about this capital confusion.
Then I guess and earlier in this week you talked about you want to buy back more -- equal to or more stock in 2012 versus the $9 billion you did in 2011 and then raise the dividends.
So I guess first 2 parts: I guess one do you I guess feel you have more clarity on that front? And then secondly it seems like your comments were more leaning towards buybacks and dividends than maybe they didn't previously just maybe comment on that? Well okay.
Dividends is a small decision from capital standpoint so that raise a little bit here that's not going to be material.
We still -- we started the dividend again we'd like to increase a little bit every year.
It's a board decision.
And the stock is very cheap and particularly below tangible book value I'd like to buy a lot back which of course we can't do.
By the time we're allowed to buy a lot of stock back I'm sure it's going to be much higher priced and then we may change our decision about that.
So you can get a little frustration in my -- in about how we've had to do our capital buyback.
But we are getting more clarity from the Fed.
The Fed has asked for these stress tests.
The stress test all the banks have put in their CCAR and we are going to tell you what that is when we get it back.
So but I'm not going to change the statement I made at the Goldman conference which was we hoped to be able to do a little more than we did in 2011.
Your next question comes from the line of Guy Moszkowski with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I think I picked up when you were talking about RFS that you had some offset from the Durbin impact from increased deposit-related fees.
Can you give us a little bit more color on...
No no no they're unrelated.
It's just that the deposit-related fees were up a little bit.
Don't look at it as offset to Durbin.
That was year-over-year...
It's a factual statement.
Year-over-year Guy.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
I wanted to ask a little bit about liquidity coverage and the ratios.
The Fed has indicated that the U.S.
banks are going to have to undergo a liquidity stress test on a regular basis.
You've mentioned that you're concerned...
No just so you know most banks I know have already put themselves on a liquidity stress test.
And so that you should do.
I mean that's just a normal course of thing.
It's just that they're going to get more involved in how it's designed and stuff like that.
And we believe that we should be able to handle a lot of stress in liquidity.
I think it's...
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
I mean it's that you've mentioned when looking at the Basel liquidity rules that have been proposed that it bothers you that they don't credit some of the advantages that U.S.
banks have like the guarantees on agency securities and the access to the Fed window.
And I was just wondering if you believe that you've been hurt on those things that the Fed will take those things appropriately into account.
So the LCR you guys have all seen this has huge amount of detail behind them and we're in favor of good detail.
And it got a lot of comments.
Why are Ginnie Maes at a 15% discount? How come equities aren't in there? How come gold isn't in there? How come for liquid assets? And they've got a lot of comments is the drawdown on deposits just too high? And millions of comments.
But they've acknowledged some of those comments.
Let them come back and when we get the final stuff we'll tell you.
Research Division</strong> So the fact that you deployed liquidity...
Some of this stuff in this LCR was absurd okay? So hopefully they'll be responsive at least to the absurd parts.
Research Division</strong> So the fact that you mentioned that you deployed liquidity during the quarter and that was one of the things that helped with the net interest margin that's not that you're feeling more comfortable with this or what the Fed is saying.
It's just that to.
.
.
No no no.
It's normal balance sheet management.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And from what you know of the Fed liquidity rules if they were in fact if they were implementing their stress tests right now do you think you'd be compliant with what they are looking for? I don't know yet.
But Guy I don't think it's going to be material to us any which way.
But there's really if we have to make some adjustments we will make some adjustments.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
The final question that I have is on the noncredit impaired portfolio and the reserve release there.
In the mortgage delinquency trends that we can see did continue to improve but it seems like the improvement is kind of at a moderating pace.
So I was hoping maybe you could give us a little bit more color on what drove the decision to release? And I guess sort of a longer-term question would be how to think about.
.
.
It's very simple okay? You see the numbers they moderated and maybe they'll be a little bit prudent going forward and it made us change our mind as we kind of said we had to.
I would have left the reserves up if it was solely up to me.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So in other words if we were transitioning already into sort of an expected loss versus a sort of current incurred loss reserve model you might not have done it? Look that's another question.
I'd like having a -- look eventually we have a $9 billion reserves we don't need okay? So until we get through all of this I'm sure we'll just [ph] add them up.
But basically the numbers have gone too good over time to leave up that amount of reserves under current accounting.
There's going to be a change in accounting.
But that's not -- we'll worry about that when we get there.
And Guy if you just do the math and you say $877 million you multiply by 4 so call it $3.6 billion we're still after that have $8.7 billion worth of reserves up for that portfolio.
But one of the things in this stress test not just for us but for a lot of banks is the portfolios are smaller they've got a lot of more reserves up and a lot of the bad stuff has run through so loss rates won't go up as much I'm talking about in the real stress tests and you won't need to add as much to reserves from where we were a couple of years ago.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Following up on the earlier comment that the NIM percent might be down a little bit in the first quarter if we think about the net interest income dollars should we see continued growth off of this level? Yes.
I mean it should be flat to up.
Again that's a function of deposits and it's a function of loans and we expect both of those to continue to trend if the world stays the same.
By the way I just got a note that one of the newspapers out there thinks that we haven't done a full disclosure on Europe.
The reason we didn't add our European business it's pretty much like it was last quarter not much has changed so if anyone's interested.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a flat to up comment is that for the first quarter or just -- if you're growing loans consistently throughout next year it seems like you could have an upward trajectory throughout the year.
Matt if that's the case we should have an upward trajectory throughout the year.
Now remember again the one other thing that's net loan growth.
We did tell you we're going to have portfolio runoff in Home Lending so that's going to impact NII on an absolute dollar basis by about $500 million.
So the mix will change but if trends continue where they are yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then separate topic.
Mortgage putback continues to grab some headlines here.
Can you just clarify remind us what portions the FDIC is covering related to WaMu? I think there was some debate whether the private label is covered the GSE is covered.
Can you just clarify that? You're confusing 2 things.
The GSE putbacks number that's the $350 million that we had those numbers are basically timing differences.
It was like $3 billion of reserves we don't expect a real change in that.
And some of that there were pieces of that that was settled relating to WaMu.
I forgot which one it was Fannie or Freddie.
And that number Matt that $6 amount and we're working through that and we'd expect to be through that in 2012.
And so and then on the private label side there's not confusion in our part we do not believe we have repurchase liability for the private label claims from WaMu.
Research Division</strong> And then from the outside though how do we know what the verdict on that is? What should we be following? That's going to be -- that's going to work its way out on the courts.
Litigation.
So we put up a lot of reserves for litigation so.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly sticking with the litigation theme.
The merchant suit against Visa and MasterCard and the banks there's the court date scheduled for September.
It seems like there'll be potentially some sort of settlement and any thoughts you have on how it might impact credit card interchange or an upfront settlement charge? We have no comment on that.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Jamie I just wanted to follow up on the comment I thought you made in terms of capital in terms of perhaps not aggressively trying to move towards the 9% Basel III number by the end of 2012.
Is that.
.
.
I'm sorry what was the question? LLC Research Division</strong> I'm just wondering if your if what you said before focused on maybe not trying to aggressively reach that 9% Basel III Tier 1 Common number by the end of this year.
If I wanted to give you quite a number yet but it won't -- it may not be 9% but it will be 8.5% or something like that.
We're going to make a lot of progress towards getting to the 9.5%.
And my guess is it will be at the 9%.
And we can get to 9% here right away.
It wouldn't be that hard to do we're happy to do it.
And it won't be -- I don't think it would be good policy that's helping in economic recovery then my guess is we will be at 9.5% by the end of 2013.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
And then just following up on your comment on the no material change in your European exposures.
I'm just curious if you have any thoughts on some of the commentary that that the regulators have made about potentially seeking greater clarity across the U.S.
banks in terms of their disclosure and whether or not that might change some of the disclosure that comes out of the regulators as well.
No.
I think we already disclosed a lot of what they what the SEC said people are going to disclose right? There's very little add.
So for us it's not a lot different than what we showed.
I think other people didn't show that kind of detail you're going to get more detail.
But Matt you should expect to see that slide that Jamie put up at the conference in December that will be in our filings.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
With a little more detail.
With a little more detail and we may add some additional countries to that but that's sort of the level of the disclosure we're expecting for others to have as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> That would be helpful.
And then just one final question on the Investment Bank.
It looked like Asian revenues were down about 47% quarter-over-quarter even though loans were up about 14%.
Doug was there anything going on there? Was there anything particularly especially to this quarter or last quarter that drove that decline? No there really wasn't.
I mean the capital markets are a big part equity in particular of our Asian business and those were very challenging in the quarter.
If you look at x DVA which actually had an impact there it was a little smaller decline.
And year-over-year revenues internationally for the bank were up a couple of billion dollars and a much larger percentage almost 24% of the total revenue up from about 21%.
LLC Research Division</strong> And has your outlook for Asian contribution to overall IB revenues in 2012 changed materially over the last quarter or so? I don't think our outlook has changed.
But again it's going to be in part a function of the markets and how open they are for business.
Pipeline is great.
What you're going to execute -- that's why pipeline is so deceptive because what you can actually execute is a different question.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's the Asian pipeline or overall Investment Banking? Yes overall.
Unfortunately the pipeline gets bigger as you can't execute and the stuff gets delayed.
We're not building Asia for next quarter.
So we'll cover a lot of clients and the buyers will go up or down.
And we've built there we've opened branches there we're building the global core bank there we're covering more clients there.
That's going to continue.
The volumes themselves will be volatile.
Your next question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you give us some color around your branch expansion strategy.
I know you've outlined it last February you'll probably update it for us this February but then you changed it in the third quarter.
What is the stand now in terms of branches? It's exactly I said in the third quarter.
There's a page and you go get them at presentation I made at Goldman that it's about 175 branches.
And we're looking at things like size and technology and locations but we're still going to be opening branches particularly in California and Florida we need more share.
There's nothing mystical about it.
Just we have to adjust it.
Some of the regulatory changes made certain branches less profitable et cetera that's all.
LLC Research Division</strong> Is there a possibility -- since your deposit market share doesn't exceed 10% of the total U.S.
deposits which would prevent somebody from buying another bank but the too-big-to-fail doctrine seems to be weighing on your bank and then a few others.
Do you think you could if M&amp;A comes back could you guys buy depositories in the U.S.? No.
First of all we have to get rid of the too-big-to-fail things.
Because I think companies have be allowed to fail and therefore I think we need to help show people that resolution is real.
And so you're going to see us be making a little bit of effort in that but how can you dismantle a big bank in a way it doesn't damage the taxpayer or the economy in any material way.
We are still under the 10% cap.
Look I think there probably be a political firestorm if we try to buy someone in the United States.
I mean if we feel it's really really good for shareholders we'd want to do it and we'd be willing to have [indiscernible] among our place.
But we need regulatory approval.
So if we can't get regulatory approval then we're not going to try.
In the United States it's still -- well accounting to all this chatter about too big to fail the United States is the least consolidated banking market in the world and there are still too many banks.
And unfortunately some of the -- all these regulatory things are tougher on smaller banks than on bigger banks.
So you're going to see a lot of them wanting to sell or merge.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then finally on your outlook for Durbin the $600 million the impact is that the incremental impact from the fourth quarter? Or is that the total impact that's already reflected in the run rate in the fourth quarter? It's reflected in the run rate in the fourth quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Marquardt with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to circle back on Guy's question earlier on asset quality.
Just want to understand how we should think about kind of remaining credit leverage as things seem to be turning Credit Card has been a big driver in terms of the reserve at least nearer-term but that seems like it's going to start moving higher in terms of losses.
How do we think about the degree of reserve release that might be able to come out? I think in Credit Card we're near the end of reserve release if that's what you're referring to.
Credit's very good and I mean I hope it will stay good and they get a little better.
But I think we're near the end.
In terms of mortgage I think we already mentioned that the $9 billion one day you won't need all that.
But you need more far more improvement in charge-offs delinquencies all that before that reserve will come down.
And Jamie I would add on the repurchase reserve front I've got $3.6 billion there.
That's another number that over time should come down materially.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then on commercial Wholesale should we expect incremental build for the growth that you're seeing or how should we think about that? Yes.
But we're in a kind of close steady state now in most Wholesale areas.
Strong reserve but steady state.
And to grow you're going to have a little build yes.
All things being equal which they're not but yes.
Research Division</strong> And just a ticky-tack question in the Investment Banking detail you had mentioned that part of the credit portfolio results of the loss of 31 this quarter were due to the DVA losses but they were offset by NII and some fees but also CVA.
How much was the CVA this quarter? The net CVA was very small.
So at steady-state that line called Credit Portfolio would be a couple of million dollar positive.
But of course if you look at it it bounces all over the place because of CVA and DVA effects.
Your next question comes from the line of Brennan Hawken with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been touched on just a quick one here.
On the $569 million headwind from the change in MSR valuation can you discuss the impact that HARP 2.0 had on that? Not much there's a little bit.
There are a lot of things in there okay? Home prices paydown rates how we look at what kind of required returns we need on the MSR itself the option-adjusted return.
So there are large model updates with a lot of pluses and minuses.
Your next question comes from the line of James Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> Maybe a follow-up on the market share story out of Europe as the banks which you've mentioned quite a bit about lending and trade finance.
Have you seen anything yet as we hear about some of the European banks pulling out of whether it's trading or Investment Banking have you seen any impact or benefit there in market share or what do you expect in 2012 any pickups? Well what I've seen not really okay? There've been more announcements than actions.
And today I guess that was RBS who said M&amp;A in equity is going to stay in fixed income.
So we haven't really seen it.
Maybe -- if I went walk through ask the traders they might have seen a little bit.
But eventually there will be some people exiting some of the things and those who remain will probably pick up a little share because of it.
Inc.</strong> Right.
And just one other question on the long-term debt it was down $17 billion in the quarter after being pretty stable for the prior 3 is that just a function of the markets weren't conducive to rolling over debt? Or are you looking to actively reduce that over time? No it's just a function of our funding needs.
Inc.</strong> So should we expect that to go down or it's just going to bounce around your balance sheet? I think you should not really expect it to go down.
Your next question comes from the line of Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Jamie you talked about the regulatory response being different once you get to 9.5%.
Could you talk a little bit about how you would see that relationship kind of once you got to the level that you thought that you should be at? Yes.
I guess my point is I think a lot of people want to get passed all this and go back to -- look we always have stress test in liquidity and stuff like that when the rules are known.
We should be sure guessing about what we're going to retain in capital and how fast you want to get there and what the requirements are what the phase-in is.
So all that uncertainties should be eliminated.
Here are the rules that banks have lived by that's all.
Research Division</strong> And just on the mortgage front given we've had yet another one of these ideas that the settlement with the AGs [ph] is imminent.
Could you talk a little bit about how you see things kind of developing then and could that be a trigger for some of that reserve release that you talked about or what would it take you think other than this? Unrelated okay? So it's still imminent.
It'd be nice to get it done but there's still open issues and we've been working mightily to try to get it done but I think it would be better.
I think it will be good for the mortgage markets to move up.
I think that anything than can get resolved is better for the mortgage markets and but it has nothing to do with the reserves.
And though it will affect numbers you have to account for whatever the agreement is and we've already done some of that so there'll be some adjustments because of that but it won't really affect reserves that much.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And I guess given your kind of...
I should mention it's embedded in the reserves but it will probably have no major net effect.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And given your relative optimism on housing are there things that could be done to help the down payment piece because that seems to be just the last piece that's really hard to kind of bring to the table? I don't -- look if it were up to me okay I think that someone in authority should convene all the people involved in the mortgage businesses and -- because this could be fixed.
It's 3 years after the crisis virtually no RMBS we don't know the scheme of the rule -- in rule games foreclosure being held up everywhere just damaging the economy.
I mean you can blame the banks for most of that it's okay.
These things can be fixed.
We have much more mortgage markets and underwriting is still tight.
I think underwriting probably will loosen over time and it's tight for a whole bunch of different reasons.
And obviously GSE policy is critical as we talked to and all these things.
But there's no really in-charge of all of this.
It's just kind of sitting there.
Research Division</strong> That was correct.
That was coordinated yes.
Right.
If someone's going to hold that together and make some good decisions I think you'd have a much more rapid recovery in housing.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Bove with Rochdale Securities.
Research Division</strong> In looking at what's going on in Europe it's really hard to understand how these European banks who ever meet the Basel III requirements in the short run.
So I'm wondering if there's a real possibility that this is going to be pushed out in the United States also a year or 2 years.
And whether definitions are going to be changed to make it a lot easier to deal with these rules.
In other words I simply cannot conceive of how this thinking go into effect in Europe and I'm wondering how it could go into the effect in the United States if it doesn't go into effect in Europe.
Let me answer your confusion here a second okay? We're running Basel I Basel II Basel 2.5 and Basel III.
Remember the European banks early on in effect of Basel 2.5.
So they just have to go from 2.5 to 3 where the American banks had to go from 1 to 3.
And so when they say it has to get to 9% it's not Tier 1 Common it's Tier 1 Core which is slightly different by June of 2012 that's an accelerated getting there already.
And they've already got I'd say most of Basel III in there maybe a little longer than that.
But I think most of Basel III is already incorporated in Basel 2.5.
So it's put a lot of pressure on these banks in Europe who look I think in the past have allowed too much unsecured funding but they operate under that scheme for a long time sanctioned by the states.
And this is why I'd say it's completely pro-cyclical what is being caused in Europe right now.
And so will it change? I don't know.
Will that change what American regulators want to do? I don't think so.
Research Division</strong> The risk-weighted asset definition seemed to be a lot different in Europe than they are here.
I mean companies like Credit Suisse have a 20% risk-weighted asset to total asset ratio.
In addition to which in looking at liquidity is Nestlé [ph] really a worse credit than Greece? I mean doesn't all that stuff have to be resolved before they go forward with any implementation of Basel III? Yes but I'm going to leave that to them.
We've got to run our business here and I do think it causes a lot of confusion.
If you speak to banks in Europe okay they are they may think a lot get done now they're most pro-cyclical and they think some of this stuff is silly.
But I -- let them tell you what they need to do about it.
Your next question comes from the line of Ron Mandle with GIC.
I was just wondering about the tax rate in the quarter the rates seemed considerably  lower than you've had in earlier quarters and the full year if they were [indiscernible] I think we can talk about that.
Ron it was just some true-ups some state and local benefits.
And you should expect low 30s for 2012.
I just mentioned our Europe by the way because like I said I was in Berlin yesterday that it's quite clear when you speak to like the ECB and they did the 3-year funding why aren't banks making loans and buying sovereign debt.
So it's got a huge arbitrage where you can earn 4% 5% 6% in financial 1%.
Yet if you ask the banks they're saying I can't buy sovereign debt because I'm already being criticized heavily by other regulators about my sovereign debt my exposure.
I got to get all these numbers down.
So over there it's quite clear that regulatory policy government policy Central Bank policy it's not coordinated and it's making the situation worse not better.
I just...
Basically no one is in-charge of the global financial system.
I mean if you look to the inconsistencies and the counter-cyclical things we're doing the process it's crazy.
It's not the way to get a recovery going.
And I don't expect it to change by the way so that we can run our business as best as we can.
Well.
Jamie I guess in that regard I'm just wondering you see these things to be constantly easing its collateral standards.
What are the risks that you might worry about in that regard as they keep using their standards to provide liquidity as the banks have to meet the requirements that you referred to? Well look I think the ECB did the right thing because when the banks or whenever there's question in sovereign debt whenever there's question on unsecured debt whenever there's question on wholesale debt whenever there's question -- the banks have to get funding.
What's the ECB supposed to do let them not get funding? No I agree with you.
They're doing the right things so far but that brings its own risk possibly at some point down the road I guess that's what I'm wondering on.
Look I've been very consistent.
I think we'll shoot ourselves in the foot everywhere around the world.
And I don't know how to say it I'd say it 100 times.
I'm not complaining.
JPMorgan will be fine.
But that's what we're doing.
No one is really in charge in putting these things together and realizing what the negative effect it's causing.
We can get through it all just because it's going to take -- it's going to make it more painful to swallow.
No one job this is not job creating.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> Oh my goodness after Jamie's exegesis on regulators my questions there are going to seem so mundane.
But you gave us a nice disclosure on the breakout of the mortgage servicing expense between core and the default expense and I'm looking at that $3.8 billion default-related expense.
And is there a way to gain what that number would be if -- when delinquency rates ultimately return to 50 or 100 basis points? The default fees will be close to 0.
Chris the ongoing servicing number is call it a couple of hundred million bucks a quarter that will stay.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
I think we put a slide out somewhere else that should show what will remain.
So it will come down quite a bit but not all the way.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then just a clarification on your dividend buybacks -- share buybacks.
Last March you announced the $15 billion multiyear repurchase program of which $8 billion was for '11.
That was subsequently bumped up to $9 billion theoretically $6 billion remains.
Do you have clearance do that in the early part of this year or do you have to wait for the CCAR? Well the CCAR is what will allow us we're going to be told what we can buy back in terms of stock or not.
We've applied.
So we're going to response in March 15.
So you'll know on March 15 what we know to get what's opened.
That's a board authorization and obviously we'll...
Research Division</strong> Not Fed.
The board not Fed..
Right.
That's a board authorization.
We'll adjust it to whatever we're announcing in March.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then I'd just to turn it back to Jamie to see if he has any if he wants to share any other thoughts about the regulators.
Please don't say that.
I'm not mad [ph] some of the regulators more of the inconsistent policy to certain regulatory policies certain government policy and the so-called objective to get the economies of the world going  again.
Those are inconsistent.
You guys should write about that.
So they are inconsistent and it's too bad.
Your next question comes from the line of Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC.
LLC Research Division</strong> A little bit about regulatory inconsistency.
Jamie would you just speak to the Fed's sort of white paper on the mortgage market that came out a couple of weeks ago? And then Governor Rankin came out and blasted the mortgage servicers and said that principal write-downs remain on the table et cetera et cetera.
I mean what's going on with the Fed? Look I don't know.
Look everyone wants to get the mortgage market healthier and I think the Fed in that white paper also showed that costs are higher than they should be the mortgage costs.
If you reduce the mortgage costs it spreads over 10 years and stuff like that could be I've got the number 30 or 40 basis points cheaper and I agree with them.
It's not going to happen if you can't foreclose on homes it's not going to happen if you don't have RMBS.
So it's more of a -- you need a holistic approach to get it all done.
So I'm not -- and I think the Fed is right that there should be a holistic approach and we put in the press release that we put up 1.2 million mortgage modifications okay? And that we've actually completed 400 000 and that we're making 765 000 mortgages a year.
So with all due respect we're making mortgages all day long which sounds that [ph] GSEs we want to be in the business and the servicing side mistakes were made they're being fixed we're paying for them and we should.
I'm not -- we should pay for the mistakes we made.
But let's keep the mortgage market active.
I mean we did see Ally say they're not going to do mortgages in Massachusetts any more because of certain litigation there and stuff like that that's not a good thing.
LLC Research Division</strong> My second question would be you mentioned share repurchase quite a bit in your comments.
But I also don't agree with some of that principal forgiveness would be end all to be all okay? There are 75 million homes 25 million don't have mortgages.
Of the 45 million still with mortgages 4 million more of those mortgages are having problems.
And we're working through those.
Those who can't afford to stay in their home the loans in effect could be written off and forgiven okay? And millions of mods are being offered.
All the banks do as aggressive as they can and all the key [ph] banks are geared up trying to handle just the raw amount of defaults and stuff like that.
We support HARP 1 we support HARP 2 we supported HAMP and we're doing our own mortgage modification on top of that right? I think -- I mean we want to see a recovery in the housing markets.
We will do anything we can to get a recovery in the housing markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well did you regard the white paper as helpful or I mean the commentary that came after it seemed distinctly unhelpful to me.
Look I don't remember the commentary that came after.
I think some of the things in white paper were interesting.
If I was the powers that be I've already said this I would convene all the people involved in the business I will close the door I'd stay there until we resolve a bunch of these issues so we could have a more healthy mortgage market.
I think if you had RMBS if you finish scheming the game if you changed reps and warranties if we made -- if we figure out how you deal with seconds and firsts you could fix all this if someone was in charge.
No one is in charge.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I want to ask about -- you've mentioned share repurchase several times today but not you haven't mentioned dividend so much.
So I mean is this -- do you see extraordinary situation right now in your stock price where this year dividend would take a backseat to share repurchase because of the stock price? Look I don't know.
When the board -- look when we started them I'm very consistent that we hope to do a little bit of increase every year that's what we hope to do.
When the board talks about it they're going to decide what that number is.
I don't think it's that critical to our company.
You're talking about small numbers relative to all these other things.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Foran with Nomura.
It seems that question has been withdrawn.
Your next question comes from the line of Christopher Wheeler.
Research Division</strong> It's Chris Wheeler from Mediobanca here.
A question on risk-weighted assets on the Basel III if I might.
I think if I remember rightly you were talking about uplift of about $180 billion from Basel I to Basel III.
Out of that $180 billion I wondered if you could give me some flavor as to -- of actual mitigation sorry.
How much of that mitigation has already been achieved? Because obviously we can't see that given you're still reporting on Basel I.
Perhaps a flavor for what the nominal asset value is behind that.
And then also perhaps what timetable you set yourselves in terms of running that off as you move towards obviously getting there sooner rather than later.
And then finally perhaps how much of that is going to be active and how much of that is going to be passive mitigation.
Okay.
So the numbers today about $300 billion in uplift and what we've said is we're going to bring that number down.
It's really going to be 2 things.
One is we just have natural portfolio runoff across the businesses and that's going to reduce RWA.
After we ended things.
And the second is there's just model implementation and that's again we're just literally inputting the data that's required in order to have a somewhat different treatment than the standard that's going to just take time.
We're going to do that over the next 2  years and you'll see that roll through the numbers over the next 2 years.
It's normal modeling it's nothing special.
It's normal modeling that was expected of the Basel III but we just haven't built yet.
Research Division</strong> But sorry I'm getting a bit confused here.
You're saying $300 billion of uplift is your expectation.
No.
There is $300 billion of difference today the Basel I numbers.
Just start Basel III.
Basel III is $1.5 trillion.
It's going to come down how much? It'll come down over time another $100-ish billion.
Right.
Per his model and per his runoff.
Research Division</strong> You're saying virtually none of that is going to be active it's by model and it's by...
No.
We will then we will actively do stuff too.
Believe me we'll very actively do stuff.
It's just not...
Research Division</strong> What is the -- give me a rough idea what the number behind that because that's one of the sleeking factors here you touched on that earlier.
Behind which one? Research Division</strong> The nominal behind that $100 billion of runoff of risk-weighted assets as you were talking earlier about 1 000% uplift so some of the RWAs or some of the assets you were looking at earlier.
I wondered what the nominal was behind that $100 billion of mitigation.
Okay.
Let's do this again.
Let me do this the last time.
We are running off of 100 -- there's a $100 billion of RWA loans or high RWA asset that we're not going to regenerate again that are going to run off the books.
There's nothing we need to do.
That includes high RWA loans and includes all these mortgage loans that's running off.
Then there are models which we're just building which are normal modeling and stuff like that that we're allowed into Basel III which we'll do another whole chunk of reduction RWA.
Do you have any chart right there? The total of those 2 is about $100 billion.
Okay.
$100 billion.
I don't know the exact -- we can get back to you on the exact nominal dollar amount but a lot of it is in the mortgage portfolio.
So it's pretty close to that number.
Your final question comes from the line of Brian Foran with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I apologize I don't have a question.
I don't know why that keeps happening.
Great.
Folks thank you for spending some time with us and we'll talk to you soon.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to JPMorgan Chase's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
This call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase's Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon; and Chief Financial Officer Doug Braunstein.
Mr.
Braunstein please go ahead.
Thanks operator.
I'm going to be taking you through the earnings presentation which as you know is available on our website.
And I'd also ask everyone to refer to the disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements at the back of the presentation.
And with that if you all turn to Page 1 for the quarter we generated net income of $5.4 billion $1.31 per share.
That's on revenues $27.4 billion up 6% year-on-year 24% quarter-on-quarter return on tangible common equity of 16% for the quarter.
And I'll characterize solid performance across most of our businesses particularly strong results in the Investment Bank and a significant improvement year-over-year in Mortgage Banking.
There are a number of significant items that we're highlighting here on this page.
We do that every quarter.
It includes DVA reserve releases litigation build and WaMu settlement.
Every quarter we also have some modest pluses and minuses.
We don't put these upfront.
But if you did total these significant items they had an aggregate negative impact of $0.09 a share on our reported numbers this quarter.
I'm going to discuss them in much more detail as we go through the financials.
Strong capital generation in the quarter.
We ended with Tier 1 common of $128 billion.
That's up 5-plus-billion dollars strong Basel I and Basel III ratios of 10.4% and 8.4% respectively.
And I wanted just to highlight a couple of trends for the quarter and then we'll go into the businesses.
First is if you look across our businesses we have continuing signs of underlying fundamental growth.
So 23% loan growth across Wholesale year-on-year.
Record middle-market loans this quarter up 19% year-on-year.
$4 billion of credit provided to small businesses.
That's up 35% year-on-year.
Record retail channel mortgage originations up 11% this year.
Deposits and CBB up 8% year-over-year.
Sales volume in card up 12% year-over-year and so the underlying fundamentals year-on-year look strong.
On the credit side we continue to have stable and good credit results in our Wholesale business.
And on the Consumer side real continuing improvement in Consumer.
And I would say in aggregate we're putting on better quality loans today from that loan growth.
Just 2 quick statistics: in mortgage net charge-offs are down 25% year-on-year; in card net charge-offs are down 37% year-on-year.
So with that as sort of an underlying theme let's turn to the Investment Bank on Page 3.
And for the quarter you see circled net income of $1.7 billion.
That's on revenues of $7.3 billion reported ROE of 17%.
On Page 1 we did highlight $900 million in DVA losses pretax for the IB this quarter.
And as we've mentioned consistently in the past we don't consider the DVA as a part of our core business results.
And in fact after the changes from this quarter -- if you remember the spread widening we saw in the third quarter of 2011 where we booked a $1.9-billion gain on DVA in the last 2 quarters we've now reversed $1.5 billion of that.
And obviously if spreads returned to the level they were last summer we would have gone round-trip.
So I'm going to focus on the IB numbers excluding all DVA.
So in the first quarter revenues were $8.2 billion $2.2 billion in net income and we had a 23% return on equity.
And that -- those numbers are all very comparable to what was a very strong first quarter of 2011 but I do want to remind everyone that we tend to have a seasonally strong first quarter to start the year.
IB fees in the quarter of $1.4 billion that's down 23% year-on-year up 23% quarter-on-quarter.
And if you look on Appendix Page 9 you'll see we continue to maintain our #1 market-leading share in fees.
Markets revenues were relatively flat year-on-year.
On a linked-quarter basis revenues were up significantly.
Fixed Income revenue was $5 billion and that reflected continued solid client revenues across the products particular strength this quarter in our global rates business.
Equities revenue of $1.4 billion really improved results across cash and derivatives and we continue to have improving performance from our prime services.
We are seeing increased balances there a little improved leverage in the markets and a modest uptick in spreads.
Credit Portfolio revenue was a little over $400 million up from the fourth quarter and then expenses in the quarter of $4.7 billion were down 6% year-on-year.
The comp-to-revenue ratio x DVA which is the way we manage it was 35% for the quarter.
If you go directly to Page 5 Consumer &amp; Business Banking you'll see circled net income of $775 million.
That's down 13% year-on-year and an ROE for this business of 35% for the quarter.
Revenue of $4.3 billion that's relatively flat quarter-on-quarter but down 4% year-on-year.
And that reduction year-over-year is generally consistent with our guidance on the impact of the Durbin Amendment which we had this quarter and didn't come through in the first quarter of last year.
We continue to see solid year-over-year underlying performance trends in the business.
So the deposits up $29 billion which I talked about up 8%.
We believe that's a growth rate faster than the industry growth rate.
Business Banking originations up 8% year-on-year.
We had very strong investment sales this quarter as the markets improved and we continue to build out CPC our Chase Private Client business up 41% quarter-on-quarter.
And in fact client investment assets of $147 billion is a record for Chase wealth management.
On Page 6 you see Mortgage Production and Servicing circled net income of $460 million for the quarter.
That compared with a net loss of $1.1 billion in the prior year so $1.5 billion swing year-on-year.
We had very strong production-related revenues of $1.6 billion.
And that's driven somewhat by higher volumes so originations were up 6% year-on-year.
Applications as I mentioned up 33%.
A very favorable refinancing environment including the impact of HARP 2.0 but we also had higher margins this quarter as a function of those volumes and some mix issues.
And we should be cautious about that because we're likely to see those margins return to more normalized levels on a go-forward basis.
Repurchase losses in the quarter were $300 million.
That's lower than our expectations on a quarterly basis which remain $350 million plus or minus.
In large part that was a function of timing.
And if you now move to the servicing side in the middle of the page you'll see expenses there of $1.2 billion.
That includes approximately $200 million of cost for the foreclosure-related matters associated with the settlement.
So if you exclude that $200 million servicing cost continued to remain very elevated at $950 million for the quarter.
And of that number $700 million is related to default expense which was essentially flat quarter-on-quarter but very very high.
As we discussed at Investor Day you should expect to see our servicing cost come down over time.
Volume of delinquencies as the units decline cost will come down.
We're also working very hard to make our processes more efficient.
And over time you would expect consistent with what we shared over Investor Day that our normalized expenses for servicing should be in the $300-million to $350-million range but that will take a number of years to get to.
On Page 7 you see our Real Estate Portfolios.
Circled net income of $500 million in the quarter.
That compares to a loss of $160 million in the prior year.
Revenues down 7% year-on-year.
It's the result of the runoff we've been talking about for a while.
Loan balances are down $24 billion 11% year-on-year consistent with our guidance.
And we've said that you can expect a reduction in NII in this portfolio of about $500 million plus or minus for the year as we continue to run off the WaMu portfolio and our other noncore mortgage assets.
Credit cost you see the benefit of almost $200 million and that is a function of delinquency trends improving across all the mortgage asset classes including home equity.
You see a circled number of $808 million for the quarter in net charge-offs and as I mentioned that's down 25% year-on-year.
So based on the reduction in the delinquencies which by the way is in the appendix on Page 16 the resolution of the foreclosure settlement and what we're seeing as stability in our severity numbers we reduced our allowance this quarter by $1 billion.
That's again part of the significant items on Page 1.
But I will say even after that reduction allowance coverage remains at 6% for the portfolio $7.7 billion which is a very conservative approach to our risk.
And quite frankly the $1-billion release is reflective of what we had to do as an accounting matter.
I would note one other reporting change here which is due to the industry-wide regulatory guidance.
We moved $1.6 billion of our high-risk seconds into the nonperforming loan category and that's despite the fact that $1.4 billion of those $1.6 billion are current today.
As you know we've identified those high-risk seconds early.
We put reserves up against them early and so our reserves remain unaffected.
But if you excluded these changes NPLs would have trended down year-on-year down quarter-on-quarter and the same would be true at the company-wide level as you look at the company statistics.
On Page 8 Card Services &amp; Auto circled net income of $1.2 billion that's on revenues of $4.7 billion.
Revenues and outstandings are lower year-on-year that's the impact of runoff and modestly lower quarter-on-quarter.
And that's primarily due to the seasonal growth that we saw and we tend to see in the fourth quarter around the holidays.
We did see strong sales volume in card as I mentioned up 12%.
But if you exclude the sale of Kohl's sales were actually up 15% for the system.
And the new product sales growth for our Freedom Sapphire and Ink products were actually in excess of that growth rate.
Auto originations also up 21% year-on-year and that quite frankly reflects higher industry sales.
Credit costs of $740 million really reflect 2 factors.
Total net charge-offs are $1.5 billion.
That's down a little under $900 million year-on-year.
We've got lower delinquency and net charge-off rates circled for card at the bottom of the page.
We do expect by the way the net charge-off rate to be 4.25 plus or minus in the next quarter.
I'd also note loss rates in auto remained very low.
We recognized 28 basis points of charge-offs this quarter.
And as a result of all of that information we released $750 million this quarter in card.
And again reserves here remain very robust even after that release.
One other comment on card expenses we're up 6% year-on-year and that really was related to exiting a noncore product in the business.
Page 9 Commercial Banking.
Circled net income of almost $600 million on revenues of $1.7 billion a 25% return on equity and that's based on a higher capital allocation for this business this year.
9% year-over-year revenue growth that's been driven by the themes we've been talking about growth in loans and liability balances and that's offset by the spread compression we've experienced year-on-year.
It is our seventh consecutive quarter of loan balance growth.
You see the circled loan balances of almost $116 billion up 16%.
We had record revenue and record loan balances in our middle-market business for the quarter.
That was up 19%.
C&amp;I loans up 24% year-on-year and I think the best of what we've got in industry data.
Industry volumes are up 12% year-on-year.
So if you think of all that it really does reflect 2 underlying trends: growth we believe in terms of demand; as well as a combination of improvements in market share across those product sets.
I will continue to note utilization does remain relatively stable where it's been at a low rate for the last several quarters.
Credit costs were $80 million in the quarter here but net charge-offs were exceedingly low at 4 basis points.
Page 10 Treasury &amp; Securities Services solid results here.
Net income of $350 million up 11% year-on-year 40% quarter-on-quarter.
Revenues of $2 billion up 9% year-on-year and that's again resulting from some underlying fundamental trends that are offsetting that spread compression that we've talked about.
Liability balances are up 34%.
International revenue was up 12%.
Assets under custody is a record $17.9 trillion up 8% and trade finance loan balances are up 40% year-on-year.
You will notice there by the way we had a modest decline in trade finance quarter-on-quarter really a function of a little bit of seasonality and I would say an increased return of competition particularly from some of our European competitors in the fourth -- in the first quarter.
Page 11 Asset Management.
We had improved quarter-on-quarter results in AM largely driven by market conditions but we are down from what was a strong first quarter 2011.
Circled net income of $386 million that's on revenues of $2.4 billion.
The results were really driven by some underlying growth as well as the market improvement we saw this last quarter.
It's the 12th consecutive quarter of long-term flows $17 billion $43 billion over the latest 12 months.
And we did set records for assets under supervision and records for assets under management.
Expenses were up year-on-year and that's largely been from the investment spending we've been talking about for a number of quarters.
Page 12 Corporate and Private Equity.
Private Equity net income of $130 million that's on $250 million of revenue predominantly mark-to-markets for public positions and some modest realizations this quarter.
So Corporate we recorded a net loss of $700 million and the loss included 2 significant items.
The first is a $2.5-billion addition to our litigation reserves predominantly mortgage-related and we identified that up on Page 1.
So I'm going to make a couple of comments here on the litigation reserve.
As you know including the actions this quarter we've been building very significant reserves.
We believe that currently these reserves are both comprehensive in nature and appropriately conservative given what we know about these exposures including the information in the first quarter of this year.
And I would say absent a material adverse development that could certainly change our views we don't anticipate making material addition to these reserves over the course of the year but I do want to caution the fact that circumstances can change.
Reserves can go up; they can go down.
But we feel based on what we know today that we're unlikely to add materially to this position.
We did book in addition a $1.1-billion pretax gain that was also identified on Page 1.
That is from the WaMu bankruptcy settlement.
And if you excluded those 2 items Corporate net income excluding PE we note on the right -- bottom right was $175 million for the quarter.
Page 13 the Fortress balance sheet.
I've covered a lot of the topics already but let me just add 2 comments to the page.
First as you know we authorized a new $15-billion share repurchase.
We've spent approximately $450 million year-to-date on that new authorization.
And for those that are likely to ask it's at a price of about $44.75.
Second on trust preferred or TruPS we have $20 billion outstanding as you all know.
We do expect to redeem $10 billion of that $20 billion in total this year and that is pursuant to the capital plan that we submitted in the CCAR process.
And for much of that -- those securities we're going to wait until there is a regulatory call event to call those.
We were in the market for a $400-million call on a single security that didn't require that trigger.
And for the remaining $10 billion currently our view is that is very attractive long-term financing.
On Page 14 we do have the outlook.
I think I've covered all of that.
And so before I turn it over to Jamie I did want to talk about the topics in the news around CIO and just sort of take a step back and remind our investors about that activity and performance.
We have more liabilities $1.1 trillion of deposits than we have loans approximately $720 billion.
And we take that differential and we invest it and that portfolio today is approximately $360 billion.
We invest those securities in very high-grade low-risk -- we invest those dollars in high-grade low-risk securities.
We've got about $175 billion worth of mortgage securities.
We've got government agency securities high-grade credit and covered bonds securitized products municipals marketable CDs.
The vast majority of those are government or government-backed and very high grade in nature.
And we invest those in order to hedge the interest rate risk of the firm as a function of that liability and asset mismatch.
We hedge basis risk.
We hedge convexity risk.
Foreign exchange risk is managed through a CIO and MSR risk.
And we also do it to generate NII which we do with that portfolio.
The result of all of that is we also need to manage the stress loss associated with that portfolio and -- so we have put on positions to manage for a significant stress event in credit.
We've had that position on for many years and the activities that have been reported in the paper are basically part of managing that stress loss position which we moderate and change over time depending upon our views as to what the risks are for our stress loss from credit.
All of those decisions are made on a very long-term basis.
They're done to keep the company effectively balanced from a risk standpoint.
We are very comfortable with our positions as they are held today.
And I would add that all of those positions are fully transparent to the regulators.
They review them have access to them at any point in time get the information on those positions on a regular and recurring basis as part of our normalized reporting.
And all of those positions are put on pursuant to the risk management at the firm-wide level.
The last comment that I would make is that based on we believe the spirit of the legislation as well as our reading of the legislation and consistent with this long-term investment philosophy we have in CIO we believe all of this is consistent with what we believe the ultimate outcome will be related to Volcker.
So with that maybe Jamie I'll turn it over to you before we open it up for questions.
Yes.
So Doug thank you.
So let me just -- I'm going to talk about one thing and then we'll open to your questions.
One is the stock buyback.
Obviously we've got permission to buy back $15 billion of the stock.
We would have preferred to have been able to buy back substantial amounts below tangible book value but we were unable to.
We will always as a disciplined buyback of the approximately $3 billion we issue every year and that's the $3 billion we issue mostly for comp and that's not on a GAAP basis just because we issue before vesting et cetera.
At 45 we will -- we reserve -- right now we're buying back at that rate but we may do more.
So we reserve the right at any point in time to do whatever we want and it's based upon basically 4 things.
What are the organic opportunities? They might be there portfolios or more organic growth.
What are the investment opportunities? There are a lot of things you can buy both investments or acquisitions which we don't really expect big ones now.
Our own desire to get quickly -- how fast we want to get to our new capital requirements under Basel III.
And the stock price.
So it does not mean at 45 -- obviously if the stock goes up I think we'll be consistent and we'll buy less.
When it goes down we'll buy more.
We're a buyer in size around tangible book value.
And then obviously we reserve the right to change that at will.
So let's open up to questions or comments about any subject at all.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Glenn Schorr with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Jamie just because you brought it up I think it's interesting.
If you took the midpoint of the range that you outlined in the shareholder letter and you took the $23 billion $24 billion of over-the-cycle earnings that's a sub-7x multiple.
It seems very attractive that the midpoint of the range is -- I'm just curious on how you think through the valuation when you're thinking about the use of proceeds on the buyback.
Well I mean like you say yourself I mean you can do –- anyone can do the numbers.
A tangible book value is extremely attractive at 40 or probably even very attractive at 45.
I'm not saying it's not attractive but our best thing is to grow our business and not to worry about buying back the stock.
We're going to buy back the stock when it's a bargain not just because we feel like it.
And so you guys can all do the numbers and it's not going to tell you what we're going to do.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Fair enough.
If you look on the quarter -- for year-on-year basis expenses are up like 15% and now there's more -- there's litigation cost in there and things like that.
I think on the Investor Day you had suggested flat expenses year-on-year.
Obviously it depends on Investment Bank revenues but can you just talk about that revenue expense dynamic? We said flat expenses.
We still expect that.
The first quarter was a little bit higher because of FICA and payroll a whole bunch of things like that and some one-off expenses that run through there and that's flat if you back out IB comp and extraordinary stuff.
That number should be about $12 billion a quarter.
Obviously it was a little bit higher this quarter to do that but it will come down over time we think.
Research Division</strong> Okay so still flat? Remember it's flat but we're still doing a lot of investing.
So we aren't getting other efficiencies to help pay for the investing.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And maybe last one for me.
I think the fear around issues in Europe has started to subside post-LTRO and I think we discussed that last call.
We got a little bit of a scare over the last week or 2 with Spain.
Just curious on your thoughts right now.
Where are we in that process? And do you still feel comfortable on the counterparty exposures? Yes.
I constantly read about counter party.
Our numbers we disclosed around $15 billion a little bit higher than that now.
They obviously move around.
I would still say exactly the same thing.
The LTRO was a massive thing that took the -- a real catastrophe in the showing [ph] off the table.
But obviously the world is going to evaluate over time whether the fiscal union is tightened and given teeth and carrots and sticks and all that.
And it's going to look at Spain and Italy's both austerity and growth plans and it's going be like an accordion for the next 18 months.
So I'm personally not going to react to that but I think they have to do some things to give it the real stability.
The LTRO wasn't sufficient.
It was not a -- it was a short-term fix not a permanent fix.
Your next question is from the line of Guy Moszkowski with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> On the CIO question which obviously you've addressed and has gotten so much attention in the press this week can I just ask one further question which is are all of the results of the CIO group reflected with -- only within Corporate and other? There's no sharing of any of those results with say FICC in terms of the reporting that we would see in the Investment Bank.
No.
God no.
No no.
A lot of the NII is given to the businesses that generate the deposits on a consistent fund transfer methodology which -- but not with the Investment Bank.
Remember a lot -- and most of that portfolio is an AFS portfolio.
Not all of it but most of it.
Research Division</strong> Right fair enough.
It just...
We disclose both realized gains unrealized gains and mark-to-market gains.
You get all of that.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's just a question that I ask in order to sort of assess the "tempest in the teapot" nature of the stories relative to the revenues that we see with it because it don't seem to be that big.
It's a complete tempest in a teapot.
Every bank has a major portfolio.
In those portfolios you make investments that you think are wise that offset your exposures.
Obviously it's a big portfolio.
We're a large company and we try to run it.
It's sophisticated well obviously a complex thing.
But at the end of the day that's our job is to invest that portfolio wisely and intelligently to -- over a long period of time to earn income and to offset other exposures we have.
Research Division</strong> Okay then turning to the capital questions.
Obviously you've had a rapid growth towards your eventual Basel III targets although of course we still don't know exactly what they are.
And you've alluded to the conditions under which you would return capital through buybacks.
But what about the potential for say special dividends along the way? If you felt that you had excess capital and the share buybacks were not that attractive how would you think about that? Guy I think the right way to look at it is ask that question in 2 years.
I mean we're not at the Basel III targets yet.
Obviously you should expect dividends on a regular -- we may change our mind but on a regular annual basis from us that will look at what to do.
Obviously it's a board-level decision but there's going to be -- surely be no special dividend before we know what the real capital rules are.
So take that off the table.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's completely fair.
Mortgage origination you alluded to better spreads obviously and maybe you could just give us a little bit more color of how that came through because it certainly does look like they improved meaningfully given how the revenue evolved versus last quarter versus the origination volumes.
There were several hundred million higher than what we would call normal for a whole bunch of different reasons including HARP supply/demand the price at which Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are buying and securitizing things so I would expect that to normalize over time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then the last one for me is a related one which is that looking at the mortgage apps that you received during the quarter which would presumably tell us something about originations out a quarter or so that's up very very strongly.
Factoring in the HARP and everything else is that a pretty good indicator that we should expect origination revenues to improve at least in the quarter or so ahead? Or should we discount that in some way? It's a measure of what you're going to get next quarter on revenues but not -- on the volumes but not necessarily on the spreads.
Your next question comes from the line of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Questions on trading.
Equity trading revenue seemed better than expected and better than the industry cash volumes.
Any color on what helped you guys there? Was equity derivatives particularly strong? Or any other color? They were a little bit stronger yes.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And then could you give us some sense of how trading revenues trended month-to-month during the first quarter and maybe it's early but how things are so far in April? We're not going to go through month-by-month numbers.
I would say so far it was 10 days.
There's going to be 60-plus days this quarter and the 10 days is a little bit lower than we saw in the first quarter.
That in my opinion does not reflect the next 50 days.
So Doug mentioned there's usually been regular seasonality in the business not just for us but for everybody so whether that continues or not who knows? LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just following up on Glenn's expense question.
So kind of x the IB comp and special items you're shooting for kind of flattish this year.
That's in like the $48-billion ballpark for the year.
Yes.
A little over -- it was $49 billion...
It was $49 billion and change and -- John...
And we're a little over that...
And we're a little over on a run rate basis flat actually quarter-on-quarter but a little over on a run rate basis.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you're shooting for $48 billion $49 billion for the year in that ballpark x all the other stuff.
Right.
And that would include -- that includes all the investment spend as Jamie mentioned.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is comp to revenue of 35% this quarter is that a decent guide to the year do you think? Yes give or take.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you give us any color on the -- why the litigation reserve build was so big? Was some of that the AG foreclosure settlement that just happened this quarter? Or is that -- would that be separate? No no.
It was the completion of a thorough review of all the reps and warranty all the litigation all the tranches all the Bear Sterns et cetera et cetera.
But the real view about all that that's all.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you just remind us or can you say what this WaMu bankruptcy settlement action was? It's just a final settlement some taxes and pensions and certain assets and stuff like that.
It's been in the works for 3 years.
It just -- we didn't account for until it was all finalized.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's not related to the FDIC suit about who's at fault [ph] for the putbacks.
No.
No.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then is the net interest income and margin trends from this quarter that's consistent Doug with your expectations for the year? Yes I would say we're going to continue to see pressure.
I wouldn't say John for the year but certainly for the next quarter.
And then we'll see where the world goes.
Part of it is a little bit we have the opportunity to buy back some TruPS.
That may help improve some of the trends and we're not quite sure when that's going to hit.
And part of it is discretionary like how we invest our long-term funds over time and we've been fairly conservative in that.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you are sitting on kind of excess cash that you're kind of waiting for a better environment to invest.
And part of it -- part of the reason NIM was down quarter-on-quarter is there were -- we were a little more conservative in the opportunities with that excess cash.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if you did the $10 billion of TruPS that you are planning there might be some NIM or net interest income benefits Doug that you've not put into your guidance.
That's right.
Well we didn't -- all I'm saying is we're going to have pressure -- the only thing I'd say is we'll see some continued pressure on NIM for the second quarter.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Right.
You've talked about that in terms of spread compression and runoff and you just haven't incorporated any impact from what you might do on TruPS yet.
No it is incorporated in other things we talked about.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> It is okay.
Yes.
But look the important thing is when we took those portfolio one of the bigger decisions you make if you look at our portfolio -- and we disclosed we would benefit from rising rates.
A lot of that comes in the CIO and it costs money to be there.
But we think it's a conservative and proper way to run the company because we worry about the fat tails much higher rates not much lower rates or -- so we can change that and increase NIM tomorrow if we wanted to.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> If we started to see the 10-year go up consistently without Fed funds moving up would that be something you could take advantage of? Or when you see rates going up Jamie it's really...
Yes but we would have to feel at that point in time that we want to do it.
And there are other ways to do it.
You can buy spread product not just fixed-rate product.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And then more fundamentally there's a benefit from just kind of the shorter Fed funds going up eventually.
Yes and we've told you all about that that you'd see in TSS a couple of hundred million in...
CB...
In CB the same and a little bit in Consumer banking.
I'd say John from a position standpoint very consistent with where we were at Investment Day: a 100-basis-point rise in the curve we generate a couple billion dollars of incremental NII.
All things being equal which they're not.
Which they're not right.
Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A couple of follow-ups.
One is on the special dividend question that was asked earlier.
I guess the reason why -- what I'm wondering is if you were -- if you decided not to do your approved buyback this year based on what the stock is doing then why wouldn't you do a special dividend this year to absorb what you were approved for in buyback? I guess Betsy we don't know all the final capital rules.
So if we were going to buy back the stock my preference would be get to the -- whatever the rules are sooner rather than later.
That's all.
It's not that you've lost the money.
You've got -- you can -- I always call that kind of earnings in storage [ph].
You can redeploy your capital later.
After we know all the rules and we have excess capital and that's the best thing to do for shareholders obviously the board will consider that.
We're not going to consider before we get to whatever the known capital rules are.
And we're going to know a lot more remember hopefully by the end of this year.
Research Division</strong> Yes I mean the impairment for Basel III is supposed to be out shortly.
But I guess the question then is why are you...
Betsy we're not going to do it before we get to our capital rules and we don't know what they are.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
So I guess but the basic question I have is you have an expectation for what your capital is going to end up being at year end.
We don't know.
Our expectation is 9.5 Basel III.
We don't know all the RWA rules we don't know when it's going to come out and we're not even sure about the 9.5.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I suppose the question then is why are you more comfortable doing buybacks than special dividends? Because buybacks at the right price are enormously valuable for shareholders and just paying out extra cash is not.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on -- just a couple of questions on housing.
So obviously from your letter housing is much better green light flashing.
I just wanted to understand how that comports with what was presented at Analyst Day -- Investor Day when you talked about how estimated OREO and foreclosure projections were actually moving up in the near term as you're getting to the pick through the python.
But given your letter I kind of wondered well is your investment...
No no.
We didn't say they're moving up.
What we said is that they might move up temporarily as some of them get freed up.
But if you look at total delinquent -- seriously delinquent loans and total foreclosures from a year ago to today to the end of this year they're going to come down.
Obviously they're kind of very lumpy as every bank goes around its own different thing.
But homes for sales are down.
Inventory is down.
Delinquent loans are coming down.
Charge-offs are coming down.
Real money is coming in.
And so we're just saying we're pretty much at the bottom but -- I don't know the lumpiness by month or by quarter but we're pretty much at the bottom here as long as you have a recovery.
So if the United States goes back into a recession all bets are off.
But you have got 4 million new jobs.
Household formation will probably go up.
That's all I'm saying.
It's not...
Research Division</strong> Should the slide might be a little too conservative? What slide? Research Division</strong> Just on where you showed temporary increase in trajectories for OREO and foreclosures.
Yes but I think we mentioned the catch-up now that the AG foreclosure...
Betsy I think that was all around the foreclosure settlement and just being able to work some of the delays through the system.
That's it.
Wasn't talking about the underlying fundamentals.
Research Division</strong> Sure got it.
Okay.
And then last is just the high-risk seconds that you outlined the regulatory requirement to put them in as a non-performer even though 88% are current.
You said you had reserves against it.
Could you just help us understand how those reserves -- how you set those reserves up? Right.
So I think we fully disclosed this about 2 years ago that we'd identified a long time ago that when -- we were surprised to find out by the way that a lot of seconds were still paying when the first no longer was.
But when we analyzed it was pretty obvious it was just a timing difference.
That in almost all cases the first went delinquent the second eventually went delinquent.
And in all cases where the first went into foreclose the second was a loss basically a total loss.
So we just recognized our reserving years ago.
That's all.
We specifically reserved for specifically that thing.
So moving it from performing to nonperforming didn't affect our reserves.
That's -- and it was $1.6 billion.
$1.6 billion in total.
We have other little pockets like that.
We have 2 by the way so...
We actually identified -- that group was a $4-billion number for us of which the regulators asked us to move $1.6 billion.
So we have reserves for a broader pool than just that moved pool.
Your next question comes from the line of Brennan Hawken with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So you guys booked actually a pretty small gain in your Private Equity holdings which seemed kind of conservative given the pretty significant rise we saw in Equity Markets.
Could you comment maybe about that? And is that just a conservative market we should assume? We're always conservative in that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on refi anecdotally it seemed like there was a lot of expectation about HARP 2.0 moving a good deal of refi activity.
But we haven't really seen that in the Fannie and Freddie MBS at this stage and we also didn't see a big increase in JPM's volumes either.
Is the expectation that that is going to kick in in a big way in the back end of the year? When you're taking a look at the pipeline how many months does it take for that to move through the -- through your production? I guess let me just put it this way.
It is more than we thought.
It's picking up a little bit but I don't think it's going to completely change everything.
You were seeing refis anyway and this just opens up a bigger universe to be refi-ed.
Other than that we just -- I just -- we just couldn't give you the numbers offhand.
We may have to get back to you on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess last one on regulation.
It feels as though the environment is getting more constructive there dialogues are improving.
Could you maybe give some color around that? Is that your perspective as well? Is it making it a little easier to start to plan your business going forward? Yes look I do think it's going to look better.
And I do think that a lot of these things resolve during the course of this year.
So hopefully that will be true.
It's still a complex environment.
We've got a lot of things to do to meet all the regulatory requirements but I do think it's getting a little better.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> My questions really relate to the impact of lower interest rates.
I guess the first would be branches -- the number of branches are up 5% since a year ago but revenues in RFS are down 4%.
So I know we talked about this at Investor Day but still the same plans to increase the branches.
What metric should we look at from the outside to monitor that progress? Well I pointed out at Investor Day that branches make $1 million a branch and we've just adjusted the build to make up for changes from Durbin and other things like that.
But we are losing in total and we disclosed like $500 million a year.
Yes for the NIM.
We are running the company such that we expect to get that back.
So we're not going to make short-term decisions about branch builds because of short-term spread compression.
We think the value is there and we're doing that.
We just are adjusting the branch build.
And so what you're seeing is almost exactly we told you.
Durbin is $150 million a quarter NIM is down by about...
It would be $400 million year-over-year.
And you see the margins in that business decline by 20 bps as a result of that this quarter.
Research Division</strong> And then more generally you mentioned that NII could see some additional pressure.
What would be the biggest source of ongoing margin pressure as it relates to low rates? Well we've identified NII from the portfolio runoff Mike so that's another -- that's a $500-million number.
And as we go through quarter-on-quarter now you've got spread compression impact in TSS and in CB somewhat leveling off over time.
But you'll continue to see a little bit of that but it will level off as we normalize in a rate environment we've had low for long.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly why don't we have bigger loan growth? It looks like you're -- you mentioned you had record middle-market loan balances but still Wholesale loan growth versus the fourth quarter increased at the slowest pace since 6 quarters ago.
So if we have for good borrowers the most benign rate environment in our lifetime why wouldn't we see more loan growth in aggregate? You got to be -- the issue with that is you got -- in our Wholesale you got really 2 big books okay? You have the Commercial Bank which was up substantially.
If I were you that's what I'd look at.
You have the Investment Bank but that one moves around dramatically as big companies borrow pay it off.
You got a bridge loan that goes in and out a conduit loan that goes in and out.
So I wouldn't look at that one the same way.
That just can go -- that can move dramatically quarter-by-quarter.
But we saw if you look at the Investment Bank a lot of debt issuance.
That -- usually when you have huge debt issuance sometimes your bank loans go down.
Research Division</strong> So just one overview insight it seems like traditional banking isn't doing so great.
NII down margin down loans were flat for the quarter utilization hasn't changed.
On the other hand capital markets are doing great.
You have phenomenal issuance great trading.
Is there some insight you can give us into the industry? I mean we have lower rates.
It's not necessarily fueling traditional banking.
On the other hand capital markets are doing well.
Is this just exaggerated disintermediation? Or how would you describe the current environment? Mike we've had 8 straight quarters of middle-market and C&amp;I loan growth in the Commercial Bank.
We've had probably 4 or 5 or 6 straight quarters of small business loans going up.
So if you're looking at the commercial world that's what I would look at.
In the commercial -- in the consumer bank we've had consistent growth in deposits and we have a NIM going down a little bit because of the interest rate environment.
But the underlying deposits clients flows is actually pretty good.
And credit card spend is good and debit card spend is good but you have NIM compression.
That's -- we can go over it a 1 000 times: we're going to have NIM compression.
That's just if you think of that as like the cost of mozzarella for pizza when it goes up your margins go down a little bit.
It doesn't mean you're selling less pizza.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Two things jumped out to me from a big picture point of view.
The comp ratio of the Investment Bank was as you mentioned lower than a year ago 35 versus 40.
The pace of reserve release and the credit book also accelerated quite a bit.
And I guess just from a high-level point of view you tend to be very conservative when you can be especially at the beginning of the year.
So as we think about each of those 2 buckets which I realize are completely separate but as we think about the comp ratio of the Investment Bank what is it within the businesses that you're trying to change or think that will be different than they've been in the past where you've kind of erred in the side of being a little more conservative early on in the year? Nothing.
Remember there's a lot of things that go into the comp ratio of the bank.
But I think the best way to think about it is 35 give or take.
We've always said 35 to 40.
But a lot of things affect that and that's why we book it because nothing's changed.
And the reserve takedowns were in mortgages and credit card and they're required.
The accountants look at a whole bunch of numbers they make you take it down so we had to take it down.
We don't expect -- I think it's important.
We don't expect big take -- reduction in reserves in credit card anymore.
Mortgage over time will have to come down as the book gets smaller and charge-offs come down.
Research Division</strong> And on the mortgage reserve release I think this is the first quarter that you had significant reserve release in the RFS.
As you think about the pace going forward based on what you see right now would you expect something similar? Maybe.
We don't really know.
We've got to see what happens to charge-offs over time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just coming back to the Investment Bank comp I mean as we think about the businesses there there's been a lot of talk about trying to manage down the comp ratio within FICC.
Is that something that's driving the ratio? Is it -- or is it just a different...
You're barking up the wrong tree.
If you want to model your model should be 37.5 and just leave it there.
Every -- we have consistently for years charged capital of the businesses looked at risk-adjusted returns multiple-year returns and all the things like that.
So our basic methodology is not going to change.
You may see the percentage payout come down.
We were already at the low end of -- relative to competition.
Research Division</strong> I guess I was less concerned about the specific number and more just thematically.
When I was in their I guess early February meeting with Jes [and some of the other people I've talked with it seems like there's just a lot of effort to try and get the FICC comp ratio down.
And I was just wondering if that...
I think there are reasons that the comp ratio is going to come down but -- and I know Jes has spoken about it.
So I do think there are pressures that will bring it down which are more related to competitive pressures than just that number.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Najarian with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but just one quickly on FICC trading and the strength there.
You talked about the rates business.
But is there any way to put color around how much of the strength in fixed income trading was sort of volume-related and how much was basically more market-oriented based on just gains -- mark-to-market gains on sale in the inventory through the quarter? Yes.
There is -- it is but we had very good volumes.
And you're absolutely correct.
Volumes drive it spreads drive it and kind of your positioning drives it a little bit so -- but volumes will be probably the primary driver.
Obviously we want to do a good job positioning the inventory too.
Research Division</strong> I mean I think the fear is -- I mean obviously the first quarter is usually seasonally strong.
The fear is not just that you maybe get a little bit of drop-off in volume after the first quarter but that some of the strength came and it -- obviously we can't measure it from the outside looking in.
But some of the strength came from just the fact that debt spreads in almost every asset class were tightened so much throughout the quarter.
Is there any way to think about that as we try to think about where trading could go for the next several quarters? Yes all things being equal when that happens it will be a benefit to your trading results.
And if it goes the other way it's usually a negative.
Not necessarily that way because you can position for it.
So if I were you you can look at volume spreads and you can make your own estimate.
But every company takes different positions and tries to protect itself from that.
But all things being equal that's a back wind for trading yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But no way to sort of give us any sense of how much of a back wind that was in the first quarter...
It was a little bit of a benefit this quarter but it would be a mistake to start to break that out because you don't have to be positioned that way.
That's why it's a mistake to break it out that way.
Your next question is from the line of Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Yes I wanted to come back for a moment to the delinquent mortgage servicing cost issue.
And just looking at industry statistics the number of homes in delinquency have almost dropped by half since early 2010 but the number of homes in foreclosure has stayed flat at like about 2 million 2.1 million and ever since then hasn't budged.
And it seems to be the number of homes in foreclosure that drives the expense levels.
And I'm wondering does the AG settlement kind of give you an ability to break the logjam a bit and to accelerate the process? And/or when should we start seeing the decreased delinquencies translate into decreased foreclosure and foreclosure-related expense? I think we've told you that you should start seeing it like every quarter for the next 8 quarters.
It will be a little lumpy but my guess is 8 quarters from now it will be a lot less than it is today.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Marquardt with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to circle back on the margin commentary in NII.
I think you'd mentioned that perhaps in 2Q there could still be some pressure but we shouldn't really read into that in terms of pressure throughout the year.
I just wanted to tie that back to kind of the full year commentary about the real estate run-off drag of I think $500 million year-over-year as well as the Consumer business banking drag of I think you still think about $400 million.
How do we think about it in terms of potentially when there would be an inflection point? Andrew I'd say if you think about it 5 to 10 basis points for the next quarter; it will moderate a little bit going forward; and then it's going to be a function of as Jamie said our positioning and a function a little bit of what the financing market looks like in general.
But near term that's a good indication and that incorporates all of the runoff all the margin pressure and a variety of pluses and minuses.
It's hard to speak about this in a consolidated thing.
Probably for the most part TS will see it.
If you see it in Commercial Bank it's going to be more to pricing pressure than it is to margin pressure loans.
And if you see it in -- what Doug said are probably most in the consumer bank but each business is a little different and...
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then any sense of when the real estate drag kind of starts to slow down? When could we see an inflection in terms of C&amp;I and Business Banking maybe growth offsetting that drag? Is it by the end of the year? Or do we have to wait till next year? I guess the drag is going to slow down but it's going to go on for years.
And Andrew remember I put that chart up at Investor Day.
We're releasing capital with that as well.
So the fact of the matter is as that slows down it does hurt NII.
It goes on -- hurts NII but it's releasing capital along the way.
And it is -- I talked about [ph] this last year but it was $600 million last year.
It's going to be $500 million this year.
It's going to be $350 million the year after that.
It's going to be $250 million -- it's just going to come down over time as the portfolio runs off.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
And then just one last ticky-tack [ph] question.
In IB you talked about the DVA loss of $900-million-plus but there was also a CVA gain this quarter.
How much was that? It was about $175 million.
We manage that number as you know.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
A couple of follow-ups.
One on FICC did you see any evidence of market share gains as some of the Europeans have decided to pull back there? Or was it a more kind of a broad-based business improvement in the FICC line? I don't think we saw any real material market share gains since I've been going [ph] to Europe.
Okay so you really haven't seen that yet.
On the HELOCs the $1.6 billion that you added to NPAs is that representative of all of the HELOCs that are behind delinquent firsts? Is that like 100% of those? Or is it just part of the ones that might be behind delinquent firsts? It's a part.
Just a part.
Okay so we don't really have the number on the big picture.
Again no we identified -- we have $4 billion that are part of that portfolio of which $1.6 billion had to move.
We reserved as Jamie talked about across the whole $4 billion of the portfolio.
Each of -- there are different characteristics within that.
But why did this $1.6 billion move and not the other $2.4 billion? Because it fit the specific guidelines of LTV that the regulators asked for.
That other stuff is better -- has a better LTV makeup than that $1.6 billion.
Okay I got you.
And one last question on the margin.
The one thing that was a little strange was that the long-term debt cost jumped pretty material about 56 basis points sequentially.
Was that related to -- was there something about last quarter where you had some debt gains that kind of skewed that? Or why would the long-term debt numbers be going up so materially? It was...
You got it.
You got it exactly right.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Miller with FBR.
Research Division</strong> Jamie just to change the comp -- the discussion a little bit.
We're hearing out there for loan growth the people that are getting loan growth that there's a lot of price competition and underwriting competition especially in the commercial markets.
And a lot of people bring up your name is being one of the most competitive out there for pricing.
I was just wondering if you could add some color to that.
And are you taking outsized interest rate risk growing your portfolio? Well 2 separate things.
First of all there is competition in pricing.
I'm surprised to hear it's us.
And I've heard that before.
We went and checked and we see no evidence of that.
Obviously we don't want to drive the market like that.
It's got nothing to do with interest rate exposure.
We don't look at -- we fund -- we try to max fund loans the way we look at loans.
We don't say okay we'll take the interest rate exposure and pass it onto the client.
Research Division</strong> So you hedged -- so you're just saying you're hedging most of those.
If you're doing fixed rate at 5 or 7 years you're hedging all that out.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And then you're saying you're surprised to hear that your name is mentioned a lot but especially out West your name comes up a lot and...
Well Paul it's because we're a new competitor out West.
So obviously we're competing out West to gain share.
Everything we do out West -- remember we didn't have a big middle-market operation out West so everything we're doing is taking share from someone as opposed to like going to Midwest where it's a lot more renewals than it is new business.
I understand why you're hearing that out West.
Research Division</strong> And what about underwriting standards? We're hearing that that's been -- also been cheapened.
Absolutely not.
It may be cheapened for the industry but it's nothing to do with us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one quick follow-up on the expenses related to servicing.
With the servicing -- and you've taken some write-downs on servicing already related to higher costs.
But is the AG settlement -- does that materially increase servicing costs? Or has that already been factored into your valuations? We reserved a bunch of that stuff in prior quarters.
It cost us $200 million in this quarter and of most the rest is incorporated in loan-loss reserves and it's already in our higher servicing costs.
We've already been running to the consent orders and things like that so it's not like -- it's not going to add additional servicing cost.
We also as you pointed out recognize some of it in the MSR already and we've done the value of MSR relating to some of that.
Research Division</strong> Yes I know you've done that in the past.
Your next question comes from the line of Christopher Wheeler with Mediobanca.
Research Division</strong> Two questions on capital if I may.
The first one really is on the Basel III RWA.
I know you don't disclose them but perhaps you could give some indication as to the extent to which you mitigated those either passively or actively during the first quarter.
That's the second one -- or the first one rather.
And the second one really id obviously your enthusiasm for getting to your Basel III ratio.
I think you said getting the yolk off your shoulders at the Investor Day sooner than later.
That's pretty well been taken up by nearly all your competitors apart from one fairly large one in Frankfurt which seems intent on moving fully to 2019 and is obviously sitting on a considerably higher leverage ratio than your good selves.
I mean do you think that you and your peers who are taking this regulatory high road are putting yourself in a competitive disadvantage to this fairly powerful player? Or do you think that the regulatory pressures will start to actually bring you together much more quickly that perhaps they might envisage? Look I don't think it does that at all.
I think we all compete in the marketplace and I don't think that your capital ratios change your competition that's in the marketplace.
And we're all waiting for more guidance from the regulators.
It's not like there's a total competition for capital.
And then the RWA is 2 pieces okay? It's really -- one piece is simply the runoff of stuff which is going to go away.
That's happening every quarter.
We've already talked about the Consumer portfolio running off.
There are a couple of things in the IB running off.
There are a couple of things.
And the second is just the normal adoption of modeling capabilities that can be used in B III that's all that were not being used before because we didn't need to.
And so it's those 2 things -- and they're rolling in over time.
There are no further questions at this time.
Are there any closing comments? Thank you.
Folks thank you for spending some time with us and we'll talk to you soon.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
(Operator Instructions) On as assets in 76 as liabilities.
Two questions can you tell us how much of those are netted for the same counterparty? And second how much of those numbers was the CIO numbers in that at the end of that quarter? We’ll do the second one first.
I think it’s a very small but CIO is a very small for that number.
Okay.
I would agree.
And that’s number one.
Number two they are very complex in any rule which I don't want to go to here about derivatives but we did do a presentation.
At one point it’s showing exactly how it droves net by counterparty and we’d be happy to share that with you and take you through it.
Thank you.
Let me make an announcement for the phone and if you are on the phone please put yourself on the queue at this point and we’re going to take a few more questions in the room and then we’re going to move to the phone.
(Inaudible) Okay so then let’s continue.
LLC</strong> Hi Nancy Bush again.
Mike a question for you.
Looking at your slide number eight the events in late April you say Senior Corporate Risk Management team began onsite bottom-up engagement on April 27 had a senior risk management team done an onsite bottom-up engagement in the CIO before and is that now sort of a established part of risk management.
It’s a good question Nancy.
What we refer to there is a – in late April at this stage which John Hogan over there and team folks from outside CIO and for cross business when into – to really sit onsite and take the book apart.
Prior to that there was obviously work being done with senior risk folks but we’re looking through the lens of the CIO risk team.
So it took to a different level of intrusion.
And the CIO risk team did an inadequate job.
LLC</strong> Okay.
(Inaudible) One quick tweak of the and share has always been the incentive structure.
I’m just wondering if in the CIO review there was any conclusions based on – if incentives were aligned with long-term shareholder interest.
Sure we’ve obviously looked at all that.
None of the people in CIO are on in any form of formulas to business is not on a formula.
We obviously looked at compensation for what we were doing in CIO relative to what you would see – pay related to running $350 billion fixed income portfolio.
I can’t obviously get in the minds of the individuals that – in making individual decisions but we’ve looked for evidence of particular things that were problematic around our compensation schemes and then found no particular issues.
Matt Burnell.
Good morning Matt Burnell from Wells Fargo Securities.
A couple of quick questions for you Doug.
First of all you mentioned that the net interest margin effect of the AFS gain or the securities that were sold to generate the gains this quarter had no effect on this quarter’s NIM.
Does that imply any of future quarters NIM as well? No.
Depending on the sales were down.
No no.
Okay.
More a function of reinvestment.
Fair enough okay.
And then in terms of the investment banking in sales and trading results those appear to be even if you strip out the DVA reasonably strong.
Could you give us a sense as to what your outlook is for those numbers to the extent that you can guess it and what the drag from Europe is on that on your outlook there for the next quarter or two? Yeah first of all as you know investment banking revenues are unparticular by the nature.
And whenever they come in with a low number I would say we’re pretty much higher.
So right now it looks similar to what it was last quarter.
That can change at any one point in time.
Obviously I think you see everywhere the business in Asia and Europe were down the America remains to be same.
And then one final question.
given all the information that Mike provided to us how much of that information or will there be more information not only provided to the regulators but some of your friends on Capital Health?  So we share a lot of information that people ask the radar is a completely up-to-date on Mike’s information.
Mike get into this...
Yeah absolutely.
More than absolutely.
(Inaudible) Thank you.
I'm (inaudible).
Maybe from the perspective of the buy side a long suffering shareholder and my clients I’d like to follow-up on Mike Mayo’s question and also reference to KBW report that looked at the potential of splitting off the Chase Consumer Bank with RON credit and having a standalone JPMorgan Commercial bank investment bank trust and TSS.
and the point being much as the tipping point or actual diseconomies of scale and even if there are economies of scale the stock market refuses to acknowledge it in terms of the multiple continuum to come down.
And I look at the track record over the past year so and notwithstanding a great performance relative to a pretty low VaR.
but it's still a good performance.
But we've had the mortgage servicing issues mortgage foreclosure issues and military veteran issues energy commodities sales practices now that’s inexcusable just unbelievable CIO debacle and our potential LIBOR.
And I think about what has to happen for either you as a management team or you as a board to finally say we are a great institution and we own a lot of great businesses but we have reached that point where we are too big to manage and in the interest of our shareholders there’s a different corporate structure that would better serve your owners.
Thank you.
Yeah just I like to differ okay and there is huge strength in this company that the units get from each other.
So we don't have the strategy or we’re guessing the things.
The investment banks sort of the commercial bank the TSS gives huge order flows investment bank we think there is a numerous amount of cross-sell and we do just as much as most anybody else have there between the consumer banks small business private wealth management credit card mortgage.
And our job is to do a great job serving clients grow the business and eventually the stock will reflect it.
And so I think also people they’re spitting off company.
I’ll give my whole life that gives us (inaudible) higher P lower P that’s like that’s very short-term stuff.
Have a strategy execute on it built a business that's where you build value.
We don't feel great to be it haven’t been a great job for sure all this recently that we completely acknowledge and but we keep on building the company and one day the stock will reflect it.
If the Board ever thought of a better strategies that will be considered at the time.
Right I would respectively say that yeah certainly the cross-sell is very obvious and that's why we’re not look at separating into numerous companies but I'm just wondering at what point it does become more apparent that there are diseconomies and is it potential that is it possible to have CIO in part of a smaller institution it would have gotten the management look that it required.
Hundreds of small banks have gone bankrupt okay (inaudible) went bankrupt?  I'm not telling you those… You could have argued the other way there is a huge source of strength that helps growing this company do all these norms and do best during the involvement do all these wonderful things CIO was a mistake and we’re sorry.
(Inaudible)  Hi two very quick follow-ups.
One I just want to make sure on the LIBOR issue.
I understand all the things that you can’t talk about mid investigation but I’m assuming this has been gone on for a while that you’ve had three six maybe more months of internal investigations.
Is there anything you can tell us and comment on? No.
All right one last try okay Doug on the commentary… Oh no.
All right Mike on the expense commentary second half and first half just technical question does that exclude the $3 billion or so of litigation reserve build in the first half or is it all inclusive?  We talked about the adjusted expenses excludes that.
Okay thanks.
I think we had a question from John McDonald.
I actually had two and Glenn just stolen both.
But I guess just one more slide that’s on the LIBOR do you have any sense of how long the issue will overhang on the industry and whether we’ll get some kind of clarity about the investigations over the summer or is it something that could drag on for long time? Any insight in that and when we’re going to get more information on it? We had no special insight again.
Okay thanks.
Richard Ramsden? Just a quick follow-up either for Jamie or Mike was the process of valuing positioned in the CIO book different to the investment bank? Was it just the application of the evaluation technique? I’m referring specifically to the Q1 restatement? Thanks.
This is the application of policies are the same across businesses different applications.
Ed Najarian.
Hi Jamie quick follow-up on sort of your perspective on capital so since Investor Day in February it seems like the world has gotten a little bit of – to be a scarier place in terms of – we’re more concerned about Europe we have the LIBOR thing has cropped up we're talking more about global economic slowdown.
I know you mentioned you love to buyback the stock at one times tangible book but is there anything about the last several months of events just from a macro standpoint that make you want to drive to higher capital ratios or get to 9.5% on Basel III Tier 1 common equity faster than you might have thought you wanted to back in February?  Yeah there – a little bit and you know those things are as Europe the fiscal cliff in the United States it’s all those things will make you to be a little more cautious but again I think we’re – next year regardless of all the things and whatever happens.
Gerard Cassidy.
Mike you give us a very thorough detailed disclosure how you attack this problem with the CIO and you are very confident that you have your arms around it.
Do the regulators have that same confidence have they shared that with you that they feel very good that you guys sort of look at this problem? I can't speak for the regulators but certainly they have been – we’ve spend a lot of time with them to keep them informed and obviously wanted to guide our work apart from the get going away that was going to satisfy a lot of different opportunities.
They're going to do their own work as they show it it comes to own conclusions.
Remember the board as an independent group which is still guiding this taskforce and it will come to its own conclusions too.
Brennan Hawken.
Mike when you went through your review do you think that may be the idea that there was no formula for comp in the CIO might have led to some of the trouble and the stretching? And then on a go-forward basis as the follow-up which is probably more important how are you guys thinking about structuring comp in the CIO office over the next few years.
No I mean I don’t think.
When we talk about formulas the individuals getting a cut off revenue none of that existed and I don’t think that’s a good thing.
I think the kind of practices that are common in CIO was the same as what we do on our Investment Bank.
It’s taking the totality of managers subjective judgment of performance in a multi-year view of how good a person is in his job for multiple years.
All that together with the pay practices how we defer compensation all are our sound policies and it’s the application obviously that you have to get right.
Matt who is now running CIO I’m sure will just bring his own individual management style to doing that but we didn’t walk away with the feeling that there is anything different about that even with the company or that the company broadly should be doing differently around in administering compensation.
And the idea now that we don’t have a synthetic in CIO clearly that’s going to mean we should probably just assume more volatile results out of that business and particularly in times when credits getting a little funky.
No no.
Well I mean obviously we… I show you the portfolio.
As an exception.
I showed it was AA+.
It’s an AFS portfolio.
It’s not mark-to-market and P&amp;L.
It’s got a 3.7 year average life 80% government guaranteed or government type of entity guaranteed.
You’re not going to move all to in it.
If we have a small hedge there if we are sure and you see we hedge more in Europe that’s what we need when doing a hedge.
That really has very good AFS but the AFS’s subordinates rest of the company.
Nothing would please us more than to reduce AFS and make some more great loans.
So they can’t say we pay just from the revenues there broadly because they’re not there for that where do they manage this portfolio.
We need some very good people.
There’s $350 billion it operates actually how many countries on multiple currencies.
So it is we need some very good people managing that book just exactly what (inaudible) were BlackRock fixed income portfolio.
(Inaudible) Yeah.
Doug can you just help us understand why the default servicing expenses aren’t coming through as fast as you thought and when they might start coming through? Yeah so I mentioned three things obviously we operate some of the consent order; second is this independent foreclosure review those cost are larger and are going on longer than we expected; and then third is we just continue to have a lot of defaults properties that we’re processing through.
Those will be coming down.
Those will come down over time but they have – they remained at a level.
So our expectation is we’ve thought we’d seen movement in the second third and fourth quarter.
It’s more likely that it’s 2013 event.
Do we have any additional questions on the phone? Hey good morning.
Doug just a question for you on the margin just wanted to help if you can flush out why we saw a decline and it seem like in the trading asset you had securities borrowed turned negative in terms of the yield other trading assets understood that you have a lower rate environment but on the flip side the cost of the trading assets on the liability side seem to go up.
So just if you could – is that the hedging impact or can you just kind of explain a little bit more detail on why we’re seeing this dynamic of the negative spread and securities borrowed and other issues? I’ll get back to you on that.
Okay I’ll follow-up.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Any other questions on the phone?   Any question in the room?  Folks thank you very much for spending some time with us revenues next time.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to JPMorgan Chase Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
Your line will be muted for the duration of the call.
We will now go live to the presentation.
Please standby.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan’s Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon; and Chief Financial Officer Doug Braunstein.
Mr.
Braunstein please go ahead.
Thanks operator and good morning everyone.
I’m going to take you through the earnings presentation which as you know is available at our website and if you refer to the disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements in the back of the presentation I will kick us off on Page 1.
We generated record net income of $5.7 billion that’s on record EPS of $1.40 per share for the quarter.
That came on revenue of $25.9 billion up 6% year-on-year 13% quarter-on-quarter.
Our return on tangible common equity was 16% for the quarter and in the back you will see a return on Basel 1 risk-weighted assets was 1.7% for the quarter.
We characterize the business across all of our lines of business has strong performance this quarter and I want to quickly highlight upfront a few contributing factors we’re going to talk about as we go through the presentation.
First we really had positive franchise trends in market share that we have been talking about for several quarters as we continue to invest in our businesses.
We maintained our #1 rank in year-to-date global ID fees we had record deposits in CDB record production revenue in the mortgage bank sales volume of 11% increase in Card record revenue in the commercial bank record assets under custody in TS&amp;S.
Secondly we saw positive year-over-year loan growth although modest decline quarter-on-quarter; and that is despite the fact that we continue to experience the runoff from our various consumer portfolios we’ve talked about.
On a reported basis total loans for the company were up 4% year-on-year; and if you look at core loan growth excluding the runoff portfolios on a comparable basis to the presentation I did at the investor day core loan growth was up 10% year-on-year.
We have record loan balances in the CB up 15% record business banking loan balances in CDB up 8% record asset management loan balances of $75 billion.
Third theme you’ll see is credit.
We continue to see the same core trends in the past couple of quarters; consumer loan losses still very high by historical standards continue to improve in both our real estate portfolios as well as Card and losses continue to remain very low in the wholesale side.
And then the last theme is strong capital generation for the company.
We ended the quarter with a Tier 1 common of 135 billion that’s up 5 billion quarter-on-quarter strong Basel 1 and Basel III ratios of 10.4% and 8.4% respectively.
That estimate for Basel III of the 8.4% is post NPR and it compares to the 7.9% we recorded last quarter.
I would also note we continue to work with the regulators on the implementation of the Basel 2.5 rules that were recently announced.
And that’s going to allow us to continue to refine our estimates as we go forward.
Finally you see as we always do put a number of significant items up front here for the quarter.
I’m going to discuss these where relevant in the financials but I also do want to remind you that there are in addition to these larger items there are always positives and negatives that run through the P&amp;L.
So for example we didn’t highlight the 200 million negative of DVA because it wasn’t significant enough for us to highlight up front despite the fact I just did.
If you move on to the businesses on Page 3 in the Investment Bank we have circled net income of $1.6 billion for the third quarter.
That’s on revenues of $6.3 billion.
If you take out the DVA it was $6.5 billion in revenue for the quarter.
That’s up 45% year-on-year 8% sequentially $1.7 billion of net income and return on equity of 17%.
IB fees for the quarter of $1.4 billion were up almost 40% year-on-year.
We had particular strength this quarter in the debt issuance activity; given the favorable rate environment our clients are taking advantage of funding both going long and increasing their funding capacity.
Markets revenues of $4.8 billion were up 24% year-on-year 5% quarter-on-quarter.
Very favorable performance in Fixed Income up 33% year-on-year 7% quarter-on-quarter.
And we saw broad-based strength across the Fixed Income product set and particular improvement in our credit-related products this quarter.
Included in Fixed Income for the quarter and going forward on a P&amp;L basis was the impact of the synthetic credit portfolio that we transferred to the IB at the very beginning of the third quarter; and I want to highlight three items here about the synthetic credit portfolio.
The first is the IB did book a modest loss this quarter in the position that’s included in the $3.7 billion of revenues in Fixed Income.
We did continue to reduce risk in that position this quarter.
And you’ll also see the IB bar for the quarter was $122 million; that did reflect the addition of the synthetic credit portfolio as well as a model change we implemented this quarter and then a reduction of the diversification benefits for this quarter as well.
If you look at equity markets revenue of $1 billion essentially flat year-on-year.
Cash volumes continue to remain a challenge but it was offset by good results in equity derivatives as well as our Prime Services business.
Last comment on the IB if you look at the comp to revenue ratio x DVA 32% for the quarter 34% year-to-date.
If you turn to Page 5 Consumer and Business Banking CBB you see circled net income of about $780 million.
That’s on revenue of $4.3 billion down 7% year-on-year.
This will be the last quarter we talk about it on a year-over-year basis but it was impacted by the Durbin Amendment as well as the theme we’ve been talking about of narrowing deposit margins.
If you look quarter-on-quarter excuse me revenues were flat.
And it really reflects those core-business trends that have been offsetting margin pressure.
So the positive growth of 9% we had a recent FDIC deposit survey that showed our deposit growth at several times the industry average.
And the way we analyze that data it actually showed we grew share in our consumer deposits in all of our 50 top markets this year.
The record business-banking balance is $18.6 billion.
We opened over 1 million additional checking accounts year-over-year 2.5 million more active-mobile customers.
We continue to make progress on CPC.
$155 billion of client investments under assets on the balance sheet and we opened our thousandth CPC location actually on October 1 so it did make it into the 9/30 numbers.
And just a final word on expenses.
Consistent with the guidance we gave you last quarter you see expenses here were turned back to first-quarter levels.
And you will continue to see overhead ratios remain elevated in the near-term given the rate environment.
If you turn to Mortgage Production and Servicing on Page 6 circled net income of a little over $560 million this quarter.
Record production related pre-tax income of $1.1 billion in investment driven by a couple of items.
Volumes were $47 billion this quarter up 30% year-on-year 8% quarter-on-quarter driven by the favorable rate environment for refinancing as well as HARP volume.
You’ll also see current margins really remained well above historical levels.
We would expect those margins to compress over time.
Repurchase impact was essentially neutral for this quarter similar to what we talked about last quarter.
And then you’ll see on the Servicing side we continue to be challenged by very high default-related expenses including the foreclosure-related matters and the ongoing costs that are associated with the settlement and consent order.
We do unfortunately expect these expenses to remain elevated longer and that is consistent with the general expense guidance that we gave you last quarter certainly through the end of this year.
If you turn to Page 7 for real estate portfolios you see net income of $60 million.
Revenues are down 13%.
That’s the same theme we’ve been talking about decline in NII as we ran off $22 billion of loan balances in the portfolio 11% reduction year-on-year.
And we’re going to continue to see this trend impacting our annual NII by about $500 million plus or minus.
And this quarter was consistent with that.
Circled credit cost of $520 million on aged really reflects three items.
First we had a modest improvement in the credit-quality trends and that resulted in a $595 million charge-off number on a comparable basis to how we reported last quarter.
As a result of that going forward you will see our guidance for net charge-offs is $600 million plus or minus on a quarterly basis.
Second we recognized an incremental $825 million of charge-offs we believe one time based on new regulatory guidance.
And I’m going to talk about that on the next page.
And as a result of all of that we reduced our reserves by $900 million this quarter essentially reflecting our improved expectations for losses going forward.
We have included by the way reserve analysis that we discussed last quarter.
It is on Page 20 of the appendix.
And you’ll see on an unadjusted basis based on all of these actions we continue to have a very healthy loan-loss reserve of 234% of our annualized net charge-offs on an adjusted basis.
If you turn to Page 8 we thought we’d give you a little more description on the regulatory guidance.
It essentially required that substantially all the loans that we have on our books discharged under Chapter 7 bankruptcy be written down to their collateral value.
And that’s regardless of the current delinquency status.
So that impacted about $2.8 billion of mortgage balances predominantly in home-equity loans.
And that’s what added the $825 million in charge-offs for the quarter.
I just want to highlight a couple facts we have on the page: 97% of those loans that we just wrote down to collateral value were current 85% are actually paying principal 50% have been making payments for at least two years following bankruptcy 80% for one year and 85% of the portfolio despite those scores has all improved since bankruptcy about 75 points on average.
If these loans perform the way we expect them to we would expect to recover a significant amount of the current net charge-offs for this quarter over time.
The guidance is a result of this action impacted on non-accrual loan balances as did the previous regulatory guidance we implemented in the first quarter on junior liens.
If you see at the bottom right we tried to give you a pro forma trend analysis.
And if you look at absent these changes the circled number of 5.1 billion on non-accrual that’s the number to compare apples-to-apples to the third quarter of last year and so you see a reduction of a little over $1 billion in non-accrual balances.
Page 9 Card services and Auto circled net income of $950 million that’s up 12% year-on-year.
That’s on revenues of $4.7 billion.
It’s down slightly year-on-year but up 4% quarter-on-quarter.
I mentioned before we saw strong sales volume in Card.
In fact we have now had double-digit sales growth for the last seven quarters if you exclude the Kohl’s portfolio.
We continue to believe this is market share growth as we get a larger percentage of consumer spend and the United States.
The revenue rate you see on the page of 1246 based on strong interchange revenues and lower reversal this quarter and consistent with the guidance that Gordon had given you on investor day.
Net charge off rate continued to decline 357 that is down in absolute dollars $380 million year-on-year.
Just a quick moment on Auto it had very solid performance originations up 7% 9% quarter-on-quarter.
That’s really been based on the improving Auto environment as well as continuing strength in used car pricing.
Final note on expenses they are down 9% year-on-year and that’s largely due to lower marketing costs.
If you turn to Page 10 the Commercial Bank circled net income was $690 million that is as I mentioned on record revenues of $1.7 billion driven by record loan balances.
CNI growth for our portfolio continues to exceed the industry average.
It was 19% year-on-year versus a 13% industry average growth.
Record million market loan balances now for the tenth consecutive quarter up 15% year-on-year.
I will note utilization continues to remain relatively flat.
And given the strong cash positions on a number of our customers and the current environment we are not sure that we haven’t reached a new normal here in terms of utilization.
The Credit environment continues to be very benign in the commercial bank and so excluding recoveries it’s nine basis points of charge-offs this quarter.
Treasury and Security Services on page 11 net income of $420 million that’s up a little under 40% year-on-year but down on from a seasonally strong second quarter.
Revenues are up 6% year-on-year and that is really the result of the higher deposit balances you see particular growth by the way in international deposits and higher average trade finance loan volumes international trade loans grew almost 25% year-on-year.
We also had record assets under custody during the quarter.
One note here on investment spending as we continue to invest this is now beginning to be offset by some of the efficiency initiatives that we talked about in prior quarters so it actually reduced expenses year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter and the impact you see is improving margins year-over-year.
Asset management on page 12 $440 million of net income up 15% year-on-year and 13% quarter-on-quarter.
That’s on revenues of $2.5 billion.
The results of the quarter were really driven by the improving markets as well as the continuation of long-term product flows.
You will see it is our 14th consecutive quarter of long-term flows almost $21 billion this quarter.
We’ve had a little under $60 billion over the last 12 months into long-term portfolios.
And that’s really based on continued strong investment performance as well as the banker build-out we have been investing in.
Loan growth as I mentioned is up almost $20 billion year-on-year.
And that’s really from increasing contributions from mortgage production as well as international.
If you turn to Page 13 Corporate and Private Equity net income for the quarter totaled $220 million.
It reflects really a number of things.
So in Private Equity you see net income loss of $90 million.
That is principally mark-to-market positions for the quarter.
In Treasury and CIO net income of $370 million that’s on revenues of $713 million.
I’m going to talk about that revenue in a number of items.
First we had almost $900 million in revenues from the extinguishment of the gains on the redeemed trusts.
We told you about that during our second quarter call.
If you second look to mark-to-market losses in CIO it was a loss of $200 – approximately $250 million and included in that loss was $450 million from a loss on the remaining index positions that we left in CIO.
And that really reflects credit spread tightening that we had this quarter and you’ll note that we effectively closed those positions out now by quarter end.
Third we did recognize $460 million of pre-tax gains through securities gains and in addition while not on the page here we did mention last quarter our AFS-related AOCI so that’s our security portfolio gains with $8 billion pre-tax that number actually increased to $11 billion a $3 billion increase on a pre-tax basis $2 billion after taxes.
And then the final component here is we did book negative NII given the low rate environment.
And given that environment and the reinvestment opportunities which I’ll talk about on the NIM page you would expect to see this line item be a loss of $300 million plus/minus for next quarter and that will obviously have an impact on NIM as well.
The last piece is other corporate here.
We booked $700 million approximately in pre-tax costs for additional litigation reserves.
And that was largely offset by a number of items including some tax adjustments this quarter.
So if you turn to Page 14 on NIM you see that NIM declined four basis points quarter-on-quarter our core NIM declined eight basis points quarter-on-quarter.
And a number of items affecting NIM for the quarter on the negative side prepayment speeds impacted the yields of the mortgage portfolio in our AFS portfolio.
Secondly as I mentioned ongoing low rate environment and the impact on reinvestment opportunities impacted NIM as well as repricing of our floating rate instruments in that portfolio given the low rate environment.
And then the third is really a mix issue.
We increased our average deposits for Central Banks this quarter primarily in the Fed and that impacted NIM as well.
Now on the positive side we did have a reduction in cost for deposits that were paid across our deposit-taking businesses this quarter.
And the last note here is our long-term debt balances and interest expense were down on average quarter-on-quarter but the long-term debt rate benefit that we got from repurchasing – redeeming the trusts was more than offset this quarter by the impact of accounting primarily FAS 133 hedge in effect in this that we have talked about over a number of quarters.
And given all of what I just talked about going forward and the current rate environment we’d expect to see continued modest pressure on NIM for the next several quarters.
I think I’ve covered the significant points on Page 15 and have talked about all the issues in terms of outlook on Page 16.
So with that operator can I ask you to open the lines for questions for Jamie and myself.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Glenn Schorr with Nomura.
Hi.
Thank you.
Obviously great mortgage production.
Curious if you can parse out how much related to HARP versus the overall rate environment? And if you think you have any visibility as we head into the fourth quarter and next year? So Refi was about 75% and HARP was about 15% in total.
And next quarter will probably be pretty good because you still have low rates and the pipeline stuff is still pretty high the applications.
Okay.
Thank you.
Same with the mortgage theme.
I guess the overall message seems like in your words housing has turned and you lowered reserves a little bit.
You’ve got a lot more reserves to go.
So what things do you look for for that to continue? And is it apples and oranges when you look at the other side of the coin and see that repurchase claims are up litigation reserves are up? And there has been a whole lot of press lately about some cases going against the industry or some court rulings going against the industry on the put-back side.
Yeah so Glenn maybe I can separate out.
On the mortgage reserves side we said in outlook is if the trends continue the way they are you should expect to see more reserve releases.
But that is subject to the current trends.
On the repurchase side that data in the back of the supplement is both GSE and private label.
So the trends we talked about last quarter on the GSE side have run through the mortgage lines continue.
And so you saw our actual paid claims of 230 our reserve release I think of 218 if I’m recalling correctly.
We expect that subject to obviously certain changes to continue.
And then on private label we have told you based on what we knew that we thought we were well reserved for those issues but obviously circumstances can change.
And that will change our reserve policy when and if appropriate.
Okay.
Last quickie.
Is there still about a 30 base-point delta for what you’re showing us on the advanced approach on Basel III Tier 1 common? And if you used the standardized? Yeah so are you asking the delta has shrunk.
If you’re asking – which we didn’t put in the impact of the NPR on Basel I that delta has shrunk as well.
Okay.
Cool.
I can follow the rest off-line.
The only thing I want to say about capital the 8.4% Basel III which obviously is an estimate up-front phases in everything that we know of today.
It does not phase in what we know about our own runoff and create new models down the road to reduce it.
So we would estimate if we did all that we were close to 9-5.
Close to 9-5 ? In other words we’re phasing all of the bad stuff up-front and not any of the good stuff.
The good stuff is the runoff that we know is going to happen in the next two years.
And obviously there’s no models to have better RWA outcomes on CRM and some other issues.
It’s just not in there yet.
And just a last one.
On the re-submission is that a November event for when we get thumbs-up thumbs-down from the Fed? We don’t know.
They’ll let us know.
Remember this only affects the first quarter buy-back which is not that substantial for our company.
And we have to reapply for the full year CCAR which would affect what we can do after March 31st which we’ll be doing soon.
That’s the more important number.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Question on just the reinvestment strategy.
Doug you mentioned going through Page 14 the challenges.
The question is do you at this stage continue re-investing in RMBS to the extent that you have the runoff occurring today? Obviously the front of the curve collapsed there on RMBS.
Or do you go into more treasuries and Ginnie’s given the fact that you are a little light on that asset class anyway? Relative spread has improved.
Or do you loosen the credit box and try to drive up the loan growth? Well number three definitely which the loan growth is probably more important.
I wouldn’t say it’s loosening the credit box it’s maybe just being a little more competitive on pricing.
Treasuries no.
And the benchmark for the reinvestment portfolio would be Fannie’s or Ginnie’s or Freddie’s.
But obviously there are issues to that about the convexity it creates when you do that.
And the other thing which we are obviously working through with new RWA you’ve got to combine liquidity need with the RWA charges.
So right now we’re staying fairly conservative.
There will be other opportunities down the road.
Okay.
And on the loan side you think you can drive some incremental loan growth through just pricing activity? Just being more competitive on rate? I think Jumbo yes just be more competitive on rates.
And we think there are very good credits going forward.
And you can see we are growing the Commercial Bank.
We’re growing Auto.
Card we hope to grow.
We want to grow all those things.
And we’ve got good margins.
We want to push the loan growth a little bit.
Okay.
So then switching gears just talk a little bit about Thick.
Thick’s result were very good this quarter.
The question on the outlook has to do with some of the structural changes that are going on as we move into next year in particular clearing where there is some debate around collateral requirements collateral shortfall not going to be able to re-hypothecate as much going forward as you did as you are able to right now.
So how are you thinking about that Thick line? And what are you doing to try to maintain the kind of run rate that you’ve got given those pressures? We don’t know if there’s going to be a “collateral” shortfall.
It’s not quite clear yet.
And the rules for collateral for I mean for liquidity stuff is not quite clear yet.
Clearinghouses is both an opportunity and a risk.
And so we hope to get we’re building the system so we can provide cross collateral for clients and ease of transaction and cheat-transactions for clients.
Obviously it may change some of the volume to go through other things.
But I’m not sure in total that that’s going to change a lot in the Thick line.
Our experience has been that things go to clearinghouses or during execution sometimes volume goes up and makes up for it.
Okay.
I’m good.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Najarian with ISI Group.
Good morning.
Jamie I’m really interested in getting your view on how you think QE3 overall is going to impact JPMorgan specifically.
We can see obviously the short-term benefits of a lot of mortgage origination revenue potentially a positive impact on the economy.
But of course the negative is lower mortgage rates lower MBS rates and what that does to the margin.
So I’m interested in getting your view on is QE3 a good thing or bad thing for JPMorgan? You basically laid it out already which is lower rates you referred to a little bit.
That obviously helped mortgage origination and ultimately housing prices because low rates can drive that part of the economy a little bit.
If it were to drive the economy and I’m not sure it will that would be a plus for us.
I think they are doing their job not to help things or hurt things but to try to drive the economy and drive jobs.
If that works it’s a good plus.
I personally think that the fiscal policy is going to be more important than the Fed policy soon.
The Fed needs help with rational fiscal policy.
How do you think about this idea that in the near term clearly you are going to mint a lot of money on the mortgage refi boom but once that’s behind you you are simply left with a lower margin.
How much does that concern you or not? Not a lot.
If you look at the margins in production are very high.
They’re well over 2%.
A norm would be under 1%.
So obviously one day that’ll normalize.
In the meantime you get volume and higher spreads.
On the other hand we have huge excess servicing costs which probably would more than offset that.
And when Housing recovers charges will come down.
So to me if the economy gets better we’re fine.
We may lose some production income but everything else will be better.
And then finally there’s a lot of big banks that are sort of framing a component of their operating expenses that they think is abnormally high right now.
Based on the extra mortgage servicing the foreclosure all things related to continuing through the end of this credit cycle.
Is there any number or range that we should think about for JPMorgan in terms of those excess mortgage related costs coming down as Housing continues to recover? The big one to look at is the excess servicing costs due to the high level of default and high-cost default and consent orders and look at that number.
It’s about $500 million a quarter a little more than that.
That number will eventually be zero.
I don’t think it’s going down to zero it’ll probably take eight quarters before it goes down to a number approaching zero maybe more.
It’s going to take a while to work through all of that.
But that number will disappear.
Production income will also come down at one point for all the reasons you said.
When rates go back up you’re not going to have all the refis we have today.
And you’ll probably have more competition and purchase money originations reducing margins.
And obviously when the Housing recovers the losses we are burying in charge-offs will reduce too just owning the real estate portfolio.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Brennan Hawken with UBS.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
Just to follow up actually on that question from Ed in the eight-quarters that you indicated Jamie.
Any idea that’s actually a pretty – it’s obviously an extended time period any idea what the trend line would look like or is it too early? Is it going to – is most of the benefit that comes from that reduction going to be backend weighted or will it be pretty linear? Any idea about that? Yeah I expect none the next quarter I expect a little bit in 2013 and a lot in 2014.
But those are just – I’m just – this is just rough estimates.
We don’t really know.
Of course.
Great.
That helps.
Thanks.
And then the $700 million of litigation this quarter does that mean that you guys had adverse development or was it largely one-time items there? I guess said another way is there an adjustment from the previous views that litigation reserves really don’t need to be built from this point? No.
I think we’re separating.
When we talk about mortgage to private label stuff we said we felt we were substantially fairly well done.
But there is other mortgage stuff that the goes in and out we adjust for and constant other litigation.
So when we know we have something we can estimate what it is we put up litigation reserves for it.
Unfortunately I think litigation costs will stay high for a while too.
There’s just constant development in litigation it’s not all mortgage related.
Okay.
And then thinking about CCAR application not just this quarter’s but also next year’s are you approaching it any differently or is there any increased caution when you think about the fact that there was a material weakness of internal control at JPMorgan? I mean it seems like there might be something that could really sharpen the pencils at the regulators and so we’re just curious as you approach the application whether or not that adjusted how you thought about your application at all? Listen it’s obvious we had a gap in the armor here.
Like I said an arrow went right through that gap.
But other than that gap we think we have pretty damn good controls in stuff like that.
That material weakness will be fixed.
We have huge – we’ve got a great company.
We’ve got huge cash flows huge capability and we could probably buy back a lot of stock next year and still hit the 9.5% Basel III at one point.
And so I think a rational thing to do is that the stock is at the right price to buy back stock.
Obviously we will apply.
We don’t know the CCAR rules will change next year so when we see those rules we’ll decide.
Yeah early going understood.
I just was curious whether or not that was going to adjust to your approach at all.
I would hope not.
I would hope that when you look at the company in total you see pretty good disciplines and pretty good controls.
Fair enough.
And then last one for me I know that nothing is official but I don’t know whether or not you or Doug might want to comment on the story in the Journal that got some attention yesterday about maybe different roles for Doug in the future or anything or who might be successor if Doug decided he wanted to do something different? Yeah well obviously I find it truly irritating that people yatz the press like that.
But Doug is a top professional.
He ran our U.S.
Investment Bank coverage for many years.
He is a top CFO.
We have no we will let you know when and if we intend to make changes when we make them not through gossip in the press.
I should point out that we have a very strong bench in this company.
We got a lot of talented people so if and when we make decision like that we’ll make it.
I also want to point out we always have conversations with senior people and everybody about the future for them; their career what they want to do next when the timing makes sense for them in the company.
That’s kind of a normal conversation.
I would not put that as an abnormal type of conversation.
Fair enough.
Actually one more sorry.
Trying to think about the implications of this announcement the Bear suite the Bear lawsuit that was announced.
As I thought about it wouldn’t this if you have the ability to come after a firm that acquires a troubled financial institution at a time of crisis after the fact opportunistically with perhaps political motivations I mean shouldn’t that raise concerns from a safety and soundness perspective from the fed? I mean isn’t that kind of a key tool that the Fed uses in times of crisis? And shouldn’t that sort of created an issue for this lawsuit? I’m not sure it creates an issue for the lawsuit but I agree with you as a policy matter it’s going to make it much harder in the future for companies to buy a troubled company.
Okay.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Great.
Thanks.
Kind of following up on that a little bit Jamie you made some comments earlier in the week about kind of the ongoing costs of some of those or the total costs I should say of some of those acquisitions.
I would assume that some of the costs in the quarter book litigation and otherwise you’re still kind of feeling that.
Have you ever sized or are you willing to size what that might be? So let me further – I also want to mention when the government bankrupted GM you do remember they did bankrupt GM they absolved GM of all prior legal liability.
So the government’s being a little inconsistent here.
Clearly.
So when I made a comment publicly on another forum that when we did Bear Stearns remember we put up substantial reserves in purchase accounting.
So it didn’t run through the P&amp;L for closedown costs litigation consolidation and materially risk management.
Like we can get down the risk that we got in Bear Stearns.
And so included in that number instead was what we did put in purchase accounting.
Since then we put on more reserves related to stuff.
Some related to Bear Stearns some related to WaMu some related to JPMorgan Chase itself.
And so it’s increased the cost to us.
And that’s unfortunate but that’s life.
And we have reserved for the things we know about and we think about now.
So it’s in our numbers the comments I’m making.
But we’re not future looking at additional reserves.
Okay.
On a separate matter the Card business had pretty strong revenues this quarter.
Is there anything you can call out in terms of what drove that improvement? Is there something going on there? And can we expect that to continue? Well first of all the losses there are very low.
And you shouldn’t expect much improvement from year-to-year.
There are historical lows.
But what we are really proud of in the Card business is the new products from Sapphire Freedom Ink products like Blueprint our rewards programs are doing very well.
We’ve been gaining share every single year for four years now on Card.
And you see this spend numbers.
Not the outstanding numbers but the spend.
So spend was up like 11%.
And you compare that to a lot of competitors and that’s more than double the growth of the average competitor.
And that is obviously driving revenue.
You also have a merchant process in there representing if I remember correctly 18% that’s in the revenue line.
So the Card business has been doing very well.
If I’m making up the years that they didn’t do very well.
And just a follow up at the Investor Day I think Gordon had mentioned that you expected kind of marketing spend to be kind of flattish in 2012.
And I think Doug had alluded today saying that part of the reason costs were down was that marketing spend was down.
Given that performance is that something that you’re going to start marketing more aggressively? Or is there just enough spending going on? Marketing was high last quarter and normal this quarter.
Got it.
That’s the way I look at it.
But marketing to me is an investment in the future.
So if we come up with plans marketing plans but we think they’re going to have very good returns we’re going to spend the money.
That’s what we do.
We don’t sit here and set a marketing budget and meet it.
We actually try to review all of the programs we have and when we have attractive things to do we’re going to do them even if it reduces the current quarter profits.
Thanks so much.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt O’Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning.
Hi.
You spoke a bit about getting more aggressive on loan pricing in part because you feel better about the economy and part because of just the lower flatter interest rates.
But what do you need to see to lower lending standards a little bit specifically on the Consumer side as you think about Mortgage and Card and maybe even Auto? Can you repeat the question again? In short what do you need to see either macro-wise in the economy or from a regulatory point of view to loosen some of the lending standards which I think for the industry are quite high on the Consumer side? Well I think it’s – yeah so mortgage is high.
Okay? And mortgage is high appraisal stands are too high the verification income is extreme.
And that’s since we don’t know the rules of securitizations and secure M.
I think it’s going to loosen over time.
I think doing mortgages today you get very good credits very good underlying collateral.
Remember a lot of credits can’t get loans today.
It will lose over time.
And I think you just need a stronger economy.
And some of these decisions some of these regulatory rules or even some of the Basel rules could create kind of cliffs in mortgages so that the risk-weighted assets – I think if you go below 680 FICO dramatically jumps.
This should incent us not to do any mortgage below 680.
And so I think some of those things hopefully will be sorted out in the next six months or nine months.
And Credit Card Auto Student and other I think don’t think you should expect to see major changes.
Okay.
And then just separately as we think about other levers because rates are to stay lower for longer anything on the expense side that you’re thinking about or could talk about? Yeah we are doing budgets now and we’re always drive efficiency and expenses and our expenses what I like about our expenses is in those numbers is constant investment.
You see that more bankers more branches more systems more countries more – that is what’s important for driving the future of the company.
So obviously we – some expense will be going up because they are good expenses and the bad – and some expenses are coming down to become more efficient and we’re always trying to drive down what I call bad expenses.
Expenses driven by bureaucracy stupidity and stuff like that so we’re going to – we’ll fine tune it and when we have investor day next year we’ll probably give you a better outlook for what we expect.
But right now an expectation would be kind of level the plus what we can save will offset the investments.
Okay.
And then just lastly on some of the servicing related cost I realize there is a lot of puts and takes I often get asked the question home prices are starting to go up.
How quickly do these costs come down? And obviously the time to foreclose is actually increasing I think versus six nine months ago.
What’s the one or two key macros data points that we can watch to be somewhat of a leading or even coincidence indicator for these servicing costs? Okay.
So in servicing it $5 million a quarter which will eventually go to zero and the real driver of that is things in default delinquency or foreclosure.
As those things come down you’re going to see those costs come down.
And second we have to finish the consent order in that but I think they’re all kind of related.
In real estate home prices going up will reduce real estate losses or jobs reduced real estate losses.
The number of homes underwater is two million less now than it was like a year ago.
So obviously those things are all big pluses.
I think you just need a good economy and you’ll see charge-offs start to come down more – faster than they have been coming down recently.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
First question is what is the loan utilization this quarter versus last three quarters? You guys can you turn up your – Mike I can’t hear you Doug.
You can’t hear me? I’m sorry.
Can you hear me now Jamie? Yeah we got you.
Yeah okay.
So what’s – yeah go ahead.
So Mike it’s loan utilization in the commercial bank.
However you can give it to us.
We typically talk about utilization in the commercial bank particularly in the middle market.
It is in the low 30s and it hasn’t changed much.
And I mentioned that’s because most of those companies are very flush with cash as well.
So until they start to really invest more you’re going to see those utilization rates around where they are.
Okay.
And your margin guidance it seems a little bit worse than before.
Is that simply due to QE#3? Our NIM guidance is largely identical to what we said last quarter.
Modest pressure.
But you say for a few more quarters it seems like it’s pressure for longer or no? It could be because the implied curve has pushed lower rates out much longer so the pressure can go on a little bit longer than we would have thought before.
And...
But Mike remember that also relates to decisions we are going to make.
How long the duration of our portfolio is what we do in making loans how we want to manage the risk-weighted assets.
So there’s been a lot of changes in the business we’ve got to adjust of those changes.
And part of that adjustment is that being more competitive on pricing for loans? I would say competitive but not necessarily more competitive.
So we try to stay competitive in most pricing you know get under – due to credit right and being competitive on price is more important than beat competitive pricing but I mean don’t be competitive prices but have bad underlying credit standards.
So are you lowering pricing on your loans? On home equity – on jumbo loans we did a little bit.
Mostly on...
And what about...
Most of the loans probably not.
Yeah Mike I will tell you in the NIM this quarter if you look at the loan yields relatively flat across the company.
But again as the environment low rate environment and people looking for assets to put on the balance sheet we’re going to have to remain competitive.
Actually In the jumbo I would say actually we just reduced rates to meet the market.
We were probably a little high.
I guess what I’m leading to is half elastic is loan pricing.
I mean if you assume that the lack of loan growth in aggregate for the U.S.
is not due to the supply of money but is due to the demand for money will lowering pricing actually improve that demand? And I know it’s a difficult question to answer but it goes to how much lower you might want to price your loans.
We are not going to price a lot lower to create demand or something like that.
No.
I think it’s a little elastic.
We see the elastic in Jumbo.
We’re not going to change our underwriting standards in Card.
We’re not going to change our underwriting standards in Pricing.
We got a little more competitive in Auto.
But again that’s just following the business.
These are competitive businesses and we have to compete.
We have to decide if we’re going to meet lower prices or not.
So in Auto and Jumbo we did.
I would say that in the Commercial Corporate side probably not much.
And then one more question on the margin as it relates to mortgage.
I know this is a tough question.
How much longer do you think the mortgage margin should hold up in terms of the gain on sale? Or what factors should we think about when modeling that? I think as long as rates stay low refis will stay high.
And volume will be high.
And very high volume clogs up the system and allows higher pricing.
I think that once you start to see rates go up which I personally think will probably happen sometime in 2013 but I don’t know that.
You’re going to see lower refi and more competitive pricing more home purchase but more competitive pricing.
We don’t expect to count in the high margins and mortgage origination forever.
Maybe you’re going to have it next quarter or maybe for a couple quarters after that but it won’t last for that much longer.
All right.
Thanks a lot.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
Good morning.
Jamie first maybe a pretty big picture question given that we are heading towards the fiscal cliff by the end of the year what is your outlook particularly in the Investment Bank and in the Commercial Banking segments for the fourth quarter and into the first half of next year given some of the political risks that we face over the next few months? When you talk about the fourth quarter it’s only the Commercial Bank.
You can pretty much project the results for the next quarter.
So the fiscal cliff isn’t going to change this and I hide loans in the books and from treasury deposits and things like that.
The investment bank would be more sensitive to what the market reacts to if they get very scared about the fiscal cliff.
But we just don’t know.
We’re going to be prepared.
JPMorgan will try to be there for clients regardless.
And I’m not sure it’s going to drive the fourth quarter results that much.
I think the only place you will see it really drive it would be in the Investment Bank because volume has dropped dramatically.
But I can give you arguments why fiscal cliff could drive volumes up in the short run.
Doug maybe a question for you on the Investment Banking bar which was on a reported basis up about 70% plus.
There appears to be a methodology change in the third quarter versus the second quarter.
Can you provide a little more detail as to how we should think about that? And what you are thinking about the bar in the fourth quarter? Yes so as you say much of that increase was a transfer of the Synthetic Credit portfolio which we expected some other mix changes.
The model changes we updated models for that portfolio based on Investment Banking models which we believe are a better indicator of risk.
And there were a little less diversification benefits this quarter.
These bar numbers are well within the numbers that the IB has operated in before.
And we did I think qualify at a company-wide level the impact of the model change our reduced bar company-wide by a little over $35 million.
Okay.
And then a question on your deposit costs.
They’re down about six basis points quarter-over-quarter as you mentioned Doug in your prepared remarks.
One side of the question is how much lower do you think you can get those? And if you’re not able to drive those down what affect does that have on NIM pressure over the next couple of quarters? It’s likely we’re getting close to the bottom there.
And so to the extent other factors continue to have pressure you’re going to see a little bit more flippage.
I will say some offsets that we didn’t get the benefit of from a hedge accounting standpoint is our financing costs.
We would expect to see some improvements there absent the account changes.
Okay.
And then finally from me you noted that peripheral European exposure on a net basis was a little less than $12 billion this quarter versus a $6.3 billion net number last quarter.
It looks like most of the increase came in at Italy and Spain.
Is there any color you can provide on what’s going on there? The increase is mostly from the reduction in short positions at a synthetic credit portfolio.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
The rest is kind of business-as-usual in Italy and Spain.
We are still doing business there.
Okay.
You should see that exposure go up a little bit in the near-term too.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Erica Panella with Bank of America.
Good morning.
I just had one follow-up question to Brian’s question.
So Jamie you’re entering this stress test in 2013 with more capital and more earnings than you did for the 2012 CCAR.
And you also mentioned that it will be business as usual in terms of how you formulate your ask.
So if the synthetic credit loss is really going to impact the process in your ask is it safe for us to assume that you will ask for at least as much as you did last year if not more? First we don’t have the final CCAR rules yet.
And they’re going to change some of them and we’ve got to see that before we see it.
And we’re also working through all of the new RWA rules of Basel 2.5 the NPR Basel III and all the new liquidity rules elsewhere.
We’re going to get it all right and then we’re going to apply.
I think we’re going to buy back a substantial amount of stock and meet the 9.5% Basel III in 2013 by late 2013.
But I can’t give you the number right now.
It may be more or less than last year what we applied for.
Okay.
That’s it for me.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of is Paul Miller with FBR.
Yeah thank you very much.
Jamie going back to mortgage originations on the correspondence channel you’ve really been increasing market share.
Is that something – I know there is a lot of opportunity out there with a lot of guys exiting that business.
And I know in the past that you’ve shrunk that a little bit.
But is that something that we should continue to see if the mark-to-market remains healthy to grow market share on that channel? I think we did shrink it.
Again I’ve got the number 2 500 down to 700 or 800.
We are looking at the complete relationship in correspondence.
The correspondence I think is a pure economic transaction.
Other people get out of the business and we’ve probably just ended up with a little more share for that reason.
It’s not a big strategic thrust.
If the Morgan folks come in and say that they can generate a lot of servicing and a great economic rate and do more we would do more.
Okay.
And then another question is you saw Wells Fargo get hit with the Department of Justice suit on FHA originations.
And I know there’s been a lot of litigation to all these institutions.
Have you had any talks with the Department of Justice on what – I know B of A has settled with these guys with the same issues.
Have you had any thoughts that have been disclosed? Any talks with the Department of Justice on these FHA-type originations? We haven’t disclosed anything but I would expect when these things come out everyone’s going to have to have something of the same order.
This is a new ordinary course of business.
But it’s unlikely that you have three people get it and not the fourth.
And then lastly you talked about...
But we were not very big in FHA.
Yeah okay.
And then the other last one is you talked about – Mike or Mary asked I forget who – that you don’t see anybody really doing FICOs below 680.
Is that just putting on your portfolio? Or 680 and selling to the GSEs? I mean we know that...
Conforming loans you sell them that’s fine.
You meet their standards.
What I was referring to is that some of the new Basel rules create these little cliffs on risk-weighted assets.
And if I remember correctly one of the cliffs is created when you go below 700 or 680 or 650.
And that therefore it’s going to be harder for certain people to own mortgages even if they are very well underwritten even 60% loan-to-value is below 680 because of the high risk-weighted-capital charge.
I think some of that is stifling mortgage origination to those folks.
That’s all I’m saying.
And I think it should loosen up over time.
And I’m not sure the regulators intended that when they put out the new Basel rules.
Okay.
Thank you very much Jamie.
Your next question comes from the line of David Konrad with KBW.
Good morning.
I just had a question regarding the comp ratio and IB.
It came in at least lower than I expected at 32%.
I guess is that a mix shift in the revenues this quarter? And maybe if you can give any color for next quarter maybe I was thinking the long-term comp-ratio guidance was 35% to 39%.
Should we think of that is being lower and longer-term? Yeah we’ve always said 35% to 40%.
We actually use a formula which uses returns on capital and the types of revenues and the types of profits et cetera.
Risk-adjusted and all that.
So that’s the number that generally goes through.
But as a rule of thumb I would think about the 35% being a good number.
Okay.
Thank you.
Obviously every year it changes.
Competition changes.
Whether you are investing in certain parts of the world you may fund that separately because you can’t take that out of people working hard today to fund a big investment in another part of the world.
So it’ll change over time that 35%.
If you look at our investment bank 35% comp I think it’s like 25% non-comp which means a 40% margin.
That’s pretty good.
That’s pretty good.
If we can sustain that I would be a very happy guy.
Great.
Thank you.
In a competitive environment.
Your next question comes from the line of Christoph Kotowski with Oppenheimer.
Hi.
Jamie was quoted the other day saying that JPMorgan was establishing a fiscal cliff war wound.
I was wondering if you could tell us exactly what you meant by that and how you are positioning the firm for that? I think I was referring to I was asked a question at the Council Correlations about the Eurozone crisis and the fiscal cliff.
We do have a kind of war wound Eurozone crisis.
We’ve done extension work on it.
I also mentioned we probably spent $50 million or so getting prepared for the debt crisis that we had nine months ago or so.
We are preparing I wouldn’t call it war wound I misstated it we’ve got to get prepared for the fiscal cliff.
What does that mean? It may be not so much for us but for our clients.
How are they going to react What do we have to be prepared to do And unfortunately when things like a fiscal if the fiscal actually happens you have to be prepared for various scenarios including the worst possible one even if you don’t predict it.
That’s what we are thinking.
What could really happen? What are we missing? How bad could it be? We have to be prepared for it.
Were hoping it doesn’t happen.
Okay.
That’s it from me.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
Good morning.
Two questions one on what’s left of what you’d transferred.
You closed out positions in CIO and transferred the rest to the Investment Bank.
Can you give us any update on your thoughts on when that could be completely exited? And any other indications of size or impact in the quarter would be great.
Last time we gave you some measures of CS01 VaR RWA and a couple of stress tests.
We said extreme stress 800 to 1.6 billion.
That was July 13.
Almost any measure you look at of risk would be down 20% 30% or 40%.
Certain risks are down 40%.
Certain risks are down 30% certain 20%.
And the stress risk in addition is down by that amount.
The folks are doing a great job managing it.
It had a modest loss this quarter.
We feel completely comfortable with it.
It obviously can lose money.
It can also make money.
And we always said we hope at the end of the year it’s a non-issue we don’t have to talk about anymore.
We’re still on track for that.
And so it seems like it’s reasonably well hedged in the Investment Bank.
The folks are doing a great job hedging every conceivable piece of it they know about while conducting client business.
Right.
Okay maybe a follow-up on Europe certainly the funding environment has gotten better do you feel that there has been somewhat of a game change there? And are you feeling better about embracing market share opportunities there and putting more balance sheet to work? Or do you still have some hesitation in Europe? In the last couple months they have made I would say a lot of progress if you look at the OMT even though it has conditions but it is a big statement to make sovereign debt good for Italy and Spain.
The conversations about the banking union in guaranteed programs which would protect from a run in the banks in Spain and Italy and also trying to redo this fiscal it could take years but the fiscal agreement among the Eurozone nations.
I think they have made a lot of progress.
You see it reflected in bond rates.
I still think it’s going to be a roller coaster.
There will be ups and downs as good things happen or bad things happen.
They are only in a mild recession.
I think that’s a very good thing.
We have always made a decision to continue to conduct business in France and Germany and U.K.
and Spain and Italy.
So we continue to be worried about it.
We are going to be prepared for bad outcomes but we are there.
And if there are opportunities we have not seen unbelievable opportunities like asset sales or something like that but we will participate if there are assets we want or things we want to do.
Right.
So you think the tone of the improved tone in September is sort of carrying so far into the fourth quarter? I hope so.
We don’t run the company guessing on things like that.
We’re trying to build our client business.
I hope so.
I hope they continue to make progress.
That’s always good.
We’re prepared if that’s not true too.
Okay.
Great.
I’m done.
Thanks.
There are no further questions at this time.
Are there any closing comments? I’m just surprised no one mentioned how handsome Doug Braunstein looked in the article in the Wall Street Journal.
On that final note thank you all very much.
Thank you folks.
We’ll talk again.
Thank you for your participating in today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to JPMorgan Chase’s fourth quarter 2012 earnings call.
This call is being recorded.
Your line will be muted for the duration of the call.
We will now go live to the presentation.
Please stand by.<br><br>At this time I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase’s Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon and Chief Financial Officer Marianne Lake.
Mr.
Dimon thank you very much.
Welcome everybody to our fourth quarter call.
I just want to start by telling you that Doug Braunstein won’t be doing this call.
I just want to thank him for his service to the company.
I do want to remind people despite of the fact that the [will] happened during that time during that time [unintelligible] of that income is something we all are very proud of at this company and so Doug thank you for your service if you’re listening.<br><br>And we’ve still got Marianne here.
Marianne as some of you may know Marianne has extensive experience in accounting numbers.
She was the controller of the investment bank for several years so she knows the investment banking wholesale side pretty good.<br><br>She was also CFO on the consumer side so uniquely she’s got deep experience in both parts of the company.
And so I’m going to turn it over to Marianne.
We’re thrilled to have you here.
So you can take it through the numbers and then we’ll take any and all time we need to answer your questions as usual.<br><br>[unintelligible] I think the numbers here are really good.
I mean look at the underlying detail of this company: third year record income 15% returns in general capital and growth in virtually every single business.
We had some negatives like [unintelligible] stuff like that which over time [reverse].
So Marianne Jamie.
Good morning everyone.
This is Marianne.
I’m going to take you through the presentation this morning which is available on our website and refer you to the display on the regarding forward-looking statement which is at the back of the presentation.<br><br>And just before we turn to earnings we also announced today the completion of the board review of CIO and the management task force report.
Those reports are available on our website.
So with that we’ll turn to page one.
The firm generated net income of $5.7 billion for the fourth quarter or $1.39 a share on revenue of $24.4 billion up 10% year on year and down 6% quarter on quarter.
And on the page you see we had a few significant items for the quarter and these [largely] offset each other and we’ll go through them as we go through the presentation.
But what you don’t see on the page is we also had a number of smaller items many of which we’ll mention when we go through.
For example we made a contribution to our foundation and realized some securities gains this quarter.
These smaller items also largely offset slightly to the negative.
So for the full year we generated record net income of $21.3 billion or $5.20 a share on revenue of $100 billion flat year over year.
Return on tangible common equity was 15% for both the quarter and the year and in fact as Jamie said this is the third consecutive year of both record net income and 15% return on tangible common equity.
And before I turn to the businesses I would characterize the overall performance of the quarter as strong performance across our businesses and highlight four themes.
First the positive trends in market share that we’ve been seeing continued this quarter.
Year over year we saw strong continued deposit growth of 10%.
Mortgage origination volume is up 33% and sales volume in card up 9%.
Also the number one ranking in global IDCs including record debt underwriting fees record assets under custody in CIB record revenue in commercial banking and record revenue and AUM in asset management.
Second we continued to see positive year over year loan growth.
On a reported basis the total loans for the company were up 1% but excluding runoff portfolios our core loan growth was 9% with record loan balances in commercial banking up 14% record business banking loan balances up 7% and record asset management loan balances of $80 billion.
Third strong credit performance continued in our wholesale portfolios as well as in the core consumable portfolios which have stabilized at low levels of chargeoff and delinquency.
The real estate portfolios continue to show improvement as the housing market continues to recover but losses are still high.
So finally we continue to strengthen our capital position and you can see that if you turn to page four and I’ll take you there.
We ended the year with Basel I and Basel III tier one common of $140 billion and we had strong Basel I and Basel III ratios of 11% and 8.7% respectively -- and to note the estimate for Basel III of 8.7% includes the full impact of NPR as we understand it -- compared to 8.4% last quarter and is approximately 150 basis points over last year on a comparable basis.
The return on Basel I RWA was 1.9% for the quarter ex-DVA.
And we added a few points to the bottom of the slide which we think are important and we’ll spend some time at Investor Day going through our balance sheet in more detail.
But just some salient points.
You can see we have $450 billion of equity and long term debt; under $100 billion of short term debt which is small relative to our $700 billion of cash high-quality securities and secured financing; and finally deposits of $1.2 trillion which fund our $700 billion of loans.
So turning on to the businesses if you move to page five consumer and community banking this includes our consumer and business banking mortgage banking card and auto businesses.
There’s some stats here that show the strength of our consumer franchise.
The combined consumer businesses generated $2 billion of net income for the quarter on $12 billion of revenue.
We had the number-one ATM network and the number-two branch network with 150 new branches this year; number two mortgage originator; and number-one card issuer in the U.S.
And ended the year with over 100 000 Chase private clients in over 1 200 locations.
And we have over 31 million active online and 12 million active mobile customers.
And just another thing that we’re particularly proud of this year is a new accomplishment.
We achieved the number-one ranking in the American Customer Satisfaction Index survey for customer satisfaction among large banks.
In the appendix we included a page on Hurricane Sandy which I won’t take you through but it was amazing to see how our employees rallied to support our customers.
And though the financial impact wasn’t significant to the firm the impact we were able to have on our customers was significant.
So on to page six consumer and business banking.
You can see net income of $756 million on revenue of $4.3 billion down 1% year on year and sequentially.
We continue to see pressure on deposit margins 12 basis points in the quarter and 32 year on year which negatively impacts NII but this continues to be largely offset by deposit growth.
We’re growing customer deposits at more than twice the industry average $0.10 year-on-year.
And also in December we saw the lowest customer attrition rate we’ve seen in the last 10 years.<br><br>And if you take that together with the customer satisfaction results I mentioned earlier it speaks to the great progress we’re making on the customer experience.
We’re deepening relationships with average balances per account up customer satisfaction up transactions per debit card up active online and mobile customers up.<br><br>And just two more revenue drivers this quarter – we had record business banking loan balances of $18.9 million with a strong pipeline and investment sales up almost 50% year-on-year with client investment assets up 15%.<br><br>And almost two-thirds of these sales are managed accounts that generate the strong recurring sort of revenues for this business.<br><br>Expenses were flat quarter-on-quarter and up slightly year-on-year driven by new branch builds.<br><br>Mortgage banking on Page 7 the overall net income for the term mortgage bank was $418 million and there are a couple of significant items here this quarter which I’ll take you through as we go through the results.<br><br>Moving up to the top end production production pre-tax income of $789 million on strong originations of $51 million up 33% year-on-year and 8% in the quarter which reflected strong refi activity as well as an increase in correspondence.<br><br>And although margins remain elevated we expected we did see compression this quarter versus the peaks of last quarter and we do expect them to continue to normalize into 2013.<br><br>Production expense this quarter includes a litigation expense which is a part of the significant item for mortgage-related matters that we had on Page 1.<br><br>Agency repurchase demands and the outstanding pipeline were both down significantly this quarter and [curates] improved driving low losses which resulted in a net positive $53 million for the quarter.<br><br>[So on] servicing net servicing results in the portfolio at the end of the fourth quarter include the impact of the acquisition of $70 billion of net life servicing.
And just a reminder it closed late in the quarter.<br><br>It’s high quality agency servicing with the added benefit of additional [unintelligible] opportunity for us.<br><br>Looking at servicing expense you can see it includes the net charge for the IFR settlement of about $700 million which is the balance of the significant item for mortgage-related matters.<br><br>And just finally on this page real estate portfolios you can see pre-tax income of $812 million including net charge-offs of $417 million.
Charge-offs for the quarter were positively impacted by adjustments relating to Chapter 7 loans that we wrote down last quarter.<br><br>And if you back those adjustments out charge-offs would have been about $520 million this quarter versus $600 last on an equipment basis and the improvement was driven by lower home equity delinquencies.<br><br>Looking at the whole year we saw significant improvement in charge-offs driven by a 20% to 30% decline in delinquencies and to a lesser extent in [unintelligible] house prices.
<br>We expect these positive trends to continue next year but not necessarily at the same pace as this.
And given these trends we released $700 million of loan loss reserves this quarter which is also a significant item.<br><br>And going forward you can expect holding that charge-off of $550 million plus or minus going forward.<br><br>On Page 8 we’ll talk just for a minute on the IFR settlement.
The settlement requires us to make a cash payment of about $750 million and also provide modification short sales and other release commitments of $1.2 billion.<br><br>In terms of the earnings impact we’re looking at current period charge but we’re going to see significant future run rate savings and here’s how you can think about it.
In 2012 our run rate expense for the IFR was between $100 million and $150 million a quarter and we expected this to continue at these levels or even higher throughout 2013.<br><br>These costs will now be eliminated almost immediately and the remaining work completed by the end of the month.
If you exclude both the net settlement costs and also the IFR run rate costs our servicing expenses would have been around $725 million this quarter which is obviously still very high relative to our longer-term guidance of $300 million to $350 million a quarter but we expect that to continue to trend down.<br><br>And we don’t expect any additional costs associated with the settlement in 2013.
We already have many programs intended to help borrowers and these are fully in our reserve.<br><br>Moving on to card merchant services and auto on Page 9 net income of $840 million down 20% year-on-year and 12% quarter-on-quarter on revenue of $4.8 billion flat year on year and up slightly quarter-on-quarter.
We saw strong sales volume again in card up 9% year on year.
The revenue rate you see of 12.82% reflects strong interchange revenue and merchant processing fees and low revenue reversals on strong credit performance.
And our merchant processing volumes were up 17% year on year.
The net chargeoff rate you see of 3.5% is down slightly quarter on quarter and down 79 basis points year on year.
And we believe we’re at or near the bottom here.
We took no reserve actions this quarter but there may be some additional reserve releases in the first half of 2013.
On auto originations were up 12% year on year but down 13% quarter on quarter due to seasonality.
And a final note on expenses our fourth quarter expenses were elevated due to the impairment of an asset related to a non-strategic partnership.
Slide 10 and 11 on the corporate and investment bank.
Strong results here for our fourth quarter net income of $2 billion on revenue of $7.6 billion for the quarter which included DVA of $567 million which is in the credit adjustment line item.
And for clarity going forward in addition to DVA this line item will also include CDA and related hedges.
So if you focus on the numbers ex-DVA $2.4 billion of net income on $8.2 billion of revenue up 19% year on year and down 4% quarter on quarter.
And just a reminder our new reporting here reflects how we manage our clients.
The traditional banking relationships are in banking and investor clients in markets and investor services and we’ll talk more about these segments at Investor Day.
Total banking revenue of $3.2 billion is up 29% year on year driven by higher ID fees of $1.7 billion in the quarter up over 50% year on year making this the strongest fee quarter this year and including record debt underwriting fees.
Total markets and investor services revenue of $5 billion up 14% year on year driven by markets revenues of $4.1 billion up 19% year on year and down 15% quarter on quarter.
And just to remind you this is in line with the better end of guidance we gave you at Goldman Sachs.
It was a solid quarter for fixed income up 21% year on year down 15% quarter on quarter across products.
A reminder the impact of the remaining synthetic credit portfolio is included here in the fixed income results and was a modest loss again this quarter.
Progress continues to be made derisking this position.
Equity markets of $895 million up 11% year on year down 14% quarter on quarter.
The sequential change was primarily due to seasonally slower equity derivatives with cash equities holding up well.
Just moving onto drivers and at the bottom you can see our average [CIB] VAR declined to $106 million this quarter which is a significant reduction.
And although it’s not on the page on a spot basis VAR declined even further reflecting lower volatility in the look-back period and also the risk reduction in synthetic credit.
We also had record assets under custody of $18.8 trillion up 12% on the year and record full year TSS revenues.
The comp to revenue ratio ex-DVA for the whole business was 27% for the quarter and 32% for the year.
And both for the quarter and the year comp to revenue ratios both including and excluding DVA were basically the same for TSS VIB and CIB.
And going forward we expect the combined business comp to revenue to be 35% plus or minus.
So just a comment on credit.
Trends are stable at low levels and provisions this quarter benefitted from recoveries and a reduction in the allowance related to restructured nonperforming loans.
On page 11 just before we leave CIB there’s a few metrics.
Number one ranking global IBCs.
Number one fixed income markets revenue share through the third quarter of this year.
Number one ranking from institutional investor for all American fixed income and equity research.
And we’ve also made progress on our international expansion in the last couple of years.
International loans and assets under custody up 50% and 33% respectively since 2010 and almost half of the revenue this year for CIB was international.
Commercial banking on page 12.
This year was the third consecutive year of record revenue and net income for this business.
The quarter saw a net income of $692 million up 8% year on year and flat quarter on quarter on record revenue of $1.7 billion and record loan balances.
Fed data shows we’re growing our loan balances faster than the industry average with C&amp;I loan growth up 18% and record middle market loan balances for the 11th consecutive quarter up 14%.
We continue to see competitive pricing pressure but spreads remained stable this quarter and lastly we continue to see strong credit performance this quarter.<br><br>Asset management Page 13 continued strong investment performance and long-term inflows drove the third consecutive year of record revenue.
For the quarter net income of $483 million up 60% year-on-year and 9% quarter-on-quarter on record revenue of $2.8 billion.<br><br>Strong results this quarter driven by higher performance fees and improving markets and net inflows of $32 billion driving AUM growth.
This is the 15th consecutive quarter of long-term net inflows for this business.<br><br>Other positive trends included loan growth up $20 billion year-on-year driven by both mortgage and international growth and average deposits of $134 billion up 10%.<br><br>Expenses up 11% year-on-year due to higher comp expense but the pre-tax margin of 29% was also up.<br><br>Moving on to Page 14 and corporate and private equity overall net income of $500 million for the quarter include private equity net income of $50 million principally on gains of sales.<br><br>Treasury and CIO had a net loss of $157 million which included negative NII due to low rate environment and limited investment opportunity which was partially offset by about $200 million of net security gains and mark to market.<br><br>Excluding these gains treasury and CIO’s net loss was about $300 million in line with our guidance and we’re continue to guide to a net loss of $300 million plus or minus.<br><br>And finally other corporate net income here is just over $600 million includes $620 million of tax adjustments which is our final significant item.
It resulted from a reduction in tax rates for the full year and also a number of discrete items most significantly a tax return adjustment.
And although large these items are not unusual.<br><br>The tax adjustment was partially offset by $184 million of additional litigation reserve and again if I adjusted the two items I just mentioned other corporate net income would have been about $100 million and we continue to expect it to run at that level $100 million plus or minus going forward.
And remember both treasury CIO and other corporate results are likely to very quarter-on-quarter.<br><br>Moving on to net interest margin turn to Page 15.
You can see firm-wide [unintelligible] declined three basis points and [unintelligible] seven basis points in the quarter.
Of note our NII held up this quarter and [didn’t back it through] despite this compression.<br><br>There’s obviously a number of items affecting [unintelligible] though negative: competitive pressure and the run up of higher yielding loans grow lower loan yields across the board; lower rates in Europe drove lower investment security yields; and the low rate environment continued to impact the investment opportunities.<br><br>On the positive increased hedging and a change in mix reduced the cost of our long-term debt.<br><br>Hedge accounting had a mutual impact on [unintelligible] this quarter with some offsets in assets and liabilities and going forward given the environment we continue to expect modest pressure on [unintelligible] for the next several quarters.<br><br>So just turning on Page 16 our final page the outlook we covered most of these items already and we’ll provide more detail on our outlook on investor day.
But we remain optimistic about 2013 and the continuation of market share gains positive loan growth and improving credit trends all contributing to our results.<br><br>So thank you for joining us and with that we obviously have to make some assumptions going forward in house prices and they’re not that different than the assumptions you would see that get published by K Shiller etc.
Right now they have a modest increase in home prices in 2013 and 2014.
I’ll stick with just those two years.
But if it was 5% better than that which is possible that would run through our books in lower chargeoffs and lower reserves and just as a rule of thumb $500 million for one year.
A very rough rule of thumb.
the Fed is going to be taking a closer look at internal stress testing and all the procedures that go around that and I think you’re going to be disclosing some of those results.
I’m not front-running what we’re going to see I’m just curious.
In general are we going to see that at the same time? Are we going to see that on a lag basis? And what you plan on disclosing.
No we’re required under Dodd-Frank to disclose our stress test.
In March.
We’re going to do it almost immediately after the Fed’s report.
And remember we do hundreds.
The Fed is four.
So we look at multiple kind of stress tests and we’re going to try to give you a full view of how we look at the company under stress.
I should point out that a lot of you did it yourselves in the past.
You were pretty accurate some of you.
on things related to the liquidation authority.
I know we haven’t seen the white paper yet but there’s been a lot of back and forth.
And I’m not a believer that we’re going to get the worst case scenario that some of the people at the FDIC have thought about.
But long story short is as ironic as it is every bank has spent the last couple of years reducing their subdebt because Basel III doesn’t count it.
Now shocker we’re going to have [unintelligible] some more because LLA’s going to want it.
Just curious on how much prep you can do ahead of that and what you’re expectations are in terms of a phase-in if that’s going to be impactful in the near term.
Just to give you a view we have $200 billion of equity and $250 billion of unsecured debt.
That’s $450 billion.
That’s a lot of capital before anyone else bears a loss.
It’s not clear to me that subordinated versus just unsecured and it would take time to develop those markets.
You know if a bank has 50-50 or obviously it changes the nature a little bit over time.
So it will take time to develop but I think we’re working with the authorities to get it right to do the analysis right to have the right numbers.
I think you’ve got a little time before someone says it has to be this amount.
Remember we’ve got Basel I Basel II Basel III OLA LCR NSF.
Just it will take a little bit of time.
I do want to point out that we fully intend in late 2013 to be at 9.5% Basel III and to be fully compliant with LCR.
So you all are about to start buying back stock here in the first quarter and the share price is at about $45.
Ironically this is the price point historically where there’s been an indication of some price sensitivity.
So maybe I was hoping for an update on your thinking on that front? We had given you some numbers in our annual report last year about where it’s a no-brainer to buy back stock which [unintelligible] has tangible book value.
Tangible book value is now $38 or $39 so it’s gone up almost $5 this year.
So we still think if you haircut earnings and buy stock at these prices it’s probably still a good deal.
We got permission to buy back $3 billion in the first quarter.
Obviously it’s going to be a little price sensitive and then CCAR will set what we can buy back for the next four quarters after that.
So basically we can look at the tangible book value growth versus the last comments and imply from there? You can do the same numbers at today’s prices.
If you want to be conservative discount earnings buy back stock.
At the end of a two or three year period you’ll have higher earnings per share and higher tangible book value per share even at these prices.
Seems like a pretty good deal to me.
You have a good company and you’re not going to need the capital down the road.
I’m not talking about for one year but down the road.
And then the $100-150 million that’s coming out of your legacy costs think Brennan about it as all in and we’re expecting our run rate in the future to be I think $300 million to $350 million as I said excluding the items I talked about let me just point out first off that our company is 33%.
By the way I you added back some of the bonuses paid in corporate that don’t show up as comp in the IB it’d be like 35%.<br><br>We think that the roundest number is kind of an ongoing run rate.
We’ve got – we have formulas.
We don’t pay out necessarily by the formula but we have formulas that are capital adjusted risk adjusted et cetera et cetera.
That’s what really guides you so it is really done at a much more detailed level [unintelligible] bounce around that 35%.<br><br>I should point out that again I think that’s probably true and but you know other firms have ratios 50% as we start to move forward towards the central clearing of swaps here late in the first quarter of ’13 so there are clearly some negatives and we don’t know all the rules also some positives so we’re in a position between custody and clearing an dour brokerage businesses to provide some of those services to – for investors.<br><br>They can allocate capital property transform the collateral and serve them better.
So let the rules come out.
Obviously it’s going to affect our revenues a bit but there will be opportunities there to answer your question there was some change in LCR.
I think they were good but they still capped the benefit like mortgages and we have almost $90 billion to MBS so there’s government guaranteed MBS.
Isn’t it what they call a Level 2?  And therefore you’re restricted in how much it counts for liquidity.<br><br>Now I – personally I think that’s wrong.
But it’s OK.
We’ll live with it.
We’re moving on.
I don’t know why the American regulators would agree to that.
I mean government guarantees MBS in a market you want but they treat as liquid and remember they already have a 15% haircut.
I could argue they don’t need any haircut.<br><br>But look what the changes be (or not) but on mortgages We talked about the third quarter peaking over 200 basis points.
We saw the margins compressing from 40 or so basis points in the quarter and we do expect that to continue into 2013 not at that level.
If you go back in time you would see gain on sale margins more in the 65 basis points.
I don’t know if that’s where it will end but certainly we expect for that to be seen through 2013 but with gaining market share.
We hope to keep our volumes up.
And my own feeling is it will obviously normalize over time but it may not go that low because our expenses could also be permanently higher.
To be in the business is going to cost more money.
And obviously that will be part of what you have to earn back.
Any update with respect to how quickly you expect your Basel III risk weighted assets to decline? We saw a little bit of a decline this quarter.
Expecting more decline.
But is there any change in the outlook for the pace of that decline or how you’re thinking about it? The number that Marianne showed you is the Basel III tier one common was 8.7.
If you look at what I call for the next two years passive mitigation.
That’s runoff and what I call normal models.
So we still have to get certain models in there that -- And this is not arguing with anybody just models that should be put in place -- that would add almost 1% to Basel right off the bat.
About $100 billion of that would be models.
$80-100 billion of that would be models.
Part of that’s the runoff of some debt or credit which is obviously coming down over time.
The other thing which I think you’re going to see is you know we’re pushing Basel III down at a very detailed level.
I think over time you’re going to see that drive down Basel RWA even more.
And there are things in Basel that I don’t know what the future portends.
We have $200 billion plus of operational RWA in there now.
That’s like $16 billion of capital.
That’s driven very high by obviously the mortgage litigation and stuff like that some of which will go away.
So one day that $200 billion should come down a lot too.
I just don’t know the timetable for that.
Okay and then just a quick follow up to that.
You mentioned wanting to get to 9.5% by the end of 2013.
I didn’t mention it.
We are going to get there late in 2013 whatever it takes.
Okay.
Along with that we see a number of companies sort of building a little bit 50 basis points or something like that of sort of a buffer on the buffer to account for AOCI fluctuation and things like that.
For you guys maybe getting up to 10% or wherever the ultimate endpoint is is that more of a ’14 event? Or is that also something that you would like to get done this year? Maybe we have to have a buffer.
We don’t know what the final rules are for capital.
So you already have a conservation buffer to go below what happens.
Obviously OCI could be a big swing.
We had modeled that like 300 basis points would be $20 billion after taxes or something like that.
But you can handle that too because it’s going to come in overtime and you can manage your balance sheet going forward your stock buyback going forward.
So we really need to see the future rules to make that determination.
If we need a buffer we’ll have a buffer.
Whatever that is we’re going to go there right away too but we just don’t know what it is yet.
And we don’t know whether CCAR is going to drive capital or the conservation buffer is going to drive capital or whatever.
And we don’t know how the [G sif V] exactly works even though we know with the 2.5% we’ll probably find ways to reduce that over time.
So we have plenty of capital.
Right now far more than I personally think we need.
But we have plenty of capital.
Well I think everyone’s trying to sort of do math on how much capital you might return this year.
So all of those questions… Well unfortunately that’s a one-year thing okay? And I should point out before you ask that when we started the dividends we said that the intent would be to increase them a little bit every year so you should have expected to see that.
We’re going to ask for less capital return from stock buyback than we have in the past.
So I can do $3 billion in the first quarter.
We’re going to do less because we’ve determined -- and this is a board-level determination too --- that we want to get to $9.5 quicker.
And we don’t exactly know how these stress tests work.
So we think under severe stress we’d have plenty of capital but last time the Fed’s numbers were very different.
We don’t understand that.
And the way CCAR was done this year it has even more volatility.
Basel 2.5 is far more volatile in how you calculate RWA OCI and all that than the old Basel I test.
So we’re being a little cautious which I think is what obviously the Fed expected people to do.
let me just separate the two.
In consumer credit card is near the end.
There could be more but it’s near the end.
It’s really mortgage.
Mortgage reserves are going to have to come down as charge-offs come down and charge-offs are going to come down.<br><br>That’s now – we’re not trying to manipulate our earnings or anything like that.
They are going to come down.
The portfolios are smaller; housing prices are going up.
We just don’t know exactly the pace they’re going to come down.<br><br>But remember they’re half what they were 1.5 years ago and my guess in a 1.5 years or two years from now they’ll be half what they are today which implies the reserves will come down.<br><br>We have $5 billion left and the implied would be $2.5 billion.
So really magical there.
That’s what’s in the numbers.
It’s really a matter of timing et cetera.<br><br>And on the CIB side it was really --- we had one or two big recoveries so we did have – what was it $400 million but Marianne also pointed out there were some other negatives that could book the CIB too.<br><br>So you’re right.
We’re not going to have much reserve take down in CIB but the other negatives won’t be there either.
So it’s a little bit of a wash in CIB too I think consistent about this a cyclical not a secular change.<br><br>We deal with 16 000 investors.
Investable assets are going up.
They’re not going down.
Global trade is going up; it’s not going down.
High net worth assets I’m talking over 10 years and so there is a need that people have to buy and sell securities et cetera so I think the underlying trend is up and obviously spreads will compress over time.
They have by the way for 20 years.
That’ll continue.<br><br>And now we’ve got a bunch of model changes – not models but like business model changes from swaps and derivatives and regulations and we’ll adjust all that but you can – there’s a chance you’re going to wake up one day it’ll be a boomer year and no one’s going to predict that either.<br><br>There’s a chance we happen to go into recession that’ll get worse.
But my attitude is I think we’re very well positioned in the business.
It’s very broad based between FX rates credits securitized products commodities.<br><br>It’s very global emerging markets driven by research I think the American economy – I said the table is rather well set.
Consumers businesses housing small businesses they’re all in pretty good shape.
And I think we need good policy good fiscal policy but yes.<br><br>So we expect to see – we’ve had which I think you mentioned we’ve had run off in consumer too.
Remember in card from WaMu and some other stuff and we’re running offshore in businesses and certain things we got out of.
But you could start to see a little bit of growth now going forward in outstandings good growth is spending We’ll do that for you at Investor Day in a lot of detail.
I think the way to think about our adjusted expenses going forward you should think about them being flat to down in terms of direction.
And we’ll go through all of that for you in February.
Is that the right number like flat to down from around that $49 billion or so level? Yeah around $50 billion.
And then that excludes litigation.
It looks like litigation for the full year came in about $3.7 billion.
That’s down from $4.5 billion the year before.
Do you expect that trend of declining litigation expense in ’13? One day we hope.
[laughter] Yeah we can’t predict the litigation expense.
I’m sorry.
The one part that I just want to reiterate is that obviously that’s the one that’s going to be lumpy and to be ongoing except the part relating to mortgages.
And we’ve done a lot of work on and we’re hoping that we’re properly reserved there and they’re not going to see duplication of that.
And the last couple years of litigation a lot of it related to mortgages.
Not all of it but a lot of it.
And then on the buybacks the first quarter is usually a big issuance quarter for you on shares? But knowing you have approval for $3 billion of gross repurchases do you expect to have a net reduction in your share count by the end of the first quarter?  You got me there.
I think if we buy back $3 billion and what we issue -- I think your issue amortizes in over time as you issue it.
So my guess is it will go down a little bit in the first quarter.
When you issue a restricted stock it doesn’t immediately go into fully diluted.
That goes in as it amortizes.
Remember this stuff amortizes over three years generally.
For 2012 your share count didn’t go down.
That’s because you suspended the buybacks.
But you just didn’t do enough in the first quarter to take the share count down.
I assume you’d like to see it decrease at some level.
If we spend the whole $3 billion my guess is it will go down yeah.
And then when you say you’re going to ask for less just to clarify you mean you’ll ask for less than $3 billion per quarter? Yes.
Okay.
Last thing on risk weighted assets it looks like your assets were up 2% but Basel III RWA came down.
What drove that delta? Are we starting to see the mitigation take effect? I think in part that’s it.
I can get back to you with more specific details.
It did come down slightly in the quarter.
It does reflect the combination of our full understanding of all the rules plus some model changes and everything else in the quarter and BAU activity but we can get you more detail.
And one more thing your net interest income grew in the fourth quarter despite the NIM headwinds and the runoff.
And I understand your NIM percentage outlook but I guess what helped you grow NII dollars this quarter and do you think you can grow NII dollars in 2013? We’re continuing to grow our deposits very strongly.
We continue to grow our loans very strongly.
You saw core loan growth up 9%.
So all in all we’re generally holding pace with NIM compression and hope to do the same next year plus or minus.
Just first a factual question.
How much were fourth quarter performance fees in asset management? It was bettered by over $100 million versus the fourth quarter last year.
The fourth quarter last year wasn’t particularly good by the way.
Okay.
My main question is does the CIO incident change how JPMorgan is run? And as you said you’ve had record net income 15% return on tangible equity.
I think you said in the past or someone at JPMorgan at least implied that the CIO incident shouldn’t change things.
On the other hand you have the new cease and desist orders regulatory actions by the Fed and the OCC and this change reporting format is the most radical that’s ever been put in place since Jamie you’ve been CEO and then all the changes in management.
You have a new head of consumer commercial investment bank international CFO CIO.
So on the one hand you highlighted the record net income I guess my question goes to sustainability of the results over the next several years given how many people have changed the change reporting format and the regulatory action.
Maybe it’s like if you’re driving on the Long Island Expressway and you get a ticket for going 80 miles per hour then you drive 50 miles an hour.
Is that just completely off? Completely off.
You raise a lot of subjects.
Let me do them one by one.
Obviously when you have a problem like the [whale] you have mistakes which you should acknowledge and then fix.
So we obviously fixed CIO totally 100%.
People in it reporting risk controls committees guidelines.
And we don’t do synthetic credit there at all.
Okay? But some of those mistakes obviously scared us and we went and checked everywhere in the company.
So we’re fixing certain things across the company.
Not that they’re bad.
They’re not disasters but they require fixing.
And so when you have an accident like that you want to say we’re going to use this to get stronger better smarter tougher.
And we have to and we’re going to obviously meet every demand of the regulators.
So we’ve got real resources doing it we’ve already done a lot of it.
We’re going to continue to do more.
So yeah there were changes from the whale.
Number two we’re in business to build the business over time by serving clients.
That’s what we do.
We take risks we make loans.
You take risks when you invest money.
You take risks when you build systems and branches.
But that’s what we’ve been doing consistently and I hope you see in the underlying numbers more branches more bankers more custody more trading more products more services more countries happier clients.
In every business.
Record results in commercial banking asset management and a lot of cross-sell on that.
And we’re going to do a lot more to describe to you to competitive benefits that we get in this company because the different business units work together and things like that.
So that part of the business hasn’t changed.
That’s why we’re here.
Even CIO has always been doing that investing assets conservatively.
You have to earn a return on your assets.
The thought that you’re not going to try to earn a return on your asset such is ludicrous to me.
And to manage asset liability exposure generally conservatively.
Obviously made a mistake.
And the third thing the reorganization that was around the client.
That was if you said rebuild the company from the ground up you probably would have organized it around the clients not necessarily by product.
It’s not that we were bad or banks were bad or anything like that.
It’s that companies acquired mortgage companies they acquired credit card companies.
They acquired retail branches.
The power of that franchise is extraordinary.
40% of our retail branches are credit cards today.
A big chunk of our mortgage sales come out of the branches.
Most of our small business is served out of the branches.
Middle market is served out of the branches.
The branches are becoming an enormous competitive advantage for asset management.
The commercial bank couldn’t survive without them.
So all we did is say put together those businesses under one roof where you want to treat the client the way they want to be treated when they come in the front door.
Same thing for CIB.
The same client set on the investor side and the issuer side the corporate side.
So we go to any country we serve the big companies we serve the sovereign wealth funds we serve the governments.
We serve them out of [TS&amp;S] and we serve them out of the investment bank.
All we’re doing here is better coordination which we think will have more cross sell and believe it or not lower expenses.
Plus it will help us deal with the new regulatory environment.
So both of these things are going to help us deal with the new regulatory environment.
That’s consistent standards across all of the businesses etc.
So that’s why we had the reorg.
And management changes you know you went through the litany of changes.
Just remember Daniel Pinto has been in that business his whole life.
Mike Cavanaugh has been here for many years.
He was already running TS&amp;S.
Doug Petno has been running the commercial bank for several years now.
Gordon Smith and Todd Maclin you know we did a little bit faster than we told people.
We told people we were going to put that under one roof.
Marianne Lake has been the controller the IB and the CFO of the consumer bank.
All the people in these jobs have been here a long time and they’re very good.
I mean I think it’s an exceptional management team.
It is too much turnover.
But again the way I look at the turnover if I have 15 people on the operating committee you should assume that 15-20% every year will turn over.
Some years will be zero and some years will be more.
We have reorgs and stuff like that so a little bit more.
Hopefully we’re going to have stability.
We’ve got a great management team.
They’re working on a lot of different things.
Most have been here a long time.
And part of it relates to remember if you were on my board of directors you would be asking me in fact instructing me to make sure you were putting in place in the big jobs the people who had to be tested to see if they could do my job.
That is I mentioned this many years ago job number one.
That takes precedence over all other things.
But sometimes it leads to turnover.
I’m sorry.
I guess we’ll hear more at Investor Day next month but what are you watching for since there’s so much rotation among top managers around the same time? What are you looking for to ensure that this current team will work? Well look you should get to know them but you can evaluate their quality their integrity their brains.
And Marianne of course has been here a long time.
Matt Zames who’s now co-chief operating… and Frank Bisignano have both been here a long time.
So these are long-tenured very good respected employees.
And so I know it’s going to work.
Obviously you have to make that evaluation yourself.
Then last follow up does your positioning to ask for less than $3 billion per quarter in buybacks have anything to do with the regulatory actions that recently came about? Not really.
But you know the CCAR does have this qualitative aspect which I don’t know exactly what that means but not really.
It really related more to the stock price is higher and the desire to get to 9.5 quicker.
And everyone’s been doing it and obviously we shouldn’t lag.
That’s all.
Jamie I was wondering if you could talk just a little bit about given the strong results that you’ve got and the hopes of continuing to drive them which areas you think are the best in terms of where you can see investment in either share gains or growth into 2013? And just Mike Mayo because you had me do a little work after one of your reports came out about stock price.
So do this yourself.
Take the BankOne stock price from the day before I got there to today and take JPMorgan’s stock price from the day we announced the deal to today.
Compare it to the S&amp;P the bank index or all other major firms and it’s actually rather good.
It outperformed in both cases.
The bank by a long shot.
In both cases the S&amp;P not by a long shot but by a significant margin and almost most other financial companies.
So obviously something’s been working a little bit here.
Opportunity? I think the opportunities are fabulous.
Next year we’re going to focus a tremendous amount of regulatory requirements these consent orders getting things done.
But also just organic growth.
Small business Marianne mentioned is up almost everywhere.
Partially in Florida and California where WaMu gave us the opportunity to do that.
We opened our 1 000th branch in California.
We’re still going to open net over 100 branches this year.
Our credit card’s been growing.
The Chase private client we’ve gone from 250 branches to 1 200 with Chase private client.
That number is going to go up to 2 000 next year.
It’s really working.
So it’s growing dramatically.
Our mutual fund complex has been growing.
The global corporate bank has opened multiple branches overseas.
We’ve gone from 120 global corporate bankers to 286 or something and it’s going to be north of 300.
And it’s working.
If you look at investment banking revenues out of the commercial bank when we first got here I think it was like $450 million.
This year it hit almost $2 billion.
and we think the opportunity continues to grow large.
So in almost every single business we see very good opportunities to grow and obviously we operate in a difficult world in financial services but the investment bank has been [unintelligible] the numbers but we don’t see why we can’t continue to grow that around the world and serve more clients in more places like Colombia or some of the emerging markets.
And in commercial banking we opened branches in states we don’t have branches which has been focused on kind of larger clients and international.
That’s working well.
International commercial banking is working well.
And all these numbers are in here.
You can actually go through it too.
They’re all pretty good.
And you’re going to see us continue to focus and grow those businesses in a quality way.
Just as a separate issue you’ve obviously responded to the orders from both the SEC and the Fed.
Are there any kind of impacts while those are out there until they’ve kind of deemed them to be kind of fully dealt with? And what’s the timeframe for that? We’re already fully engaged in meeting all of those consents.
And other regulatory demands.
Remember we have changing rules and requirements.
We also have a lot of items that the regulators have asked us to focus on the consent orders.
So yeah it’s a tremendous amount of resource but it’s not going to change numbers you see.
It’s just a lot of people involved in risk credit [unintelligible] compliance audit HR all really involved in getting a lot of this stuff right.
And we have to do that.
And people in the business too of course.
A couple of questions in the mortgage banking business and as you think about the mortgage asset.
The first one is what’s your appetite either now or as you look forward to actually porfolioing some of the mortgages you originate? Yeah so Matt you would have seen that we pretty much portfolio all jumbos we originate right now.
We price them to great returns and we will continue to do that.
We like that asset.
I think overall across the firm we did $5 billion of jumbo this quarter.
And so you should expect to see that continue.
I would just add that one of the things you learn to live with a little bit is that you could put a mortgage on your balance sheet and earn you know 3.75 or 4 if it’s a jumbo or something like that.
It doesn’t have OCI.
It holds more capital but it might be a wiser thing to do than taking the gain on sale and then buying an MBS at 2.25.
So there’s all these opportunities to think through how to manage in the new world properly both for the client and for the shareholder.
That’s really where I was getting to because I think you have one of the shorter MBS books out there.
Obviously has a strong mortgage origination platform and as we strip out kind of the legacy residential mortgages what you’re left with is not a huge number.
So just trying to gauge what the appetite might be.
And that may change over time and get bigger.
So we are doing a little bit more and right now it’s the jumbos and we’ve done a little bit of like C-pluses and stuff like that.
But there may be others.
And then maybe somewhat related as we think about just the underwriting standards in the mortgage business… I should point out also we would much prefer loans than securities.
Like in commercial bank credit card etc.
The reason we have securities is we can’t generate that kind of loan right now.
And as we think about underwriting standards in the mortgage business we can see from the average FICO scores that the banks do collectively that Fannie and Freddie back still quite high.
There’s been some good progress with the legacy issues not just for JP Morgan but for the industry as a whole got the new guidance from the CFPB home prices going up.
What else do we need to see for banks to loosen underwriting standards in mortgage a bit? You know I think the QM was a really big start and kind of well though through.
But it also needs to be coordinated with Basel III some of these NPR rules this whole thing about OCI.
So all these things are going to affect mortgage a little bit.
And a lot of players are involved in that who have to coordinate it.
But I do think over time it will open up the mortgage markets.
How [rep and] warranty is going to be handled etc.
[QRM] skin in the game.
I think securitization will be important.
So you know if I was the government I’d want to get QRM and securitization rules fixed as quickly as I can to allow people to start.
Maybe a question for Marianne.
I noticed that the global liquidity balance was up about $50 billion quarter over quarter to just a little bit under $500 billion.
Is that in line with your guidance that you’re going to meet the LCR requirements by the end of the year? Or is there something else going on there? I would say that’s [unintelligible] in line with that.
We have excess cash and excess capacity at central banks and that’s what that reflects.
They’re two different numbers but they move in the same direction.
And we’ll probably disclose more about that at Investor Day too.
And how much of an effect if any was that on the margin in the quarter? Not much.
The average yield on the investment portfolio is coming down a little bit every quarter.
That will continue for a while.
Could you tell us what the duration on the securities portfolio is? We haven’t disclosed it for the fourth quarter.
What was it last time? It was like three.
Interest duration.
So it’s probably about the same.
But I think the important way to look at it is we would benefit from rising rates.
So I’ve always said that that portfolio is subordinated to the interest of the company.
It’s very short.
You couldn’t extend that duration on a lot more income but then we’d be hurt by rising rates.
And we break out the earnings risk from rising rates.
The whole curve goes up about 100 basis points.
It’s about a $2 billion plus pre-tax.
And that comes through the investment portfolio and loan repricing etc.
How much would you estimate at the long end of the curve would you need to see the long end of the curve go up to mitigate the margin pressure so that you could actually see maybe margins not go down? Offhand it’s hard for me to say that but I’m going to guess it’s like 30 or 40 basis points.
It’s not a lot.
To neutralize it.
To eliminate.
Something like that.
The other question and I apologize if you guys already gave this answer but what was the gain on sale of mortgages this quarter? The margin? Or the dollar amount? I think it’s in the supplement.
It’s in the production revenue.
Yeah it’s in production revenue which I think was close to $800 billion.
What was the spread like 3%? The revenue spread? Revenue was over 3-3.5%...
So take 3.5 times 50… We’ll do the math for you.
Okay.
And then coming back to the return of capital Jamie I know at a stock price you’re not going to want to buy back your stock.
I’m not asking for that stock price.
But let’s assume for a moment bank stocks do well this year.
Your stock gets to that level where you’re not real comfortable buying back.
Would you guys consider as the excess capital builds up on the balance sheet and the Fed limits your regular dividend to maybe 30% of earnings would you consider special dividends as an avenue to give back that excess capital if you feel you’re not comfortable buying back the stock at the price at some future level? Well first of all it’s a board-level decision.
And in some ways it’s a nice problem to have.
But the way you set the question up you almost have no option.
You can’t buy back stock and you can’t raise your dividends.
All you have left is something like that.
So we’ll get there when we get there.
I mean we need to see all the new rules and how they’re going to apply like this conservation buffer.
And we may know more by Investor Day but when we know more we’ll let you know.
First on the latest reorganization I guess that comes really in the light of having completed the integration of both Bear Sterns and Washington Mutual and makes complete sense.
But have you actually set any targets in terms of both the revenue and cost synergies you think you might achieve in the medium-term? That’s the first question.
And the second one was on the $80-100 billion of RWA you think you could shed by reworking your models something ironically you’ve been pretty critical about in the past in terms of the Europeans’ view on that.
But can you just tell me is it getting more difficult to do that in the market at the moment when we are getting some pushback from [Bal] on some of the risk weighted asset calculations or are you finding it pretty straightforward to actually negotiate that? The first one is obviously we do budgets and stuff.
We put targets in place about things we’d like to accomplish.
We’re not going to disclose it to you but I did say that we do think it’s going to enhance revenues and reduce expenses a little bit.
So a little bit is in there for the CIB and a little bit in there for consumer.
And we will disclose more at Investor Day about kind of cross sell and how we look at it and where we think we can benefit etc.
And if you look at risk-weighted assets our balance sheet is $2.4 trillion.
We’ve got $200 billion of money deposited central banks around the world are in repo.
Very short term investments.
$350 billion in AA securities and $400 billion in securities borrowed or resales.
We have a really really liquid balance sheet.
I just mentioned almost a trillion dollars of very short term stuff that’s sitting there on our balance sheet on the asset side and our risk-weighted assets are now $1.65 trillion.
They’ve gone up dramatically because of Basel 2.5 the fact we don’t have certain models in place but we accept it.
So some of the benefit is going to be I’m going to call it runoff.
Some is from models that the regulators expect people to design and put in place that we don’t have yet.
We just don’t have the history.
We haven’t done the modeling.
And a lot of that’s around credit-related synthetic credit type stuff securitizations and things like that.
So we’re going to put those in place.
And that’s not arguing with regulators they would expect us to do that over time.
Obviously regulators I know they’re going to look at how people do models around the world and they want it done fairly etc.
Wanted to ask a detailed question about the mortgage rate purchase expense.
You were able to show this quarter that you had a reduction in the reserve of $249 million and only experienced $196 million of losses so you actually net brought down  the impact there and then your outlook you talked about being able to offset future losses with release of reserves both sides of that we do them separately so we purchase losses.
I told you you’ll see demand is down significantly.
You’ll see the outstanding pipeline down significantly.
We’ve seen (curates) improve and so our realized losses was up $200 million and it is what it is and it’s a factor of featured activity obviously.<br><br>And it can vary a little.
On the repurchase reserve side it’s obviously model driven and we use (input) including things like (curates) so it’s not going to be a perfect offset.
In this quarter it happened to be slightly more and over the time as we look into 2013 I was trying to take a little bit of your outlook and just create a net progression.
If you look at the $1 billion that you basically highlighted in margin compression you have a natural offset that you explained in the servicing expenses for about $400 million.<br><br>So if you take your current run rate of operating at $1.35 annualize that to $5.40 you’ve probably got somewhere between $0.07 and $0.10 worth of negative that comes out of that from netting out the positive that you have in the servicing expenses from margin compression.<br><br>If you then loom incrementally for growth if you also allow the margin compression with loan and deposit growth then you’re being able to generate about $1 billion in incremental just growth and overall balance sheet.<br><br>If you look at expense savings and then some reduction shares you can kind of look at how you would layer in towards something like 10% growth next year as you mirror those moving pieces so it feels like we’re sitting on our laurels and just looking at what’s going to move compression and stuff like that.
So we expect those (earnings) next year.
May be wrong Jamie so don’t ask.<br><br>We had modest loss in the fourth quarter.
There’s no reason not to have any losses going forward.
The risk from the day the investment bank got – and they’ve done a good job continuing to de-risk it – are down I’m going to say another 50%.
So obviously there’s still risk.
It’s still a portfolio.<br><br>It’s got the average duration I’m going to say is 2.5 years left so if you did nothing I think you were up on a period end basis $54 billion.
Is there any way to get a sense of how much of that is sticky or was that just fiscal cliff concern or was it the tag related deposits?  Do you have any sense on what was driving that and if it’s just more sustainable organic growth? You’ve got to do it a little bit by business because I think in consumer mostly [sticky] but it’s probably a little bit of tag… Give us an estimate for that.
Yeah like $5 billion.
Mostly those deposits we would consider core [unsticky].
And you know TS&amp;S is a lot of seasonal year end deposits so bouncing all over the place.
Asset management I put in the sticky category.
Commercial banking has been kind of flat but it’s sticky.
It’s flat because their loans are starting to grow and it’s huge.
Our commercial has $190 billion of deposits.
I think that number was $100 billion three and a half years ago.
So they have a lot of money there.
We actually expect that might have come down one day as companies start to grow and expand more aggressively which would be a good thing.
The first question is a little bit short term so forgive me.
But the CSPC as somebody mentioned earlier did push back the timing of some of the OTC reforms with respect to central clearing.
And definitely the question is from your point of view all other things being equal should we expect stronger fixed income revenues as a result of that in the first half than we otherwise might have? That’s a woulda-coulda-shoulda.
I don’t know the answer to that question.
I think they’ve been put in place… It depends how they would have ultimately been put in place.
So they were delayed to get more work on how it gets done.
I think if they’d been put in place for JPMorgan where the rules constrained us overseas but didn’t constrain other companies overseas we would be down from what we might now have.
If the rules were put in place so we can compete freely in Frankfurt London Singapore and Shanghai my guess is our U.S.
revenues would have been down a little bit our international revenues would have been up a little bit.
My other couple of questions have to do with your outlook slide.
First corporate private equity I just want to make sure that there’s no distinction that I should read in.
When you talk about Treasury and CIO you talk about the net loss of $300 million plus or minus specifically in the first quarter.
When you talk about the other corporate $100 million you don’t mention a timeframe.
So does that mean that you expect more potential variability over say the course of this year in the Treasury and CIO number than the other number which is more of a run rate? No.
So private equity is $8 billion invested.
We expect to earn a return on that.
We obviously have been getting great return on it.
So that’s lumpy but it should be more than $50 million on average.
Think of the Treasury as it’s NII.
It’s fairly predictable.
NII is fairly predictable by quarter.
That number will go down a little bit.
That’s just how we allocate capital and funds between all the business units.
And then how we invest the assets.
So we can change that tomorrow by having longer duration of our investment portfolio.
The lumpier part of Treasury and CIO is when we have mark-to-market gains or securities gains.
That bounces around a little bit.
And again some of that’s discretionary.
So we should almost call it a net loss.
And that number I think the $300 million will come down over time not go up for a whole bunch of different reasons which I won’t go through right now.
And then the other corporate that has net allocations [voly coly] taxes all these lumpy items and we’re just trying to tell you it should be on average 100 plus or minus a couple hundred because of the lumpiness of those items.
Like corporate taxes you know are lumpy for a whole bunch of different reasons.
And so our numbers would be 100 on average.
And we always explain the difference if there’s ever a big difference there.
So if I add the two together and obviously we know there’s lumpiness but just adding those two numbers together at face value we’re talking about a quarterly loss of a couple hundred million.
You used to guide to quarterly earnings of I think it was $100-200 million on that kind of combined line.
So if I was trying to assess what the swing had been relative to a few years ago how much of it would you say is just the compression of net interest margins and how much of it is moving away from some of the exotic investment strategies that CIO used to… It’s got not a damn thing to do with exotic investment strategies.
Zero nada nothing.
Okay? The bulk of those assets always invested conservatively AA-plus.
You know we have to do it around the world so deposits around the world etc.
Nothing to do with that.
It’s all got to do with some of the NIM compression that shows up there because obviously investment portfolio yield has gone from a little over 2%.
It was you know 4% three years ago.
And how we allocate capital and things like that.
The changes you’ve seen some of them are the differences due to regulatory changes of B3 RWA stuff like that.
So we’ll try to make this a little bit clearer going forward but on average that number will come down not go up over time.
And then final question I have is just on the firmwide right below that.
You talked about capital allocations a moment ago.
It sounds like your LOB return on equity targets are like you say here going to come down for some units and therefore overall.
But the corporate guidance is the same.
So does that mean that basically all this change is just because you’re allocating more capital out to the business units and you’ll have less at the corporate parent? That’s the only real change? Yes.
So we allocate the new Basel III operational capital all that.
The capital allocations will go up mostly to the CIB by I’m going to say 20% or so and to the commercial bank by 20% or so or maybe a little bit more than that.
And now obviously change the return targets of those units.
All to be very healthy.
It will just come down.
The company will be exactly the same.
I think if we allocate all that stuff intelligently we’ll actually probably end up driving better returns over time as people learn how to manage a little bit differently.
So again eventually it will show more.
We’ll be allocating out think of it as everything at one point LCR [G Sif V].
Basel III Basel II whatever comes down the pike we allocate out so our managers can manage through it.
And the other thing we haven’t decided permanently is how you look at each business.
Because my thought has been but it’s open for debate that the business should be capitalized the way its competitors are going to be capitalized so they’re free to compete in that category.
I think the people lump their capital ratios around their competitors.
I think it would be very hard for someone for example to run with 7.5% capital and all their competitors are at 10% or vice versa.
So you’re going to move both capital and cost allocations more to each unit being on a standalone basis is that right? No cost is cost.
It’s nothing to do with that.
I’m talking about capital saying we may capitalize the commercial bank at 8.5% and the investment bank at 10%.
It may not be 9.5% for everybody because they have to compete in different environments.
So we haven’t figured out exactly how to do that yet.
Folks thank you for spending time with us.
Marianne great job.
We’ll talk to you all soon.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to JPMorgan Chase’s First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
This call is being recorded.
(Operator Instructions) We will now go live to the presentation.
Please stand by.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase’s Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon; and Chief Financial Officer Marianne Lake.
Ms.
Lake please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
I’m going to take you through with the presentation which is available on our website.
Please refer to the disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements at the back of the presentation.
So if you turn to Page 1 a very strong start to the year with record net income of $6.5 billion for the first quarter and record EPS of $1.59 a share on revenue of $25.8 billion and a return on tangible common equity of 17% for the quarter.
You can see on Page 1 we’ve highlighted upfront two significant items; a $650 million reserve release in mortgage and $500 million reserve release in card.
And as I go through the presentation I’ll also be highlighting for you a number of smaller items some positive and some negatives.
We continue to maintain the leadership positions we highlighted at Investor Day; Number One ATM Network Number Two Branch Network Number Two Mortgage Originator Number One Credit Card Issuer in the U.S.
and Number One ranking in Global IBCs.
And we’re on track to deliver against our expense targets for the year.
On a reported basis total loans for the company were up 1% with core loan growth excluding run-off up 5%.
Favorable credit performance continued in our wholesale and core consumer portfolios with low levels of delinquencies and charge-offs.
As the housing market recovers losses in the real estate portfolio continue to improve and this quarter we saw 30+ delinquency decline by 14% and severities improve.
So if you turn to Page 3 for a brief capital update we ended the quarter with Basel I and Basel III Tier I common of $143 billion and $146 billion respectively both up from last quarter.
Our Basel I ratio is 10.2% which reflects the impact of new market risk rules that went into effect in January and the 10.2% compares to a ratio of 9.9% the last quarter as measured on the same basis.
Our Basel III ratio of 8.9% is up from 8.7% last quarter and reflects the full impact of the rules (we understand them) [ph].
And as you know </strong> which we expect to deliver around 100 basis points of benefit this year and next.
And we still expect to reach our Basel III Tier 1 common target of 9.5% by the end of this year including the capacity to continue share repurchases.
And we’ve also made progress this quarter and are on track for full LCR compliance this year.
So in the bullet to the bottom of the page the Board intends to increase the quarterly dividend to $0.38 a share effective in the second quarter and we repurchased $2.6 billion of common equity in the first quarter with authorization to repurchase an additional $6 billion over the next four quarters.
Returning to the businesses on Page 4 we have Consumer &amp; Community Banking.
The combined consumer businesses generated $2.6 billion of net income for the quarter on $11.6 billion of revenue with an ROE of 23% on new allocated capital.
And as we go through the presentation all of the current quarter ROEs are calculated based upon the new allocated capital numbers that we showed you at Investor Day.
Overall revenue was down year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter driven by mortgage banking quarter-on-quarter the reduction reflects the continuation of production margin compression.
Credit costs reflect the releases in both mortgage banking and card that we referred to on Page 1.
And core expenses were flattish both year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter normalizing prior periods.
We remain on track to deliver on our expense guidance and head count in the consumer bank and mortgage business was down over 3 000 heads this quarter a function of the evolution in the branch operating model and the completion of the IFR work.
We ended the quarter with over 5 600 branches and closed 19 000 ATMs and as of today we have over 1 400 Chase Private Client locations.
On Page 5 Consumer &amp; Business Banking net income was $641 million and an ROE of 24% on net revenue of $4.2 billion down 2% year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter.
The sequential decline is due to fewer days in the quarter for net interest income and seasonality in non-interest revenue.
We continue to see pressure on deposit margins eight basis points down in the quarter and 32 basis points year-over-year but this continues to be largely offset by the (inaudible) growth of 11% year-over-year which we believe is significantly faster than the industry.
And this quarter we had the lowest customer attrition on record which reflects the great progress that we are making on the customer experience.
And we were just named winner of four TNS Choice Awards recognizing superior performance in customer acquisition retention satisfaction and market share with consumer and affluent banking customers which is more than any financial institution has earned in any year.
Average Business Banking loan balances of $18.7 billion are flattish quarter-over-quarter and in the drivers you can see loan production decrease this quarter due to softer demand and higher competitive intensity.
However the pipeline in the second quarter is looking stronger.
We had record investment sales of over $9 billion up 40% year-on-year and client investment assets are up 15% which shows that we are penetrating our customers more deeply with 70% of those sales up from 50% last year being managed money driving strong recurring revenues.
Finally on this page expenses are up year-over-year reflecting the investments that we are making in the business including new branch builds and a one-time cost related to a contract renegotiation.
Turning to Page 6 on Mortgage Banking overall net income of $673 million and an ROE of 14% and if you look at the top of the table in the first blue highlighted items production pretax income was $427 million down year-over-year and sequentially driven by continued margin compression.
As we expected and as we talked about last quarter gain on sale margins continue to come down this quarter and reached levels of around 100 basis points on a pretax basis which compares to a normalized pretax margin in the fourth quarter of last year of around 180 basis points and was driven by a significant tightening in primary and secondary spreads as well as pricing pressure reflecting increased capacity in the market.
Strong originations of $53 billion were up 37% year-on-year and 3% sequentially.
While applications were actually down 8% from last quarter but we continue to expect high levels of refinancing and close loan volumes in the next quarter to remain solid.
Production expense increased year-on-year on higher volumes a net repurchase of this of $81 million in the quarter reflects a reduction in realized losses partially offset by reserve releases.
We continue to believe we’re adequately reserved and we do expect reserve releases to broadly offset losses over time.
Moving down to servicing revenue of $778 million increased sequentially primarily due to one time gains associated with buying sharing and reselling certain delinquent loans out of securities.
Servicing expenses of $737 million increased a small amount of final IFR cost as we round down in every quarter and also from severance; and if you back those costs out servicing expenses were slightly lower than the $725 million normalized run rate we talked about last quarter.
IFR costs are now out of our run rate and we continue to expect servicing costs to reduce to $600 million by the fourth quarter of this year.
MSR risk management was a modest loss a $142 million.
The driver of the net loss is an increase in our expectations for home price appreciation this year which is a great thing but drove an approximate negative $400 million within the model update line in the supplements given higher prepayments.
And although there is an upfront negative in the mark of servicing assets improvements in home prices would drive lower credit losses over time that will more than outlay this mark.
Finally on this page Real Estate Portfolios show pretax income of $784 million which includes net charge-offs of around $450 million this quarter and compares to a normalized fourth-quarter number of $520 million.
This reflects lower delinquencies as well as lower severities as home prices improve and lead us to a release reserve of $650 million this quarter.
As you’ve seen charge-off has been steadily declining and we do expect that to continue but at a more moderated pace.
We’ve updated our guidance for you to expect quarterly net charge-offs to be at or below $400 million.
If you turn to Page 7 Card Merchant Services &amp; Auto net income of $1.3 million up 8% year-on-year or up 33% if you exclude the change in loan loss reserve and ROE of 33%.
Revenue of $4.7 billion was flat year-on-year but down quarter-on-quarter with quarter one having seasonally lower loan balances sales volume and merchant processing volume.
Expenses were down by year-over-year and quarter-on-quarter primarily driven by non-core expense items in the comparable period.
Net charge-offs continue to be low and we released $500 million of loan loss reserve this quarter reflecting the continued improvement in early stage rollouts.
The net charge-off rate is 3.55% well down over 80 basis points year-over-year was up slightly quarter-on-quarter on lower loan balances.
And consistent with Investor Day you should expect up to $1 billion of card reserve releases in the full year of 2013 including the $500 million reflected this quarter.
Year-on-year growth in sales volume was strong at 9% and the revenue rates at 12.83% reflects strong interchange revenue and merchant processing fees with merchant processing volumes up 15% year-on-year.
Moving onto Auto originations were up 12% year-on-year and 18% quarter-on-quarter.
Although the first quarter is seasonally stronger this growth outpaced the normal seasonal pattern.
We gained share in the quarter through increased competitive positioning in prime and auto saw a strong growth with our private label manufacturing partners.
Moving onto Slide 8 and 9 on the Corporate &amp; Investment Bank; very strong first quarter results and the results this quarter included a small DVA gain of $126 million that is a loss in the same quarter of last year of $900 million.
Both of which you’ll see in the credit adjustment line item in the table.
So if you focus on the numbers excluding DVA $2.5 billion of net income on $10 billion of revenue down 2% year-on-year but up 22% quarter-on-quarter and with an ROE of 18%.
Total Banking revenue was $3 billion up 12% year-on-year driven by higher IB fees of $1.4 billion in the quarter up 4% year-on-year with record bond underwriting.
And lending related revenue were $500 million primarily core NII and fees on retained lending commitment and to a lesser extent gains on positions received in loan restructuring.
Total Markets &amp; Investor Services revenue of $7 billion down 7% year-on-year driven by fixed income market of $4.8 billion down 5% year-on-year coming off of a very strong first quarter last year but positive.
Equity markets of $1.3 billion down 6% year-on-year but up 50% quarter-on-quarter and the sequential change reflects seasonally strong equity derivatives results.
Securities Services revenue of $974 million was flat year-on-year and down slightly quarter-on-quarter.
And while a portion of this reflects the depository receipts business which is seasonally down the portion that reflect our custody business has grown in line with assets under custody which were $19.3 trillion up 8% year-on-year.
And we’re seeing positive expense trends.
Year-on-year a net reduction of 2% driven by lower compensation and efficiency initiatives essentially substantially offset this quarter by litigation expenses.
If you take the DVA and the restructuring gains I mentioned as well as the litigation expense they net out.
The comp/revenue ratio at DVA of 34% is in line with our guidance and at the bottom of the drivers section you can see that our average CIB VaR continued to decline this quarter to $62 million reflecting lower levels of risk including the continued de-risking of the synthetic credit portfolio but also reflecting very lower levels of volatility across multiple asset classes.
So on Page 9 before I step over the page you can see that we continue to make progress growing our international loans and deposits.
Our international loan balances were up 9% since the end of 2012 with particular strength across Asia and EMEA.
Moving on to Page 10 in the Commercial Bank; we’ve posted our net income of nearly $600 million on $1.7 billion of revenue flat year-over-year with a return on equity of 18%.
Underlying loan growth of $0.11 year-on-year includes our C&amp;I portfolio which grew 12% in line with the industry and our commercial real estate book which grew 10% year-over-year significantly above the industry driven by commercial term lending.
Quarter-over-quarter loan balances were generally flat consistent with the industry partly reflecting the fact that some demand were pulled forward into the fourth quarter but also reflecting lower level of demand and increased competition.
Loan spreads held up while this quarter remained stable to last quarter and credit quality continued to be very strong.
Lastly here expenses up 8% year-on-year on the continued investment in the business and increased operating expenses to commercial card.
Turning to Page 11 our Asset Management business have record net income for first quarter of $487 million up 26% year-on-year and 1% quarter-on-quarter with an ROE of 22%.
12% year-on-year revenue growth reflect an increase in management fees driven by strong long term net inflows including a record $31 billion this quarter marking the 16<sup>th</sup> consecutive quarter of long-term net inflows.
We also had higher equity and fixed-income markets up 9% based on our business mix and still higher performance fees driven by strong fund returns in 2012.
We have record loan balances up over $20 billion driven by increases in U.S.
mortgage and international loan growth.
Total AUM was close to $1.5 trillion with over $1 trillion in long-term AUM.
And lastly higher head count expenses and performance related fund contributed to a 9% year-over-year expense growth while the pretax margin of 29% also increased from 26% last year reflecting an improvement in operating leverage.
Moving on to Page 12 Corporate and Private Equity; total net income of $260 million for the quarter and reflected a private equity net loss of $182 million including nearly $300 million of unrealized losses related to specific positions.
Treasury and CIO net income were $24 million and included about $500 million of net securities gains offset by about $470 million of Negative NII due to low rates and limited reinvestment opportunities.
Both the private equity losses and the securities gains were more significant this quarter than usual unless it’s a positive $200 million pretax.
Finally other corporate net income of just over $400 million includes $230 million of prior period tax adjustments.
And finishing on guidance in CIO and Treasury our guidance remains a net loss of $300 million plus or minus and in other corporate our guidance remains $100 million plus or minus of net income with both numbers able to vary quarter-on-quarter.
Turning to Page 13 on net interest margin Firmwide NIM declined 3 basis points and Core NIM 2 basis points quarter-on-quarter.
A number of items affected our NIM first were negative.
The low rates environment continues to affect our reinvestment opportunities and also competitive pressures continued to impact loan yields.
On the positive side investment securities yields increased from higher mortgage backed securities income driven by slower prepayments and reduced secured financing.
And lower long term debt cost reflected a change in mix.
Lastly our outlook on Page 14 we’ve covered most of these items already but you’ll see that we’ve changed our NIM and NII guidance to put it altogether on one place and on a consistent basis.
All numbers shown are pretax and our estimates of net NII reflecting both rate compression and volume growth.
So you should expect modest NIM compression during the year with absolute levels of NII very strongly supported by growth in interest earning assets but overall NII expected to be down about 1% this year.
Lastly you may have seen we will redeem about $5 billion of outstanding trust preferred in the second quarter and as it heads up this will lead to a modest one-time loss in the second quarter but also a lower cost of debt over time.
Backing up we had a record quarter with high quality earnings and strong underlying business performance seeing positive momentum across our businesses.
So thank you for joining us.
Operator you can open up the call for Q&amp;A.
(Operator Instructions) Operator? Our first question comes from John McDonald of Sanford Bernstein.
Hi John.
Good morning Marianne.
On the last point about NII outlook what are the drivers of the strong growth in earning…? Sorry John we can’t hear you.
Apologies John we didn’t hear the question.
Can you hear me?  Yes we can.
Yes.
Sorry about that.
Can you tell me on the NII outlook what are the drivers of the strong growth in earning assets you expect that you just mentioned on the NII page? Yes.
So we are growing – as you’ve probably seen on Investor Day and while there was a little bit of lower growth this quarter we do expect to grow loans in our commercial bank loans and asset management wholesale loans mortgage banking.
So we are growing our deposit very strongly.
So it’s really just the underlying business driver growth that we’ve been seeing and expect to continue.
Okay.
On the expense outlook you mentioned so the kind of adjusted expenses to be down about a $1 billion what’s the base that we should look at for you to be down from do you have that? Yeah.
So John if I refer you back and from recollection I’ll do it for you if I refer you back to Investor Day it’s based upon our adjusted expenses which are defined as our expenses excluding corporate litigation and foreclosure-related matters which in 2012 was $60 billion plus or minus I think $60.1 billion and we’re expecting to be $59 billion this year and that’s what we’re on track to deliver.
And what was it in the first quarter? A little higher than that.
A little higher than that in the first quarter.
But the first quarter is seasonally high.
Yeah.
Okay got it.
And then can you just repeat your outlook on the default servicing expense line that came down a lot this quarter nicely and you mentioned the target for the end of the year? Yes.
So the fourth quarter normalized run rate was $725 million and this quarter it’s down a little of that as you would expect given the IFR completion.
We said that we expected the fourth quarter to be running at $600 million we said that at our Investor Day and we’re still on track to do that.
And we’ve also said that the long-term run rate for that part of the business would be about $325 million a quarter and that will be over the next couple of years.
Okay.
And then the litigation dropped significantly this quarter you said I think you said it was kind of immaterial this quarter on the litigation provision is that right? The litigation dropped quarter-over-quarter clearly we had a large number last quarter on the back of IFR and we did have a litigation expenses this quarter you will see in the supplement that was just over $300 million.
Okay.
And the last thing is on the buybacks you did a healthy buyback this quarter but the share count didn’t shrink that much.
Is the first quarter heavier than usual in terms of your issuance? And the question is getting at would $2.6 billion of buybacks in other quarters be expected to shrink the share count in quarters when I thought the first quarter? Yes that’s right John.
Okay.
So your issuance is more weighted towards the first is that right? Yes but also remember we didn’t buy back shares in the fourth quarter or third quarter.
So that was an overall overall net $2.6 billion – $2.6 billion net of employee issuance.
I was getting at how that translates to reduction in the share count it’s kind of offset by what you do on issuance right each quarter? Yes.
And it was just a normal quarter of issuance so $2.6 billion buyback would keep the share count flat.
Is that the kind of ratio we might expect? I think the issuance number is fairly level and consistent quarter-by-quarter because it is really based upon amortization of restricted stock and all that.
Okay.
Okay.
And the buyback the $2.6 billion that was over the course of the quarter.
So it averaged out to half of that through the quarter.
So we can give you more detail on that little bit later John.
Okay but it’s steady throughout the year that’s what I was getting at.
The $6 billion will offset how much average amortization over the same 12 month period like $2 billion… $2 billion.
$2 billion okay.
Actually John that’s a good way of looking at it.
The $6 billion we’ve authorized to repurchase relates to employee issuance at the same period just a little bit over $2 billion.
For accounting purposes.
$2 billion for the year and $6 billion for the year.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Glenn Schorr of Nomura.
Hi guys thanks.
Hi Glenn.
Hello there.
First of all the first deadline for compliance with central clearing came and went and it clearly didn’t have much of an impact on your first quarter FICC results.
So I am curious I hear commentary in the market that a lot of clients might not be ready for either the second or the third deadlines later this year.
Curious what you are expecting and if you do think it could produce any hiccup in activity levels.
The second one is the big one.
That’s June 11… June 11 yeah.
…something like that and that’s where you have a lot of asset manager a lot of bigger client stuff like that.
People are still getting use to it so we think – I think we’ve got 30% or 40% lined up to do it.
Yes.
They are still reading documents sign new documents and so hopefully they will go smoothly.
It’s unlikely they’ll go smooth in the first round.
The first round is really really large participants and swap deals et cetera.
So we’ll have to just wait and see.
And even on the wait and see if some aren’t ready do you think of that as a temporary and just literally a function of processing not maybe we don’t need insurance anymore because it’s too expensive? Look I don’t we really don’t know I would say temporary but probably still down a little bit because of the reason you gave.
Some people just say we don’t need to do this anymore and we also know all the final rules by the way and how the SEFs are going to work in bidding.
Right.
Okay.
Marianne on the RWA front bunch of little things in here but Basel I RWAs were up an 11% quarter-on-quarter but Basel III were pretty much flat.
I know that it’s something to do with 2.5% being starting in the first quarter but if you can help us.
Yeah so if you take our Basel I RWA went up about couple of hundred billion dollars that’s all about the implementation of the new market risk rules and Basel 2.5 which is also why you saw our ratio go down from reported 11% last quarter.
So it’s really all explained by that and our Basel III RWA was flattish quarter-over-quarter with some pluses and some minuses.
And that was already in there essentially.
Yeah of course.
So I guess that leads into the comment you made towards the beginning on any passive runoff and model enhancements are not pulled forward in your results and I think you said it could be a about 100 basis points.
Is there a dollar amount of RWA natural runoff that we should be thinking about because obviously capital is building? Yes from recollection.
And again Glenn – forgive me if I get it wrong it’s on the slides on the firm overview in Investor Day that I think that a 100 basis points equates to about $180 billion of RWA over the next two years.
But remember the passive runoff will take place over time; not completely linearly but over time and the model enhancements can be a little bit lumpier and a little bit more back ended.
So we’ll just have to see how that pays out.
But yes we’re still expecting for those things to happen for us to get 100 basis points of benefit from that and that’s without the active mitigation that’s going to happen over the course of time.
Okay last one…  Just check that slide for me Glenn when you get on.
Will do.
Last one Jamie I know you addressed some of this in your shareholder letter but between everything related to Basel III stress-test Dodd-Frank in place already and then OLA and Living Wills coming online it feels like we’re going down to pass on containing to big sale but yet there is a steady drum beat including grounds that are to change things.
Just curious on where we’re headed in this and what will stop the drum beat? When is enough-enough? Well Glenn I actually think you all on the line should be dealing with this issue a little bit because the reason you have companies is because they serve clients well at a good cost There is a reason our numbers are good because we have cross-selling clients come to us and there are reasons for global banks just like there are reasons for community banks.
I think that the real issue again you guys do the numbers is the banking system has gotten so much stronger in the United States and it’s not just capital but it capital liquidity oversight sort of activities that people didn’t like [no longer] [ph] being done derivatives going to clearing houses and the initial wave of OLA and Living Wills et cetera those things should all work.
I hope at one point we declare victory and just stop eating our young at this time.
All right thanks.
Our next question comes from Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Hi.
A couple of follow-up on RWA how much of the passive mitigation was embedded within the RWA results for Basel III this quarter? So there is a little bit of passive mitigation with a little bit of runoff and there was also some declines as we purchase that securities and those were offset by some other things.
So it wasn’t a very big number because as I say that wasn’t leading over time and the model enhancements which were about a half of the 100 basis point benefit will be a bit back ended.
Okay so really that’s going to come later this year is what you are saying.
Yeah.
Some of it late this year some of it next.
And then on the NIM and LCR there is obviously an interplay there and could you just give us an update on where you are with the LCR this quarter because your NIM declined this quarter actually was a lot lighter than what we were expecting? Yes so we showed you at Investor Day that we had a gap to be fully compliant we are going to be compliant by the end of the year.
We did close that gap we closed not completely by about a third obviously we also disclosed on the slide you will see our HQLA or high quality liquid assets which it has a relationship based on up but that is a numerator and the denominator changes to so think about this and we made good progress we closed the gap by about a third and we are on the way to compliance.
I think it’s in when she talked when Mary gave you the forecast going forward for NIM? Yeah.
That includes changing how we create more LCR.
Right okay and then lastly just on the CCAR conditional approval can you just give us a sense because I think people were a lit bit surprised to see that you had the conditional approval results and yet you’re able to do the buyback and the dividend hike that you asked for so I guess generally in question is what can you speak to with regard to what’s being asked and what kind of timeframe do you think you have for satisfying the regulatory requirements here? Let me just add on the qualitative stuff we’ve passed and that’s why we got the capital plan their criticisms were on qualitative and from what we know now and we’re still doing work and we will give you more is around lot more granular type of forecasting they want more [interesting] private type of forecasting and so we’re having conversation with them.
Marianne has formed the CCAR department which is going to become experts in CCAR.
And that’s in terms of the timeline we are resubmitting as requested in the third quarter.
We’re doing everything between now and then to remediate and improve our processes following that feedback.
So we are committed to being successful.
Okay.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Brennan Hawken of UBS.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So just to follow-up on the question on litigation so that dropped to the $0.3 billion.
Is that potentially are we now adjusting to a lower level or was that just like no ways in what it is extremely a volatile number bouncing around the world? Yeah.
Brennan I think it’s very hard to predict and you’re right that it bounces around and then it can be noisy.
We have high level of litigation reserves in the third quarter of last year and we hope that the numbers will remain low but we can’t predict them for you I’m afraid.
Sure.
Okay.
But I guess said another way you guys don’t see anything changing in the environment that would lead you to believe or be comfortable with a lower level of assumption of litigation expenses.
What do you think about? I think it’s always going to be lumpy because we have to do with these things in due course.
I think in the prior year as we put away a lot we won’t get the same predominantly mortgage largely mortgage et cetera and obviously the fact that we’re not doing more means we think we’ve got them.
We did a lot of work in that.
It could always change but we’ve done thorough analysis as a lot of you all did by the way we did it at the tranche level almost in so it could be permanently low yes.
It could be permanently low.
It doesn’t have to go higher and obviously lot of things coming our way we have to reserve for properties as they come in.
Yes let’s hope so.
Okay and then the spread in mortgage compression was kind of meaningful here at this quarter.
What inning do you think we’re in there ballpark I know it is kind of tough to predict this all as well? Yes I mean it’s tough to predict but maybe the thing is look at is if you take off pretax spread right now of 100 basis points that compares to a longer term sort of average run rate of 65 basis points before the crisis.
So we’ve been setting down from a very very high level at the beginning of 2012 and we’re back to a level where frankly we are not that far away from the longer term run rate and it’s driven by the primary secondary spread which came in about 20 basis points in the quarter back to levels again still more normal.
So I don’t know I could say anymore in present but it doesn’t feel like we have another big step change to guys.
So we expect it might be up a little bit next quarter not down for a variety of reasons.
Doesn’t make volatility quarter-on-quarter but for this year we can grow in and around this range.
Okay.
Okay.
So this is the right way to think about it so that helps.
And then last one for me when you think about your cap markets business and depending change you guys chatted a little bit about it with Glen on swap clearing that June seems like the bigger date Basel and all of the subsequent changes to the competitive environment competitors adjusting their size of the business.
What have you how do you feel about your business there particularly on the fixed side more capital intensive businesses.
Do you think that there is this presents an opportunity to maybe go through review and right size maybe increase the efficiency measures there or do you feel comfortable keeping your business where it is roughly?  Lot of that business is what we call flow business so little bit credit emerging markets rates FX clients when we deal the clients who are around the world maybe need those services and you’re obviously always trying to become more efficient.
So when you look at FX I’m going to say 80% is electronic.
If you look at rates the electronic number is going to go up and so which is going to drive efficiency but we still think price going to need it.
There will be price to pay for and obviously everything will be adjusted to Basel III.
But as you pointed out some people are leaving the business some are getting in the business we think it has a good future we don’t think it’s going to go away.
Okay thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from Erika Penala of Bank of America.
Good morning.
I just had one follow-up question to Betsy’s inquiry on capital return.
So clearly we now have two years as the Stress Test behind us and you are initially approved in 2012 for a $15 billion buyback and $6 billion this year I guess what do you does the Fed need to see and you’re building capital clearly.
What do you think that Fed needs to see from you in terms of the qualitative issues to get back to the kind of capital return that they clearly in 2012 they thought you had plenty of capacity to pay out? Erika you’re confusing two different things.
I really took good quality they’re giving us more feedback and where they say we started showing the quality like I mentioned them idiosyncratic more level detail more enterprise-wide type of forecasting et cetera.
That’s one issue the second is the actual dollar amount.
The Fed has made it very clear they want people to get to their Basel III targets ours is at least 9.5.
Ben Bernanke said on a speech he gave that the banks that they did the stress test on have more capital after extreme stress then they started with the cap in the crisis.
So the Fed I think is feeling more and more comfortable not just individual banks but the system as a whole.
And we’ve reduced the 15 down to 6 because we wanted to get to our 9.5 target faster that’s why we did it.
Okay.
We just changed our mind we want to get to 9.5 this year we want to get LCR this year and obviously they made change to stress test next year and sooner we’re going to have a conservation buffer coming in and we don’t know how the interplay of those two things will work.
Okay.
And given what you just mentioned is it too optimistic to assume for next year a buyback in the $12 to $15 billion range? I think it’s too early to say.
Yeah it’s too early to perhaps tell that.
Okay.
Thank you.
Remember that’s going to relate to how fast you grow and other request from regulators so we will take that when we get there.
Yeah but we do Erika we do expect that we will be continuing to pay capital just through this 100 basis points of passive runoff mitigation so certainly our capital levels will be stronger and we just have to see how things play out.
Okay.
Our next question comes from Mike Mayo of CLSA.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Loan growth it’s a little bit softer and I think you mentioned there was some push forward to the fourth quarter but you also mentioned more competition and lower levels of demand if I heard you correctly.
Yes.
So my question is how much of the softer loan growth is due to JPMorgan perhaps pulling back how much it’s due to the economy? So if I could little difficult to side it for you but we did see I don’t know still people thought in the fourth quarter just given the year end issues that people were concerned about and so that has had an impact.
I think it’s slightly less of an impact and in terms of competitive landscape and there are deals being done with terms and conditions and pricing that we’re not comfortable at the moment and we’re just remaining very disciplined so that has had an impact for us.
So really on the lower level of demand I mean what was your loan utilization in the first quarter versus the fourth quarter? It will be flat.
It will be flat at around 32%.
I’m sorry.
It will be flat at around 32%.
32%? Correct.
And so what’s that kind of flat or down a little bit? It will be flat flat.
Flat and is that just why aren’t people borrowing more? As we have we saw declines in deposits.
So they’re using that cash and they’re out.
Okay and then a separate question looking at the annual report page four of the Chairman’s letter said refers to regulation and some of the issues that you faced and said we will see more of these I’m sorry.
So when you say we will see more of these Jamie what are you talking about because people’s imagination can go in a lot of different directions are we talking Department of Justice SEC FBI or you think of anything particular or general or a timeframe and really what I’m asking you to address is the regulatory tail risk of we don’t know what we don’t know in terms of potential government moves as relates to JPMorgan? So Mike it’s Marianne so we’re in constant dialogue with our regulators and so we know that we should be expecting some more consent orders but to clarify for you they relate to issues that we’ve been working on over the course of the last several years so even though new breaking issues that will surprise you in any material way.
Okay and was there anything new as part of the 11 hearings that would change the way you would think about the London Whale incident because there were some pretty damming information some unknowns at least to those who follow the company but from your perspective is there anything else that you need to do as a result of the information from those hearings? So Mike we can’t really go into the details of the reports in specifics but we obviously respect the work of the subcommittee where we respect the findings they had and we’re working very hard to fix our issues and as it relates to the proposal and the recommendation to require documentation associated with portfolio hedging identifying the specific risks that the hedge is designed to mitigate and then monitoring over time we tend to agree that that makes a lot of sense in the context of what we face.
And then lastly when you talk about some additional changes that need to take place.
And I think some of these are organizational is there anything major news that you did not cover at the Investors’ Day recently? No actually there was couple of things I would say first that we are organizing ourselves around the control and regulatory agenda because it’s a high priority for us and we are getting ourselves organized in the same way as we would around in our merger and acquisition.
And in doing that we are prioritizing our work but we’re not changing our overall strategy we are not going to change the way we see our customers how we think about growing our businesses but at the margin we’re going to refocus our energies on making sure that we execute on the commitments to improve the control and regulatory environment.
All right.
Thank you.
Thanks Mike.
Our next question comes from Matt Burnell of Wells Fargo Securities.
Hi Matt hello… Mr.
Burnell your line is open.
Please go ahead.
LLC</strong> Sorry can you hear me now? Yes.
LLC</strong> Thank you.
Good morning.
I wanted to drilled down a little bit on the mortgage side of things mortgage originations were a little bit stronger than we expected up about 3% and applications were down about 8% you suggested that you thought that gain on sale margins might be relatively flattish going through the next couple of quarters I guess I’m just curious that what’s your thoughts are in terms of the mortgage origination market away from the gain on sale issues that you have been facing? Yeah so in applications I see it come back our rates have come down a little in the second quarter and for us in particular starting there we are expecting refi volumes to stay high we did see a little bit of an increase in purchase volumes in the applications in the first quarter a bit from a smaller base and also we did the MetLife transaction.
So we have the opportunity to be working in that portfolio.
So our view on volumes for the year is that they’re going to remain solid although there will be some volatility really on the back of continued strength in refinancing and you saw the half extension so more broadly for the market I think refi including half will be a level of support for volumes this year.
LLC</strong> And then Marianne question on NIM clearly your moves on the LCR had some effect on NIM over the last quarter or two.
Can you separate what you think that that the net interest margin movements will be for JPMorgan excluding your moves for the LCR or is it just so intertwined that you really can’t do that? Yeah I mean it’s really honestly it’s really all part of how we think about positioning the organization and they’re being compliant with LCR is part of our new reality.
So it’s just a part of even better into this how we’re thinking about the overall positioning of the firm so it’s not something we’re separating out for you.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just finally we saw a fairly sizable decline in value or risk both in the CIB and overall.
Can you give us a little more color as to what’s going on there what we might be able to expect in the second quarter? Yeah.
I mean it’s helped me we do in the second quarter it is a real reduction in risk across the portfolio including and not driven by that including the synthetic credit portfolio which we continue to de-risk.
But it is important to know if you look across asset classes there’s been a very significant decline in levels of volatility that effect the time series around the back period so that necessarily have bad days rolled off and better days rolled on and so when we complete our bar pushing the bar down lower.
So as long as volatility remains lower and we continue to de-risk there are reasons to believe they will be at or around this level but it is going to be subject to changes and volatility as and when they happen.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Moshe Orenbuch of Credit Suisse.
Great thanks.
Couple of kind of cleanup things when you are looking at the getting to the 9.5% did you kind of factor in that 100 basis points or is that something that would be on top of that 9.5%.
It’s factored in.
Factored in.
It’s factored in.
Yeah it’s an all-in number for us.
So to the degree that we expect that to happen by the year end it’s all part of the number including some (inaudible) the whole thing.
Got it.
Okay.
And kind of talking qualitatively about the C-Card process also there was a pretty large impact on PPNR which it seemed to be like the Fed’s looking at pretty harsh I guess a pretty harsh look at kind of trading losses.
I mean do you have – have you had any kind of clarity from them about how they – whether they are looking at that revenue stream differently than other banking revenue streams? Yeah I’ll take the two things separately the PPNR section and trading losses.
So on the trading losses obviously there is a number of different [stresses] that we do and while our number was different.
I don’t think we feel like there is anything about our processes that is in the period you’re going to change that as it relates to PPNR.
We did get feedback that we need to look at certain of our revenue models and we need to look at them more centrally and as Jamie said with a slightly more negative view at it idiosyncratically and we are going to do that.
Okay.
And then lastly on the mortgage business you look like kind of in the core production the expense reduction was about half of the revenue decline.
How do you think about the – as that business continues to normalize? As you said it’s probably mostly normalized from a gain on sale perspective although you probably have some volume issues as we go through the rest of the year.
I mean how do you think about the cost structure of that business as you go forward? So couple of things one is we are expecting to and hoping to we set a target for ourselves to gain share.
We do expect volumes to be supported by refinancing this year so that is our expectation that could change of course.
And then as it relates to the cost structure obviously that comes down a little bit more slowly over time but we’re making progress.
And we talked about the fact that we expect that to be down at $600 million run rate for the fourth quarter and down to $325 million sometime over the next couple of years.
And we’re actively working on optimizing our servicing business both the core performing servicing and so that obviously with the (inaudible) sale but also where it would make sense we would be open to doing sales on sub-servicing of delinquent loans and we’re working two of things to try and get the cost structure to the best as it can be.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Matt O’Connor of Deutsche Bank.
Good morning.
Good morning Matt.
Good morning.
I thought this is one of the cleanout quarters in a while so I just had one follow up here.
In the private equity you took some losses on the private portfolio just wondering what drove that.
And then also the outlook for this business under Basel III and Volcker even though we don’t exactly know what Volcker is yet.
You know private equity we’ve always told you this won’t be and it’s just mark-downs and write-downs of existing positions and we don’t go through the specific names but obviously we hope it will earn a profit so it just wasn’t a pretty big quote to private equity.
And the private equity legally can survive Volcker and all those things so we like the business we would like the people and you just have to do it in a different basis that’s all.
Is there any seasonality in terms of getting on a year-end or mid-year statements on the private portfolios? No there is no seasonality in private equity.
It’s constantly being reviewed.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
But it’s lumpy.
Yeah.
Our next question comes from Guy Moszkowski of Autonomous Research.
Good morning.
First thing I wanted to ask was if we could dig in a little bit on the repurchase losses within mortgage servicing such a big swing versus the fourth quarter an $81 million it sounds like a reserve build because I think I heard you say that your actual realized losses were not significant and yet the guidance remains that it should be kind of a net zero.
So it just seems like there were a lot of moving parts there.
I was hoping maybe you could give us a little sense for why you have the $81 million hit? Yes absolutely.
Guy it’s a big change for the fourth quarter of with the small number.
So not to diminish the size of the numbers that positive 50 negative 80 and sort of plus or minus around the zero level and what are the factor of Guy is that the reserve release is based upon our model and realized losses is based upon agency activity and so the timing isn’t exactly perfect.
So realized losses came down from about $200 million to a $180 million and we’ve didn’t build reserves we’ve release them just not at the same order of magnitude and it’s really to do a timing which is why we say that we do expect over time they will met the zero last quarter and with the small positive this quarter it’s a small negative nothing to read into it.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
With regard to the CCAR process and some of the changes that the Fed is asking you to make.
First of all just qualitatively can you give us a sense for the amount of dialog that you have with the Fed one as you work towards satisfying their request so that you really know exactly where they thought the deficiency were or is there a lot of guess work for you on that? So were in terms of dialog with regulators we obviously can’t comment on the specifics of our conversations with them.
We have some very constructive conversations as we came out the 2013 CCAR process and on the basis of those we’re actively working to make the improvement they want us to make.
We’re also expecting to continue to get more and more detailed feedback and actually hope to get some industry best practice information too.
So we’re going to working and part of sit with them in terms of dialog all the way through this year so that we can be clear on what CCAR looks like.
And just if I can follow-up on I think it was Moshe’s question about the PPNR it sounded like you were saying that many of the deficiencies that they were focusing on were in the inputs to the calculation of the stressed PPNR specifically is.
Can I understand that right? Guy we haven’t got a lot of feedback yet.
So there’ll be more to come.
But we’re going to be geared up to do it and I think we want to be best-in-class with CCAR.
The answer is absolute part was in PPNR so if when you’re going to addressed as you could assume that your company is just dealing with all those macroeconomic factors which you forecast you’re going to assume your company is going through as macroeconomic forecast plus you want to some other kind of stress you can lose market shares.
Obviously that would change your PPNR.
So we’ll be having more dialog in front of figure out make sure we do the right thing here.
Okay.
That’s very helpful.
Thanks.
I hope it doesn’t sound too crazy but just to think about at the other way is there any chance that after the resubmission or as part of the resubmission given how close you are to your Basel III targets and with some of that 100 basis points coming in.
Is there any chance that you would ask for and could get an increase for this year? Well this is just a resubmission of the progress program and then like to see qualitative improvements.
This is not to change your request at all this is the one Marianne referred to that will be in the third quarter.
.
.
Yes yes yes that’s what I talking about.
Obviously doing other CCAR in January.
Got it.
And then final question you mentioned Jamie in the shareholder letter that just because you don’t have big fancy names cost-cutting programs it doesn’t mean you’re not very focused on cost reduction.
Is that what we’re seeing in the fact that if you look at the CIB your comp was down 7% versus your revenue being plus or is it that you did something different in the way you think about through the year accruals.
Through the year accruals it’s almost exactly the same as based upon it is a lot of stuff because of that number but that really hasn’t changed that much.
And I see you couldn’t normalize out to DVA which was an odd loss last process if you normalize that our out revenues are down.
So it’s not come down on that number.
Yes that’s fair.
That’s fair.
As referring to that we’re constantly putting a new operationals new systems to reduce overhead.
Marianne already mentioned there were a bunch of things.
We’re doing in mortgage.
We’re seeing similar efforts in consumer.
That’s a constant effort.
We do have names for some of them by the way I’m just not mentioning here.
Okay.
But there’s nothing different like you said in terms of the way you accrue for bonuses within the investment bank? No.
Okay thank you.
Our next question comes from Gerard Cassidy of RBC.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I had some questions on the commercial banking line of business.
You had a nice increase in the real estate lending area in the first quarter it look like it was about $9 billion after four quarters of essentially flat to down real estate loans.
Can you give us some color on where the growth was? Well I think you’re referring to the CTL… Yeah.
The Commercial Term Lending which is lending against multi-family and we have seen growth in it.
Remember that was like 65% LTV.
It did great through this last downturn so we’re very comfortable with that kind of lending.
Are you guys finding greater demand? Or are you just more comfortable with it now than you were maybe a year ago? I would say a little of both.
Following up on your guidance the answer about corporate deposits dropping in the quarter which obviously is a good sign if companies are using this for capital improvements.
What’s your outlook? Do you expect that to continue? Should we see that as a continued positive trend? Are you talking about the commercial bank or the total company? Our commercial bank.
Well we would expect to be kind of flat to down a little bit as companies used their I mean they have a lot of deposits so I think we at our Investor Day and earlier told people they were kind of really high and we expect to come down particularly before people start using the revolvers so they do relate to each other.
I agree.
I mean are your guys in the front-line hearing that from your customers that they expect to use more than for the reminder of the year do you think? I don’t know the answer to that.
Okay.
Coming back to loan loss reserves obviously you’ve got a great capital position.
You’ve pointed out that Bernanke has indicated that the banking system is super strong going through the stress test.
With the current limit of loans of about $729 billion what would be a normal reverse level in normal times compared to where you are today? We did a whole page for you on where we thought the cycle reserve levels should be by business.
Now some businesses most obviously that still have a way to go and there are other businesses in the wholesale side and the commercial banks that are below that through the cycle.
So I would refer you back to that page if you do the numbers from recollection on an annualized basis our charge-off would be more or like $7 billion or $8 billion which more or less is not dissimilar the charge-off we’ve seen it for different reasons so I would refer you to take a look at that page.
Note that it’s mostly mortgages will come down.
Yeah.
Think if everything else is close to normal mortgage which in total is $9 billion eventually a lot lower than that but that should take a couple of years.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Paul Miller of FBR.
Yeah.
Thank you very much.
I know a lot of my questions have been answered but we saw yesterday that they extended to HARP out another two years and there is also some discussion coming out of the White House really that they could put some type of PR plan behind HARP to try to get more people to HARP.
Do you think this will have any impact at all in getting more people of the sidelines and refine to the HARP programs? Yeah.
I mean let’s talk for us specifically as you probably know we’ve been very successful and proactive as it’s relating to HARPing our own book.
And by the end of this year we fully expected to have been as successful and mind that as far as possible they will carry on.
And that’s not the case in the industry so it’s great news that HARP was extended out to the end of 2015.
It will allow for other services to get there adopting their own potentially to have cross service the HARP which in turn should be good in terms of volumes although I don’t think it will be at that change.
And for us we’re not expecting it to be a significant difference in our production or in our MSR values.
How much I mean I don’t know if you can disclose this or not but how much do you think that you have HARP eligible and how many of those are HARP eligible loans that you do on a percentage basis? Do you think you’ve touched most of them already? Yeah so we talked about we peaked into the HARP volumes in about second quarter of last year.
I think overall the first half of last year was high came down slightly over 15%.
Last year we talked at our Investor Day that we thought that we go down to the high single digit this year and it is in terms of percentage of our production.
And we are very very active and have been very proactive in mailing our HARP population and expected to have completed the program by the end of the year.
So we were on track and this doesn’t change our expectations.
The total if you take all mortgages I think the numbers are $4 million will be HARP report today if they went to it and I wouldn’t – some inspired that more people don’t do it to tell you the truth.
Yes.
But only the government can do either PR or I think a cross servicing is a bigger one and will make us slightly better.
They are just things that slightly better it’s not going to dramatically change mortgage.
Okay.
Yeah I think a lot of companies have told us that they think that they’ve got through most of the low hanging fruit with HARP and that the people that aren’t HARPing they doubt they will ever HARP.
And so I’m just wondering if there is a big PR push if some of those guys will wake up and say oh maybe this isn’t maybe I need to look at this program.
Yeah we hope so.
Yeah and I… Because we don’t know any better than you.
I mean… Okay.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Nancy Bush of NAB Research.
LLC</strong> Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
LLC</strong> A quick question sort of back to the brown that are stuff that’s kind of hanging around out there I mean I’m reading what everybody else is that they are looking at sort of a 10% capital ratio with the possibility of another 5% tougher on top of that and basically touring away the concept of risk weighted assets and more or less of this rating Basel III as far as I can see.
I mean do you guys have any sense where this sort of 10% 5% number comes from? Is there some sort of empirical evidence or is it just sort of a backdoor way to try to get the biggest banks the break up? You really have to ask them and we’ll leave this to them and the regulators again.
LLC</strong>  Well is there I mean do you have a sense where the numbers are coming from? What that 10% half of ratio where it comes from?  You’ve got to ask them.
LLC</strong>  Okay.
Thanks.
Okay.
We have no further questions at this time.
Thank you.
Folks thank you for spending some time with us.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to JPMorgan Chase’s second quarter 2013 earnings call.
This call is being recorded.
Your line will be muted for the duration of the call.
We will now go live to the presentation.
Please stand by.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase’s Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon and Chief Financial Officer Marianne Lake.
Ms.
Lake please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Good morning everyone.
I’m going to take you through the earnings presentation which is available on our website and please refer to the display regarding forward looking statements at the back of the presentation.
So turning to page 1 we carried strong momentum into the second quarter with net income of $6.5 billion and an EPS of $1.60 a share on revenue of $26 billion up 13% year on year and flat versus the seasonally strong first quarter with a return on tangible common equity of 17%.
And you can see on the page that we’ve highlighted several significant items up front here: A $950 million reserve release in mortgage and this quarter we saw net chargeoffs less than half of what they were a year ago; a $550 million reserve release in cards with chargeoffs remaining historically low; and $600 million of expenses for additional litigation reserves in corporate.
In addition the results for the quarter included a $355 million DVA gain in the corporate and investment bank.
Outside of these four items we had a number of other small items both positive and negative in the quarter which offset each other many of which I’ll call out as we go through the presentation.
And we want to be very transparent with you.
We don’t count items like reserve releases and other noncore items when we think about our own performance so if we adjust for all of these items both big and small our return on tangible common equity would have been about 15% reflecting strong underlying core performance.
This quarter a couple of important themes: The market’s environment in June as well as several capital developments.
So just a quick note on each.
Rising long term rates and higher levels of volatility in June had an impact both on the quarter as well as in terms of our mortgage outlook guidance.
Our market businesses held up well in June and our asset management platform outperformed during the backup.
And importantly remember that given the firm’s positioning rising rates will drive significant benefit in higher NII over time but during the near term higher long term rates and wider spreads drove a significant reduction in the unrealized gains in our securities portfolio or a reduction in AOCI which did impact Basel III capital negatively.
Despite that impact we were able to add to our capital and improve capital ratios as we began to realize some of the runoff and model benefits that we’d previously guided you to.
And finally higher rates will have a significant impact on mortgage refi volumes and margins in the second half of the year.
On capital we’ve added a new page in the deck on leverage which I’ll cover in a moment but our headline capital number is a Basel III tier one common ratio of 9.3% including the impact of the final Basel III capital rules approved this month by our regulators.
In general the approvals are the same or similar to the NPRs and in that sense we’re broadly in line with our expectations including the confirmation of no exception to AOCI.
The estimated impact on our ratio was a modest benefit.
So on page three let me take you through the details.
We ended the quarter with Basel III tier one common of $148 billion up from the prior quarter.
We set a Basel III capital walk here on the page in the blue callout box which steps you through each component of the change quarter on quarter.
Our Basel III tier one common ratio before the impact of final U.S.
rules increased to 9.1% from 8.9% even after the 20 basis point impact from the change in AOCI.
This impact is offset by a $40 billion reduction in risk-weighted assets reflecting the impact of portfolio runoff as well as lower levels of risk.
So then adding in the benefit of final rules which were principally related to changes in MSR rules and securitization benefits our ratio at the quarter end was estimated at 9.3%.
And as you know although we reflect our best understanding of all the rules in our ratio we don’t pull forward the impact of passive runoff or model enhancements some of which we saw this quarter.
Together these will deliver approximately an additional 75 basis points of benefits by the end of 2014.
And we remain committed to reaching a 9.5% Basel III tier one common ratio by year-end.
Briefly on liquidity in addition to building our capital we accelerated compliance with the proposed Basel III liquidity coverage rules.
And not only did we become compliant with the rule during the quarter but at quarter end our estimated ratio was 118% and we feel great about the progress we’ve made.
Although there can be short term volatility in the number you should expect that we will run around this level going forward.
And to finish on page three in the bullets the board increased the quarterly dividend to $0.38 a share from the previous $0.30 and during the quarter we repurchased $1.2 billion of common equity as a reminder that $1.2 billion of the $6 billion CCAR authorization.
So turning to page four we’ve added this page to help walk you through our current thoughts on the new proposals regarding Basel III leverage.
Let me start with two things.
We believe the leverage ratio is an appropriate complement to our tier one common ratio if properly calibrated and our holding company leverage ratio is estimated at 4.7% at the end of the quarter based upon the U.S.
proposed rules.
To be clear these rules do not reflect the most recent Basel proposal which would further increase our leverage balance sheet.
Just a few comments on the proposal in the U.S.: the denominated bills on GAAP assets with add-ons for derivative potential future exposures and off-balance sheet commitments resulting in a gross up for us and approximately $1 billion.
And remember included on our balance sheet is over $450 billion of cash and other high-quality liquid assets which we think there’s a strong argument that they should not attract capital at these levels.
So I’m going to take you through the analysis on the page.
We started with analysts’ estimates for net income and we held our dividends flat and assumed repurchases generally consistent with our current levels.
Given those assumptions we would be able to add approximately 60 basis points to the leverage ratio by the end of 2014.
Additionally we will continue to recalibrate our tier one capital through the issuance of preferreds.
And finally we will take appropriate actions to reduce our leverage assets which may include some of the points on the slide.
For example repricing or restructuring our commitments or unwinding certain derivative positions.
And if you take those together this could add another approximately 100 basis points over time for a total of up to 160 basis points.
So we will adjust our business but we do expect the holding company to be able to be compliant in early 2015 with the bank to follow.
Of course a caution that this timeline could be impacted if there are significant changes to the rules which are not yet final.
Changing gears let’s turn to the business performance starting on page five with consumer and community banking.
The combined consumer businesses generated $3.1 billion of net income for the quarter on $12 billion of revenue with an ROE of 27%.
Just a quick look at the franchise.
We ended the quarter with over 5 600 branches over 19 000 ATMs and we now have nearly 1 700 Chase private client locations.
We continue to see really strong growth in the underlying drivers of the consumer businesses.
Deposits were up over $40 billion year on year an increase of 10%; customer attrition levels remain historically low; and our active mobile customer base grew by 32% year on year.
So we’re adding customers we’re retaining them through superior customer experience and we’re deepening our relationships with them.
Also mortgage and auto originations showed strong growth up 12% and 17% year on year respectively and we had record credit card sales volume of $105 billion up 10% year on year and record client investment assets of $172 billion up 16%.
Turning to page six consumer and business banking net income of close to $700 million and an ROE of 25% on net revenue of $4.3 billion down 1% year on year and up 3% quarter on quarter.
While we continue to see pressure on deposit margins 5 basis points down in the quarter this continues to be largely offset by very strong growth.
And on the noninterest revenue side we’re seeing strong growth in both debit and investment revenue.
Expenses are up year on year reflecting the investments we’re making in the business including branch builds as well as the absence of some one-time items that benefited the prior year.
During the quarter we had record investment sales of $9.5 billion up 53% year on year and I’ll note that approximately 70% of those sales are managed money driving strong recurring revenue for the business up 13% year on year.
Average business banking loan balances are flat quarter on quarter up 4% versus last year.
And you can see here in the drivers that the loan production stabilized just above the very low levels we saw in the first quarter.
We believe that we’re maintaining share despite increased competition and the pipeline is up relative to the first quarter which should support origination levels in the second half of the year.
Turning to page seven and mortgage banking overall mortgage banking net income was $1.1 billion with an ROE of 23%.
At the top of the table looking at the first blue highlighted lines production pretax income was $582 million.
Top line production revenue excluding repurchases was up slightly quarter on quarter with a higher reported gain on sale pretax margins of 116 basis points more than offsetting lower closed loan volumes down 7%.
$49 billion of mortgage production saw a change in mix this quarter as the purchase market continued to recover.
Our purchase volumes increased over 40% quarter on quarter and contributed 36% to volumes up from 23% last quarter.
And despite the strong start in April the environment in late May and June drove mortgage rates up significantly around 100 basis points.
This pressure continued into July and we expect it could have a significant impact on the refinance market side in the second half of the year.
So if mortgage rates stay at or above current levels the market could be reduced by an estimated 30% to 40%.
Although we will adjust capacity expense reductions will lag volume reductions and will challenge profitability and production.
Moving down to servicing pretax income of $133 million up quarter on quarter and year on year on lower expenses and modest gain in the MSR.
Servicing expenses of $715 million decreased quarter over quarter in line with our expectations and we continue to see servicing or expect servicing costs to decrease to $600 million by the fourth quarter.
At the bottom of the table real estate portfolio pretax was $1.2 billion.
Runoffs of the legacy portfolio continued although in the quarter given the positive economics of retaining certain loans we added close to $5 billion of mortgage loans to our portfolio which is up $1.3 billion quarter on quarter and we expect to be able to sustain these levels in the second half.
On credit delinquencies and foreclosure in our portfolio were each down around 10% quarter on quarter.
Net chargeoffs continue to come down less than $300 million this quarter which was in line with our guidance and we released $950 million of reserves.
The majority of this release related to to impact of lower severities reflecting real and sustainable HDI improvements.
Going forward we expect quarterly net chargeoffs of less than $250 million and as credit trends continue to improve expect additional reserve releases in the next several quarters.
Turning to car merchant services and auto on page eight net income of $1.2 billion up 21% year on year with an ROE of 32% or 23% if you exclude reserve releases reflecting excellent underlying performance in the business.
Revenue of $4.7 billion was up 3% year on year and despite strong volumes down slightly quarter on quarter as a result of spread compression.
In cards year on year growth in both sales and merchant processing volumes was both strong and consistent at 10% and 15% respectively.
And importantly we saw a stabilization of outstandings at the end of the second quarter after 15 quarters of net runoff.
And we believe we’ve reached an inflection point and expect some modest growth from here.
Expenses are down year on year primarily driven by lower remediation expenses on our legacy product.
And the net chargeoff rate continues to be very low and we released $550 million of credit card loan loss reserves this quarter.
This reflected both the continued improvement in early stage roll rates as well as higher than expected levels of paydowns on modified loans.
The net chargeoff rate was 3.31% down over 100 basis points year on year.
And if we continue to see favorable roll rates as well as our modified loans continuing to pay down we will see incremental reserve releases in the second half of 2013.
And before we move on a few words on auto.
Originations up 17% year on year reflecting market share gains and driving loan balances up 5%.
Moving on to slides nine and 10 and the corporate investment bank a strong second quarter performance which included a DVA gain of $355 million.
This was versus a gain in the same quarter of last year of $755 million both of which are shown in the credit adjustments line.
As usual we’ll focus on the numbers excluding DVA.
$2.6 billion of net income was the highest second quarter net income since 2009 up 37% year on year and 3% quarter on quarter.
Revenue of $9.5 billion was up 16% year on year and the business delivered an ROE of 19%.
Total banking revenue of $3.1 billion up 17% year on year on higher IBCs of $1.7 billion up 38% primarily driven by strong debt and equity underwriting.
We continue to be bank number one year to date in IBCs and despite weaker credit markets toward the end of the quarter we had near record debt underwriting fees in the first half of 2013.
And equity capital markets we have the number-one wallet share for the first half of the year.
Moving on to markets revenue which was up 18% year on year in line with our guidance a very strong performance particularly given the challenging environment in June reflecting strong client flows throughout the quarter the diversification of the business and trading risk discipline.
Fixed income markets revenue of $4.1 billion was up 17% year on year with credit and spread related products benefitting from less Euro Zone uncertainty and a stronger U.S.
housing market.
Equity markets of $1.3 billion was up 24% year on year with strong client flows in [pass] and equity derivatives.
And before we leave markets just a quick update on OTC clearing.
The implementation of phase II in June went very smoothly.
Although volumes were relatively light at launch we have seen activity pick up and we feel we have the right level of participation.
Securities services revenue of $1.1 billion was up 1% year on year and within this number you should note growth in custody fees is in line with asset growth but is offset by declines in agent lending as well as lower volumes in clearance and capital management.
Just a comment on credit.
Trends are stable at low levels with small net recoveries for the quarter.
Loans are down 6% quarter on quarter driven by lower balances in trade and conduits and expenses were up 8% year on year driven primarily by higher comp on higher revenues with a comp to revenue ratio excluding DVA of 31% for the quarter.
Finally on this page at the bottom of the driver section you see CIB average VAR which continued to decline to $40 million reflecting generally lower levels of risk but also lower volatility across asset classes.
I’ll note that the increased volatility in June did however drive spot VAR up higher to over $60 million.
Before we skip over page 10 just a comment.
If you take a look at the numbers for first half of 2013 you can see we continue to make great progress in the international space and had particular strength in Asia during this quarter.
Turning to page 11 commercial banking saw net income of $621 million on revenue of $1.7 billion with an ROE of 18%.
Revenue was up 3% quarter on quarter despite the softer lending environment driven by higher average loan balances stable spreads and positive momentum on cross-sell and IBCs.
Although end of period loans were flat this quarter we saw very strong growth in commercial real estate up 3% and gaining share offset by lower corporate lending.
Our clients have excess cash and are keeping their utilization rates low but we’ve also seen the continuation of competitive pricing and aggressive structuring.
We’re holding the line and choosing quality over growth and this of course is reflected in our strong credit performance.
But we’re still adding very good clients and doing more business with existing clients.
As we look forward we expect continued strong growth in the real estate business given our competitive position and for C&amp;I loans pipelines are up from the first quarter and deal activity feels like it may be turning.
We are expecting a more constructive second half and therefore should see some growth but the environment remains competitive.
Turning to page 12 and asset management an excellent quarter and despite challenging markets in June we saw net income of $500 million up 28% year on year and 3% quarter on quarter with an ROE of 22%.
$2.7 billion of revenue up 15% year on year reflects an increase in management fees driven by strong long term net inflows $25 billion this quarter marking the 17th consecutive quarter of long term inflows and higher equity and fixed income markets up 12% based on our business mix.
We also saw higher performance fees driven by strong fund returns and record loan balances up $16 billion year on year across products and geographies.
A moment on expenses.
Growth and performance in the business led to 11% year over year expense growth but as our investments season the business is delivering positive operating leverage which you can see in the pretax margin which is 30% up from 27% last year.
We ended the quarter with assets under management of $1.5 trillion up 9% year on year and client assets of $2.2 trillion up 10% despite small net outflows in June.
However the breadth of our platform should enable us to continue to gather net new assets globally looking forward and we delivered strong relative performance in both fixed income and equities.
Moving on to page 13 and corporate and private equity a net loss of $552 million for the quarter.
Private equity generated net income of just over $200 million which included over $400 million of gains in part driven by investments that are in active sales discussions.
Treasury and CIO net loss was $429 million driven by negative NII due to continued low rates and slower reinvestment as well as a change in portfolio mix shifting from higher yielding securities to [LTR] eligible securities and cash.
The result also included net securities gains and a modest loss on [unintelligible] redemption which we guided to last quarter.
Excluding the net of these two items CIO Treasury would have been a net loss of about $350 million which is generally in line with our guidance.
And our quarterly guidance remains unchanged.
Finally other corporate.
A net loss of $335 million includes the $600 million of pretax expense for additional litigation reserves in the quarter.
Excluding litigation other corporate was around $100 million net income in line with our guidance.
And again our guidance which does include litigation and significant items remains unchanged for other corporate.
Turning to page 14 and net interest margin net interest income was down slightly and core NIM was down 23 basis points quarter on quarter.
We acknowledge this is larger than you may have expected but let me give you some color.
Importantly it was principally the result of actions we took to build liquidity to comply with Basel requirements more quickly which we believe is a strong positive.
And to the degree it was also a pull forward of compression we guided to over time.
So with that in the table on the slide which shows our cash balances and how they progress over time and what you can see circled is that our cash was up more than $100 billion quarter on quarter with other interest earning assets being broadly flat.
This changed the relative mix and also the size of our interest earning assets and drove core NIM down the 18 basis points we circled on the page.
While the increase in cash does reflect accelerated LTR compliance it does also reflect very strong deposit growth and slower reinvestments and a little less robust loan growth.
The balance of the reduction in NIM relates to loan yield compression partially offset by the lower cost of debt.
So going forward all else being equal what we expect from here is relatively stable NIM in the second half of the year and net interest income to increase modestly next quarter.
So finally on slide 15 here’s our outlook.
I covered these items as we went through presentation so in wrap up overall a very strong quarter returning 17% on tangible common equity with excellent underlying performance across businesses while making significant progress on capital and liquidity ratios.
And the firm overall is positioned to benefit from a higher rate environment.
Thank you for joining us.
Operator you can open up the call for Q&amp;A.
[Operator instructions.] Our first question comes from John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
Do you have any sense that you could give us to where you stand on the leverage ratio at the bank level today relative to the 6% requirement? We don’t disclose the bank leverage ratio but it is lower than the holding company so we would have a further way to go.
We’ve said we intend to be compliant at the holding company level by the beginning of 2015 and work on bank compliance shortly thereafter.
Maybe within a quarter or two? Can you give us any feel there? Obviously the rules are fairly new and still a proposal and not final so there’s work to do before they get finalized.
We’re working through all of the things we need to do to comply.
I would say we would aim to be compliant by the end of 2015 but we need to go do more detailed plans and we’ll get back to you with more specifics.
Okay and you mentioned the mitigation you can do at the holding company.
Is there mitigation you can also do to help specifically the bank level ratio in terms of maybe assets that could be shifted to the parent or equity that could go from the hold company to the sub and things like that? Yes all of those things could be considered and would be considered.
And then on the liquidity ratio why have you decided to run with this level of cushion to LTR and why the acceleration in getting there now? Anything driving that in particular? Yes so in terms of the cushion while it’s not scientific there is a volatility in that number inherent in actual deposit flows.
So we do see some things in deposit flow particularly wholesale flows and that could span a quarter end and drive the ratio up or down some.
So it’s prudent to run that ratio above 100% and at around about this level.
And just in terms of acceleration we just wanted to get there more quickly.
The opportunity presented itself so nothing more than that.
Okay and could you give us some of the assumptions behind your outlook for stable net interest margin and modest net interest income growth in the back half of the year just in terms of maybe what you’re assuming on rates and loan growth and what are the puts and takes in your outlook? That’s a great question John because as you alluded to in the question there’s a large number of moving parts in terms of the forecast including points of view on rates which as you know have been choppy over the last several weeks.
So we base our projections on modest loan growth and on our understanding of the implied rate curves and they could change.
Also deposit flows as you’ve seen have been very very strong.
So we accelerated our LTR compliance back the majority of the NIM compression we were previously expecting and guiding you to forward and consequently we expect to be more stable with some loan yield compression being offset by lower cost of debt.
And finally I’m not sure if I saw it in here or not but can you remind us how much you benefit from higher rates? And which rates in particular are most helpful for you? If you can delineate between kind of the 10-year and the shorter based rates? I’ll just give you two data points and then you can maybe go and have a look at them.
But I think in the Q we disclose a couple of things.
The first is a bit of a [unintelligible] which says that over 12 months it would deliver about $900 million of additional NII.
10 year going up 100 basis points I’m sorry.
And that’s not exactly what we’ve seen but it’s the closest thing to what we’ve seen right now.
And then the other thing we’ve disclosed is on a parallel shift of 100 basis points.
So if you saw short rates go up too and that would deliver just over $2 billion over 12 months.
And don’t forget that recurs but it takes time to build up to that.
And that’s interest rates only not mortgage volume investment banking volume.
That’s just isolating interest rates only assuming the company invests the way we’re planning to.
And then that’s the current numbers? That’s last Q or that’s as of right now? Those were the numbers from the last Q and they are not meaningfully changed right now.
On reserve release how can we gauge if it is possible at all how long this can go on for? Are there any base metrics that you think you can’t go below that we can kind of look at as a percentage of loans or a percentage of normalized chargeoffs? Any help you can give us to kind of gauge how much might be left on the reserve release front? I would point you to - and I can’t remember the page so I apologize - but we put a page in investor day that talked about what we thought through the cycle chargeoff rates were for each of our businesses and so what I would do is take NCI loans and a reserve balance at the end of the period of $3.3 billion take a look at that page and figure out what a more normal chargeoff rate and therefore reserve balance would be and that will be in large part our reduction over the course of the next several quarters.
So we expect it to be a journey to get to that level throughout 2014.
So wholesale kind of where we should be we shouldn’t expect much different.
Credit card maybe a little bit more but then the 100s of millions.
And on mortgage I think we said at investor day eventually it will a billion to a billion and a half.
[cross talk] couple of years.
And KPI if we have home improvement we may see some reductions in [PCI] loan loss reserves purchase credit reserve.
You haven’t done that yet in terms of taking the PCI out yet right? No.
We haven’t done that yet John but the reserve release we’ve got in NCI was driven in large part by lower severity so it would just continue.
You might see some of that.
Our next question comes from Brennan Hawken of UBS.
Another quick question on leverage.
Could you help me understand why it takes until 1Q ’15 for the bank holding company to add the 30 basis points necessary to the leverage ratio? It looks like what you laid out puts you kind of well above that earlier.
What we laid on the page was an illustration.
And you’re absolutely right what it shows you is that we ought to be able to close that gap much more quickly.
And so that might very well be what happens.
We just aren’t going to come out now with a target of achieving it over the course of the next one or two quarters because we have other objectives including the continuation of being able to have some capital distribution to you guys that we want to be able to decide when we do CCAR at the end of the year.
We’ll be able to do it pretty quickly when we know what it actually is.
We don’t want to start making actions that affect customers way in advance of knowing the real final rules.
But what you took away from the page is absolutely right.
Closing that gap should not be difficult and could be more quick than this but we want to be cautious.
Understood.
And was there a change in the securities portfolio during the quarter? And maybe could you give us an update on where that duration stands? We’re not going to disclose the duration but there was some changes in the portfolio as we moved out of noneligible into eligible securities for LTR and also maintain more cash.
So there were some changes.
We also [saw] making gains on sale and we were doing that.
So would the bias be to assume that it would be towards shorter? No.
No.
When rates go up certain mortgages lengthen and a whole bunch of different things take place.
But in general the portfolio is several year duration and a couple of year duration AA-plus and obviously it changes over time so it manages shared exposures.
And then just a quick follow up on John’s question.
Is it generally right given what you guys have disclosed and you guys just verified and what we’ve seen in rates if we assume that rates kind of stay where they’re at that you would get about 75% of that $900 million in additional NII in 2014 if we kind of stay status quo to where we are now? That’s not a bad assumption.
And then last one just trying to think about maybe the potential to avoid some of the really big distraction that we saw this quarter around what is sort of becoming an annual event at the shareholder vote.
Have you guys considered maybe articulating some kind of plan or a blueprint or a map or what have you to get people comfortable with the future state of CEO/Chairman roles way down the line when there is sort of a secession that is in place? We’re not going to say what board deliberations are but the board obviously has talked about a bunch of ideas.
Also we think we have some of the best corporate governance out there including what I think is more important than the separation of chairman and CEO that the board should make decisions based on the circumstances at the time.
They know the company the strategy the people.
That the board always meets without the CEO the board in total sets the agenda the board is completely engaged in CEO compensation the board can hire and fire the CEO at will.
And those practices some are in our charters some are not but hopefully it won’t be the distraction it was last year.
Our next question comes from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
One more question on page four.
Your 4.7 is really close.
We were looking for 4.5 so very much in line with what we were looking for.
I’m just wondering why no bank sub disclosure.
I realize that it’s different.
And I heard your answer earlier but I’m just wondering why not just give us a number? Is it that there’s too much uncertainty in estimating that denominator? You need understanding from the regulators what they’re looking for.
Could you just help us out on a little bit of the qualitative reasons? There’s nothing [sinister] underlying it.
Let me just give you hopefully enough.
It is a little bit lower than 4.7 and given that the ratio for the bank holding company is 6% then the gap is a little bit bigger.
But measured in small tens of basis points not more.
A lot of it’s historical.
JPMorgan Chase got built through mergers over time [unintelligible] in the bank [unintelligible] broker-dealers.
We’re going to have to change our legal entities a little bit overseas.
So we’ll just have to modify legal entities to accomplish our objectives and we’ll be able to do that over time.
And over time you know [unintelligible] will help.
The only [unintelligible] constraint is the 5%.
Yeah I get that.
If possible I’d love to show you what our assumptions are and maybe we could understand where we differ? Yes of course.
And then separately you put on here on this page the potential further add-ons for the Basel proposal.
You’re talking about the Basel’s consultative document that came out a couple of weeks ago.
Is there any sense as to what kind of basis point hit that is? We’re not going to disclose it today and we can reconsider that.
Because we think there are some pretty fundamental issues with some of those proposals not least of which is the absence of [unintelligible] or [unintelligible] on [max] securities financing which we believe and are hopeful is going to be resolved.
But it is an add-on and it’s not insignificant.
One of the things I stress [is derivative] receivables and not taking benefit for collateral which we know we get.
So there are a lot of issues in there that need to be looked at and analyzed.
As to Brennan’s earlier question I think in the context of what we laid out as [illustratively] being achievable then timelines would solve the problem.
The other important point is one of the things that Basel and all this stuff is supposed to do is harmonize global rules.
This is clearly no longer harmonization.
We have one part of the world that’s talking about two times what another part of the world is talking about.
And I don’t think there’s any industry out there that would be comfortable with something like that in the long run.
But in the long run that has a lot of effects you can’t determine quarter by quarter.
And part of the challenge is a higher denominator on one side and a higher ratio on the other side right? Right.
Just on HPI HPI obviously rose significantly in the quarter.
Could you give us an indication as to how much that helped RWAs? Was that a big piece of the driver? The HPI [unintelligible] on RWA has a bit of a lag to it.
So while it did contribute to the reduction in our RWA our reduction was principally runoff and some model enhancement and some lower risk.
But in part that lower risk was driven by better HPI.
So can you give us a sense as to given where HPI is today what kind of benefit that would have on RWAs if there wasn’t a lag? It’s a great question and we will get back to you after the call.
Our next question comes from the line of Matt O’Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Just drilling down to some of the businesses here.
Obviously June as you had mentioned we’ve all seen it was very volatile in the credit markets and the fixed income markets in general and I guess kind of a basic question.
Like how did you do so well in fixed income? I know you guys had commented early part of the month but things have deteriorated quite a bit and I think some of us were surprised at how good it was back in the quarter.
June was a bit more challenging and so it wasn’t as strong as April and May but it really comes down to the fact that we really do have a client-driven business model and the client flows they held up.
And so if you surround that with robust and strong trading risk discipline that’s pretty much how it turned out.
I think our folks in emerging markets also did a spectacularly good job because I think you might see some real differentiation there from some other folks when all their numbers come out.
And is that just from managing a smaller inventory while the spreads were widening? A little of everything.
And I guess on the other side when we look at the comp rate at the investment bank it was down I think 2-3% both linked quarter and year over year.
What’s driving that? Is it mix? Is it streamlining of the business lines that you announced about a year ago fully coming together? Or just paying people less? I think we’ve been very consistent how we look at comp and how we accrue it and things like that after capital charges and by line of business type of business.
So it’s just a change of mix and change of capital etc.
And I think you’ve been guiding toward 35%.
So do you think that maybe it’s the lower end of that? That this is more sustainable? Possibly.
Our next question comes from Mike Mayo with CLSA.
First I just want to follow up on the comment.
So over the next 12 months NII should benefit by 75% of the $900 million? In other words in 2014 you should benefit by about $700 million? All other things being equal that’s not an unreasonable assumption.
But as we said all things are never equal.
No I understand.
It’s more art than science.
So I guess your run rate of net interest income that would be about 1.5% of that? Is that in the ballpark of how you think about it? Yes I guess that’s about right.
Or maybe a little less.
And when you say the benefit the benefit of the 10-year increasing 100 basis points? I didn’t fully hear how you explained that.
Yeah I think we disclose all of the assumptions in the earnings [at risk] tables in the 10-Q but yes it’s short rates staying low and the 10-year going up 100 basis points I think.
Yes that’s what drags up the 5-year to 7 [unintelligible].
Because if you use 1 point it’s the 10-year but it’s the yield curve going up [unintelligible].
The reason I ask that is it seems as though maybe the 10-year’s not as relevant as perhaps the 5-year or am I mistaken? You’re not mistaken which is why if you actually get more of a parallel shift and rates go up numbers go up by multiples.
Separately the investment banking backlogs where are they versus the first quarter at the end? The pipeline? Yeah.
Activity levels picked up some and we expect that to carry into the third quarter so a little better.
You saw a real slowdown when we had the volatile markets in June but we don’t think that’s actually… You know the market’s kind of opening up again.
You see a bunch of IPOs and [unintelligible] deals and M&amp;A chatter.
And the leverage ratio you said under the U.S.
rules it’s 4.7%.
Under the proposed Basel rules if adopted where would the leverage ratio be? We didn’t disclose that Mike for a couple of reasons.
One is that as we said the proposals we think have some fundamental issues to them.
But it would be lower.
The growth up to our balance sheet on top of the 3.5 sitting on the page would not be insignificant.
But we didn’t disclose it.
Can you give us a ballpark? Or is that one reason you’re being so conservative? You have 160 basis point potential benefit but you’re still saying wait until early 2015.
Is that part of your thought process? Yes that is definitely one of the reasons and that’s one of the reasons why we said and of course the timeline could be impacted if there are significant changes to the rules.
And that would be one of those changes.
And then last question relates to the processing business which to me looks like it’s lagging for the second quarter in a row.
And I’m asking a more broad question for eight years since BankOne merged with JPMorgan and I think for a few decades before that it was run as a separate business and the fourth quarter last year it was merged into the investment bank and now we have two quarters in a row of what looks like performance that will lag peers.
So my question is how is the management and organizational restructuring going? Is it impacting the processing bus or is there something else taking place there? I think it’s going great and the folks in the field will tell you that they’re seeing huge benefits from putting together the corporate global investment bank the corporate investment bank treasury services.
But you are right there’s been a flattening out a little bit in treasury services and investor services which is mostly custody.
Some of that’s spread some of that’s margins.
So some of that will benefit also a little bit from rising rates.
But we don’t what the peers will show yet.
Maybe you do but I don’t know yet.
Yeah I’m guessing it’s going to lag.
I mean you have assets under custody down 2% linked quarter when markets are up as much as they are.
Is there anything else that’s one-time or unique? Mike I don’t know and obviously if we lag our peers we’ll be as disappointed as you are.
Our next question comes from Erika Penala with Bank of America.
My first question really has to do with some of the initial questions asked on capital.
What is the priority here on capital distribution versus leverage ratio? Is it compliance to the 5% at the hold co? Or is it accelerating capital distribution over the next two years relative to what you announced out of this year’s CCAR? Or can JPMorgan both be compliant with the leverage ratio over time and accelerate buybacks and dividends? Your last one.
Yeah it’s balancing both Erika which is why in response to the earlier question we said we’ve been conservative on the timeline because we want to preserve the flexibility to consider capital distributions when we do our CCAR in 2013 and it will be a factor we consider.
And a follow up question on what you mentioned Marianne in the beginning of the call on mortgage.
You mentioned that if rates stay where they are that could mean the market shrinks by 30% or 40%.
What is the proportion in expense in that scenario that you could take out of the business? And how long typically is the lag until you can take those expenses out? The truly variable as in transaction variable portion of the business is some but the majority of it is related to people and systems.
So there’s usually a several-month lag to be able to get that out of the system.
And proportionately if the revenues are down let’s say origination revenues are down 30-40% what’s the efficiency ratio that we can think about as we think about the variable costs that can be taken out? Think about it this way I think that revenue margins will be down on competitive pressures.
Volumes are down and expenses may go up because volumes are down for a couple of quarters.
Sorry expense margins would go up.
In other words a dramatic reduction in profits.
Yeah we’re trying to be clear with you that this would be a significant event if mortgage rates stay where they are or go higher.
Our next question comes from Andrew Marquardt with Evercore Partners.
I wanted to ask on expenses.
Can you talk about how you’re still feeling about the full year target? You had previously talked about down a billion year over year ex-legal.
Does that still stand? Let me just walk you through it.
This quarter our expenses adjusted for litigation were $15.2 billion.
For the first half adjusted corporate litigation and foreclosure-related matters was 30.7 which would be against the $59 billion target which is running a little high but there are two important factors.
One is in our definition of adjustment we only adjusted out corporate litigation so there’s other litigation in the firm.
That’s several hundred million dollars disclosed in our [unintelligible] and you can see that.
And also in the first half of the year we did see outperformance in terms of the investment bank or CIB revenues and clearly we pay compensation on that which is a good expense and we would waive it in all day long.
So if you take the combination of those two things that we don’t technically adjust out our underlying core expenses are on track for that number yes.
And the additional litigation costs this quarter somewhat elevated.
How do we think about them going forward? Staying elevated but similar rate? Or a little bit lower? How do we think about that? You can’t really think about a run rate trend in litigation costs because they are somewhat lumpy.
So we don’t have a forecast for you and they will go up and down.
And then in terms of the rates obviously impact a lot of different businesses mortgage the balance sheet NII NIM discussion.
And also can you walk through how we should think about it in terms of the fixed business? Heightened volatility maybe more volume but then obviously softer environment in June.
How do we think about this current environment kind of playing out for the back half of the year in terms of trading? You’re absolutely right.
When you separate NIM you try to tease it out and [you’re making them] interest rate because you’ve got to look at the underlying results underlying volumes and things like that.
There’s no reason to think that we’re not going to have a good trading going forward because if the economy is strengthening and our view is that it is and that capital markets are going to kind of open up again and people get adjusted to slightly higher new rates.
And yeah volatility helps certain trading areas.
Higher [unintelligible] certain mortgages they can help other areas.
So it’s a whole potpourri.
It’s impossible almost to separate it out.
We try to do that for you but I think it’s a little bit of a mistake to look at the whole company.
And then my last question was just a clarification on there’s been a lot of regulatory issues capital liquidity buffers on buffers OLA etc.
I think it’s this quarter that you’re resubmitting your CCAR plan.
Is it fair to assume that despite all these things that have been coming out and still some hurdles need to be met that one shouldn’t expect the change in capital deployment? Or should we? We’re working really hard on the CCAR resubmission and you’re right we’re going to resubmit that before the end of the third quarter.
We’re in constant dialog with the regulators although we won’t receive any formal feedback until we’re in the fourth quarter.
And so we’re doing everything we can to be able to be successful in remediating any of the issues they identify for us.
And if we’re able to do that then there should be no impact.
It won’t be for lack of trying.
You have a thousand people now who are devoted… We have 500 people that are dedicated and thousands of people working on it.
Our next question comes from Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo.
First of all you mentioned servicing costs in the mortgage business being down by about $600 million in the fourth quarter.
Is that largely coming out of the default side of things? Or do you think that will be more evenly spread between default and more regular servicing? Just a point of clarification if it wasn’t clear.
Our guidance was that we’re expecting to get our expenses down to $600 million in the fourth quarter from the level that they’re at now which is $715 million for this quarter.
So to be very clear.
And to remind you our longer term on rates for that business is $325 million a quarter.
So it is dominated by the default side but there is some core performance obviously in there too.
And just to keep it really simple we hope to get it to a run rate of $500 million the year after that $400 million the year after that and $325 million where we should be.
And we have a lot of work to do in systems etc.
to get all that done.
And obviously the costly foreclosure delinquent stuff is also coming down.
So it’s about a three to four year run rate to get down to ultimately where you want to be? Three years.
Three years and know that we’re actively working the portfolio to be able to do what we can more quickly.
So you would expect that we’re looking at either sales or subservicing in defaulted loans and [capacitizing] our performing servicing.
So we’re working on all of that.
Just a further clarification question on gain on sale margins.
You mentioned those were 118 basis points this quarter.
You mentioned last quarter that they were 100 basis points and about 180 basis points on a normalized basis in the fourth quarter.
Are all those calculated in the same way? Are those quarterly averages? Or are those the gains at the end of the quarter? They’re all calculated the same way based upon the disclosed closed owned volumes that we have to use.
So if you take the revenues and expenses and use the closed loan volume for the quarter that’s how we drive the margins which is why you see some short term noise quarter over quarter and the increases to actually 116 basis points because we actually got revenues when we lock loans but we report them closed.
Which is different than you guys do at Wells.
Fair enough.
And then one final question.
You mentioned deal activity appears to be turning.
I think that was with respect to the commercial banking business.
Could you provide a little more color on that? Did June’s volatility in the interest rate scenario slow down business activity in the commercial banking business? And I’m not really specifically talking about the investment bank but more on the commercial banking side of things.
I will tell you that it’s more of what we’re seeing and feeling in discussions and activity with our clients that we feel like deal activity levels have picked up and may be turning.
And the pipeline feels a little better and solid but not strong.
So we’re expecting that to translate into the second half and obviously as the economy continues to recover and confidence continues to grow hopefully that will get even better.
And just finally there’s been a lot of talk obviously in the last couple of days about a potential reassertion of Glass Steagall.
And I guess I’m just curious given your current business model if that were to come to pass would that be a meaningful negative in terms of your ability to maintain your cross-sell opportunities across the businesses? Or is that perhaps less of a challenge given how you currently have the businesses structured? My comment on that is that Glass Steagall didn’t have anything to do with the crisis and our business model allowed us to be a port in the storm.
Our customers like doing business with us in the model that we have now so we don’t spend time thinking about it.
Our next question comes from Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
I just want to be clear when you talk about on page four that you’re going to hold your capital distributions flat is that for all of 2014 relative to ’13? Yes just to be really clear and you look at the title there to be clear illustrative.
We just for the purposes of this analysis we just held everything flat.
That’s not to imply anything about what our capital distributions will be going forward but rather to imply we can continue to do some.
And then second you put in here the tier one capital actions could add possibly 30 basis points.
Could you give some color behind what you’re thinking there? It’s just optimizing our mix between common and preferred.
And with the total leverage impact of 60 to 160 basis points clearly that’s over the 5%.
I assume then that you’re going to be comfortable running something north of 5% when you finally get there? It’s too early for us to talk about [unintelligible] on that level.
In your investor day you gave us the ROEs for the different lines of business and then in the total firm you fell 15-16% 16% was your target ROE.
Will that change now that you’ve got to carry the higher leverage numbers? This just came out so we’re trying to share information with you and it might but give us a little bit time and we’ll give you a deeper feel how this might affect different businesses different products.
Because obviously when you do something like this this will be pushed down at one point not just to the line of business but to the client and the product and the country.
And then we can answer that question for you.
You guys have had some great C&amp;I loan growth in the middle market space over the last four five six quarters.
It seems like it’s really slowed down this quarter.
Anything in particular happen? Nothing in particular.
Just demand.
And I should tender that with demand and the continuation that we talked about of very very strong competition.
And we are as I said prioritizing quality over growth.
We would tactically underperform rather than chase a deal we were uncomfortable with.
And finally can you give us any color on how the shared national credit exam has gone? And are those results in your second quarter results? Or will they be in third quarter results? The results are in our second quarter results.
Not that material.
Our next question comes from Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
Just a couple of quick follow ups.
I hate to focus on the leverage ratio but just one question on the cash component.
I think by my calculation if you were to exclude cash from the denominator that would add almost 70 basis points to your leverage ratio.
Do you think that has any legs or any sticking with regulators in terms of logic around excluding that? You’ve got to ask them.
And then maybe just getting to the [unintelligible] business you alluded to it a little bit.
Some businesses benefit from volatility.
Is it fair to assume that in June we saw things like foreign exchange and interest ratings do better and credit and mortgages do worse? Is that the best way to think about it? We’re not going to give you monthly specific… I think our folks did a very good job in June.
Obviously when spreads widen out certain businesses are more at risk than others.
I already mentioned that in emerging markets we probably saw the most volatility both in terms of spread volatility and equity [unintelligible] did a very good job.
Our next question comes from Paul Miller from FBR.
On your reserve ratios rate around 2% and you had a lot of reserve releases in the quarter with credit improving can you continue to do this type of releases in the next couple of quarters or is that reserve ratio going to stick around 2%? If you think about mortgages having some [more releases] because we continue to see delinquencies and severities improve particularly HPI improvement.
And so you should expect that to continue maybe not at the level that we saw this quarter because we had a big revision to HPI as you know during the last several months.
And in card we’ve had a billion fifty of reserve releases in the first half.
Given what we’re seeing we expect more releases in the second half but not at that level.
Think of it as several hundred million.
It’s near the end for card.
And home sale is kind of where it should be and we’ll bounce around.
Our next question comes from Guy Moszkowski with Autonomous Research.
Just looking at the hit to the OCI at $3.1 billion it actually seems like it’s less than would have been implied by the guidance that you gave at the investor day.
Obviously that was for a more severe shock but just calibrating it relative to the number of basis points that the 10-year went up etc.
Any comment on that? You’ve got it exactly right.
At investor day we gave you something far more dramatic than 100 basis points.
And we’ve already said the duration of this thing is not 10 years it’s a lot less than 10 years.
So obviously the effect will be less.
And is part of the reason why besides the fact that it was 100 basis points not a 230 basis point move or whatever is part of the reason linked to the derisking of the treasury portfolio that you were talking about as you prepared for the LCR? Not really.
Not really.
Okay.
But is there validity to the idea that if we recalibrated for 100 basis points move versus a 230 basis points move that I think is implicit in that $15 billion number that you gave us in February was the $3 billion in line with that? Or was it actually materially better? And if so maybe if it wasn’t related to the LCR derisking why did you have a better outcome? The investor day scenario was a more severe scenario than the 230 basis points you’re implying.
What number did we give at investor day? It was 300 plus or minus.
And this is in line with our expectations.
Unfortunately the OCI I hate to say is not that big a deal.
We all know about it we’re all prepared for it.
Rates can go up OCI gains are going to down.
There are 20 basis points you’re going to see this happen elsewhere.
It’s asynchronous.
You know we have OCI going to capital and the benefits going to earnings in the future.
So if it were up to us we wouldn’t have actually had this asynchronous [unintelligible].
And we’re prepared we’re going to have buffers that can repair that.
We know how the conservation buffer works but it’s not that big a deal.
And the duration of our portfolio and you guys could do it yourself AA-plus couple year duration you could almost calculate those numbers yourself with one caveat.
The losses are less as rates go up because of the [unintelligible] of the portfolio currently.
And the other thing about this you can change it overnight at any time.
Fair enough.
As I think about the changes that you can make to the business that you referred to on page four to mitigate the impact of the leverage ratio changes you talk about optimizing the use of central clearing moving your derivatives business more towards central clearing really does because of the collateral give you a lot of relief on those leveraged assets? If you move a trade from central clearing house it has no charge here and it has nothing to do with the margin that they put up at the clearing house.
If the trade is bilateral with cost you have the receivable gets [unintelligible] you can’t take benefit from the fact that you’re going to get collateral against it.
That’s the way the calculations are done.
So any trade you move to a clearing house eliminates that exposure.
The margin for the clients at the clearing house is not with us it’s with the clearing house.
Right.
So I guess the logical next question for that is given the central clearing mandate which has started to be implemented recently as we think about leverage ratio going forward should we be thinking about a large part of that derivatives add in to the denominator of the ratio as basically being in runoff? You know we had already added in our forecast to you guys some stuff moved to derivatives how to look at capital.
So I do think at the margin this will [unintelligible] things at the clearing houses but we don’t have an analysis to tell you about that right now.
Will it be material? We don’t really know yet.
Remember a lot of the client business they are also going to determine what they want.
It won’t be just up to us.
And remember that derivative add-on calculation is a calculation that is currently being rethought by the Basel committee because of some of the issues with it.
So it could also in and of itself improve.
When you think about those leverage asset actions you’re talking about is there any linkage of taking those actions that further benefits LTR? We haven’t done that analysis.
It’s hard to tell.
I mean to be honest we were trying to be very transparent and give you some ideas about the sorts of things that we’re considering.
We haven’t translated these into detailed plans yet.
So we don’t know the second order impact of this yet.
I think Marianne gave numbers that showed that we could handle this but also you have to be very cognizant of [fine] effects.
We have a client business and we have to make sure that we continue to have a client franchise and so over time we’ll adjust the businesses and we’ll meet LTR we’ll meet Basel III we’ll meet whatever the leverage ratio is.
And think of it in some ways as alternative minimum taxes.
So for every client we’ll be running what’s the return on Basel III capital? And then what’s your return on leveraged capital? And stress capital.
And so you try to manage all those as fair to the client and kind of fair to the company.
As I’ve talked with clients over the last couple of days about this leverage ratio issue one of the questions that has come up is wouldn’t it be possible to downstream more capital to the banks in order to deal with the 6% requirement there? Obviously that incurs a double leverage issue potentially.
Your double leverage ratio right now is just over 1.05.
Is there any room there? Obviously there will be stuff like that.
Give us a little time.
I mean we’re showing you that we can get to the consolidated pretty easily.
Maybe we have to restructure some things and change the capital structure a little bit move businesses out of the FDIC insured bank and all that.
I don’t think any of that’s going to be critical to the future function of our business.
We’ll adjust those things to accomplish what we need to accomplish.
Give us a little more time.
This just came out a couple of days ago.
Our next question comes from Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer.
It just seems the thrust of the whole leverage ratio is that it’s going to penalize the businesses that have the highest ratio of leveraged ratio assets to risk weighted assets.
And can you give us an idea where that gap is the biggest? And in particular also are any of these global businesses where this would give European banks a leg up? Let me do the second question first.
If you have a world where some businesses have to have twice as much capital as other companies that obviously over time can create huge competitive disadvantages.
I don’t know of any industry in America who would want to compete globally on that basis.
We have an interest in a safe and sound system so we’re not against the leverage ratio but we’re not for a hugely unbalanced competitive playing field.
So put that aside.
The regulators know that.
We thought [unintelligible] Basel and all that to kind of harmonize these kind of things.
And as you asked about we show here anything which is a low RWA asset including HQLA revolvers certain types of derivatives those things obviously you’ll look at a little bit differently because of this leverage ratio asset.
And we don’t have to do it by business yet.
We’ll give you more detail later.
Like even Marianne had mentioned that we take huge deposits in from countries and from money funds etc.
that you may not take in because you can’t afford capital against a deposit of a billion dollars that you’re getting from a money fund that you park at the Fed for 25 days just waiting to pay the FDIC 10 basis points.
You pay the client 5 or 6 or 7 basis points.
You’ve got to put 6% capital against it.
A whole bunch of things we’ve got to figure out how we’re going to do it but we want to make sure we manage the client franchise properly.
We’ll figure out the other stuff over time.
Our next question comes from Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Jamie following up on that it just seems like even the $100 billion of increase in deposits this quarter probably cost you 15 basis points in that leverage ratio.
And so is there any movement do you think during the comment period towards exclusion of any of the risk-free assets at all? Separate the type of deposit okay? So if it’s a consumer deposit it has a completely different LTR how you can invest the kind of spread you can make.
If it’s what we would call like big wholesale short term deposits you’re absolutely correct.
We would probably restrict some of that over time.
And maybe just to follow up on the mortgage business you talked about some of the financial impacts.
Can we talk a little bit just about strategically what you’re doing as you kind of look at that business and the competitive environment in a kind of weaker refi environment? This back up although sharp is not entirely unexpected.
So every thought about our longer term plans and when we outlined all of that in the strategy for the mortgage business at investor day that medium to long term plan does not change.
So it may accelerate some of the activities that we have and have as we said some impact on our next couple of quarters results but the long term strategy hasn’t changed.
We’re working the portfolio optimizing services trying to take cost out as quickly as possible and grow share.
And actually we should be able to grow share even more strongly in a more difficult market.
Our next question comes from Nancy Bush with NAB Research.
Two questions.
First on the branch banking network I know this back up in rates has been primarily at the longer end and we have not yet had a corresponding rise in short term rates.
But do you see any needs at this point to reprice products etc.
at the branch level due to consumer perspective of rising rates? No.
Not yet.
And as you know traditionally that would in any case lag.
Of course that doesn’t mean it will but that’s traditionally what happens.
Secondly Jamie you talked about the asynchronous nature of OCI with OCI getting dinged now with the benefits in the future.
Something else asynchronous is sort of staring us in the face and that’s this loan loss reserve methodology possible change to expected lifetime loss.
What are your thoughts about that? Where does that stand in an implementation process and would you really get dinged by that? This is what the issue is with all this.
You spend all this time talking about accounting as opposed to business.
The business is deposits serving clients doing things and now we’re talking all of a sudden about AOCI.
And we have a lot of asynchronous accounting.
And pro-cyclical accounting and stuff like that.
We try to explain but we try to look through all of that and build a business.
More clients more bankers more branches happier clients and so all of our business that’s how we look at it.
We’ll work through the asynchronous accounting.
If the loan loss reserve accounting changes it would add obviously the loan losses though probably not as much as people think.
But we still would run the business for economics in the long run.
It wouldn’t change how we run the business we’d just be holding more reserves which would be fine with us.
I realize that you’re going to run the business for the business but do you have any sense if this is going to happen and when it might happen? I mean as you know the industry commented we commented in terms of the proposal and we’re generally in favor of it.
We think a lifetime timeline is too long.
Something shorter would make more sense.
I think we need to work that through.
It would be implemented over you know not the course of the next couple of quarters but in a year or so.
So we’ll wait and see.
Our next question comes from Chris Whalen of Carrington.
Marianne could you go back to mortgage and talk a little bit about the quality of the demand you’re seeing? At the beginning of the year the industry was guiding down about 20% in terms of volumes and for next year as well.
Your numbers suggest that’s basically doubled.
In other words instead of 20% we’re looking at 30-40% given rates.
Would it be fair to say that the two factors are equal? First of all the industry groups haven’t fully reforecast the market so we’ll wait and see what they come out with.
We’re trying to be transparent with our guidance at that level.
Hopefully we’re wrong and hopefully it will be better than that.
I will say for our own business we didn’t expect volumes to be down this much throughout the year had this not happened with this space.
So you think there is definitely a price reaction out there among consumers? Well mostly this is refi.
So purchase we actually saw go up a little bit.
But purchases are catching up though.
They’re not going to make up for refi but they may go up yes.
So Jamie back to your point about harmonization when you look at the totality of the way the regulators are treating mortgage MSRs for example which have been rallying very strongly in the past few months and your comments last year about Basel should the U.S.
withdraw from Basel II? I mean it’s so unfriendly to businesses that are very important to you and to the economy particularly in mortgage.
What are your thoughts on that? We’re in favor of finishing.
We’ve always believed in high capital high liquidity good regulation things like that and finishing it.
Obviously there are things that all companies have points of view about which would be different but I think the closer you get to real harmonization the better.
And if you want to start all over again we’ll spend another five years debating every single thing out there.
Our next question comes from Eric Wasserstrom of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Marianne can we just go back to the sequential NII guidance? Can you help me understand how much of that is coming or what the attribution is between benefit to NIM versus loan growth? As I said we’re expecting NIM to stay broadly flat from here.
We do expect some modest loan growth our outlook.
I’m not going to tell you how much but some.
And then we also have the improving cost of debt lower cost of debt on actions that we’ve been taking throughout the first half.
Shouldn’t presumably then the benefits to the funding cost show up through NIM? Yes but we also have yield compression so there’s puts and takes.
So relatively flat on NIM modestly up on NII.
And then just within the composition of loan growth if you divorce out the credit card seasonality it’s been within a very stable range.
What is it that in your view takes the loans out of the current range? I’m sorry I didn’t understand.
In other words your loan balances have been between $725 billion and $728 billion very consistently for many quarters if you divorce out fourth quarter credit card seasonality.
But it sounds like you have some expectation that starts to move out of that range in order to generate this improvement in NII.
I was wondering what the driver of that is.
We’re growing loans in asset management we’re growing loans in auto we’re adding more mortgage loans we’re expecting some growth in commercial.
Our commercial real estate is already growing strongly.
We’re expecting some growth in middle market and corporate client banking space.
Although we’ve seen a reduction in CID we’re expecting that to remain relatively flat.
So all other things being equal that’s net growth.
And card as I said has hit that inflection point.
So that will stop contributing to runoff net.
And then just finally on the third quarter guidance is that consistent with or relatively better than your prior annual guidance of down 1%? So our annual guidance if you look at the first half of the year you’ll see that obviously already we are down year to date by more than that amount.
So this is relative to the third quarter we expect NII to go up.
We’re already down a little more than 1%.
Our next question comes from Christopher Wheeler of Mediobanca.
On equity capital markets clearly the volumes are up about 2% quarter on quarter and I think we all expected you to outperform.
But it was an extremely good performance and I wondered if you could brag a little bit about how you achieved that and how much you thought was the market share and how much is down to geographic split.
That’s the first question.
The second still I go back onto leverage.
I’m just intrigued by the comments on page four which you touched on in an earlier question on the tier one capital actions which you sort of suggested would be perhaps issuance of some additional tier one capital.
This is becoming called now AT1.
And I wondered if you actually had any indication yet - and I know it’s very early - from the regulator or what the terms of that new capital would have to be to qualify for tier one under Basel III.
And then perhaps talk about the $14-15 billion of current hybrids that you have within the tier one calculation which obviously you’re going to phase out I think in some cases if not all through to end of 2018 and what your strategy is for replacing those.
And then just perhaps finally I know Jamie’s talked a lot about level playing fields and I’ve asked him that last year on Basel III capital but I’m just wondering actually the leverage ratio that you’re looking to have to achieve now whether it actually gives you a competitive advantage as opposed to a disadvantage given 3% is pretty well considered too skinny.
Well thank you for bragging on our trading results.
For years the investment bank is building FX rates securitized products commodities emerging markets credit and they’re good.
And obviously some go up and some go down.
I didn’t see any regional effects.
We trade around the world and the books get handed off around the world so it’s hard to give it a region.
But we build a lot of clients low businesses and that was driving it.
I think it’s better for the world to have harmonized rules around what Basel’s trying to do etc.
but you’re absolutely correct it doesn’t have to be exactly the same to have a competitive marketplace etc.
We always ran with higher capital liquidity than most of our competitors.
I just think if one is 3% and one is 6% that becomes just too big.
And over time you could have huge competitive effects.
And the regulators are working out… We all want a fair safe sound financial system.
That’s in everyone’s benefit and there are huge capital requirements liquidity requirements leverage requirements stress testing requirements and among all of that I think we’re getting there.
But at one point it should be somewhat harmonized.
And your middle two questions I now forgot.
Can we get back to you on some of that? We’re running out of time.
Our next question comes from David Hilder with Drexel Hamilton.
To be clear on page four are you saying that your 4.7% leverage ratio is as of June 30 without any other assumptions or roll forward? Yes correct.
Sorry as of June 30 based on the U.S.
proposed rules.
And congratulations for doing the work so quickly.
But secondly Jamie how will you as a company respond to the proposal? Are you in favor of it largely? Are you against it? Will you have a lot of proposed changes to it? We did say at the beginning that we do think that having a leverage ratio is an important part of our capital management toolkit or process as long as it’s properly calibrated.
And so for us the two questions and I think they’re very important and the industry does to so we are participating in the discussions is as Jamie’s talked about what should the quotient or the ratio be and making sure that that’s not only appropriate but fair across the globe.
And also what should the calculation for the denominator be? And we’ve alluded already to specific questions but there are more.
One is should high quality liquid assets and most particularly cash and cash at central banks be treated the same as other balance sheet items? And then in terms of some of the additional add-ons that are being proposed we think they could have issued actual issues for the operation of the financing market.
So I think there’s going to be a lot of work that takes place.
There are comments due back on all of those proposals by mid-September call it plus or minus.
And I think this will all be worked through the fourth quarter.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to JPMorgan Chase’s third quarter 2013 earnings call.
This call is being recorded.
Your line will be muted for the duration of the call.
We will now go live to the presentation.
Please stand by.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase’s Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon and Chief Financial Officer Marianne Lake.
Ms.
Lake please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
I’m going to take you through the earnings presentation which is available on our website.
Please refer to the disclaimer regarding forward looking statements at the back of the presentation.
The firm made a net loss of $380 million for the third quarter on the back of very significant litigation expenses.
So I want to take you first to page two.
We’ve added this page for this quarter only as we want to be as transparent with you as we can be and give you as complete a picture as possible of our litigation reserves and the current perspective on the evolution of our reasonably possible range of losses for litigation.
And as you know as transparent as we would like to be we are necessarily constrained in what we can actually say.
Having said that on page two I’ll start by saying that we appreciate that the litigation expense of $9.2 billion is much more significant than you’ve been expecting.
It’s much more significant that we expected until very recently.
The reality is that over the last few weeks the environment’s become highly charged and very volatile.
Things have been very fluid and the situation escalated to the point where we’re facing very large premiums and penalties the level of which has gone far beyond what we reasonably expected.
However those are the facts we’re dealing with today in our reserving actions this quarter and are trying as hard as possible to put these issues behind us.
So let me take you quickly through the table on the top of page two which is a roll-forward of our reserves.
We started 2010 with $3 billion in reserves added around $28 billion through the third quarter including the actions this period and have settled a little less than $8 billion across matters which leaves us with $23 billion approximately of ending reserves which relate to a broad range of matters and includes a significant reserve for mortgage related matters including both securities and repurchase litigation exposure.
Remember our GSE repurchase reserves of over $2 billion are separate from this.
The balance at quarter end reflects the $9.2 billion we’re expensing this quarter.
This expense also covers a range of matters including but not limited to mortgage-backed securities.
And the impact from their income you can see is high as it’s being effected by a portion of the expense estimated to relate to enforcement penalties which would not be tax deductible.
Again these estimates relate to a number of cases including among other things mortgage as well as the recently announced CIO settlements.
We do expect litigation expenses to normalize over time to much lower levels but they may be somewhat lumpy quarter over quarter.
Finally on this page we’ve included a table which shows a revised range of reasonably possible losses.
And those are losses that would be in addition to our reserves.
And remember it’s pre-tax.
It’s very important to emphasize that when estimating this range it’s difficult and there are significant inherent uncertainties and judgments required.
As you can see this was estimated at $6.8 billion last quarter and while the range has gone down versus last quarter it’s only gone down modestly in comparison to the reserve adds.
Think of it simply as if the estimate of what was reasonably possible back in the second quarter reflected our best assessment of the environment we were in and our best judgment at that time.
But as I said we didn’t even a few weeks ago reasonably expect things to have escalated to where they are now so we have therefore revised our range to better reflect the reality of this current environment with a range of up to $5.7 billion.
And before we go back to page one just a final comment as we said in the press release the board and senior management continue to seek fair and reasonable settlement with the government on mortgage-related issues but at this time we are unable to report on any specifics.
So just flipping back to page one and just to finish of the front page the other significant item we’ve highlighted on the page is the combined $1.6 billion of loan loss reserve releases for the consumer businesses.
And if you add the two significant items in the table which we don’t consider to be core to our earnings they total a loss of $6.2 billion and $1.59 of EPS in the negative.
If you adjust our results for these two non-core items we would have earned $5.8 billion and an EPS of $1.42 with a return on tangible common equity of 15%.
And that’s not to discount the items but rather to show the strength of our underlying performance.
The businesses showed double-digit growth in key drivers as well as market share gains in consumer and CIB in banking and market.
For the second consecutive year we led the nation in deposit growth up 10%.
Credit card sales volumes were up 11% and we maintained our number one IDC ranking with 130 basis points increase in market share.
And asset management saw $19 billion of long term net inflows the 18th consecutive quarter.
So turning with that to page four and the details of our balance sheet and capital first after allowing for dividends and repurchases our capital declined in the quarter by approximately $2 billion.
As a result our Basel III tier one common ratio remained flat at 9.3% quarter over quarter with the decline in capital being offset by lower risk-weighted assets primarily driven by legacy portfolio runoff.
We’re targeting 9.5% by the end of this year and still aiming to run at about a 50 to 100 basis point buffer above this level over time.
And our 2014 CCAR submission will take both these targets into consideration as well as maintaining the flexibility to increase dividends and to repurchase shares.
And just to note our Basel III ratio under the advanced approach is currently lower than under the standardized approach.
An update then on leverage.
The firm-wide supplementary leverage ratio under U.S.
rules remains at 4.7% this quarter and similarly the bank leverage ratio remains at 4.3%.
And as you know comment letters were provided recently relating to both the U.S.
[MPR] as well as Basel proposals which included requests for revised treatment for certain assets and exposures.
And we don’t know what the outcome of the final rules will be but it’s possible there will be some things that improve those numbers.
Finally we remain compliant with LCR this quarter and have HQLA of over $530 billion with around $350 billion in cash at central banks.
And as you know we resubmitted our CCAR at the end of September and expect to receive feedback from the Fed in early December.
So now let’s turn to business performance and while the environment has been and continues to be very challenging remember that there are more than 250 000 people in this company focused day in and day out on serving our customers and communities.
So with that on page five I’ll start with consumer and community banking.
The combined consumer businesses generated $2.7 billion of net income for the quarter on $11 billion of revenue and with an ROE of 23%.
As expected we’ve seen a sharp drop in mortgage banking origination volumes and margins.
That impacted non-interest revenue in the quarter.
But taking a look at the franchise we ended the quarter with over 5 600 branches over 19 000 ATMs and 1 900 Chase private client locations.
And we continue to see really strong growth in the underlying drivers for the consumer businesses.
Average deposits were up $40 billion year on year an increase of 10%.
And for the second year in a row we led the FDIC survey with the highest deposit growth and a growth rate more than twice the industry average with that strength being broad-based across markets.
We’re number one in our three largest markets and we gained share in 20 of the 25 largest markets.
Our active mobile customer base grew by 30% year on year.
We had record credit card sales volume of $107 billion up 11% year on year and outperforming the industry for the fifth consecutive year.
This quarter also had record client investment assets of $179 billion up 16% year on year reflecting the strong positive momentum of the Chase private client initiative as well as overall higher market levels.
And to close a moment on expenses which were down $89 million year on year primarily due to lower mortgage banking expenses.
And across CCB we will have reduced headcount by over 15 000 for the full year of 2013.
Turning to page six consumer and business banking we generated net income of $762 million and an ROE of 27% on net revenue of $4.4 billion up 2% year on year and 3% quarter on quarter.
Net interest income is up 3% quarter on quarter driven by the strong growth in deposits I mentioned partially offset by spread compression.
But for the first time in about three years the deposit margin has not declined quarter over quarter meaning that rate compression is being offset by higher reinvestment rates.
And at current market rates we would expect all other things being equal for our deposit margins to be relatively stable in the medium-term.
On the noninterest revenue side we continue to see strong growth in both debit and investment revenue.
Expenses are up year on year reflecting the investments we’ve made in the business including Chase Private Client as well as costs related to strengthening control and compliance.
And a minute on business banking.
You can see loan balances are flat quarter over quarter up 2% versus last year and production levels have stabilized at around these levels with a healthy pipeline in that context.
Turning to page seven and the mortgage bank overall mortgage banking net income was around $700 million with an ROE of 14%.
And the short story here is significantly lower production income offsetting higher reserve releases.
But if you start at the top with production pre-tax we guided you that production pre-tax margins would be slightly negative in each of the third and fourth quarters.
And excluding repurchases you can see that’s the case for the third quarter with a net loss of $85 million or a net negative 21 basis points of pre-tax margins.
As you see revenues are down over 50% quarter on quarter.
This reflects both a reduction in [locks] and the impact of a mix change together driving 120 basis points of revenue margin compression in the quarter.
While [locks] are down 40% quarter on quarter closed loan volumes were down 17% reflecting a pull through of the second quarter pipeline.
And although you do see that our expenses are down some around 7% this reflects primarily the transaction level variable costs.
We have taken appropriate actions this quarter to adjust capacity which will fully hit our run rate in exit Q4.
On the positive side our purchase volumes continue to increase and purchase mix was nearly 50% of loans this quarter up from 35% last quarter.
Moving on to servicing a loss of $226 million pre-tax excluding MSR risk management.
Lower revenues were down due to a couple of items including the exit of lender pays reinsurance.
On an adjusted basis the servicing revenue would have been up slightly reflecting the impact of higher rates.
Also servicing expenses were $858 million for the quarter including approximately $200 million of foreclosure-related matters.
If you adjust for this our core expenses would have been around $650 million on track for the approximately $600 million in the fourth quarter as we guided at investor day.
Finally you see the MSR showed a modest loss this quarter of $180 million which includes a negative $120 million due to further HPI improvements which is also driving higher reserve releases in the real estate portfolios.
So on to the real estate portfolio.
Pre-tax income of $1.5 billion includes net chargeoffs of a little over $200 million with chargeoffs expected at around that same level next quarter.
As expected a continued reduction in delinquencies but importantly improvement in HPI drove severity down in both NCI and PCI portfolios which led us to release a combined $1.25 billion of reserves this quarter.
Turning the page to page eight we’ll do card merchant services and auto.
Revenue of $4.6 billion was down slightly year on year and quarter on quarter as a result of spread compression despite strong sales volumes with net income of $1.2 billion up 29% year on year and an ROE of 26% excluding reserve releases which reflect strong and consistent growth in sales and exchange revenue.
In card year over year growth in both sales and merchant processing volumes was consistent and strong and 11% and 14% respectively and we saw a slight increase in average outstandings quarter on quarter.
Expenses are flat year over year and down a little quarter over quarter but the second quarter included a one-time item.
The net chargeoff rate has reached historic lows at 2.86% which is down over 70 basis points year on year and we released $350 million of loan loss reserves this quarter.
We expect an additional $150 million of reserve releases next quarter consistent with our guidance for the second half of the year.
Before we move on a few words on auto with originations up 2% year on year and balances 4% year on year.
And despite higher rates leading to increased competitive intensity we’re still expecting growth in the fourth quarter year over year.
Moving on to slide nine the corporate and investment bank.
We had very strong performance in CIB with net income of $2.2 billion and an ROE of 16% despite being a seasonally weaker third quarter and including a DVA loss of nearly $400 million.
As usual we’ll focus on the numbers excluding DVA.
We had net income of $2.5 billion on revenues of $8.6 billion and an ROE of 17%.
In banking total revenue was $2.9 billion and we maintained our number-one ranking in global IB fees with $1.5 billion up 6% year on year.
We were up in a market that is down overall in wallet and captured 130 basis points of wallet share over last year.
Our market share gains were significantly larger than any of the other top ten players and supported by landmark transactions like Verizon.
I’ll take a segment to just give you some color on the strong competitive performance in ECM this quarter.
We’re number one year to date in terms of wallet gaining 140 basis points of share and this quarter we’re number one in volume number one in wallet and number one in deals.
Moving on to markets $4.7 billion of revenue down 2% year on year versus a strong third quarter last year in line with our guidance that we provided at Barclays.
Fixed income markets revenue of $3.4 billion was down 8% year on year but remember the third quarter of 2012 did include modest losses in the synthetic credit portfolio.
Equity markets revenues of $1.2 billion were up 20% year on year with broad-based strength across cash and derivatives and across regions.
Security service revenue of $1 billion was up 3% year on year with growth in custody and fund services partially offset by lower agent lending spreads.
And credit adjustments and other of a negative $409 million was almost entirely DVA.
Expenses of $5 billion were down 7% year on year primarily driven by comp with a comp to revenue ratio of 27% for the quarter.
Loans were down slightly primarily due to trade finance.
And finally average CIB VAR remained relatively flat quarter over quarter at $45 million.
The current quarter continues to reflect historically low levels of volatility as well as continued risk reduction.
I’ll skip page 10 and take you to page 11 and the commercial bank.
The quarter saw net income of $665 million on revenue of $1.7 billion with an ROE of 20%.
Revenues were flat year on year and quarter on quarter reflecting pressure on NII offset by favorable franchise trends.
Spreads compressed in the quarter 5 basis points or so from a relatively stable landscape in the last few quarters across most client segments and geographies.
And given the environment it’s likely spreads will continue to be under some pressure.
In terms of loan balances of $135 billion up 9% year on year and 3% quarter on quarter.
This remains a tale of two cities.
The commercial real estate business continues to grow strongly up 4% quarter on quarter with loan growth outpacing the market and growing every month for the last 13 months.
Multifamily fundamentals are very strong and traditional commercial real estate is building momentum with both CRE and multifamily pipelines remaining robust.
However in C&amp;I demand remains soft and competitive pressures high the combination of which has continued to drive relatively flat C&amp;I loans in the quarter.
And we continue to focus on quality over growth.
Every day we’re adding new policy clients clients with whom we expect to do lots of business over decades to come and we’ve added over 600 of these clients year to date.
And aside from lending we continue to cross-sell our existing clients.
To evidence that growth IB revenues were a record $448 million for the quarter up 16%.
Before we leave CB two final points.
Expenses were up 10% year over year reflecting higher product and headcount expenses as we invest in front office and controls.
And credit reflected a release this quarter as the risk profile of the portfolio continues to improve.
Page 12 and asset management another very strong quarter for asset management with net income of $476 million up 7% year on year and an ROE of 21%.
Revenue was $2.8 billion up 12% over last year and while overall high market levels did help very strong fund performance and flows drove the story.
74% of our mutual fund AUM is ranked in the first or second quartiles of performance over five years.
And we saw $19 billion of long term net inflows.
This is the 18th consecutive quarter of long term net inflows.
Importantly we saw this in every single long term asset class in every region and it brought our year to date long term flows to $74 billion which compares to just less than $60 billion for the full year of 2012.
We ended the quarter with AUM of $1.5 trillion up 12% year on year and in banking we continue to see deposit and loan growth across the board.
And while we expect loan growth to continue to be relatively strong it’s likely to be somewhat lower in Q4 given the lower mortgage pipeline.
Expenses increased 16% year on year as we continue to grow and invest in client advisors.
And looking forward we expect long term flows to remain positive and the breadth of our platform to enable us to grow our business and continue to sustain strong trends.
Moving on to page 13 corporate and private equity a total net loss of $6.5 billion for the quarter but breaking it down into its constituent pieces private equity generated net income of $242 million reflecting gains on certain investments in our $9 billion portfolio.
Treasury and CIO showed a net loss of around $200 million but you’ll see that the $261 million of negative NII this quarter is lower than the run rate seen over the last several quarters which reflects the impact of higher rates specifically higher yields quarter over quarter driven by mortgages and reinvestment in munis.
In the quarter we deployed $32 billion growth in new investments primarily agency mortgages and munis including $5 billion of agency mortgages which we’ve classified as held to maturity.
As we continue to invest if you follow the forward curve you should expect NII to continue to improve the CIO/Treasury over the next several quarters.
And finally although AOCI ended up relatively flat quarter over quarter or even up slightly we did obviously see significant volatility during the quarter.
The other corporate net loss of $6.5 billion is driven by the $9.2 billion pretax or $7.2 billion after tax for litigation expense in the quarter.
If you exclude litigation results for the quarter did include a few positive tax adjustments totaling around $500 million relating to prior period adjustments settlement resolutions and reserve changes mostly BAU items.
So finally page 14 and our outlook.
We’ve covered most of the outlook going through the presentation so just a couple of things I would highlight.
As expected our firm-wide NIM core NIM and NII were relatively flat this quarter and given market rates we expect relatively flat NIM and NII in the near term.
The firm is positioned to benefit from a higher rate environment and we are starting to see that in our results.
Turning to expenses we expect adjusted expenses for the full year to be between $59.5 billion and $60 billion as we continue to invest in controls and compliance.
Overall our businesses are delivering in terms of leadership growth and financial performance with double digit growth in key businesses drivers as well as market share gains.
And as I said excluding corporate litigation and releases we returned a 15% return on tangible common equity.
I’ll hand it over to Jamie who’ll go through the final slides.
Great Marianne.
Thank you very much and hello everybody.
So I’m going to just talk a little bit about things on page 15 because a lot of questions we’re getting asked about it.
It’s three columns.
I’ll do each one shortly.
First simplifying our business.
If you look at what we’re doing we’re spinning off One Equity Partners selling physical commodities and we’ve closed down a bunch of business lines.
I think it’s a core business principle to always simplify your business and to focus on where you could really win.
It’s a little more amplified this time because obviously there’s a new regulatory environment capital and we need to focus a lot of our management mindset on controls.
You also on that first column you’ll see we’re de-risking.
We’re trying to meet new standards that we’ve set for ourselves and the regulators want us to set to reduce risk to our company particularly on anti-money laundering.
It will have a revenue effect so my guess is if you asked probably a couple of hundred million dollars across all of our businesses.
The middle column shows you the investments we’re making in control.
We want to be best in class.
We want to get to Six Sigma.
It’s become the number one priority.
Just to give you an idea we’re going to spend about $1 billion more.
But that’s not the effort.
The real effort if you think about it is how much resources have been redirected to get this right.
And there’s unprecedented work streams like 500 people working on CCAR 500 people working on resolution and recovery.
We just turned in a believe it or not 100 000-page plan.
We’ve added 5 000 people.
And so this is a permanent investment.
These costs are not going to go away.
I think it’s important we get this exactly right.
If you look at the right hand column I just want to go down that one by one.
As I just mentioned it is permanent cost structure that will stay in place but our overhead is very competitive.
We’re very rigorous on expenses.
And we intend to stay that way.
So you shouldn’t expect to see tremendous increases in our expense base.
While we simplified our business it does not really affect our core businesses or core products.
So Marianne went through the four business lines.
It’s not going to affect our ability to be extremely competitive.
Our [unintelligible] balance sheet is intact and as you know critically important to us.
The higher levels of capital liquidity will ultimately affect pricing to clients but we’ll also be able to push down and optimize across the globe effectively as we adjust to the new global financial architecture.
I think it’s important to point out that we do have to adjust to a new global financial architecture.
It’s not just the [unintelligible] it’s really rules around the world.
We’re working hard to do that.
We think we will be able to do that.
But we go into that with excellent franchises good underlying growth and a pretty good long term outlook.
Because while we operate in violent and volatile businesses around the world markets go up and down the underlying growth of asset management equity debt capital markets global multinationals U.S.
consumer needs and middle market needs in the U.S.
will actually be growing over time.
So we think we’re in a very good place to serve them.
Our people really have done an outstanding job persevering and performing through these kind of difficult times and you can actually go back and it’s been five or six years.
If you came to this building I know a lot of you have you see the employee morale is very high and hopefully it will stay there.
And then the last thing investor day there’s a lot of new rules they won’t be completely finalized but we’ll know most of them we’ll be able to give you a lot more of an update on how we think this affects our businesses going forward.
We’re pretty optimistic that we’ll be able to continue to build a great company.
So we’ll stop there and open the floor to questions.
[Operator instructions.] And our first question comes from John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
Just on the legal front not sure exactly what you can say.
I’ll give it a shot here.
Does the lack of a settlement so far with the government reflect the DC shutdown or more the fact that you’re still negotiating or a combination of both? Any comment there? I think it may be a little bit the DC shutdown but in reality it’s a complex thing.
It’s a board-level issue and we want a fair and reasonable settlement if we can.
And that’s all we can really say about it.
It involves multiple agencies.
So you can imagine the complexity.
And in terms of the $9 billion provision this quarter can you give us any sense of how much that reflects revised estimates of government penalties and fines as opposed to refined estimates for damage claims from private parties and things like that? No unfortunately we did as much as we can to give you as much clarity as we can but we’re not going to be able to break that down for you.
Could you give one more shot Marianne at explaining how the range of possible loss doesn’t go down more after such a big provision? The way to think about it very candidly is that we didn’t expect when we estimated that… Remember it’s a very difficult thing to estimate the significant uncertainty in terms of the estimates significant judgment and when we made those judgments in the second quarter we didn’t anticipate the environment being as volatile and escalating to the point that it has now.
So as we’ve taken our reserves the reserves reflect today.
So they reflect the current environment and the situation and facts that we’re in.
And we’ve now taken that into consideration as we look forward with our reasonably possible range.
That’s why it hasn’t gone down anywhere near dollar to dollar obviously.
Does the settlement negotiations and things that you’re doing does that affect how you project losses on other aspects of legal that you were not negotiating in the last couple of weeks? Or you’ve kind of upped the projection of what you might have faced on other stuff? All we can say is that we’ve reserved for what’s probable and estimable based upon the facts and circumstances specific to each individual exposure and the overall environment.
It’s a tough environment John and we’re just trying to reflect that.
On the expense front I guess Jamie just said that the things that you’ve added in the control and compliance area are permanent and that kind of drove up the expense outlook on an adjusted basis Marianne of $59.5 billion to $60 billion? So is this kind of the go-forward run rate the $60 billion adjusted expenses? What would be the opportunity to bring that down over time? Are there any areas where that is kind of still environmentally elevated? Just two things.
And I think in the Barclays presentation there was a slide that showed that of the increase in our outlook there was a chunk of it that related to non-corporate litigation.
So it certainly isn’t entirely to do with our investment in cost and control much of which we are funding through efficiencies.
Having said that there is an incremental cost.
It is in part permanent and is going to be affecting our run rate.
But there was a good I think $500 million of other expenses including non-corporate litigation which as you know we don’t adjust out.
And then I guess also in there would be the default servicing which is still elevated? Can you remind us the longer term target and how that could come down? The longer-term target was a $325 million quarterly run rate but that’s over the longer term.
What we said about 2013 and are on track to deliver is that we’d exit the year with about $600 million of expenses in the fourth quarter.
Which we still expect.
Yes which we still expect.
If you look at the third quarter run rate adjusted it’s about $650 million down from just over $700 million in the second quarter.
So that trend is moving in the right direction.
And then the last thing for me is just wondering Jamie does the internal control issues this year some of the headline issues at regulators does that affect your mindset as you go into CCAR and think about how you’ll think about capital return next year? First of all we’re going to get there when we get there.
But obviously this company is very sound plenty of capital.
We want to pass CCAR but when you talk about capital plans it’s going to be subject to several things.
One is the stock price.
Subject to passing CCAR with flying colors which is really the stress test of CCAR and also subject to wanting to meet our own targets for capital.
So we’ve already said we want to get to probably somewhere north of 10% Basel III tier one capital etc.
And when we know all those numbers do our budgets we’ll put the proper CCAR plan in place.
Our next question comes from Glenn Schorr of ISI.
Just a quick follow up on the CCAR.
You didn’t say the exact difference between advanced and standardized but I wonder if you could shed light on the spread between the two.
I’m just curious does it play a bigger role in the process this year? Or you were just kind of pointing it out? I was pointing it out mainly because I think if you go back several quarters over a year ago standardized for us was lower than advanced by a reasonable spread.
And clearly when the Collins [unintelligible] Amendment is applicable which is not for a period of time we would be looking at the lower of those two ratios.
Right now it’s higher than the advanced approach by a little more than 10 basis points.
We should point out when we do CCAR next year effectively - it’s not the same for every quarter - it will be based on Basel III which is a far more volatile number because RWA moves around under stress with the Basel III as opposed to under Basel I.
Okay but that spread is a lot tighter so it’s less concerning.
So that’s good.
Curious we don’t have all the answers on how the whole leverage focus is going to shake out but it seems to be working its way through a little bit.
I think your book’s down 15% or so year on year and it’s less than 10% of the overall ballot sheet.
But is that a correct way to think about it that that focus is going to start impacting the repo market? And I’m just curious if you could talk about for your book what is balance sheet financing versus real customer financing.
Yeah so SLR which you’re referring to is at 4.7%.
Remember I wouldn’t overreact to it.
Obviously SLR will cause you to optimize differently and a lot of products which are very high user capital under SLR think of those as deposits repo anything that’s short term and low margin.
Revolvers etc.
So it will make you optimize differently but I think in reality the way to look at it is we’ll be able to adjust to it.
We’ll probably be able to do it by client.
We’re going to get to the ratio we need to get to and we want to do it without disrupting all of our clients.
So we’ll be able to give you a lot more detail on that when we know the final rules.
And remember there is still the possibility that there will be changes made to reflect I think the [FIN 41] [unintelligible] which you’re talking about which I think would be positive clearly positive to the repo market.
Shifting gears just a quickie I saw the guidance is for flat net interest income dollars.
Your loan growth was 1% or 2% quarter on quarter year on year.
But the underlying business as you mentioned is a lot better.
Just curious it seems like conservative guidance but curious on what’s behind it.
On NII? Correct.
In terms of NII dollars being flat.
Growth has flattened out in terms of interest earning assets.
You’ve seen that obviously take place over the last couple of quarters.
And so our guidance is reflecting the fact that we’ve seen things stabilize both NIM and NII and that for the near term that’s what we’re expecting.
Maybe a last one.
It’s a world that doesn’t have a lot of loan growth has very low interest rates and capital markets have been far from ideal.
To your point your underlying businesses are operating good and ex the charge you’re earning that $6 run rate that people are hoping you could get to.
I guess the question is do you have more confidence than you did last year in terms of that $24 billion over the cycle? Because you’re kind of at that run rate now with not ideal conditions.
It’s your job to forecast the future.
We do think there’s some very good businesses and like I said there’s underlying growth.
But obviously it could be swamped in the short run by markets and events etc.
We’ll report a lot more on investor day give you much more insight.
All right.
I have more confidence.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
A couple of questions.
One just another question on [FIC].
We’ve talked in the past about clearing and clearing requirements.
And prior quarters we just had very few trades coming in under the new rules.
Can you give us a sense as to how customer behavior has been and how that’s impacted your [FIC] line this quarter? I think there’s two major things.
First of all the pre-trade and post-trade rules are in place and I think basically they didn’t have that much of an effect on the business.
And now you have the [steps] in place and if I’m talking to folks on the trading floor volumes seem to be down a little bit but not because of the steps.
The steps are basically accepting data at this point.
They’re not making markets yet.
You haven’t seen a huge effect of it.
And I think over time it still remains to be seen.
And then on [SLR] did I hear you correctly that you’re not going to make any changes to how you’re providing credit to clients until you find out what the final rule is? There’s no major changes on how you’re approaching the market? Yeah because we’re going to meet the new targets and retain the capital and eventually we are actually already pushing down to the business.
We’re starting to push down to the business units LCR all the capital all this stuff.
Eventually we’ll put down SLR and that will affect pricing and stuff.
What we don’t want to do is do a lot of it in anticipation.
But if revolver [unintelligible] SLR at 100% drawn the cost of those would go up.
And I’m not sure they’ll go up immediately but they will go up over time.
And so we’ll be able to get there.
We just don’t want to do stupid things in anticipation of rules that we don’t know what they are yet.
Our businesses are thinking through all of the implications.
When the rules come out we’ll be able to [unintelligible].
If you think about it it’s a measured approach.
We don’t want to overreact.
We want to see how things play out.
And at the margin there will be some changes to products and pricing but we’re going to be very measured.
So cash at central banks doesn’t have to hold capital against.
That’s 50 basis points.
If you took revolvers down to what we say is a normal draw like even a stress draw of 20% which is what we kind of saw in the crisis that would be another 50 basis points.
So we just want to be a little measured in how we deal with this.
And the second thing on mortgage in the mortgage servicing relatively high charges.
The foreclosure piece in there.
But just wondering if there’s anything else going on in the servicing expenses? No there’s really just the basic underlying run rate which is about $650 million.
It does include some severance obviously given actions taken to adjust capacity in the business together with the $200 million item  And portfolio sale coming up at all in that? No not anything of any significance.
We have done some including recently but nothing major.
And just lastly just another question on the litigation on the page two.
I think the Street understands the reason for taking the $9 billion charge and you’ve got the two comments on page two which highlight the unpredictable hard to forecast but I guess what some folks are wondering is should we be putting into the model just a higher run rate of litigation expenses going forward? I think over the past couple of years it’s been 300-500 kind of normalized quarter one to two on a [unintelligible] and up quarter.
Is that one to two the new normal until we get through this whole thing? We would love to reduce the uncertainty around this for ourselves and for you but it’s very very hard to do.
So the way I look at it is it will probably be elevated the next year or two not like we just went through but it will necessarily be lumpy.
So as we settle as we negotiate as we figure out - remember there are multiple agencies involved in every case now.
So you saw in the CIO thing that we paid four and maybe eventually five penalties which we really did not expect.
And so we just have to deal with it and deal with the reality as it is.
It will abate over time and the underlying power of the company you can see.
I wish I could give you a better answer but one day it won’t be a big number.
So Jamie as you think about all the litigation stuff that you’ve got can you give us a sense as to how much you’re currently in discussions to negotiate to give us a sense of how far along you think you are? First of all the big ones are really board-level type of discussions.
And our preference is always to resolve it.
It is very hard to fight with your regulators or the federal government but we want them to be fair and reasonable.
We have shareholders.
And those shareholders by the way I remind people it’s not me it’s veterans and retirees and mothers and we’re trying to do the right thing.
It’s very hard.
We’ve got the top people involved inside and outside the company and hopefully over time we will make this a much smaller issue.
Our next question comes from Matt O’Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Just looking at slide 15 I think this is very helpful in terms of laying out some of the things that you’re targeting to reduce on the left-hand side.
I guess as we set back that picture and we think about a couple hundred million of revenue given up on the left side and expense pick up in the middle and then we factor in the higher capital requirements the higher liquidity are you confident that both the long term earnings impact won’t be that meaningful and that you don’t need to adjust the model that much? And I think that’s kind of most people’s view but the nickels and dimes I think there’s some concern that it does start to add up as well.
It does but again we think we’ve maintained pretty good margins and pretty good capital and we have different ways to optimize.
And not all the things we’re simplifying were very profitable.
And so remember it lets us focus on other things.
And the other things we’re doing pretty well.
Like almost every single business we’re up in share.
And remember the reason you go up in share is because\you’re doing a good job for clients.
They vote with their feet which means you’re satisfying them.
And so we’re comfortable we’ll be able to adjust to the new world and still have great businesses.
And again you haven’t seen all the reprice that might take place you haven’t seen the reactions and changes in business strategies.
And some things may move to the shadow banking world which is fine.
We’ll figure it out.
Like I mentioned the needs of our clients consumer small business middle market large corporate are not going away.
They have to be served and satisfied somewhere.
And then just separately the compensation rate within the investment bank coming down this quarter just by pretty good revenue trends overall any additional color on that? I think you’ve been targeting 35% longer term or maybe 31% or so.
We’ve said 30-35% and remember we do it pretty consistently after capital and looking at value creating and stuff like that.
So that hasn’t changed.
It just came down a little bit this quarter.
And then lastly could you just share what the CIO losses were a year ago? I’m not sure you’ve disclosed that before.
We said they were modest losses last year.
Yeah modest.
We didn’t disclose it Matt.
And they were about breakeven this quarter.
It’s getting very very small.
Our next question comes from Erika Najarian of Bank of America My first question is on the new leverage proposals.
I think we’re hearing loud and clear that you’re not going to do anything rash in terms of how you run your businesses but given that we’re still in proposal form in the U.S.
and also with Basel can JPMorgan accelerate capital return in next year’s CCAR even with the proposals fluid on the leverage side? Two things.
One is if you just look at the firm-wide leverage ratio for a second that 4.7% obviously there may be changes when the final rules are issued.
But just take that as a base.
We’re only 30 basis points from the minimum and while we’re targeting to go higher than that clearly 30 basis points is not a great distance for us to cover.
And then I would just reiterate what Jamie said which is when we look at our 2014 CCAR it will take into account a balanced set of facts and circumstances.
So obviously both the quantitative and qualitative nature of the results of the stress test but also our desire to once again get to capital levels that we’ve expressed together with maintaining flexibility through appropriate dividends and repurchases.
So all those things together will be considered in the capital plan.
And my second follow up question is on the advanced versus standardized approach as it relates to the CCAR.
You’ve told us that the standardized ratio is clearly lower but as you run your models under stress what is more punitive for your bank? Is it coming into a stress scenario with a lower starting point on standardized? Or is it the RWA inflation when you stress the advanced? Three things.
First of all just to clarify currently our standardized ratio is higher than advanced albeit not by a very wide margin.
So just to clarify that point.
Just generically the advanced approach RWA sensitivity to a stressed environment would be more impacted than a standardized approach.
But remember that’s a future issue for us for 2014 CCAR.
As we understand the instructions we will be looking at an additional test on top of the 5% Basel I that will have a Basel I risk-weighted assets for the denominator for the first four quarters and Basel III standardized for the second four quarters.
So for 2014 CCAR the advanced approach isn’t one of the critical tests although it will likely be in the future.
But in theory and in reality that will reduce more dramatically under stress than the other measure.
Our next question comes from Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Three small questions and then one larger one.
First what was the loan utilization on the wholesale side for the quarter versus last quarter? It was relatively flat in the low 30s between 30% and 31%.
And as far as the headcount reduction you said in CCB you’re taking out 15 000 jobs this year and 11 000 in mortgage.
Where are the rest of the jobs coming out from and how are you able to do that? It’s consistent with what we said at investor day in terms of the remaining jobs coming out of the branch network in consumer as we implement new technology and new operation models and new branch formats.
And as it relates to slide 15 the repositioning of the business what inning are you in for that derisking and the control agenda? It seems like derisking might be earlier innings and the control agenda the later stages? But you tell me.
I guess we’re making huge progress on it but it’s not going to stop for years.
It’s permanent.
And then the larger question relates to the legal issue.
How much of the investor losses for the mortgage putback in the mortgage securities relates to Bear and Wamu? I know there’s been a lot of numbers in the press but we haven’t heard those numbers from you.
Just for what it’s worth on page 2 very small in a footnote we talk about an estimate of about 80% of NBS deal losses related to heritage Wamu and Bear Sterns.
That’s losses.
Okay 80% of losses.
And what’s the dollar amount of losses on the mortgage putback side? When you say mortgage putback are you talking about the GSE putback? What’s the total dollar amount of all the losses we’re talking about for this potential settlement? That must be public somewhere.
For mortgage putback in aggregate mortgage securities what are the dollar amounts? What’s the original principal amount and what’s the investor loss? Just the dollar amounts if you can break that down? I think you have to get that from other analysts who actual have published numbers like that.
So I guess one question if 80% of the losses are from the deals would you have done the deals differently? Did you not read the fine print? Did you not have some additional protection that you might have had? I know it was short notice for these transactions.
On the other hand as you look back now maybe you wish you did something differently.
Obviously that’s true Mike because this is very painful for the company.
So Bear Sterns we did do quickly.
We didn’t anticipate that we’d be paying anything for prior losses for Bear Sterns.
I tell people even at Bear Sterns remember I think it was $80 billion of bonds were made good which would have failed that day had they gone bankrupt.
And we did ask.
We weren’t completely stupid.
We did ask the SEC and only the SEC for would they please agree not to take enforcement actions against JPMorgan for things that happened at Bear which of course they couldn’t do outright but they did say they’d take in consideration the circumstances in which the transaction took place.
And in Wamu we don’t believe we’re responsible by contract.
But that does not mean that people can’t come after you.
So that was a little bit of a lesson learned too.
Can you talk more about the tradeoff then? No one’s forcing you to settle.
If you really think this is a bad deal then you obviously wouldn’t do it.
So what’s the tradeoff for not settling versus settling? We’re going to do what’s in the best interest of our shareholders all things considered.
It’s a board-level decision.
It needs to be fair reasonable take into consideration all the facts and if possible we’d like to get it done.
And if we can’t the board will make that decision.
It’s not a good choice either way.
And your decision to disclose the legal reserve as we go back and ask all the other banks “What’s your legal reserve? JPMorgan disclosed it   The factor there was candidly that you were all trying to do this.
You had most or at least a large number of analysts that published research papers trying to recreate settlements and reserves through time and for this one time only we felt like it was helpful and transparent and constructive to show you the magnitude of reserves after these actions so that you can have that context when you think about the future.
Our next question comes from Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
Just a couple of quick follow up questions.
First of all Marianne in the expenses related to mortgage production those were down about 6% quarter over quarter.
Do you have a sense if the trajectory of those costs are going to come down faster over the next couple of quarters? Several banks have discussed that in terms of trying to reduce the expenses at the same time production revenues are also coming down.
First of all just to give context to that 6-7% down quarter over quarter there is a portion of our expense base related to mortgage that’s truly variable.
So as production levels go down we pay less compensation on the loans.
And as a result that’s what you’re seeing in this quarter.
With respect to then rightsizing the expense base for the opportunity in the market we have taken actions as you’re aware in the third quarter to start to do that.
However once you’ve gone beyond the truly variable costs those actions take in some cases six months to truly get through the run rate.
So while we will expect to see that start to come to fruition in the fourth quarter not completely in the quarter more as a run rate matter.
And then there is a portion of costs that are more fixed in terms of our ability to be able to participate whether it’s real estate technology and a core infrastructure.
Obviously we’re also taking a look at that but we’re in this business and so there will be an element of fixed costs obviously into next year.
But you should expect that we’re still seeing absent [locks] go down tightly into the fourth quarter you should expect revenues may be down but expenses will also be down for that net slight negative pretax margin that we’ve guided you to.
That’s still what we expect.
And then just a question on pipelines.
You mentioned that the pipeline in commercial banking was healthy.
Just curious as to whether or not that is largely due to transactions that have been held up because of uncertainty in the economy on the part of your borrowers or is that also being helped by more business being booked by your bankers.
And also if you have a comment on the investment banking pipeline at this point realizing it’s early in the quarter that would be helpful too.
So let me brag on our commercial bank and investment bank bankers.
We’ve opened up branches I’m going to say Jacksonville Sacramento Nashville.
So we’re actually in more places in the commercial bank.
Obviously we’ve been building on the Wamu footprint in Florida and California and they’ve just been doing an exceptional job.
And more importantly a high quality job.
We’re really happy with the quality of the business they’re booking and our investment bankers.
You see the numbers in equity and debt.
And we didn’t mention all the deals we’re involved in but Verizon and Sprint and Nokia.
There’s good pipelines and good traffic.
You know that can change tomorrow but the fact is we’re satisfied with our clients And then just Jamie maybe a question on the buyback.
At this point it doesn’t sound like you have any concerns about the litigation expenses in this quarter being an issue for the CCAR submission or future buyback trends.
Is that what I heard? We don’t expect or believe that there should be any repercussions but ultimately that’s the regulators’ decision.
So we resubmitted CCAR in September.
We’re still waiting for feedback.
We get feedback in early December.
We will do a good thoughtful and appropriate job of thinking through our capital [asks] as we do the 2014 CCAR.
So those will be the things that we do.
And we’re doing very little stock buyback right now.
Our next question comes from Guy Moszkowski with Autonomous.
You mentioned in passing that at the investor day in February you think that there will be a lot more of the rules in place that you’ll be able to discuss the impact of.
I was wondering the specific ones that you think will be available by then.
Volcker for example? Is it your understanding that you’ll have a good understanding by then? Yeah Volcker more detail on SLR.
Long term debt.
Some more detail on how much long term debt.
I think we have almost 20% of available resources today.
And then you can look at things very basic and simple and say okay well if cost is a little bit higher and pricing stays the same and capital is higher returns are a little bit lower that’s true.
But that doesn’t take into consideration things we don’t know which is repricing competitor strategies and our ability to optimize by client by state by reason by product.
So all of those things we just can give you a better idea.
We’re very comfortable.
We’ve got a very good business.
We’ll just give you a better idea of what we think it means by business.
You know for example we’re going to allocate more capital and operating capital to the businesses.
We’re going to ask them to optimize on SLR.
And without damaging the client franchise.
So we’ll just give you a little more detail that’s all.
Fair enough.
One thing that you alluded to a couple of times this morning is the idea of the XLR being maybe 50 basis points higher if you didn’t have to carry capital or count into the leverage exposure your deposits with central banks.
Since you mentioned it a couple of times does that mean that you actually have a reasonably high degree of comfort that there will be an exemption for that? No I think a lot of people mentioned that they think it was inappropriate to apply capital to that.
But the regulators will decide.
Whatever it is we will be able to adjust to it and conform to the rules.
I was just pointing out that some of these things can move that number quite a bit as a reason why you shouldn’t overreact to it and just take the time and do it right.
When we know the final rules we will conform.
We can conform very quickly.
So why would you conform very quickly and disrupt clients? So just think of it that way.
We’re just trying to do the right thing for the client base and the company.
We could go out tomorrow and say we’re not going to make any more revolvers and the revolvers [would go up] very quickly.
We just don’t want to do that.
It’s just not a rational way to run a business.
At this year’s investor day you identified in the investment bank a $65 billion runoff portfolio that you gave some targets of reduction for at year end.
I’ve also noticed that in your pillar three disclosures you’ve got a very high CRM which I have to assume is associated with correlation book stuff which I guess that runoff portfolio is.
Can you give us a sense for whether that’s right and where you are with that runoff portfolio? We are going to meet our target for the runoff portfolio which are of course a couple of things.
Part of the CRM was a synthetic credit portfolio which is I’m going to say a tenth of the size it was a year ago.
I just don’t remember the exact number.
And we’re still going to be optimizing across other products.
There are certain things in mortgages which use up a lot of capital etc.
So we have more to go in kind of optimizing RWA.
And that was a separate synthetic credit portfolios than what you moved over from CIO or is this part of it? No that one.
But they had a small correlation book in the IB.
This is a synthetic credit portfolio that was moved over to the IB and eventually those will probably be put together and much smaller.
We heard recently from some people in the industry that there’s the expectation of a major counterparty default as part of the CCAR stress test this year.
Are you hearing that that’s going to be part of it? Yes.
Yes we’ve received instructions and that’s a feature.
It’s a rational idiosyncratic event that people should be prepared for.
Remember we did go through that with Lehman.
And it wouldn’t be the first time we’ve modeled such an event as part of our stress testing.
Okay final question it’s always been very important to you Jamie that you have a record of not losing money in a quarter through the whole credit bubble and disaster and yet this quarter because of the size of the litigation reserve you did.
Not a large amount of money but you actually had a net operating loss.
Do we take that as a signal of the certainty and the timing of sort of the size of the settlement? No.
I mean obviously it’s very painful for me personally because I agree with you I don’t like losing money obviously for my shareholders.
We put up and Marianne’s been very clear these are very tough numbers to estimate.
It’s a heightened environment multiple agencies are involved on often the same thing.
We’re just trying to improve and get better and move on.
Remember these reserves relate to things that took place over multiple years.
So it isn’t a one-year event.
And we still didn’t lose money during the crisis.
Our next question comes from Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Marianne you had mentioned the CCAR resubmission.
When that comes out will that be made public? And what will we kind of be able to get from that and how will that impact your submission going forward? I’m not expecting that the details and results will necessarily become public.
Remember it wasn’t a quantitative issue per se it was a qualitative issue.
So what the regulators are looking for is our response to their recommendations and substantial progress in that.
I do think it obviously would be public what their response has been to that sometime in December and we’ll work out exactly when that would be.
So I would expect you to understand whether our plan has been accepted or otherwise at some point in December.
And we’re already working on the 2014 CCAR submission.
Obviously that submission in early January means that it will be board approved in December and that process has started.
And all of the work - Jamie talked about it.
He talked about 500 people thousands of people involved models documentation [covenants] controls.
All of that work that we did for the resubmission is fully being leveraged for ongoing CCAR processes and we’re building on it.
So this for us will continue to become better over time and 2014 will be another step in that process.
And as far as other changes that you’re aware of you had mentioned the counterparty failure are there any other kind of large items that would be a change in the way or in addition to the way they’re approaching the submissions this year? Really most significantly the other thing that we just talked about which is that in addition to all of the other minimum levels that we’ve been testing against we have new tests under Basel III.
It will be a test that recognizes phase-ins in the capital numerator and also a slightly different denominator through time with different minimum levels of 4% in ’14 and 4.5% in ’15.
So that’s the other real big [frame up] change.
And then related to the taking of the charge in this period what was the actual information that changed? In other words the accounting rules tend to require a certain standard to recognize that and if you haven’t reached that agreement yet what actually did change that required the recognition of that in Q3? We obviously can’t comment on any sort of discussion or status of any specifics on litigation.
Yes you’re right the framework is probably estimable so you should obviously assume that we didn’t or couldn’t estimate or these events were not probable at the time.
But today our reserves are appropriate for the current environment and the information that [unintelligible].
And did you say at the outset that the $9 billion wasn’t fully taxed because a portion related to penalties? That would imply roughly about a third of it.
Does that make sense? We’re estimating some penalties.
Given the environment we would expect that some of the expenses would come with penalty nature and you can obviously do the math from the front page.
But they are estimates and they include a range of matters not limited to mortgage.
Our next question comes from Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
Can you guys talk about the commercial loan balances? I noticed that the period end balances had a nice increase from the third quarter but your averages were almost flat.
Is there a pickup in lending activity in the month of September? Actually it’s a great question.
There is a fronting in that number of just shy of $2 billion $1.7 billion that will ultimately be syndicated in the short term.
So I would adjust that out when you’re looking at the quarter over quarter numbers.
Other than that it’s relatively flat and steady performance in core middle market and strength in real estate.
And I know the litigation questions are sensitive so I don’t know if you can answer this or not.
The discussion that are going on that we’re reading out in the paper with the U.S.
government is it more of a factor of the dollar amounts that’s holding it up or is it more in terms of conditions? We can’t comment.
We’ve already said all we can say about that.
Another question is you guys at your investor day talked about the Visa partnership that you just announced.
Could you give us some more color on how that’s going with the merge [and acquiring] and the payments business? It’s going well but as [unintelligible] is still building the systems to actually do it and come up with the products and services that we think can do a better job both for the merchants and for customers.
We’re still working on that.
That’s not going to happen overnight.
We just think it could be a very good thing over time.
I assume you’ll give us a good update at the investor day in February then? Yes.
We’ll try.
Coming back to the asset deals you talked about the deposit margins improving quarter to quarter earlier in your call are we at a point where the asset yields in the securities portfolio have bottomed? Are you replacing securities with securities with equal yields or higher? Essentially it’s flattened out at this point yeah.
And we’ve begun to reinvest.
We’re looking at the over portfolio.
We’re doing some rotation.
And that process has started.
And remember rates did go up almost 100 basis points.
Finally on a go forward basis once we get over all these issues that everybody’s confronting today in the banking industry with the regulatory and maybe the interest rate environment what’s going to be the capital ratio that’s going to constrain your growth? Is it going to be the SLR ratio the tier one common? What’s the one you think will be the real Achilles’ heel? At a macro level just talking about the firm-wide level for a second we’ve said that we’re looking at running the firm at a Basel III tier one common ratio of between 10% and 10.5% which would imply in any case tier one capital minimums will be 11% ultimately.
So we’ll be at 11-plus percent in tier one capital.
And we talked about leverage running at 5.5% over time as well.
And if you think about 11%-plus tier one capital 10.5% Basel III common and a 5.5% documentary leverage ratio given the ratio of our risk-weighted assets to our balance sheet they actually can exist quite happily.
So it is going to be a multi-variant set of binding constraints but at those levels they exist quite nicely.
Obviously the devil’s in the detail when you push down into the businesses client by client product by product and that work will go on.
And as we do that work as Jamie’s talked about we expect to be able to optimize which will include some repricing and some restructuring of products but at a macro-level they will coexist relatively well.
I would just add to that CCAR will be in our opinion also another binding constraint over time.
Very good point.
And I guess coming back to the capital on the orderly liquidation authority as we all know there’s certain buckets of capital that have to be maintained.
Do you have any clarity yet that the excess over the 9.5% over the tier one common portion will that be applicable to the other buckets so you don’t have to maybe raise as much in preferred or senior debt? We don’t know those rules yet but presumably it’s going to be equity plus preferred plus unsecured senior debt and subordinated debt.
And I think our number’s already at 20% of risk-weighted assets there.
So we’re already in a pretty good place but we’ll see what the final rules are.
Our next question comes from Jeffrey Harte of Sandler O’Neill.
Most things have been covered but I’m looking at the loan loss reserve releases from the PCI portfolio.
Assuming credit gets better that theory continues as well.
How should we think of that going forward? Is that going to be something lumpy from time to time? Is it going to be more kind of gradual like it would be on a normal loan portfolio?  I’ve got to go because I have a meeting I have to go to but I appreciate the time with us.
And Marianne can answer the remaining questions.
Sure.
The way to think about the PCI reserve release it’s the first one we’ve taken and it reflects obviously improved home prices and lower severities.
But it’s a life of loan model so if all of the things from here are equal then you know we are where we are.
Obviously if there are significant changes probably primarily in home prices but also in delinquencies then you might see some more reserve releases.
These are likely to be more periodic and lumpy because obviously we will be refreshing our life of loan forecast over time.
It’s possible that you may see them in multiple courses but that’s not what we’re expecting.
Our next question comes from Derek De Vries of UBS.
I’ve just got a few questions on the investment bank.
And you touched on the comp expense earlier.
It was obviously very low as a percent of revenues.
Excluding DVA I think it was 27%.
So given revenues are down your bonus accrual must be way down.
And my question becomes is that just coincidence that it happens in a quarter where you take a $9 billion of regulatory litigation costs or is there kind of a cause and effect there? No there’s no cause and effect there.
And then my second question you’ve talked a lot during this conference call about sort of pushing things out to clients when you have more clarity on your leverage ratio and the rules and what not.
I guess just broader as you think back not to the leverage ratio but all the Basel III rules we’ve faced and all the changes and higher capital requirements and whatnot are you surprised at how slowly some of those price increases have been pushed down and how slowly capacity has left the industry? Or do you think it’s about right? Or do you think we’ll see more of that going forward? Maybe you could just make some broad comments there.
I can certainly talk [unintelligible] where as soon as we understand the rules we start to push them down into the organization so that the people who are transacting at the product and client level can make the best and most appropriate decisions to maximize returns and meet hurdles and all of those sorts of good things.
And you’re right over the last several years we have seen capital and liquidity increase dramatically.
Meanwhile we’ve still been delivering a core underlying performance in that kind of mid-teens return on tangible common equity.
So we’re still competing effectively which leads me to believe that others are doing the same thing and that that’s being reflected in the competitive nature of the environment.
I think it’s obviously going to continue some as we and others have set ourselves even higher targets for capital and then obviously new rules including the SLR.
But I also do think that these things work through the system through time pretty quickly given the nature of the business.
Our next question comes from Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
One quick follow up on your liquidity holdings.
Your excess liquidity pool looks like it increased almost $85 billion sequentially to $538 billion.
Just want to know what’s driving that if there’s anything you’re worried about or thinking about because I thought your LCR ratio last quarter was above 100%.
And if you could just give us your updated LCR ratio that would be great.
Our LCR ratio last quarter was 118%.
This quarter we haven’t disclosed it but it’s not far off that same level.
And the increase in cash is not necessarily because we’re trying to do anything from a liquidity perspective but also reflects inflows from clients both operating builds and importantly noncore And we have no further questions at this time.
Thank you.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to JPMorgan Chase’s fourth quarter 2013 earnings call.
This call is being recorded.
Your line will be muted for the duration of the call.
We will now go live to the presentation.
Please stand by.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase’s Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon and Chief Financial Officer Marianne Lake.
Ms.
Lake please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Good morning everyone.
I’m going to take you through the earnings presentation which is available on our website.
Please refer to the disclaimer regarding forward looking statements at the back of the presentation  So if we start on page one the firm generated net income of $5.3 billion for the fourth quarter or $1.30 a share with a return on tangible common equity of 14% on revenues of $24 billion down 1% year on year and up 1% quarter on quarter.
As you see we had several significant items in the quarter which I will review as we go through the presentation in more detail but they include a $1.3 billion gain on the sale of Visa shares and a $0.5 billion gain on the sale of One Chase Manhattan Plaza both in the corporate segment; as well as $0.8 billion pretax or a $1.1 billion after-tax impact of legal expense in the quarter partially booked in mortgage with the remainder booked in corporate principally the Madoff settlement recently announced; a $1.3 billion benefit from reduced loan loss reserves in consumer businesses.
And then in addition CIB’s results for the quarter include a $2 billion loss for [DVA] and FVA or funding valuation adjustment which I will also come back to in more detail.
The total impact of these items is a negative $0.10 of EPS.
So not to diminish their importance but to illustrate the strength of the core performance of the underlying businesses if you do adjust our results for these items we would have earned $5.7 billion less income $1.40 a share and a return on tangible common equity of 15%.
So talking about the full year skipping over page two and straight to page three reported net income of nearly $18 billion or $4.35 a share on revenue of approximately $100 billion and a return on tangible common equity reported of 11%.
Again if you adjusted for all reported significant items in the year we would have earned net income of over $23 billion $5.70 a share and a return on tangible common equity of 15%.
Again strong underlying performance for the full year.
Of note let me talk for a minute about adjusted expenses.
You can see on the page that our adjusted expenses excluding corporate litigation and foreclosure-related matters are a flat $60 billion.
This is in line albeit at the high end of our guidance of $59.5 billion to $60 billion for the year.
But included in this number is a total of close to $1 billion of other noncorporate legal expense which if we had adjusted would have left a more core number at just over $59 billion despite the incremental investment in controls of $1 billion that we made in the year.
So briefly recapping on 2013 clearly a year marked by regulatory developments and significant legal settlements.
However more importantly also a year in which our businesses together and individually performed strongly.
We succeeded in further progressing our customer satisfaction agenda and gaining market share across businesses.
2013 saw very strong credit performance across businesses including significant improvements in mortgage.
And finally we ended the year with strong capital liquidity and margins.
So let’s talk about capital on page four.
I’m not going to talk much about Basel I except to say that you can see we progressed our ratio in the quarter to 10.7% Basel I tier one common.
But importantly if you look at the middle section you see that our Basel III tier one common ratio is 9.5% meeting our year-end target.
Just a few words on the components underlying this ratio.
Three things: first we generated approximately $5 billion of net capital in the quarter.
Second we also saw significant RWA benefit of model and parameter updates including HPI and lower spreads as well as portfolio runoff.
And third these positives together worth over 60 basis points of improvement were reduced by about 50 basis points due to higher levels of operational risk capital.
The significant increase in operational risk capital this quarter is largely driven by the inclusion of the large legal expense from the prior quarter.
We will spend some more time on capital at investor day but despite headwinds we still anticipate reaching 10% plus or minus Basel tier one three common by the end of this year.
A quick update on leverage.
Both the firmwide and the bank supplementary leverage ratio under U.S.
rules increased to 4.7%.
I’ll come back on the next page to talk about the final Basel SNL framework that was issued this weekend.
During the quarter the holding company converted [certain] into company debt at the bank into capital improving the bank’s relative ratio.
We remain compliant with LCR at the firm level this quarter including the impact of the proposed new rules and we continue to have about 19% of available resources relative to risk-weighted assets at the end of the year.
Before we move on as you know the Volcker Rule was finalized in the quarter and having had the opportunity to consider the rule some thoughts.
The certainty provided by having a final rule and the implementation date of July 15 were welcome.
It is a tough rule and the regulators have laid out stringent standards for compliance policies procedures controls and testing which will bring operational challenges to implement.
However we believe that the firm will be materially compliant across our businesses with the rule.
We have work to do to get there but we don’t expect any material impact to our results.
Let’s take a closer look at the impact of the final SLR framework from this weekend on [unintelligible].
As you saw the Basel committee released the framework this weekend which has gone a long way towards closing the gap relative to the U.S.
NPR.
And the changes they made are responsive to industry feedback and seem sensitive to potential market impacts.
Our initial analysis estimates that the impact will worsen both the holding company and bank ratios by only approximately 10 basis points relative to U.S.
proposed rules so that would be 4.6% for each of the holding company and the bank.
This impact is primarily driven by a positive related to improved assumptions on unfunded commitments being slightly more than offset by the inclusion of written credit protection provisions previously not in the U.S.
rules.
However between the likely implementation in the future of NIM for derivatives’ potential future exposure and the ability over time for us to improve [unintelligible] for cash collateral there should be significant improvement opportunity ratio in terms of basis points.
Overall our leverage action plans don’t change materially.
We’ll be thoughtful and measured about implementation in 2014 and beyond and our perspective on specific products and businesses is not just driven by capital implications but also by the importance to the broader franchise and client relationships.
We do expect to reach 5% plus or minus at the holding company by the end of this year and to be compliant at the bank shortly thereafter.
The next step is for the U.S.
regulators to determine when and if they’ll adopt this new denominator although we feel it’s reasonably likely that they will.
In addition over the weekend there was a consultation paper issued on NSFR.
The proposal more closely aligns NSFR to the current evolved LTR framework in terms of definitions and assumptions which is a positive step.
And based upon the proposal we estimate that the firm is compliant today with NSFR.
Turning to business performance let’s start with the consumer and community banking on page six.
The combined consumer businesses generated $2.4 billion of net income for the quarter on $11.3 billion of revenue with a return on equity of 20%.
A couple of comments on drivers.
We continue to make strong progress as I said on our customer satisfaction agenda being recognized by the American Consumer Satisfaction Index for the second year running as number one among the largest banks as well as number one in small business in three of four regions in the U.S.
and number one among large banks for mortgage originations both by JD Power.
On our retail branch network we’ve completed building out our key expansion markets including California and Florida and have reached leadership positions in each of our key markets.
So we feel good about our footprint at or around this level of 5 600 branches plus or minus and our focus from here is on optimization including branch size and usage and leveraging digital capabilities.
Lastly our other key business drivers continue to grow strongly reflecting increased consumer engagement evidenced by growth in deposits investments sales and processing volumes.
And our expenses are down nearly $700 million from last year primarily due to lower mortgage bank expenses.
Across CCB we’ve reduced headcount by 16 500 year over year.
Turning to page seven consumer and community banking generated net income of $780 million and an ROE of 28% on net revenue of $4.4 billion up 4% and flat with the prior quarter.
Net interest income is up 3% year on year driven by the continued strong growth in deposits partially offset by spread compression.
It’s our investment in customer satisfaction newbuilds and CPC that is driving this deposit growth and also the highest account retention rate in a decade.
On the noninterest revenue side we continue to see strong growth in both debit and investment revenue with close to $190 billion of client investment assets up 19% or $30 billion year over year about half related to market performance and half due to net new money gains.
Expenses are up 3% year on year reflecting costs relating to the strengthening of the control environment but have flattened sequentially as we improve efficiency in our same store branches with starting down by over 6 000 year over year.
Business banking loan balances are flat quarter on quarter and up 1% year on year and production levels in the pipeline remain stable.
However the environment has been challenging throughout the year due to competitive pressures and we’ve maintained a high level of credit discipline.
But we’re cautiously optimistic that we’ll see small businesses start to spend some of their cash reserves in 2014 but growth may be back ended.
Turning to page eight mortgage banking overall mortgage banking net income was $562 million with an ROE of 11%.
There are a couple of nonrecurring items this quarter which I’ll explain as we go through the results but if you look at the top of the page you’ll see production [ex repurchases] with a reported pretax loss of $500 million.
But if you look at the table at the top right we’ve adjusted for the one-time items and you can see a loss of $91 million slightly negative as expected and as we guided to.
Revenues in the quarter were down 15% on lower application volumes down 23% and from a mix perspective nearly 60% of loans were purchased loans this quarter up from a little over 20% the same time last year.
Production expense includes approximately $400 million of non-MBS-related legal expense.
This is part of the significant item on the front page.
Again adjusting for this we’re seeing the benefits of actions we’ve taken to reduce expenses with adjusted expenses coming down around $80 million quarter over quarter.
Dealing with repurchases as you know during the quarter we reached a settlement with the GSEs on agency repurchase exposure.
After allowing for the settlement amount we are releasing a net $130 million of repurchase reserves this quarter with $90 million being added to compensatory fee reserves as the settlement did not cover these potential fees.
And before moving on to servicing just looking out to the first quarter of 2014 the overall mortgage market is estimated to be roughly flat versus the fourth quarter.
And although we do expect to see some continuation in expense improvement revenues will continue to be challenged.
And we’re guiding for the first quarter similar to the last two quarters to be slightly negative in pretax productions.
Moving to servicing pretax income about breakeven in the quarter.
Servicing expenses of $663 million includes that $90 million of compensatory fee expense that I just mentioned which related to loans previously contemplated in the repurchase reserves.
Adjusting for this item our core expenses would have been slightly better than our previous guidance of $600 million for the quarter.
Finally on real estate portfolio pretax income of $1.2 billion including chargeoffs of $167 million and a total reserve release of $950 million.
The noncredit impaired reserve release for the quarter was $200 million reflecting continued improvements in the portfolio but at a lower rate but also we released $750 million of reserves in the purchase credit impaired portfolio given recent significant improvements in HPI forecasts of approximately 5% for our portfolio through 2015.
Turning to page nine [unintelligible] merchant services and auto net income of $1 billion up 23% year on year with an ROE of 26% or 22% excluding reserve releases reflecting underlying excellent performance in the business.
Consumer spending has been increasing and we’re seeing strong growth in interchange revenue reflecting growth in sales volume as well as seasonality in the fourth quarter.
Year over year growth in both sales and merchant processing volumes was consistently strong at 11% and 14% respectively with average outstandings flat year over year and quarter over quarter yields remaining healthy but lower than a year ago.
We do continue to see runoff of high rate and low FICO balances with a move towards more engaged customers or transactors which is a positive trend for spend and for credit performance but a negative to yield and we expect spread compression to continue into 2014.
Net revenues of $4.7 billion down 3% year over year and up 1% quarter on quarter on seasonality with a revenue rate of 12.34% for the quarter.
Consistent with these portfolio trends the net chargeoff rate has stayed at historical lows at 2.85% and we released $300 million of loan loss reserves this quarter given improved delinquencies and portfolio seasoning.
Expenses are up 3% year on year about 16% quarter on quarter primarily driven by increased marketing investment spend and costs associated with payments to customers required by a consent order.
A few words on auto.
Originations are up 16% year on year driving loan balances up 5% year on year and outpacing new car sales growth of 5%.
And before we move on as you know there were two data security breaches affecting our customers over the last several weeks.
We took quick action to protect our customers and we continue to monitor both situations.
The financial impact for the quarter is not significant.
Moving on to slide 10 and the corporate investment bank the CIB results this quarter include a $1.5 billion loss as a result of implementing the FVA or funding valuation framework as well as a $0.5 billion DVA loss.
On this page we’ll focus on the numbers excluding FVA and DVA in the table on the top right.
And I’ll come back to FVA on the next page.
So you have net income of $2.1 billion on revenues of $8 billion and an ROE of 15%.
And we maintained our number one ranking in both global IBCs and markets revenue gaining share year over year of over 100 basis points in each.
In banking total revenue of $3 billion with IBC slightly ahead of our guidance.
IBCs of $1.7 billion for the quarter up 11% quarter on quarter and down 3% year on year driven by lower debt underwriting compared with a record prior year quarter partially offset by strength in equity underwriting.
Treasury services revenue of $1 billion down 7% year on year driven primarily by the decision to reposition our trade loan portfolio.
Moving on to markets and investor services our markets revenue of $4.1 billion was flat year on year also slightly ahead of the guidance we provided in the fourth quarter.
Fixed income markets revenues of $3.2 billion flat year on year with continued solid client flows.
And equity markets of $873 million down quarter on quarter off of a very strong equity derivatives result last quarter as well as seasonality.
Security services revenue of $1 billion up 3% year on year primarily driven by higher custody and fund services revenue on record assets under custody of $20.5 trillion and also on higher deposits.
Just a comment on credit.
We continue to see a favorable credit environment with stable credit quality trends and our provisions continue to benefit from repayments and recoveries.
Expenses of $4.9 billion down 2% both year over year and quarter over quarter driven by lower compensation.
The comp to revenue ratio excluding FVA and DVA was 27% for the quarter in line with the same quarter last year and 30% for the full year which is in line with our guidance albeit at the lower end on higher capital year over year.
Loan balances are down 7% year on year flat quarter on quarter again primarily driven by trade loan balances which could trend down or continue to trend down as we optimize the portfolio.
And at the bottom of the driver section VAR remains low at $42 million for the quarter.
Turning to page 11 and coming back to the FVA adjustment we’re recording a $1.5 billion loss as a result of implementing a funding valuation or an FVA framework for our OTC derivatives and structured notes this quarter reflecting and industry migration towards incorporating the lifetime cost or benefit of unsecured funding into valuations.
Just a couple of minutes on the background and dealing with why now.
To date there’s been no broad consensus that funding should be explicitly incorporated into valuation estimates.
However we believe that market practice for pricing and valuing derivatives has noticeably evolved during 2013 as we’ve been actively and continuously evaluating the market.
We’ve now accumulated compelling evidence both from transactions as well as industry pricing services that dealers are pricing funding into uncollateralized derivatives with a degree of consistency.
This supports incorporating an FVA framework this quarter.
In very simple terms you can think of FVA which represents a funding spread over LIBOR as having the effect of present valuing market funding costs into the value of derivative receivables today.
These funding costs otherwise would have affected net income over the life of the derivatives.
Although the FVA framework applies to both assets and liabilities the adjustment in the quarter is largely related to uncollateralized derivative receivables for two reasons.
First the funding value of collateral is already incorporated in the valuation of collateralized derivatives and second credit spreads which are a significant component of funding spreads are already recorded on liabilities through DVA.
So in thinking about the size of the adjustments you have to consider the size the tenure the composition of the relative portfolio as well as the appropriate spread.
To give you some context if you start with derivative receivables net of cash and securities collateral of approximately $50 billion apply an average duration of approximately five years and a spread of approximately 50 basis points that accounts for about $1 billion plus or minus the adjustment.
Additionally although there is a material overlap between DVA and FVA the remaining difference contributes to the adjustment.
So the loss in the quarter represents a transition adjustment to this new framework and can be thought of a one-time event as we incorporate the concept into the portfolio value.
Going forward FVA will be incorporated into day one valuation of derivatives and implementing FVA should have the effect of significantly reducing our sensitivity to funding spreads going forward.
We’ll continue to refine FVA as the framework matures within the industry.
Moving on to page 12 the commercial bank saw a net income of nearly $700 million this quarter on revenue of $1.8 billion with an ROE of 20%.
Revenues were up 6% year on year and 7% quarter on quarter net interest income increasing by 5% year over year reflecting a one-time gain of approximately $100 million related to a lending-related workout.
Pricing spreads have continued to tighten across the board.
Noninterest revenues were 8% up year on year driven by record growth IBCs of over $500 million for the quarter.
Our credit book continues to show very strong performance with a net chargeoff rate of only 7 basis points as we continue to focus on quality names and a comfortable parting on deals that don’t meet our standards.
Expenses were up 9% year on year continuing to reflect higher product and headcount related expenses primarily in controls.
Loan balances were up 7% year on year and 1% quarter on quarter.
Our commercial real estate businesses continued to outperform the industry up 15% year on year 16 consecutive months of growth.
But in C&amp;I overall loan growth remains flat performing slightly below the industry as client demand continues to be low competition high and we remain focused on credit discipline over growth.
While sentiment remains fragile there are pockets of activity and we are cautiously optimistic that borrowing demand may improve as confidence in the recovery spreads.
But again that may be back ended in the year as clients are very liquid.
Finally deposits are up 3% year on year and 4% quarter on quarter on seasonality.
Page 13 in asset management continued strong investment performance and long term [unintelligible] drove the fourth consecutive year of record revenue.
The quarter saw net income of $568 million up 18% year over year with an ROE of 25%.
Record revenues of $3.2 billion up 15% year on year are driven by three main factors: strong fund performance as well as long term flows in every single asset class and from every region overall benefitting from higher markets and finally a mark-to-market gain from [received cash] on investment.
This is the 19th consecutive quarter of long term inflows with $16 billion for the quarter bringing the full year to a total of $90 billion driving record assets under management of $1.6 trillion up 12%.
We saw particular strength in multiasset and equities and achieved number one ranking in 2013 for net flows in active long term mutual funds.
Expenses increased in line with performance of the business.
And finally in banking we continue to see growth across the board with record loan balances over $95 billion up 19% year on year.
Page 14.
A total net income of nearly $800 million for corporate and private equity for the quarter.
In private equity a relatively quiet quarter with aggregate results more modest than in prior quarters.
Treasury CIO showed a net loss of $78 million driven by negative NII of nearly $100 million.
But that compares to a run rate of negative NII of approximately $500 million in each of the first two quarters.
This improvement reflects the benefit of higher investment security deals up 50 basis points.
The investment securities portfolio has also been a significant contributor to firm-wide NIM stability and in the second half of the year we deployed $66 billion growth in new investments principally mortgages and munis.
Our ending balance of securities classified as held to maturity grew to $24 billion and will continue to grow this quarter.
And you should expect CIO treasury NII to reach breakeven in the second half of 2014 all other things equal.
Before I continue just let me talk for a second about NIM and NII details of which are in the appendix.
Firm-wide NIM core NIM and NII were all up slightly quarter over quarter given market rates and we expect both NIM and NII to be relatively stable in the near term with the highest security deals I talked about being largely offset by loan spread compression.
Finally on this page are the corporate sees a net income of $852 million and there’s a callout on the page.
First a net gain - all of these are after tax - of $800 million on the sale of Visa shares.
We were and we remain a large Visa shareholder.
However in the quarter we saw the opportunity to risk manage approximately one-third of our Visa price risk exposure.
But we clearly retain the ongoing litigation risks both the ultimate amount and timing of the settlement.
Secondly a net real estate gain of over $300 million on the sale of One Chase Manhattan Plaza and these two gains are being offset by nearly $800 million in legal expense substantially all Madoff related.
In addition a few positive tax items in the quarter largely the resupply reserves.
Page 15 in our outlook to wrap up we’ve actually covered all of the items on this page.
So wrapping up just to say that our four leading franchises are all performing very strongly and we remain focused on serving our clients.
We’re committed to accomplishing our control agenda and adjusting successfully to the new global financial architecture and we look forward to diving deeper into all of these things at investor day which is coming up in a few weeks’ time.
With that thank you and operator you could open up the line to Q&amp;A.
[Operator instructions.] Our first question comes from Guy Moszkowski with Autonomous.
Just wanted to talk about the leverage ratio for a moment.
You talked about a 10 basis point increase from the latest on Basel if they do the add-ons.
And I guess the big part that’s hardest for us to see is really the impact of the CDS non-netting of mismatched maturities on protection bought versus protection sold.
Can you give us a sense of what your numbers look like on that basis so we can try and reconcile to your 10 basis points? Just a quick thing just to clarify the 10 basis points is actually lower not higher.
It’s a deduct not an add for the new Basel proposals relative to the U.S.
rules.
So remember as we’ve previously been [disclosing] our ratios we used the U.S.
proposed rules that referenced a prior Basel denominator.
So it’s a 10 basis point worsening.
And you’re right that we had two major things contributing to that.
We had a positive associated with better assumptions on draws on unfunded commitments slightly more than offset by a negative on the [unintelligible] protection.
We’re still working through the final details but our best estimate is that it’s in the mid-20s in basis points 25 basis points plus or minus.
And can you just give us a sense for what the maturity profile looks like on your CDS protection purchased versus sold? Is there much of a maturity mismatch there? Or is there really not much? If you start with our [gross growth] CDS protection [written] it’s about $3.4 trillion.
By the time you net that down for maturities it gets down to a couple hundred billion dollars but that’s still impactful.
Another thing to think about it will be manageable because this is kind of a static analysis before we started running the business slightly differently due to it.
Right.
We saw the proposals as having been thoughtful.
And we don’t necessarily have to agree with the finer points of all of them but it doesn’t materially change our position or our our thoughts going forward.
And as Jamie says all of our businesses will now socialize and optimize against what we understand of the final rules when the U.S.
regulators adopt them.
On the $60 billion of core expense that you pointed out on balance having been pretty flat with last year despite the increases in control environment costs can you give us a sense of how you currently see that evolving in 2014? We’re obviously going to do a bit more of a detailed deep dive on expenses over time at investor day.
But for now what we have said is that you should expect our adjusted expenses for 2014 to remain at or below that level of $60 billion.
We also said that in 2014 the continuation of our control agenda is adding an incremental $1 billion over ’13.
So by remaining flat we’re effectively self-funding that $1 billion.
Flat to down.
And how do you get comfortable that by doing that you’re not going to eat into revenue growth by starving other expenses? We’re not starving any expenses.
We’re just managing it in a disciplined way the way we’ve always done it.
And if you look at the underlying numbers there’s a lot of growth in the underlying numbers.
But it’s clearly true that some of the derisking and spinning off OEP and physical commodities will affect revenues a little bit but obviously profits less.
We’ve always been investing in the businesses and been willing to invest where the business pace and the returns justify that.
But we are also finding efficiencies in a combination of the businesses both consumer and the wholesale businesses efficiency in the same store branches we talked about.
You know CIB continues on its journey on the back office and front office integration and obviously mortgage expenses will continue to trend down both in line with improved credit trends and also as we proactively manage the portfolio.
So there’s a lot of moving parts but it’s not at the expense of our willingness to invest in the businesses for returns.
And if I can follow up on the mortgage expense comment that you made more just along the lines of the expenses against the origination franchise it sounded to me like you may be extending your view of what the timeframe is to kind of get that to steady state beyond the first quarter? Is that right or am I misreading that? It’s not just about expenses.
I think you have to think about the whole equation.
We’ll see some improvement in the first quarter of 2014 and we’ll also continue to work on expense efficiency in the business.
But if you look at a market that is currently being estimated at about $1.3 trillion down from $1.9 trillion - and honestly a couple of weeks ago it was $1.1 trillion so it’s a very small market one we haven’t seen the likes of since the year 2000 - in a market like that it’s very challenging to deliver through the cycle returns.
So we went through over the last few years years with very strong revenues and margins and we are in a challenging environment as we look into 2014.
But we’re working on it.
And the last one for me you mentioned the impact of operating risk due to the very high level of litigation costs this year.
How should we think about that and how are you thinking about that with respect to CCAR? The way to think about it in the short term relative to say the submission that we just did or in the near future is that obviously a realized loss experience that is higher than we have previously seen informs your view and judgment as to what you could reasonably expect to happen in a future stress period.
So it is fair to say that would drive our expectations for [unintelligible] on operational losses to be slightly higher.
Having said that it’s not as if our previous submissions didn’t contemplate there to be significant stresses in operating losses.
So I would characterize it as incremental and certainly not from a low base.
And also remember that every quarter we move forward we generate capital improve our ratios so there’s lots of moving parts to the ultimate outcome.
Our next question comes from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
I just wanted to follow up on a couple of things.
One was on NIM outlook.
You did indicate that in the second half of ’14 you were expecting that the CIO and treasury income would turn positive if I read it correctly.
And I would think that’s a function of your security yields improving.
Can you just give us a sense of what the new investment yield is for the security investments that you’re making in that book right now relative to what the balances are at? I think the way you’re supposed to look at it is something like $40 billion gets reinvested a year.
And the basic assumption you should make is an average duration of three or four years.
So think of five-year bonds or something like that.
And just use the implied yield curve.
[unintelligible] munis or MBS or something like that.
The other thing to point out is it’s completely dependent upon the decisions we make.
We can change that kind of at will if we want to extend or reduce the duration of equity at the company.
And so given your comments that you’re expected to reach breakeven by the second half of ’14 that’s a reflection of higher interest rates or a change in the way you’re investing the funds? It’s a little bit of both.
It’s mostly just the change in the yield curve.
Yeah we’ll have slower mortgage repayments.
We’re able to reinvest at higher yields.
We’re reinvesting in high quality assets munis at high spreads.
So it’s both.
And then your other point was you’re going to be taking that better return on that portfolio and using it to be as competitive as you want to be on the loan portfolio and so expectation is that loan spreads will continue to pull down over the next couple of quarters at least.
Can you just give us a sense as to how willing you are to be competitive on price in loan spreads? Should we be expecting that overall NIM compression is what you’re looking for here in the event that you get the quality loan growth you want? Well you’ve got to separate the loans.
On the commercial side we’ll obviously be competitive and we’re not assuming anything heroic in terms of spreads getting worse or better.
But they’re low.
You could argue down the road they might actually go up a little bit as capital requirements liquidity requirements go way up.
But we’ll be competitive.
We’re assuming we’ve got to be competitive in those spreads.
And on the consumer side card balances have been rewritten post crisis to be variable.
Are you anticipating that you’re going to be in a rising rate environment [in the belly of the curve] raising rates on card portfolio? Think of the card business as we try to run it fully match funded so the spreads are about the same.
And just remember something like 65% is at an interest rate something like 40% is transactor almost locked in rates which we also match fund.
And then separate topic just on the security breach that you discussed.
You indicated that the card replacements that you’ve done so far has been de minimis in terms of expense.
But could you just speak about it a little bit bigger picture how you’re thinking about fraud in the card space as well as in the debit space? We have replaced 2 million debit and credit cards I think by the end of this week to protect our customers.
Look unfortunately the cybersecurity as we’ve now pointed out for a year is a big deal.
It’s not going to go away.
And all of us have a common interest in being protected.
So this might be a chance for retailers and banks to for once work together as opposed to sue each other like we’ve been doing the last decade.
But it’s in all of our interest to do it and I think all the people involved in this know that the third parties whether it’s machines regional machines your mainframes you really have to put an extreme effort into protecting yourself.
So this story is not over unfortunately.
Right and there’s been this debate between tokenization versus chip and PIN and I’m just wondering do you guys have an angle as to which way you would prefer to see it go? Honestly I think you’re going to see both.
You’re going to see chip and PIN in all cards and then a lot of online type of transactions you’re going to see tokenization.
They both are very very good technologies to protect consumers and companies from fraud.
And then just last question on the Visa did I hear you correctly Marianne that you basically realized a third of the economic value in the Visa shares that you have? Is that correct? Yes So two thirds left.
And when you say economic you’re talking about net of any hedging? Correct.
There’s an unrealized gain of approximately $3 billion today.
It’s on our books at zero.
This goes back to when Visa was spun off many many years ago.
But that’s right Betsy net of hedging.
Our next question comes from Glenn Schorr of ISI.
First question on FIC in the IB.
It’s pretty stable this quarter.
As a matter of fact if you look for the year it was about in line with last year which I think once everybody’s done reporting it will be a pretty good victory.
So I guess the question is there’s a bunch of structural headwinds blowing on the business and as you do your budgeting - it’s probably done already - can the industry grow with the headwinds on it? In other words the offset would be better activity levels steeper curve things like that.
But there’s a bunch of structural headwinds.
I’m just curious how you think about it at the high level.
There are some structural headwinds.
You’ve seen a lot of adjustment in the marketplace.
People have reduced the size of their inventory.
But what you don’t know going forward is what’s going to happen to spreads.
But I look at it a little bit like the sector’s on a cyclical.
There will be headwinds from regulations etc.
but over time assets that people need to manage and buy and sell are going to go up over time not go down.
So what happens in 2014 is hard to say.
Our business is fairly diversified between rates credit emerging markets FX commodities etc.
which is definitely helping that stability.
Maybe on a related note I got a sense with the renewed focus on SLR that there’s a renewed attention to compression trades.
I’m just curious if that’s ongoing and it could be material in 2014 as this goes on? I know there’s a lot of work involved but the reward is pretty good too.
I would say it’s ongoing and it will be benefit.
I think material might be a stretch at this point.
And it is a lot of work as you say.
So the whole industry is working on that and us too.
We expect it to be beneficial but not a game-changer.
The SLR at 5% we do not think is going to be an issue for us.
We’ve barely begun to manage it.
There are a lot of things you can do in how you change your business.
The bank issue is a little bit different but think of that as more structural.
What we did in the bank over the last 20 years and what we’re not going to do in the bank going forward that will take a little bit longer but for other reasons.
It just takes us longer to change our business model to accommodate it.
I also think if you look at the other things I mentioned in terms of opportunities putting NIM to one side our estimate of the new Basel rule that we had we’ve given you a 10 basis point movement backwards have a conservative estimate of what we could ultimately achieve over time in terms of the ability to net cash collateral for derivatives just given certain of the conditions.
But again over time that will also be manageable like compression trades and like many of those other things.
So we haven’t changed our view.
We can manage against these targets by doing it thoughtfully and methodically and not having to [unintelligible].
Last one for me.
You’ve noted you’re 9.5% [unintelligible] tier one common the 10% year-end target seems completely achievable given your earnings.
I’m just curious how you think about balancing the absolute versus the relative meaning.
You can get there on an absolute basis no problem.
On a relative basis some other large financial institutions have a little bit more.
Just curious if that matters as you talk about the capital planning process or when you have enough it’s enough.
We said already that we would be willing to run between 10% and 10.5% so we’re on a journey here.
We think we can get 10% plus or minus by the end of this year.
It could be plus and it could be minus.
But we think that at this point based on what we know running at that level of buffer or margin should be enough.
Obviously we’ll be more informed as we go through CCAR processes but that’s our point of view at this point.
Our next question comes from John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
One more quick follow up on the net interest margin outlook.
NIM expected to be flattish.
But I wasn’t clear if in the current rate environment you expected to continue to add investments as you have been doing.
And would you expect the net interest income dollars to grow from here as they did slightly this quarter? I talked about the second half of the year growth adding $66 billion.
We’ve never talked about the second quarter.
We added quite a lot in the second quarter.
And yes we have plans to continue to do that in 2014.
And yes we expect our NII dollars to be relatively stable possibly slightly up over the course of the first half of the year but relatively stable.
And not [unintelligible] investments.
If you look at the balance sheet today we have almost $350 billion at central banks mostly the Fed another $350 billion of very high quality investment securities.
And those two things combined equal our loans of $700 billion.
So the company is very very liquid.
We don’t really need to invest more.
It depends on how much we grow deposits.
And what about just taking advantage of the 10-year yields moving up and your overall sensitivity to higher rates? I already said what we’re going to do is what you should assume now is that there’s implied yield curves and constant reinvestment but if you had rates move up 100 basis points all at once we probably would be much more aggressive in doing something like that.
And then in terms of the litigation reserves you resolved a number of large issues in the fourth quarter.
So two questions here.
Can you help us think about how the litigation provision expense might trend in 2014? Should we expect it to be lower than the $800 million? And then second can you tell us if your range of possible loss has come down from the $6.8 billion that it stood at in October since you resolved a few big items? Obviously you’re going to understand the necessary caveat that we can’t predict for you the pattern and the amount of legal expenses in any one quarter or over several quarters.
However it would be fair to say that we would certainly hope that for the full year the full year [unintelligible] the first quarter annualized but we can’t be certain of that.
With respect to a reasonably possible loss range it did come down from $5.7 billion at the end of the third quarter to $5 billion at the end of the fourth quarter given the legal expense [unintelligible].
And then the last thing is you mentioned it a little bit but can you just give us kind of a philosophy with which you approached this year’s CCAR and how you’re thinking about balancing your capital achievement goals on the ratios that you talked about with the goal of returning some capital to shareholders? We’ve done a bunch of math.
You can do it based on analysts’ estimates.
But if you think about we want to get to 10% plus or minus before the end of next year all other things being equal that is a priority but it is not the only priority.
And so as we think about our capital plan we’ve consistently said - obviously it’s a board decision ultimately and they’ll contemplate them in the [unintelligible] of course - but we would like to have the flexibility to be able to potentially increase dividends and also have flexibility to be able to do reasonable repurchases.
It wouldn’t be unreasonable for you to think about how we thought about this year as being relatively consistent with last.
Our next question comes from Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo.
Just a question on the announcement of the potential for selling the prepaid card business.
I’m just curious as to what drove that given that it doesn’t appear that it was a scale-related decision given the size of that business relative to peers.
But if you could just provide a little more color as to what you’re seeing in that business and what caused you to potentially sell that business? Every year we try to have a disciplined approach about what we stay in and what we don’t and I think we probably were more disciplined this year about the things we don’t need both from derisking capital management focus controls etc.
If you look at the prepaid card business we’re not dealing directly with customers.
It’s kind of secondary.
It’s a complex business and we were just better off letting someone else do it.
It won’t affect the four main franchises that Marianne spoke about that are doing so well.
It was just kind of a product we used to do and so we’re not going to do it anymore.
And there’s a lot of risk associated with it.
And then just moving on to your comments about being potentially cautiously optimistic about back-end growth for loans presuming that that’s mostly focused on commercial lending.
Is it still your view that the canary in the coal mine for seeing that might be slower deposit growth or in fact negative deposit growth before you start to see loan growth? We didn’t use the word cautiously optimistic we’re using the word optimistic because we are actually optimistic.
You have a U.S.
economy starting to grow.
You will see loan growth and volume growth across all of these businesses.
We are actually optimistic about the U.S.
economy in particular.
We spend a lot of time analyzing what rising rates growth change of QE3 [unintelligible] will do to the deposits.
So it might actually have a diminishing effect on the growth of deposits.
But we’re happy [whether we’re] still growing share.
I’m not sure you’re going to see deposits going negative before you see loan growth.
I think you’re trying to fine tune it too closely there.
Fair enough.
And then just finally in terms of your outlook for card balances just trying to take some of the fourth quarter seasonality out of that business that they have sort of bottomed in terms of the overall balances.
Are you equally optimistic for those balances to begin to grow in 2014? Or are you still looking at sort of flattish balances through most of 2014? Remember that in our card business we have both dynamics of core [unintelligible] as well as still some continued runoff.
We did reach the inflection point during the second half of 2013 where that runoff was no longer exceeding growth.
And so we’re set to grow but very modestly in 2014.
But more importantly 93% of the business is rewards.
We’ve had 10% growth in spend we’ve had 14% growth in merchant processing.
So we are very happy with the card business.
It’s performing exceptionally well excellent credit trends.
So outstanding growth is less important but obviously we’d like to see some of that too.
And then just finally for me given some of the security breaches not only in your cards but across a couple of other issuers have you seen any reduction in consumer spending potentially related to that via cards moving to other forms of purchases? No.
Just a little bit relating to Target but not in general.
And a lot of that card growth is coming from P&amp;E and travel and restaurants and things like that.
Our next question comes from Andrew Marquardt with Evercore Partners.
Regarding expenses can you remind us where we stand on headcount reductions through ’13 and then where you stand in terms of on track for ’14? Yeah just to remind you what we said back in February last year in the consumer businesses we talked about over the two years so ’13 and ’14 mortgage seeing headcount reductions of 13 000 to 15 000 and the consumer businesses predominantly in the branches of 4 000.
By the end of 2013 we had seen 16 500 in total.
So in the consumer bank we’ve actually not only accelerated but outperforming our expectations in terms of our ability to run those branches efficiently and still maintain very strong customer satisfaction and retention rates.
And then in the mortgage space we have seen total headcount down 11% year over year against that 13 000 to 15 000 two-year target.
So obviously we continue to work on the strategy and the size and our approach to the mortgage market but obviously relative to those numbers there’s still a little way to go.
And remember that that was both production and servicing.
What you saw given the rate environment in the middle of 2000 and the second half of 2013 is that some of the production related headcount reductions were accelerated.
We still have meaningful improvement expected in terms of delinquencies and foreclosures and modifications that will continue to drive costs and headcount down in ’14.
And then in terms of the retail branch banking discussion that you had mentioned you’re kind of comfortable with the 5 600 branches level that you’re at now and you’re focused on optimization going forward does that imply that you could see additional headcount reductions or shrinkage of the branch network or square footage as we’ve seen from others? How should we think about that? Talking about the number of branches I would think about the fact that like all those sort of retail distributions houses will continue to do consolidations and relocations as it makes sense for us to do that in our footprint and we’ll continue to respond to customer preferences which will mean that over the course of the next decade we’ll be looking at obviously the size of new branches as branches come up for renovation and release and things like that.
But we’re not expecting a material change in the number as a macro matter.
So 5 600 plus or minus.
And it is going to be based on customer preferences.
As it relates to headcount reductions we’re already aggressively looking at the efficiency in our same store branches and have been very successful.
So we are looking at staffing models physical capabilities automation.
We’re on that journey and we continue to be on it.
But I don’t see that there’s going to be step change relative to our previous expectations.
We’ve already exceeded them.
There might be some more but it’s not a step change.
And then lastly just on credit quality it feels like obviously still meaningful reserve releases so largely in consumer but is there much left to go in terms of cards or commercial? Is that kind of inflecting if you will in terms of the degree of credit leverage that may still be there in terms of reserve release? How should we think about that? Let’s start with commercial and say it’s plus or minus zero at this point.
So I think it’s going to be [strong] for long but that’s not really going to be a reserve story for a little while.
In the card business we had been talking about potentially reached bottom for a period of time.
We haven’t yet or it doesn’t seem we have.
So as we look into 2014 if things do continue to strengthen it’s possible there will be some more releases but not at the levels that you saw in 2013 so in the first couple of quarters.
And usually the first quarter is very instructive on that point.
Usually that’s when you see a material improvement if there’s going to be one in terms of [unintelligible] rates.
And then on the mortgage space two things.
We have $2.6 billion of NCI reserves left.
We talked before about the fact that we think our more steady run rate number will be between $1 billion and $1.5 billion.
So there’s another $1 billion or $1.5 billion to come in that space over the course of the next year or so potentially.
Obviously environment allowing.
And then on the purchase credit impaired portfolios we have $4.2 billion left after the two releases we just took.
But remember that it’s a life of loan portfolio.
So something would have to change now in the environment improve for us to expect to take more releases.
It’s possible but we don’t expect to be taking releases up to that $4.2 billion.
Our next question comes from Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Last quarter you had some tax benefits.
Did you have tax benefits this quarter? And can you quantify those? Yes we did have some tax benefits this quarter.
We had about $300 million after tax related to a number of items.
State and local tax some reserve releases.
Not one particular thing.
And what was the loan utilization rate for wholesale or commercial loans? It was just a little over 30%.
So low thirties.
No change.
And you said the number of branches shouldn’t change a whole lot.
If I recall from an investor day you had planned on opening a lot of new branches.
I thought it was going to be a net increase.
So is this a change in your expectations? Yes.
Yes so we said I think at investor day plus 100 plus or minus in a year when Gordon spoke earlier in 2013.
We’ve revisited based upon our assessment of customer preferences and activity and think we’ve got to the footprint where we are happy at 5 600 plus or minus.
If you look at that back presentation Gordon goes essentially through branches branch size technology headcounts and why.
Yes so if you look at that and then also obviously at investor day we’ll go through it some more.
And then the more general question is for your outlook you said that NII should be kind of flat mortgage a little bit lower and expenses only about flat or maybe lower from that $60 billion after you eat that extra $1 billion.
So it makes a difference how optimistic you are.
If you’re not optimistic you might want to cut expenses more.
And if you are optimistic maybe you assume that fees are going to grow a lot more because I know you were going to have positive operating leverage.
So how do you see revenues growing faster than expenses? Is it the fees picking up? Is it expenses going lower? Or how do you get there? It’s a bit of both.
Just one thing on mortgage just a tiny clarification.
We expect mortgage production to be broadly the same as we’ve seen in the second half but we would expect to see continued improvement in the expense base in the servicing business.
But having said all of that it’s a combination of relatively stable but potentially slightly higher NII.
Yes strength in fees on the basis of the strong driver growth that we talked about and then our $60 billion or less of expenses.
So we’re working through all of the efficiency opportunities across the businesses including in the retail space to be able to deliver positive operating leverage.
I think the way you should look at it too is each of our businesses is always trying to drive efficiency while investing.
That doesn’t change any particular year.
That’s kind of a nonstop kind of thing.
And you see those efficiencies because every business has pretty good margins after investing.
And sometimes the revenue growth itself is either episodic or the timing isn’t exactly the same as you invest.
But if you see the drivers which is deposits investible assets asset management number of corporate clients market shares they’re all pretty positive.
Can you just give us a general sense of your outlook for CIB? In the past you’ve given us a little bit more detail future expectations.
How do you think 2014 is going to be for capital markets? What’s your backlog like right now and why did you lower VAR if your more optimistic? Well VAR itself as a calculation is based on a whole bunch of different things.
We don’t deliberately lower VAR.
With VAR it really is just a feature of two things.
If you look at our look back period for VAR across asset classes we’re at very low levels of volatility.
Just across all the asset classes.
And that’s what’s really driving it.
If volatility picks up that could pick up.
We’re not driving that down.
And it’s also derisking in SVP.
That is a little bit proactive but it’s obviously mostly done now.
If you stay with the volatility like it was 18 months ago VAR itself would be like 60 or 70 just all on its own.
So without changing your position.
You know the hardest business to get a handle on is CIB in terms of the short run.
But what we see is investors still have to buy and sell securities.
Corporations have ECM and DCM.
And you can predict the rolloff etc.
The backlogs are pretty good.
You saw a tremendous amount of IPOs in 2013.
You saw a lot of debt financings.
You’ve already seen a bunch of M&amp;A earlier this year.
So we don’t budget or plan that you’re going to have an unbelievable year in CIB.
But if you ask me the long term prospects are good.
It’s probably the business has to go through the most adjustments to the new regulatory environment but the long term prospects are pretty good.
Our margins are good our returns are good.
Our comp level is at 30% down from 38% a couple of years ago really reflecting higher capital etc.
But at that comp level we can pay our people well grow the franchise grow around the world serve our clients and still get decent returns.
So we feel very good about the business and one of these days it’s going to boom.
And you can guess just like I can guess when that might happen but it will happen one day.
And then lastly as it relates to Volcker you said it should not hurt the results materially going ahead.
In the past you said that it might hurt a billion dollars.
That was a few years ago.
And then another time you said it might even help.
I know that was different management at the head then.
But now you don’t think it should impact things too much? Volcker all things being equal we would say not much.
I think when we referred to the $1 billion or $2 billion we were talking about regulations in general including derivatives [SES] clearing houses and Volcker.
And that number we still kind of have in the back of our mind but it’s hard to tell what the effect of all those things are.
The $1 billion to $2 billion I would say was probably in the conservative category.
And how much of that would be reflected already? That’s the one that’s hard to tell.
It’s very difficult to back [test] because these things are all interrelated.
But it’s not entirely possible to disentangle everything.
But obviously we’ve gone through some changes in 2013.
Some of that will be reflected.
But this is a number that we would expect to be reflected to the degree that it is at all over the course of the next two years.
And remember some of those things reduce capital requirements.
Some people are making dramatic changes in their business models which may free up market share for those of us that have additional market share.
So it all remains to be seen.
And that was also a static analysis.
Some things may reprice a little bit because of the capital liquidity requirements around them.
So it all remains to be seen.
Our next question comes from Erika Najarian with Bank of America.
Just had two quick follow up questions.
The first is on the expectations for the expense base in CCB.
If you take out that $400 million in legal expenses you’re looking at a run rate of $6.9 billion.
As you think about where the tailwinds could be for expenses for this year is it fair to assume that that $6.9 billion quarterly run rate could improve throughout the year this year? I would just reiterate what we previously said which is if you look at servicing and in particular the quarterly run rate which is call it $600 million in line with our expectations that’s going to continue to trend down towards $500 million by the end of this year in 2014.
And then on the production side while we obviously are going to see our expenses to a degree variable with the size of the market we’re continuing to also work on opportunities to make the fixed cost base more efficient.
So hopefully we’ll deliver some of that in 2014 too.
And we’ll do a more precise job of [unintelligible] around that at investor day.
And then just a quick other follow up is a follow up to Guy’s question on operational risk capital.
You mentioned that there was a 50 basis point haircut due to litigation.
Assuming that you’re not going to have similar outsized litigation expense going forward is that 50 basis point something that you can eventually recoup? And how long would that take? That’s an excellent question.
I would say assuming we have no significant losses going forward then we feel like we should be close to our high point albeit there may be a little bit more in the first half of 2014.
Just two comments on operational risk.
The first is unlike market and credit risk although all of the parameters and the confidence levels are effectively the same it doesn’t naturally recalibrate itself to changes in the business environment or to your business mix or model if you structurally reduce risk.
It’s very backward-looking and in that sense it differs because it doesn’t recalibrate.
And so as a result if you just let the models continue to predict based on historical losses going forward you would need to be carrying that elevated level of operational risk capital forward for a reasonably long time.
It’s a one in a thousand year horizon.
So think about it in terms of five ten years not one or two years.
And so for that reason we are very interested and working very hard with the industry to try and figure out how to better model changes in the business environment and to model and defend structural and permanent risk changes in our businesses in order to be able to recoup some of that more quickly.
But at this point I would characterize that as work that has not yet been done that is in progress and so for the foreseeable future it will be elevated.
Our next question comes from Matt O’Connor with Deutsche Bank.
If we just add up some of the odds and ends of the businesses that you’re getting out of for the niche products and the impact of Volcker is it still a relatively modest amount in aggregate? I think last quarter you had said maybe a few hundred million of revenue give up from the businesses that you’re tweaking.
And I just wanted to know if that still holds and if we overlay Volcker kind of what the all-in number might be.
Okay so put Volcker to one side for a second.
We didn’t update obviously the list.
We’re going to do that at investor day.
We thought about that for you.
It’s probably more important to think less about revenue but more about the impact on the bottom line given that some of these businesses may not have been returning [unintelligible] and may have been in investment phase and actually not be breaking even.
So I think it’s safe to say that if you consider the impact on the bottom line more so than revenues it’s relatively modest and we’ll do work to update you on that.
But remember it also is going to do two things release capital which will be a positive and also improve the quality of the businesses and the control environment and the complexity which will all be positive too.
And then just separately as you think about kind of potential legal uncertainties or risk going forward are there a couple that you kind of flag out there that are the ones that we should be watching most closely for the industry for you guys like whether it’s LIBOR or FX? It feels like you’ve obviously settled a lot on the mortgage side a couple of the other big ones that were specific to you? What should we be watching to make sure we have a sense of what’s going on? The ones you all mentioned.
We put them on our 10-K.
Yeah it’s the ones you mentioned.
And if you look at our disclosures on the 10-Q every quarter the items that we think raise themselves to levels of public disclosure are in that document.
So look to last quarter and next quarter and you’ll see.
But we shouldn’t comment specifically.
And nothing maybe [unintelligible] coming out in the 10-K versus the third quarter Q? I don’t think so.
No not at this point.
But obviously the K is a few weeks away.
Our next question comes from Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
On that question about the operational risk capital isn’t it kind of double or triple counting against you when you’ve got an $8 billion reserve which actually reduces your capital and is it fair to say you don’t get credit for that $8 billion in your capital base when you think about that operational risk capital? If you think about the basis for capital and put aside whether you like the way it works in a modeled environment your reserves are for your expected losses and your capital is for your unexpected losses.
So in theory you shouldn’t get explicit credit for them.
I think the bigger point for us is if you look at the sorts of things that are driving our capital levels to be as elevated as they are they are things for example like the PLMBS issues and also certain of the very large mortgage DOJ international mortgage settlement ISFR [unintelligible] issues.
It’s our belief that this firm is not exposed today or will not be exposed going forward to those levels of risk at anywhere near that scale going forward.
But as I said we have no ability at this point to scale those back and that’s what we’re very focused on.
So it’s less really about whether we’re getting credit for our reserves and a little bit more about how we try in the industry to evolve the framework in partnership with the regulators and defend over time that there are structural risk reductions that mean those risks are no longer present in that sale.
Got it.
So in the short run the fact that you settled actually increases the operational risk but you hope that over the longer term it will decrease it.
Yes.
You had made a brief comment about the equities results about the comparable periods being higher.
Were there any other reasons that equity trading results were kind of down as much as they were? Not specifically.
We did fairly well in cash but our cash platform is not as mature as some others.
So I think we would characterize the performance as good but coming off of as I said a very strong quarter for equity derivatives in the third quarter.
And then any other areas - Gordon Smith has presented a few times and talked about kind of derisking some of his businesses - that we should be looking at for sales? On page 15 I think last quarter we showed you a bunch of things that we were working on.
We didn’t replace the page because it’s not meaningfully changed.
That’s not to say that at the margins we don’t continue to look at our businesses in terms of simplification and derisking.
So I would say that while there may be things at the margin that we will explore over time then there’s nothing structurally big that you should be aware of.
And again we’ll do some more of that for you at investor day.
Our next question comes from Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
You mentioned that your utilization rate in the commercial area is in the low 30% range presently.
You also pointed out that you’re optimistic about the U.S.
economy for this year being stronger and then the positive impact it will have on loan demand.
What do you think the utilization rate could get to by year-end? I’m going to do just middle market because that’s the one that’s kind of at a 30%.
Years ago it used to average a little more like 45%.
It looks like to us that what you have is they have a lot more deposits and a lot less utilization.
And so obviously they’re going to use some of their own money before they borrow against a revolver or something like that.
And one day you would expect it to go up.
We’re not guessing it’s going to happen in 2014.
But I would say we’ll be sitting here one day when we’ve had a very strong economy it will be 10 points higher.
Good.
And then on the commercial real estate as you guys pointed out you’re having real good success in this area.
What geographic regions of the country are you seeing the best success? And then second what product types are you finding are working the best in growing that book? Well multifamily is a big portion of that.
I would say the major cities is pretty much where you’d say it son it’s hard to answer specifically.
I think both the multifamily and other than real estate loans it’s really the big cities.
You also mentioned that you guys have about $350 billion on deposit at the Fed.
If the Fed decides to eliminate the interest they pay on those deposits to all the banks would that change your strategy of keeping that amount up at the Fed? Sure.
I mean you know change either that or how you reimburse clients for deposits and obviously it will go into how you price and run your business.
We’re not expecting that to happen but obviously we would do that.
And you have other alternatives.
You might invest some of that money elsewhere.
And it’s also important to point out that a large portion of that $350 billion are deposits or cash that we would consider to be client nonoperational deposits.
And as a result we don’t give ourselves any liquidity value for those.
So that’s why we’re putting the [unintelligible] at the Fed.
And I may have missed this but in the card merchant and services auto business the noninterest expenses for the fourth quarter jumped up to $2.2 billion from the prior quarter’s $1.9 billion.
They’ve been flat for the prior three quarters.
Any particular reason why there was a jump? Mostly marketing.
Yeah it’s predominantly marketing.
And with respect to marketing it can be lumpy quarter to quarter.
So it’s not an unexpected number for us.
It’s just higher in the fourth quarter than it was in the third.
We feel like we’ve been doing a good job at card acquisition of high quality cards.
You see that number but it’s up quite a bit.
So we have some good active programs out there.
It looked like in the quarter that you guys bought back about $300 million worth of your stock in this quarter.
And since the last CCAR it’s just over $2.2 billion.
If I recall you have an approval for $6 billion.
Is it fair to assume that you’ll use the next quarter to fill out the rest of that $6 billion? Or is that too optimistic? Way optimistic.
Yeah I think that would be optimistic.
Obviously we’ll determine the first quarter as we go through it we’ll have our [unintelligible].
That’s certainly our expectation and there may be some more but I don’t think you should expect us to catch up completely.
Remember we want to meet our own objective the 9.5% or 10% and obviously the litigation costs hurt our ability to do a little bit of that so we caught up on that.
And also the stock price is a lot higher than it was when we talked about the best way to buy back some stock.
So we always look at that as the important thing.
We don’t just buy back stock regardless of price.
Not that we think it’s a bad price but when it was at $33 a share or whatever that was an extraordinarily compelling price.
You also gave us a little bit of guidance of what we should expect for this year’s CCAR maybe similar to what you did last year.
Should we look at it as what you were approved for or what you actually executed in the repurchases of better guide numbers since they are quite a bit different? The board will decide when the time comes when they look at all the priorities etc.
I would just reiterate what I said before which is getting to our target ratios is a priority but it’s not the only one.
We’ll have to see how things play out in 2014.
But if you do the math then you can take your own estimates of what you think we’ll earn next year.
We should be able to also have the opportunity to take it to buy more than just [unintelligible] so we want that flexibility.
That’s what we [submitted] for and we’ll obviously manage through each quarter as we see it.
And it may depend on what we sell how much we can mitigate what the final rules are and stuff.
So there’s a lot of moving parts.
Our next question comes from Derek De Vries of UBS.
Just had a few housekeeping questions left.
I think you mentioned the mark-to-market gain in asset management revenues? I’m wondering if you can just quantify that so we can figure that out for our forecast? It’s just a little less than $100 million.
And then on the investment bank on the comp to income ratio that’s clearly at the right end of your guidance.
I’m just wondering has there been any change in the deferred versus expense this year? And then related do we enter 2014 with a similar amount of awarded not yet expensed? There’s no change.
Our next question comes from Eric Wasserstrom of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
I just wanted to follow up on the loan growth expectations.
If we adjust for the typical seasonality associated with the credit card loans which obviously is high in the fourth quarter it looks like your core growth rate in loans was something like 60 or 70 basis points sequentially which would obviously translate into roughly a 2.5% annual growth rate.
Are you talking about total and core? Or are you talking about reported and card? I’m talking about reported.
So it just seems like the 2.5% seems like a fairly robust figure so I just want to get your view about what the run rate of core loan growth might be.
I’m going to try and answer the question and tell me if I don’t.
If you look at our actual total loans for the whole firm year over year our growth reported was 0.6% so call it just shy of 1%.
But underlying that the core loan growth was about 4%.
So I think that as we look forward we expect core growth to continue at or stronger than those levels.
We’ve reached as we say in card the point where seasonality aside that inflection point where we should expect net modest growth.
And as I said we’re going to have to all wait and see how client demand plays out in small business in the middle market space but we are hoping that at the second half of 2014 when the confidence in the economic recovery we have confidence that when others join us they will actually start to borrow and spend.
So it sounds like continuing along this trajectory with potential strength in the back half of next year? Yes that’s our hope.
So I’m just trying to reconcile that back to the NII dollar expectations which seem fairly flat.
But if the loan growth continues fairly strong and the expectation is to continue to play capital into securities opportunistically and the CIO portfolio is approaching breakeven why is the expectation not for a stronger net interest income dollar growth? Because we talked earlier about the fact that we’ve been seeing and we expect to continue to see some spread compression in loans that at this point in the near term - and we didn’t talk about the whole year for 2014 but in the near term - we’re expecting the improvement that we would see as a result of higher yields on investment securities etc.
to be largely offset by the compression in loan growth.
Our next question comes from Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Just two final followups.
On the commitment side as you talked about adjusting the trade book and as we see the commitments continue to come down how aggressively are you focusing on the commitment side from here in terms of balancing the long term growth potential versus the risk weightings and capital build? The way to look at that is that what drives the company is serving clients and so we don’t target you know just when we get rid of commitments or something like that.
But obviously we’ve asked all the people and businesses to start to optimize a little bit commitments balance sheet LCR SLR Basel III.
And so you’ll probably see a little bit of a squeeze in commitments as they do that.
But not at the expense of trying to do a good job for clients.
The other thing that I should point out is some of those commitments are much more capital or liquidity hogs than others.
So that’s where you’re going to see a little bit more of the squeeze.
And then just one follow up on the fixed income side within that comment earlier about the runoff businesses.
Is there a way you can update how we should think about the potential sale of physical commodities and what proportion it is of the $15.5 billion of FIC revenues this year and Marianne to your point about how that is in a relative profitable sense? Let’s talk about last year.
If you look at 2013 reported you would have seen that our commodities revenues counted for in the low teens of our markets revenues but that’s on an accounting basis.
So that’s just a revenue [chore] only.
So if you think about the economic revenue because obviously there’s some accounting growth [unintelligible] much smaller number than that.
So call it mid single digit mid to 6-7%.
But then it was a business that was in a combination of being built out so it wasn’t fully mature.
And also we’re selling parts of the business that are highly [unintelligible] intensive to us.
So think about the impact on the bottom line as being considerably more modest and with some capital benefits.
Our next question comes from Paul Miller from FBR.
Most of my questions have been answered but I wanted to talk a little bit about your mortgage origination platform.
It looks like you dropped from about $40 billion to about $23 billion and your overall market dropped like 25% and that’s like a 40% drop which drops probably your market share to low 8%.
Can you add some color to that? Is that just mainly a function of the refis going away? Should we see an increase in market share down the road? A couple of things.
First of all if you just take the second half versus the first half we said that we thought that the overall market would be down 30% to 40%.
It was down about 33%.
So it was in line with our expectations.
And our performance was in line with that too.
So you’ve got to remember that the revenue versus loan volume and how that gets recognized is some timing differences.
With respect to market share if you look backwards into ’13 the overall size of the market was revised up which means that our market share was all other things being equal just relatively revised down doesn’t change anything.
But going forward our market share will be a factor of obviously the size of the market but also our pricing discipline to make sure that we want to get an appropriate risk adjusted return.
So we would gain share but only if we can do it getting paid for the risk and the cost of servicing.
And the whole reduction was refi.
And the whole reduction was refi.
I should say that yes.
And I know you don’t want to make any comments about political figures but now that we’ve got Mel Watt coming to town there’s probably going to be more focus on extending the credit box than we’ve seen over the last couple of years where most companies don’t want to really get away from high FICO high credit quality product.
Do you think that Watt can be successful in opening the credit curve? And what type of things would you want to hear where you would start extending the credit box? I would say that people in the business have been slowly extending the credit box.
I’m talking about over the last 18 months.
If you look at LCVs if you go to different cities.
I’m not sure you’re going to see a dramatic expansion of the credit box because all the rep and warranty all the litigation and stuff like that for anything that’s not qualified mortgages.
And the qualified mortgages you know credit is available.
GSE is 90% LTV.
On the Ginnie Mae side you know close to 100% LTV.
So there’s credit availability you just have to have the ability to pay.
And FHA will set its own policy but even there I think people are going to have a much tighter underwriting than the FHA guidelines because of how much FHAs cost people.
Our next question comes from Christopher Wheeler of Mediobanca.
The first one really I suppose goes back to Sunday and the news that came out [Basel].
For the last 16 quarters we’ve been talking about regulation and you’ve often been quite aggressive in talking about the impact of some of that regulation.
But it seems like we’ve reached a tipping point on Sunday whereby we’ve set back from those rules that were suggested in June and came out with something that was sensible but actually also was going to support the growth of your business and indeed the growth of the economy.
Do you think we’re actually at the stage now where we can actually feel that we’ve got over the worst of the regulation and we can now actually get on with running our and your businesses? I think we know for the most part the contours of the regulation at this point.
Some of the fine tuning still needs to be done.
So I think you’re going to see a lot of banks globally adjusting to the new financial architecture.
And the effect of that will be different in different parts of the world.
It’s slightly different for certain products but it will probably be okay in total.
It’s nice to have the rules to live with them and now we’ve got to push them down and understand them in a little more detail.
There’s still a few things we’re waiting for.
I mean long term debt requirements something to look out for in the first quarter.
But having more clarity is definitely helpful.
You’re seeing some people make bigger strategic changes some are making just small tactical changes.
And then we’re going to report a lot more what we think the effect of all this is at investor day.
And the second question really relates down to the mix of your investment banking revenues.
Clearly what we’ve seen is obviously the downward pressure on fixed income for some time now for a whole bunch of reasons some of which you’ve touched on.
But I suppose what a lot of people are talking about is that fixed income will no longer be quite the dominant part of the revenue pool for big investment banks as it was.
But in your case and one or two other people obviously it’s very important business.
Is your view and perhaps don’t just talk about yourself but the really big players the very successful players in fixed income would actually probably be seeking to take share in what is going to be a smaller pot going forward? I look at it a little bit different.
I look at it like the pot will change and adjust to the new world but from there it will probably grow.
Because if you look at underlying numbers the amount of investable assets around the world is going to double over 10 years the amount of needs of corporations and sovereigns and supernationals and ECM/DCM advice will double over 10 years.
So there will be a strong underlying business.
Spreads products those things have always changed.
Spreads have been coming down my whole life and yet we have a healthy business.
So we expect that fixed income after some adjustment will be a good business.
We think a lot of these trends are cyclical not secular and that’s how we’re positioned for it.
It is possible that if people leave and certain things reprice… All businesses have to have a normal return on capital for the average player otherwise they wouldn’t exist.
So we do think you’ll see some of that.
There will be pieces at the [unintelligible] banks which is fine.
Our next question comes from Steven Chubak of Nomura.
I had a couple of questions regarding the Basel SLR.
Specifically Marianne I wanted to clarify a comment you had made earlier where it sounded as though you expect the U.S.
regulators to adopt the revised Basel framework from over the weekend as a final SLR calculation approach.
And I didn’t know if that guidance was in the context of the higher 5% SLR requirement which is being imposed on the U.S.
[unintelligible].
The reality is I don’t know any more than you do.
I just think that given the changes that were made it seemed to be positive and constructive.
There’s reason to believe that the U.S.
regulators would want to leverage that.
I could be wrong.
And obviously we did comment letters on the U.S.
NPR but I’m not aware of any specifics on the [quotient].
I’d just add that if you listen to what the regulators said not this time but going back they intended to make Basel and U.S.
rules common.
About the rules.
They did not say they intended to have the same percent.
So we’re just assuming the 5% is going to [stay].
And we think there will be a couple of other adjustments going forward too.
And then just looking at both the risk based and leverage based ratios it sounds as though for the SLR there are a lot of mitigation opportunities at your disposal.
On a pro forma basis which ratio do you anticipate will represent the binding constraint on capital return going forward? If you look at the total firm consolidated then they actually [unintelligible] this quite nicely if you think about our target for Basel tier one common at 10% or 10.5% and a leverage target of 5% or 5.5%.
So I think the leverage ratio feels like as a consolidated matter it’s a simple fact [unintelligible] as it’s supposed to be not a binding constraint.
The devil’s in the details.
As you push that down as I said to the individual business and product and then obviously consider it in a context of the whole client relationship.
I think as we look forward CCAR is something to be thoughtful about because it’s a stress scenario it’s evolving in terms of the maturity of it as well as a move over time towards being on a Basel III advanced approach.
So if I had to guess I would say CCAR could be.
And then transitioning to a risk-based ratio that’s maybe not spoken about as often the tier one capital ratio that ultimately could compel increased preferred issuance.
We did see you tap the market within the first six months of the year and I didn’t know how we should be thinking about the level of preferred issuance you’re targeting going forward.
Is it consistent with the 150 basis points noted within the Fed’s proposal? Or should we be thinking about that differently i.e.
some of the mandated buffer will be met with incremental equity? I would say that our tier one capital needs to be at 11% plus.
We said we were going to run at about 10% to 10.5% Basel III tier one common.
I would suggest that the gap will be [unintelligible] and maybe more.
There are no further questions at this time.
Thank you everyone.
Thank you talk to you in a quarter.
Please standby we are about to begin.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to JPMorgan Chase’s First Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
This call is being recorded.
Your line will be muted for the duration of the call.
We will now go live to the presentation.
Please standby.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase’s Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon; and Chief Financial Officer Marianne Lake.
Ms.
Lake please go ahead.
Thank you Operator.
Good morning everybody.
As I’ll go I’m going to take you through the earnings presentation which is available on our website.
Please refer to the disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements which is at the back of the presentation.
So starting on page one the firm generated net income of $5.3 billion for the first quarter a $1.28 a share with the return on tangible common equity of 13% on revenue of $24 billion down 8% year-on-year driven by lower markets revenue down 17% and continued headwinds in mortgage.
Reported expenses for the firm were basically the same as adjusted expenses this quarter at $14.6 billion in line with our expectations and our guidance for full year adjusted expenses to be below $59 billion.
Firm-wide legal expense for the quarter was immaterial.
Of note you will see that we didn’t disclose any significant items this quarter on the front page of the presentation.
There were items in the quarter that we consider non-core or non-recurring each individually didn't rise to the level of being disclosed on the front page and importantly the net of all such items across businesses was not significant to the firm’s reported results.
To be clear this means that our reported net income of $5.3 billion is very close to being a core performance number which we consider a solid result given the challenging environment for those markets and mortgage.
Importantly underlying drivers across most businesses continued among impressive trends.
Finally we are pleased that our capital plan was approved in the quarter and the Board announced its intention to increase our quarterly common stock dividend to $0.40 a share effective in the second quarter as well as the authorization to repurchase a gross $6.5 billion of common equity or net a little over $5 billion that is net of expected employee issuance.
So skipping over page two and turning to page three.
Our Basel III Tier 1 common ratio was 9.5% flat to last quarter being over 40 basis points of capital generate and run-off in the quarter largely offset by the impact of certain specific risk models that were approved to use in Basel I last year but which our regulators disapproved for use under Basel III effective at the beginning of this year.
We believe this should largely be timing with past remediation in the second half of 2014 and further remediation in 2015.
The impact of these models approval was contemplated in our Investor Day guidance of reaching 10% plus by the year end but it won’t be in a linear fashion and the majority of capital accretion will occur in the second half of the year.
Effective this quarter our regulatory reported ratio moves from a Basel I measure to a Basel III standardized transitional measure.
And having been approved to exit Basel parallel effective 1st of April starting in the second quarter the common floor would apply.
This means there are variety of measures we could talk about but suffice to say there were hundreds of bases points above the minimum to any of them.
Therefore our primary ratio will continue to be one we use to manage the place which also happens to be our lowest the fully phased in Basel III advanced ratio of 9.5%.
Before we leave the page I want to spend a minute on leverage.
You’ll notice that the firm and the bank SLR progressed by 50 and 70 basis points respectively and importantly that the firm is above 5% today.
The firm’s ratio benefited from net retained earnings as well as from preferred issuance of close to $4 billion as we took advantage of market opportunities in the first quarter.
The bank’s ratio benefited from both retained earnings as well as the impact of actions taken including down-streaming and restructuring of certain capital to the bank.
Additionally other leverage actions taken across our businesses helped the firm and the bank by 10 basis points.
We also analyzed rule proposed by regulators this past Tuesday.
In general it was relatively consistent with the Basel proposal which is how we based our estimate.
There were a couple of newer technical changes the net of those changes we estimated to add approximately 15 to 20 basis points to leverage which is included in the ratios reported on the page.
Returning to the business performance I am moving on page four the Consumer &amp; Community Banking.
The combined consumer businesses generated $1.9 billion of net income for the quarter on $10.5 billion of revenue and an ROE of 15%.
Overall revenue was down both year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter driven by mortgage banking which I will talk about later.
Despite margin compression across CCB excluding mortgage revenue was flat year-on-year as we continue to add new customers and deepen our relationships with them.
Deposits were up $30 billion year-on-year.
We had record client investment assets of $196 billion up 16% and credit cost sales volumes of $105 billion was up 10% year-on-year being the 24th consecutive quarter that sales outperformed the industry.
Expense was down $350 million year-on-year and close to $900 million quarter-on-quarter despite the ongoing investment in control.
Reduction was also driven by mortgage as well as by the timing of certain investments in marketing and costs.
And across CCB we are on track relative to our headcount reduction outlined at Investor Day.
On Page 5 Consumer and Business Banking.
Business generated $740 million of net income and ROE of 27% on $4.4 billion of net revenue up 5% year-on-year and down 1% from the prior quarter seasonally.
Net interest income was up over 5% year-on-year driven by deposit growth of 9% among the highest in the industry.
We saw strong household growth and the lowest attrition ever this quarter.
While the deposit margin flattened quarter-over-quarter it did decline 9 basis points over last year driven by lower reinvestment rate.
On the non-interest revenue side we continue to see strong year-over-year growth in both debit and in investment revenue driven by the record client investment asset I mentioned.
Expense is up 1% year-on-year reflecting the investments we’ve made in the business including the cost relating to strengthening the control and compliance infrastructure partially offset by improving efficiency in our branches.
CBB headcount was down around 1500 this quarter.
On Business Banking originations we’re beginning to see stronger lending with production for the quarter of $1.5 billion up 22% year-over-year and 16% quarter-on-quarter.
We have the right team in place and targeted strategies which have proved successful.
We’re also seeing improved banking productivity.
So although some challenges remain in the environment pipeline is strong and at the highest levels since 2012 and utilization rates have stabilized.
So we are cautiously optimistic that improved lending trends will continue in 2014.
Turning to Page 6 Mortgage Banking.
Overall Mortgage Banking net income was $114 million for the quarter.
Despite a relatively favorable rate environment the market got off to a slow start in 2014.
We’re seeing tight housing inventory in some markets and the purchase market was affected adversely by the severe weather.
This led to a challenging quarter to the mortgage business with production of $17 billion down 27% quarter-over-quarter and 68% over last year.
On the back of this lower volume reduction pretax excluding repurchases was a loss of $186 million consistent with our guidance.
We did however continue to make good progress on rightsizing capacity and reducing expenses with production core expense being lower by over $110 million quarter-on-quarter.
Total Mortgage Banking headcount was down nearly 3000 since the end of the year and about 14 000 since the beginning of last year.
Mortgage production also benefited from a repurchase reserve release.
Repurchases for the quarter was positive $128 million principally driven by a significant improvement in actual and projected cure rates for the remaining repurchase risks.
Before I move off of production just briefly on market share.
As we pointed out at Investor Day the pricing of business reflects the inherent risk.
The risk of the default and cost associated with servicing defaulted loans is significantly higher for high LTD loans.
As a result of pricing actions taken we believe we may have lost some share in the first quarter while we’ve remained discipline with respect to appropriate risk adjusted returns.
And this is consistent with our objective to have a smaller higher quality less volatile mortgage business in the future.
Now onto servicing excluding MSR risk management pretax income of $131 million was favorable by over $100 million quarter-on-quarter.
That was driven by the absence of an adjustment to compensatory fees which we incurred in the fourth quarter.
If we exclude this item servicing pretax remains relatively flat and we remain on track to deliver servicing expense of $500 million plus or minus by the fourth quarter of this year.
MSR risk management was a net loss for the quarter of about $400 million.
The loss was driven by negative $460 million fair value adjustments principally on higher allocated capital for the business in line with the capital we showed at Investor Day.
Lastly on real estate portfolios pretax income of $517 million include $174 million of charge-off and an NCI reserve release for the quarter of $200 million in line with guidance.
You will see the net charge-off were broadly flat to the fourth quarter on flattening delinquencies at the end of last year and the early part of the first quarter.
While we do expect improvement in loss trend to resume in the second quarter as recent delinquency trend have been positive.
Lastly on mortgage the NCI portfolio remains flat.
We added $3.5 billion of loans this quarter.
Turning to Page 7 Card Merchant Services and Auto have net income of $1.1 billion down 15% year-on-year with an ROE of 23% while 20% if you exclude reserve releases.
Revenue of $4.5 billion was down 3% seasonally quarter-on-quarter and 4% year-on-year driven by continued margin compressions from growth in transacted balances and from the paydown of higher yielding run-off loans.
Underlying trends remain robust.
Strong sales and merchant processing volumes up 10% and 11% respectively in gaining share.
Total outstanding remain approximately flat for us and for the industry and we have strong momentum in new account originations in the quarter up 24% year-on-year and the quality of our new account origination is very strong.
Expense was down $260 million while 12% quarter-on-quarter due to the timing of marketing spend as well as the absence of remediation payments to customers that was recorded in the fourth quarter.
The net charge-off rate has remained very low at 293 basis points picking up slightly quarter-over-quarter just some seasonality of loan balances.
We released $200 million of card loan loss reserve this quarter in line with guidance and $50 million of student lending reserve.
And before we move on a few words on auto we saw a very strong industry rebound in March with the highest new auto sales since 2007 coming off of the slowest start to the year again on the severe winter.
This drove originations up 3% year-on-year and loan balances up 5% gaining share and it was the 10th consecutive quarter of auto loan and lease growth.
Moving onto Slide 8 on the Corporate and Investment Bank CIB reported net income of $2 billion on revenue of $8.6 billion and an ROE of 13%.
You will see on the table on the top right of the slide that we’ve shown adjusted results for comparable periods excluding DVA and FVA.
The net DVA/FVA impact of this quarter was an insignificant loss.
Growth DVA would have been over $200 million negative on 9 basis point tightening of CBS spreads.
So I’ve expected what we saw was a sensitivity to our spread significantly muted given the implementation of FVA.
And you should expect the impact of DVA-FVA in our results to continue to be modest going forward all other things equal.
In banking total revenue was $2.7 billion down 8% year-on-year.
IB fees were $1.4 billion up 1% year-on-year driven by higher advisory and equity underwriting fees but with lower debt underwriting fees.
And we maintained our number one ranking in global IB fees as per Dealogic.
Going forward the environment remains compelling to M&amp;A with announced volume up 20%.
We have a robust pipeline of IPOs with the large backlog across sectors and regions and DCM activity is expected to be relatively stable.
Lending revenues was down $200 million year-over-year and down quarter-over-quarter.
But mark-to-market gains on securities drove the variance in both prior periods.
We also had treasury services revenue of a $1 billion down 3% year-on-year with higher net interest income on higher deposits offset by the impacts of business simplification and lower trade loans and spreads.
Moving on to Markets and Investor Services the challenging environment and lower client volumes we talked about at Investor Day continues through the end of the quarter ending with overall market revenues down 17% year-on-year.
And there was no discernible single driver of the weakness.
It was across product and regions.
In general it feels like the market consensus at the quarter beginning which for a growth story didn’t transpire.
And combined with several other factors this led to generally lower levels of client activity across the board.
We didn’t see a meaningful pickup in activity in markets reasonable to expect but some of its third quarter softness may continue in April.
Security Services revenue of a $1 billion was up 4% year-on-year primarily driven by higher NII on higher deposit and higher asset-based fees on higher assets under custody.
And you see the credit adjustment of other line items show the negative $197 million which includes the net DVA/FVA loss together with the impact of changes in CVA.
The credit environment continues to be benign and we believe our exposure to Russia is manageable.
We are totally reserved based on what we know today and we are closely monitoring the situation.
Expense came down 8% year-on-year to $5.6 billion lower compensation given lower revenue driving the decline.
The comp-to-revenue ratio for the quarter was 33% broadly in line with 34% in the same quarter of last year.
And finally on drivers you can see client deposit balances were up 15% year-on-year but down 2% quarter-on-quarter seasonally.
Moving on to Commercial Banking on Page 9 this quarter we saw net income of about $580 million on revenue of $1.7 billion with an ROE of 17%.
Revenue was relatively flat year-over-year and declined by approximately $200 million sequentially.
The sequential decline was about two-thirds NII driven by a large recovery we reported in the prior quarter together with lower day count.
The balance of the decline was lower NII on seasonally lower fees.
A bright spot in the quarter was gross IB revenues of $450 million for the quarter up over 30% year-on-year a record for the first quarter and representing nearly 35% of North America IB fees.
Our credit costs continue to show very strong performance with a net recovery rate of 4 basis points and expense was up 7% year-on-year given the investments we have been making in the business as well as the impact of cost of control and compliance.
Loan balances were up 7% year-on-year and 1% quarter-on-quarter.
Consistent with recent trends real estate growth remains really strong at 15%.
Both our Commercial Term Lending and Real Estate Banking portfolios grew in the double digits outpacing the industry.
In C&amp;I loan growth remains tepid and the environment remains extremely competitive.
There were pockets of growth including the expansion market which were up 17% and increased activity in healthcare oil and gas and technology sectors.
With respect to pipelines we saw the pipeline trends up or strengthen a little from the lows of last year trending in the right direction but still relatively weak versus a year ago.
Moving on to Page 10 Asset Management the quarter saw net income of about $440 million down 9% year-on-year with an ROE of 20%.
Revenue was up 5% year-on-year driven by flows and market performance primarily Europe and the U.S.
off of a very strong first quarter a year ago.
Quarter-on-quarter revenue was down 13% despite continued inflows two thirds of the declines was driven by normal seasonality and performance fees.
The remainder of the decline related to the change in the mark-to-market of the seed investments.
We did mention a $100 million of both positive mark-to-market reflected in the fourth quarter’s results.
We gave some of that back this quarter driving the sequential variance impact to be over $150 million.
This was the 20th consecutive quarter of long-term inflows $20 billion for the quarter driving record AUM of $1.6 trillion up 11% year-on-year and we’ve seen a strong start to April.
Expense increased 11% year-on-year given higher investments and cost of controls and decreased 8% quarter-on-quarter largely driven by lower comp on the revenue.
Lastly in banking we continue to see strong loan and deposit growth with record balances up 19% and 7% respectively.
Moving on to Page 11 on Corporate and Private Equity private equity net income of over $200 million included approximately $400 million of gains on investments in the quarter.
Treasury and CIO reported a net loss of $94 million.
NII remains relatively flat quarter-on-quarter had a negative $90 million and we continue to expect NII in Treasury and CIO to breakeven by the year end driven by higher securities yields as we benefit through higher rates.
Additionally we deployed $25 billion growth of new investments in the quarter with the portfolio being relatively flat less of maturities pay downs and sales.
And before I continue let me just tell you about NIM and NII for a second.
The page is in the appendix.
Total NIM was flat quarter-on-quarter and Core NIM was up 2 basis points primarily driven by higher investment securities yields offset by loan spread compressions.
Finally on this page other corporate net income of a little over $200 million plus.
Included in these results is a $90 million after-tax impact of writing down our deferred tax asset following changes to New York State tax which was enacted at quarter end.
This upfront impact of DVA would be offset over time.
And as I said earlier no significant legal expense to report for the quarter.
It obviously is good to have a quarter with such a small number and perhaps puts such large issues behind us.
However I want to remind you that we still expect legal expenses to be lumpy quarter-over-quarter for the next couple of years as we work through remaining issues.
Now on Page 12 we’ve covered most of the outlook as we went through the presentation.
Just a couple of additional things to cover first mortgage production.
We told you to expect mortgage production to be negative for the year we do and we expect it to be negative for the second quarter.
Obviously the final result would be market dependent.
However at this point our outlook as per production pre-tax excluding repurchase to be a loss of between $100 million and $150 million slightly improved from the first quarter on higher volume seasonally.
Second on releases expect mortgage reserve releases to be more modest going forward except for potentially PCI purchase credit-impaired loans where we could see some lumpy releases if we would have any and expect card releases to be essentially over.
So to wrap up we feel good about the simplicity of the quarter and solid core performance given challenging industry conditions.
We are also pleased with the progress we’ve made on key items including announcing the sale of our physical commodities business and our retirement planning services business passing C-corp qualitatively and quantitatively exceeding 5% for the firm and bank leverage ratios and maintaining strong expense discipline while investing in growth and control and perhaps most importantly continuing to deliver outstanding customer service and continuing to grow underlying performance drivers.
With that operator you can open up the line please for Q&amp;A.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from Glenn Schorr of ISI.
Hello there.
Hi Glenn.
Hello.
Maybe with avoiding too much of the detail say at the high level and talk about no loan growth on a year-on-year basis and now there is a bunch of mix in there.
And I guess I am particularly interested in the C&amp;I bucket because that’s the one area where we do see some growth in the industry.
So A there is a little bit of verbiage in your text on how you define C&amp;I loan growth in the corporate bucket.
And B are there areas where you just think pricing is getting a little high and you’re purposely avoiding that growth? So Glenn if you just -- so that I can give you the underlying core growth number for the firm.
So the quarter was 4% year-on-year even though obviously as you take into consideration the runoff portfolios and mortgage and cards we were closer to flat.
In C&amp;I you’re right the industry was up slightly we were not.
It’s a continuation of the things we talked about which is a combination of current selection of being very disciplined on credit so not chasing growth at the cost of liberal credit structures and overly aggressive pricing and also the fact that we continue to see some of our criticized and classified loans be refinanced away from us.
So we are just going to hold the line on discipline.
We are seeing the ongoing aggressive investing environment on both credit terms and pricing and we will do every rational and sensible deal we can do but we are not going to chase growth at the expense of discipline.
I appreciate that.
And obviously over time we will see that in both a steadier to up NIM and good delinquency trends I guess.
Yes.
So a higher quality portfolio higher quality trends.
Okay.
On the SLR that just came out you gave us the expected impact so I appreciate that.
In Jamie’s annual letter I think you said 'we began to make significant changes to the rates business and expect to maintain decent profitability'.
Could you talk about what you’ve done in rates? How much through that -- through those changes we’ve seen and what to expect on the other side? I think very broadly if you look at the numbers yes we pushed down our capital leverage SLR to all the businesses that are all making adjustments as appropriate.
In the rates business in particular we’ve seen there is very few what I call exotic rates products being done anymore so it would be a rather large change.
A lot of things going electronic which can reduce your expenses too so we are pretty comfortable what rate business will be -- will be normal profitability going forward.
It may take a little bit of time.
And Glenn I just want to make sure that it was clear in my remarks that the impact of the new proposal to leverage is included in the reported results.
Very clear.
And normal profitability might mean lower revenues but normal profitability right as things change in that business? A little bit yeah.
We don’t know what’s going to happen to spreads going forward so we are comfortable we want to stay in the business.
We do a good job at it with our clients.
Okay.
Last one Marianne I guess next on the hit parade is final rules on LCR and OLA do you feel that’s coming this year and do you expect -- how do you feel you are positioned for that? So with LCR and whether you take the Basel or the U.S.
proposals we are compliant at this point with the margin and importantly we will stick with our own internal framework.
So we feel good about LCR we are continuing to manage it as you would expect.
Yes I am expecting us to get long-term debt rules this year but I don’t know when and I can’t control it.
We feel with over 19% available resources that we’re in a good starting position and so we’re not really going to be in a business of guessing where that ends up will just accordingly if it’s different from our expectations.
Okay.
Thank you both.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Erika Najarian of Bank of America.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Thank you for walking us through the progress on the leverage ratio.
I am just wondering should we expect on the bank level that you would be complying to 6% at some point this year or was the quarterly progress at this quarter or last quarter rather unusual? So given that we did some restructuring of bank level capital including downstreaming that was a fairly sizeable increase in the quarter so you are not going to see progress be linear but there are a number of different levers that we have in our toolkit so to speak to get to 6% over time.
Whether that this year or whether that into next year we are going to be measured about the progress.
So whether that’s retaining earnings potentially additional capital we’ve been auctioning leverage actions both deposits as well as derivatives actions.
And then ultimately there is also the good guy when it comes timing dependent upon maybe a 2015 thing hopefully moving from same to the newly named FACCR calculations the derivatives central future exposure.
We did take a look at the information on FACCR and it hasn’t changed our point of view that we would expect that to have a favorable impact for the bank of 40 basis points plus or minus.
So when that comes that will be a nice boost not through retaining earnings and the leverage actions we have and potentially more capital optimizations.
We have clear path of 6% whether it’s this year earnings 2015.
Okay.
And the second question given that you are already compliant in the LCR is it fair for us to assume that your core margin should continue to improve throughout the year at this measured pace? Yes.
I would say it’s fair to assume our core margin should be relatively stable throughout the year and I think plus or minus 2 basis points on a -- not balance sheet like us we would make changes it’s relatively stable.
So our expectation is the core NIM to be relatively stable in 2014 to be stable to slightly positive in 2015 assuming that the implied rate cut stays out the way it is.
Okay.
And just last one for me in terms of your comments on card provision help us think about sort of the balance in terms of the catalyst for your guidance? Should we start to expect balance growth to come back or is this more of a comment that charge-offs are as well as they will go and should normalize here? So it’s a combination of factors we are seeing delinquency trends and rate charge-offs flatten out.
We knew that it would happen one day.
That’s what we’re seeing at the moment.
We will continue to what they do through the course of the year.
Based up on that we are not expecting anymore results.
In addition you should know that we thought our outstandings were flat and underneath that our core portfolio is growing.
We still do believe we are at our inflection point and that we should see some growth but it will be relatively modest.
Okay.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Thank you Erika.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew O’Connor of Deutsche Bank.
Good morning.
Good morning.
If you look at the traditional bank fees even outside of mortgage that recur year-over-year than I think most might have been expecting and looking like the card fees service charges.
Do you think that’s all weather related or just weaker macro back drop than maybe we were looking for? So is it about interchange fees in cards? Just the overall credit card fee line that you give us and obviously will include the interchange but probably one of the things as well? Yeah.
So the sales volume obviously seasonally goes down quarter-over-quarter.
I don’t think that we have perceived there’s been a significant impact from weather on card sales in the first quarter.
For us our sales were up 10% year-over-year so pretty strong.
No I wouldn’t attribute anything to the weather.
Okay.
And then just separately the expense guidance for this year I think is unchanged even though revenues coming a little bit weaker than expected.
I realize this is just the first quarter and things could change but is there opportunity to adjust the expense base a bit more if revenues light? Yeah.
So you saw -- I mean obviously you saw in the first quarter on the back of lower revenues in the markets business.
We have lower compensation as an absolute matter that the ratio is relatively in line.
So you’re absolutely right depending upon excuse me -- how the rest of the year pans out will determine whether the compensation expenses inherit in our outlook for CIB are up or down or flat and that will adjust our ending results.
And we’re not ready yet to declare a position on the whole year so less than $59 billion is still our guidance but we intend to be very very decedent.
All right.
And then just lastly on the buybacks and net of issuance being approved for greater than $5 billions.
Any comments just on the timing or up likelihood of all that being used this year? Yeah.
So on the timing I mentioned the fact that we aren’t expecting a capital accretion to 10% plus to be linear.
We’re expecting it to be much more in the second half of the year flatter in the first half.
So it’s reasonable to expect that we will be covering employee issuance plus or minus in the first half of the year with most of our repurchase capacity being available for us in the second half.
As to how much of that we will use it will be a number of factors including obviously our share price at the time.
But we do intend to take advantage of the opportunity that we’ve being given to buyback and we’ll see what the absolute level is when we get there.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
Hi Marianne.
In the mortgage area the $400 million hit to that just to qualify that that was a one-time hit related to your top corporate reallocation of cap related earlier this year? Yeah.
That sounds really wise.
So when we declared Investor Day that we’d increase target rate so that business we pushed that down into the valuation of the asset one time.
Okay.
And again the reasons for the negative profit margin we’re seeing on the origination side.
Is it just the timing of getting expenses adjusted to a new base originations.
And it takes that there is a lag or is there also some investment expenses that you’re running through that that they’re also hurting your mortgage profitability? Three things there is a little bit of timing in there and so far as we did make continued improvement in expenses and we’re going to continue to work on what we would characterize as that is sort of fixed cost base.
It’s definitely the case that we are building this business for the long run and so we continue to invest in technology and operations that may cause more profitable and efficient through the cycle.
But it is also the case that is an incredibly small market.
I mean the market size was sub $250 billion so annualized sub a trillion dollars which is not something we’ve seen in since before 2000.
So the reality is in the market of that size is very hard to have strong profitability or possibility when you have to have a core level of fixed expenses.
And so we’re thinking about this business over the longer run to be as efficient and profitable as possible through the cycle in markets that are on average bigger than this.
Okay.
And then on the markets activity in the investment bank I guess a bit disappointed that activity level didn’t pick up in March though it seem like overall rate volatility picked up as people took different takes in the fed statements.
Do you attribute some of the weakness to the lower issuance compared to last year what seems likes that continue and what do you think is needed to stimulate better activity particularly in fact this year? Yes I would say lower issuance was a factor with our M&amp;A.
So I wouldn’t say that it was a single driving factor lower on mortgage issuance lowest debt issuance.
There was a whole bunch of different things.
And then as to catalyst more volatility more growth and we just wait and see.
And do you have any sense of what kind of you’re planning for there or is it really just a wait-and-see on the environmental faults and you react as it occurs? I think John we always have been very consistent on this kind of thing.
You guys kind of make your own estimates because they are just as good as ours.
Great business with great people technology sales research but we can’t predict it going forward.
Okay.
Similar to the mortgage comment where it’s a long-term view it will affect the business and this is one quarter so.
Got it.
Any impacts on the commodity sale that’s planned or did you move that to discontinued ops or did that have any impact on the market the metric this quarter Marianne? Yes.
We’ve accounted for held-for-sale and no significant impacts to the results.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.
Hey good morning.
Couple of follow-ups one on commodities business that you are in the process selling can you give us the sense as to what the impact is likely to be per sale? So we’ve reflected any of -- obviously we looked at the bid and valuation in any of the difference versus booked in our P&amp;L and is insignificant.
And we are engaged in ongoing relationship with the buyer and we’ll realize P&amp;L over time but does not expect to see anything significant.
Okay.
And then just a couple of clarifications on OLA you mentioned 19% available resources I assume that’s against RWA but I just wanted to clarify? Yeah.
Correct.
Okay.
And then on SLR on Page 3 you showed the ratios I just wanted to confirm the Basel III line says that it’s on the fully phased-in bases but we don’t see fully phased-in SLR does that imply as transitional? No its fully phased-in that’s a fully phased-in Betsy.
On the SLR as well right? Yeah.
But remember that that was the exception of the fact that we are baking in things that are not yet certain.
So we haven’t baked in the benefit that we would expect for example from SACCR because it hasn’t yet been acknowledged? Okay.
In that 40 basis point benefit there is for the bank level and holdco level? The sensitivity is different in the bank and the holding company.
So its more like 30 plus or minus at the holding companies 40 plus or minus at the bank.
Okay.
Great.
And then lastly on expenses you highlighted throughout all the areas we had the headcount reduction.
Can you just give us a sense as to whether or not the benefit to the expense dollars is fully in the first quarter or was there a negative things like severance that than the benefit to the expense dollars comes in Q2 and beyond? So with respect to the headcount reduction in the first quarter the severance wasn’t significant and benefit is largely in.
Remember we said that overall the firm is expecting that the headcount goes down by about 5000 for the full year and it’s down only by 2000.
So possibly we have another way to go.
In the pace of that 3000 from here is ratable or front end loaded? So if you think about it gross mortgage was 6000 of that total gross and its 3000 and so another 3000 ago.
I would say in the nearer or longer term.
And in the consumer bank that was 2000 with 1500 and remainder will just happen three times.
All right.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Guy Moszkowski of Autonomous.
Good morning.
Hi.
Hi.
Just wanted to follow-up on the FACCR thanks for the guidance on the potential benefit? Can you give us a sense of what specifically is driving that to be beneficial? I have gone through the BIS release but frankly without understanding what the underlying is it’s really difficult to understand why it’s a benefit just maybe you can help us qualitatively understand that? Yeah.
I will give you sort of very short quantitative answer and then if you want to really go dig in I’ll do offline with the Investor Relations but a very short answer is as an additional ability to recognize collateral and netting that wasn’t in the original fee and calculations but lots and lots of other complexity to it.
We are doing our best estimate though we haven’t fully built the models to do it so we are continuing to work on that but if you want to get into very technical discussion on it we can arrange that for you.
Okay.
I’ll probably follow up but that's helpful.
Thanks.
You mentioned a number of times as you went through and we could see it in the slides that a lot of the expense impacts to the -- that expenses were problematic relative to year ago a lot of that was because of the control agenda which obviously we appreciated you spoken to? But can we step back and talk about in a holistic firm-wide way where are we with implementing that how much more impact do we expect to see at what point do we kind of lap on that? Okay.
So a couple of things first is that if you remember from Investor Day notwithstanding that earlier comment about the volatility potentially in compensation in the market businesses.
We said we would be below $59 billion and there were four principal I think driving that.
So in our favor we had efficiencies in bunch of the efficiencies in CIB and mainly mortgage down about a $1.5 billion year-over-year and against that we had the billion dollars incremental cost of control and some gross principally in asset management.
So the net of all of those meant that we were effectively self-funding through efficiency and reduce mortgage expenses the incremental cost and control we are seeing come true.
It is in the case that we have broken out as a macro matter how much of that $1 billion is on our run-rate now and maybe we’ll do that for you next quarter.
I would say that we are adding heads and so these things do take some time even though I believe that there will be a chunk in our run-rate through the middle of the year if not all in our run-rate yet.
That's it.
So if I can interpret that that's means after the year we should have a sort fully lapped is that what you are saying? I’ll ask to confirm to you in the next quarter but I would say that we have a majority of it through the mid-year because we are obviously trying to hire up to be able to execute on the agenda.
So if you think about the impact with trying to add people to compliance we are adding people to compliance to legal to audit to finance to risk and we are doing that largely in the first half of the year but that will be a time.
Okay.
That's also really helpful.
In terms of effect and the weakness that we saw? Can you comment at all and if it’s possible you can quantify a little bit what the impact was of some of the adoptions of SEF mandates during the quarter we could certainly see that SEF volumes themselves seem to get disrupted at certain point in the quarter when new mandates went into play but just if you think about the impact of that regulatory change on the OTC derivatives markets it would be really helpful to understand how much of the impact with just regulatory change? Yeah.
So I mean it’s -- as you know it’s very very difficult to decouple everything but and so it’s not clear that there is no impact but it’s not our sense that it was a significant driver of the performance in the quarter and there is a limited amount of volume on SEF right now albeit increasing and there has been margin compression but from tight margins start with so it’s not our sense that it was a significant driver enough to say that there was no impact.
So it did come down a little bit there is kind of back to where it was due to trading and we wouldn’t blame that for that anything.
So if one were to think that there was -- there were going to be spread compression over time as a result of some of these things that might still lie in the future next to your $1 billion plus or minus revenue impact that you’ve talked about? That's right.
So I mean again not to say that there hasn’t been any but the volume is relatively low they are being relatively tight the $1 billion we talked about which is by the way our best estimate so it could be better than that is something that we are progressed through times it is not going to be a cliff.
Great.
That's all.
Very helpful.
I appreciate you are taking my questions.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Gerard Cassidy of RBC.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Can you guys share with us on your loan loss provision this quarter obviously last year the provision was greatly affected by the loan loss reserve releases should we anticipate the provision reaching your net charge-off levels this year to match them out? So the best guidance there I can give you is the guidance that we gave at Investor Day which is expect the firm-wide charge-off to be at around $5 billion plus or minus and then I would point you to the guidance we just gave you on reserve releases which is expect some really mortgage but not it expect we might have some PTI but it’s too early to know and little more in cost so net those two down.
Okay.
And just speaking...
And there maybe some noise to that but that's our current outlook.
Okay.
Speaking the TCI loans year-over-year about 10% to 12% should we expect that type of run-rate throughout the year is that portfolio continues to shrink? Yes.
Largely speaking.
In fact you are talking right 10% but yes.
Okay.
You talked about in the mortgage business you are changing the way you are approaching it and the revenue run-rate you had this quarter of about $160 million? Can you size for us where you think under the new approach that you are having with mortgages what kind of revenues we might anticipate because I am assuming this was unusually low at this quarter’s number? So our production revenues this quarter and just to make sure we are talking about the same thing was just about $300 million.
I told you that we are expecting second quarter to be negative.
You are going to have higher revenues because seasonally you have higher volumes but obviously its market depends.
So I would say given seasonality the first quarter was small and volumes were depressed given the whether we will be hopeful that the market would be above the $1 trillion for the full year maybe not as high as $1.2 trillion so if you add seasonality back in and gross up the number you probably get quite close.
But of course it could all change depending upon rates in the market.
Great.
And then finally...
I mean the current outlook for the market size it was about $1.2 trillion I suspect that will be revised down slightly on the back of the first quarter.
So we are going to have a small market and it’s going to be actually linear.
Okay.
In the institutional asset management business you pointed out that it declined sequentially in the revenues because of the some of the one-time items in the fourth quarter? The year-over-year declines even on the inflows were up any comments on the revenues from the institutional revenue part of that business? Year-over-year revenues for asset management and institutional no specific we have some -- March was not strong the first quarter so institutional was not as strong as the other segments so no specific issues but there is some lumpiness there obviously.
Okay.
And then finally may just be a market conditions or maybe some you can do when you look at your net interest margin and you look at the interest earning asset yields the securities borrowed number was a negative 30 basis points and trending more negative each quarter it was minus 2 basis points a year ago? Can we -- can you point to anything you could do to try to reverse that? Yeah.
The securities that line listen is a some funky features also fact that in our prime services business when we -- our contractual income is LIBOR minus the spreads which drives that to be a negative number.
I wouldn’t lead too much into the trend and volatility there the absolute economics of the business is still positive and the offset is in trading liability so that’s not a line item in its own right and alone that is very conservative.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Derek De Vries of UBS.
Thanks.
I had a few question you had no significant items that you called to our attention but then you said there are few sort of non-core items and that broadly offset? And just as I am looking on my notes I see there is like a $400 million negative in MSR this is $90 million in tax there is $200 million of DBA FBA all negative? And there is like $400 million of private equity gains? I guess I am missing another sort of $300 million of positive I was just wondering if you can kind of call out what that would be? Reserve releases.
Reserve yeah.
Okay.
The reserve releases yeah.
All right.
Understood.
And then we don’t fill into every $50 million negative non-recurring item but there were some of them too.
Okay.
That’s fine.
And then just on the tax rate I mean obviously I’ll strip out the $90 million but it still feels like a high tax rate? Is there anything sort of funny going on there? So it’s not far off the 30% plus or minus this is our generally expected effective tax rate.
Okay.
Nothing else of any noteworthiness I mean obviously it’s going to be impacted by the absolute level of pre-tax the percentage of overseas income the percentage of tax efficient income but nothing special.
Okay.
And then the guidance on mortgage production it sort of pushed out the losses and we talked about a lot.
But just so I am clear that the change in your guidance there is just essentially a change in your market expectations the $1.2 trillion coming to the lower number that’s the only real change you’ve got there.
Yeah.
Okay? I mean we haven’t really changed our guidance to be fair our guidance is almost to be negative for the year we are just trying to be very specific about the degree of negative in the second quarter to make sure you have inflation to your model.
Perfect.
And we appreciate that.
That’s all from me.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Paul Miller of FBR.
Yeah.
Thank you very much.
On the I am sorry for that guys on the you guys mentioned I believe in the report or in comments that you want to get your servicing portfolio down to from $800 billion to $600 billion on loans there I guess on just natural decay and selling MSRs? When do you think the timing of those sells of the MSRs and do you think that the -- a lot of people feel that you cannot transfer any MSRs anymore due to some of the headline risk? Can you add some color to that also? So obviously the timing of sales is going to be a little bit opportunistic so the best comment I can make is that $600 million number is two three years away from now not necessarily but we will try and manage it the best way we can.
And then with respect to the ability to settled sub-service I mean there is still the opportunity to do it.
It is just not necessarily the case that you can defeat your risk entirely which I think is understood.
Could you add more color I mean you can’t get any of the risk can you add more color around that? Well I mean in so far as I think that as we move loan to sub-services obviously we retained the risk and have to have third-party advise to the degree we sell them I think regulators are potentially looking at originators to continue to there from the origination of other risk.
So and then we -- and we are going to run the MSR for returns and quality.
So it’s also question will we put into it to reach high expected to see less FHA and anything like that and then you see some run-off overtime? And then Jamie on the credit boxes not really extending what do you think what kind of impact you think there is happening on the overall mortgage market especially the purchase market as we are seeing almost 14-year lows on origination side? No.
It’s almost impossible to tell but there are if you are jumbo you get loan if you are GSE you get loans but almost all the other stuff in between anything with any hereon it like you had a credit problem if you are earning self-report income.
So a lot of people have overlaid it being tougher than it required the FHA GSE or the own rules because the reps and warranties et cetera and I don’t know when that’s going to go away.
It’s not getting worse.
It’s just kind of sitting there and probably holding back a little bit the purchase market.
And I think you think about credit is available across the LTV spectrum but the bars to be able to document income and improve ability to repay and to amortize.
Okay.
Hey guys thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Chubak of Nomura.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
You had alluded to some of the drivers of RWA growth earlier and I was just hoping you had frame that in a context of your $40 billion targeted RWA decline from Investor Day and whether that’s potentially a risk or is the $1.5 trillion RWA level is still achievable? So it’s still understood that we were going to have certain of our models that need this additional work to be acceptable by the regulator of Basel III when we gave the guidance at Investor Day.
So as a large matter as you say here today that’s still our best understanding of how things will workout absent there being any news or issues during the year.
It’s a timing difference as oppose we target difference.
Yeah.
I mean the whole industry submitted a huge number of models under Basel 2.5 the regulators to review at the beginning of 2013 and we had an approval to use and for the year while they were being reviewed and pending after the review we’ve got some feedback and we are going to remediate the models and resubmit those approval it will take us time but it is timing.
Okay.
I understood.
And then transitioning to OLA for a second long-term debt outstanding did increase modestly about 2% in the quarter? I just wanted to confirm how we should be thinking about issuance plans over the course of the year are you managing it to a 90% bail in buffer so we saw the modest increase in RWA and saw commensurate increase in long-term debt or should we be thinking about entirely differently? Entirely just soon as can be take out too.
Okay.
Then we know the real rules we made to modify that.
Yeah.
That’s right.
We are not managing to an OLA we don’t know yet.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then last one from me the high-frequency trading review and market structure potential market structure overall continues to be an area of increasing focus.
And I was hoping you could speak to the equities business and whether the anticipated SEC review and potential broader equity market structure form will compel any adjustments and how you are thinking about that this juncture? We are firmly supportive of having profit and good markets for everybody.
And we think we have pretty good policies and protocols in place so.
But I don’t know what it will do to our issues in market structure with some pools et cetera.
We will just have to look at that review take place.
I should point out in Michael Lewis' book which I did not read on Page 231 they talk us as one of the good guys Okay.
Fair enough.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jeff Harte of Sandler O'Neill Hi.
Good morning.
A couple left for me.
One looking at Consumer Business Banking such as the deposits business the overhead of the efficiency ratio there has really turned it up for a few years straight.
I know there has been some investment as well.
But how should we think of that going from kind of a 70 plus that’s been now back to some kind of a bit kind of 60 like it historical was? From the sense as you know we have been investing and building our branch to the place it is know where we are happy with the distribution capability we have because that was driving a lot of the investment.
In 2014 we continue to invest in quarterly and the cost to serve an efficiency so that we can driven the ratios down.
We guided at Investor Day to expect expenses in the business to be up 1% so a little but not kind of increase that we can say lot of which you should expect to start to come down and we said that the overall CCB fees including mortgage would be down $3 billion by 2015 over 2014 and the chunk of that is in CBB.
So we’re very focused on it and investing in fact in the technology and processes to be able to be efficient.
We’ve started to see the increased term as we stopped having to invest in branches because we are happy with the distribution and it will start to come down next year.
So that’s getting better.
To some extent this expense is going down to what extent is the revenue is getting better? Do you mean it is the WaMu footprint factor into that or we’re kind of waiting for interest rate up? So everything that I spoke about in terms of the expenses going down is dollar on a dollar basis and not an efficiency ratio basis.
So we’re absolutely expecting dollars to come down after 2014 in the business.
With respect to the new branches I mean we said that a third of our branches are less than 10 years and about 11% less than three years.
Also we had a lot of branches in the deposit gathering base and deposit margins are relatively flat.
So at the moment we reached the point where the volume is out is providing support to NII but not strong growth until we start to see rate continue to rise and be able to reinvest up the curve as deposit investments mature.
The underlying numbers are terrific customer satisfaction deposits households mobile Chase Wealth Management small business et cetera but they are being squeezed by NII interest rates.
And we’ve always told you we are going to go for the one run which is that we will cover one day and you will see spreads grow up in this business and we are not happy if that happens.
We are not going to -- not grow deposits because of that.
And that will also affect obviously efficiency ratio.
Okay.
And on the litigation side nice to have a quarter where there aren’t big charges who knows what the market does but in theory that’s a good thing for the share price.
Is there a potential for that to be a good thing for the underlying businesses too? I mean if all the headline risk been negative on some of the business lines from a consumer -- customer perspective? Yes.
So as much as I would love to be able to take a quarter that looks like this and say we could expect more of the same.
The reality is we still have issues open in front of us.
We still have large reserve and we still are working through them.
So we’ve been cleared of what we can’t predict.
Legal expenses we do expect them to be lumpy and for every zero or close to zero a quarter we could have a quarter that has several hundred million dollars or more albeit that it should trend down on a basis something much lower at the time.
So I don’t think you can read into it.
That we’ve done with working through issues which we obviously glad to have some of them behind us and some of them bigger and most difficult ones.
To the extent you are not working hopefully a multibillion dollar quarterly settlements any more I mean does that help on the volume side of the businesses.
Did that have a negative impact on kind of customer interactions with you? If you look at the customer flows in every single business they are very good and customers stats scores are up investments are up assets under management are up.
Our market shares are up in credit card consumer deposits that sounds very good.
So I would completely separate out this litigation stuff.
And Marianne you all have averaged your own estimate for litigation I think are $500 million a quarter.
On average close to about 500 yes.
Make believe I’m going to use your number nobody else’s.
It’s not going to be 500 consistent it is going to be zero something else zero to 50 that’s what it is until it goes away.
It’s not going to affect the underlying business.
And as you know we also have one-time benefits from stuff we don’t anticipate to.
So you haven’t noticed kind of a negative reputational impact of customers.
It’s been okay obviously.
Looking at the values I guess it must be okay? We’re growing share so I mean… Clients go with their feet and they seem to be coming to our branches and our bankers.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jim Mitchell of Buckingham Research.
Yes.
Hey good morning.
Two follow-ups first on the expense side.
I think if you look at the run rate this quarter you were at around $58.4 billion so well below if you analyze that than your $59 billion target.
And seasonally this would be the higher expense quarter given capital markets revenue.
Is there something we should be thinking about in the out quarters whether it’s higher regulatory compliance spending marketing spending or is this just some conservative because we don’t where capital markets revenues go? So it’s a little bit -- we don’t where half the market’s revenues will go obviously and if they stay low or we expect to pass that down to the bottom line.
It’s also a little bit of there are some times positive and some times negative surprises and issues in expenses and this time it would be another quarter.
So there is a little bit of cautiousness in that.
We are going to obviously do everything we can to outperform that.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then maybe a quick question back on the SLR.
You guys I think last quarter I think before the changes by Basel noted that the Basel Committees’ calculation would be a net drag of 10 basis points.
This quarter it’s 15 to 20 basis points benefit rate.
Is that simply the change in the credit conversion factors on the op balance sheet credit lines or is there anything else driving that improvement this quarter? So most of the improvement in this quarter was associated with the ability for us to net variation margin on derivatives across currencies as allowed by contracts rather than having to only net in the currency of the underlying transaction so that was obviously sensible that you should be allowed from a margin across allowable currencies but that was not the provision of the Basel Committees’.
The U.S.
proposal changed that and that’s favorable that’s driving most of it.
There are other things up-down competitive technical things but not big numbers.
Okay.
And that doesn’t include the benefit of moving to say the non-internal model methodology which could be another 40 basis points? That’s correct but that’s -- I'm not expecting that in the very near future.
Right.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Chris Kotowski of Oppenheimer.
Yes.
Good morning.
As you mentioned I’m looking at Page 17 of your supplement on the credit card business.
And as you mentioned like all the volume metrics all look great sales volume up 10% and merchant processing up 11%.
But then when you look at the fees it’s down 4% and I would have thought we’ve kind of anniversaried all the regulatory changes and so on.
So I guess the big question for me is on this business in particular why aren’t the favorable volume metrics translating into revenues? We will have to get back to you.
We will get back to you.
I apologize.
But we will get back to you.
Okay.
Probably as soon but we will get back to you.
Okay.
And then just secondly on a broader philosophical level Jamie a couple of years ago at Investor Day you rhetorically asked the question about capital markets income.
Is it cyclical or is it secular? And you said believe me it’s cyclical and now you look industry wide by my numbers we are down on a year-over-year basis 13 out of the last 17 quarters and it’s sure as heck feeling secular.
And I’m curious one have you adjusted your point of view? Two do you think there is some irreducible level of transaction volume business for the industry? And three how do we gauge how far we are on that glide path from where we used to be to where we have stabilized? So there are certain things which were secular.
People gotten out of -- I'm not talking about as per se but people gotten out of or reduced dramatically credit hybrids certain exotic derivatives et cetera.
I think there maybe additional secular change but it’s not the whole business.
So the way I look at the whole business is we have a 120 trading desks around the world we have 16 000 clients.
And if you look at the fuel of the business the fuel of the business is investable assets in need of people to invest those whether it is corporations individual et cetera those numbers will double over 10 years.
They are going to triple in the emerging and developing markets and spreads themselves have been coming down fairly consistently for 20 years and that’s called capitalism that you are officially using capital.
And so I look at as a long-term business.
It will be a good business.
Shares are going to change.
There will be a whole bunch of adjustments.
As you know it can change at a dime.
And so I don’t look at the $5 billion in markets revenue and cry in my soup I think it’s pretty good business.
And we’ve been very consistent in performance.
The number is driven by technology research scales ideas of course order flows and last year we didn't even have one trading day loss which I consider truly spectacular.
So it’s a good business it will grow over time and it will have some secular adjustment.
So I don’t know why your number being right the 13 or 17 quarters.
And I also wouldn’t go back and look at the peak the really peak markets of ‘07 or something and I think you had something at ‘09 and so that was a standard.
I think that was a little higher than normal.
Well my numbers were -- industry from ‘09 on or ‘10 on so but anyway but thanks.
Maybe it’s probably an unanswerable question.
That’s it.
I have an answer to your other question I apologize for not having it off of my head.
In the first quarter of last year in non-interest revenue and costs we had a one-time exit over non-core products.
So I think if you go back and dig out that transcript or have a look at the supplement there that was actually a one-time item.
So if we adjust for that we would have been up most only.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
I want to mention on the credit card business we have beta tests going of our Chase net and you are not going to see the numbers this year but we think it’s a pretty exciting thing that we can do for merchants and customers over time.
We have no further questions at this time.
Thanks for joining us.
All right.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to JPMorgan Chase’s Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
This call is being recorded.
Your line will be muted for the duration of the call.
We will now go live to the presentation.
Please standby.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase’s Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon; and Chief Financial Officer Marianne Lake.
Ms.
Lake please go ahead.
Yes so this is Jamie and I’m going to start if you don’t mind.
I know some of you may have questions about my recent cancer diagnosis.
So I’d like to make a few comments on that so we can then hopefully focus on the reason for our call which is our quarterly earnings and the results of the company.
First I want to thank everybody for their calls their notes their good wishes it does mean a lot to me and my family.
To start with I feel great.
I think I’ve some of the best doctors in the world.
I’ll be receiving the best treatment.
I’m very fortunate that this is curable.
To recap we’ve already talked about and what my doctor’s told me about we caught it early.
It’s confined to the original site and the adjacent lymph node in the right side of my neck.
It’s isolated in that specific area.
The cancer has not spread.
Importantly with all the tests they have done there is no evidence of cancer anywhere else in my body and it’s curable with radiation and chemotherapy which I’ll put down as fairly standard for this kind of cancer and the prognosis is excellent.
The Board will be fully briefed on my condition and if they and I feel that it’s necessary to make additional disclosures we will do that but I really do think the next disclosure I’m going to make will in be about seven or eight weeks saying the therapy is over.
I am feeling better and the prognosis is excellent.
My doctors have finalized their treatment plans with me over the last several days though I do plan as we go through the treatment to be actively involved in managing our business.
I’ve also been told that after the seven week treatment period I’ve been advised to take rest.
That does not mean I won’t work.
They just simply say to rest and recuperation should come before other things which by the way is the exact same advise I give my friends my family and any one from JPMorgan or anyone of you who came down to something like this.
So I do plan to work I do plan to read I will be accessible.
Succession planning that’s why it’s here is exactly as it was before.
There is no change whatsoever.
The Board has plans in place and I talk about all the time from various scenarios and we are fortunate enough to have an exceptional group of executives.
You know them all I hope you take the time to tell some of the reports their quality I always tell there is a book in everybody and the book on the larger management team here is brains ethics work ethic partnering knowledge experience high quality people and I actually think that many of them can run a major financial company and my Board feels in the same way.
And importantly the Board has been fully engaged with the senior leaders the whole time they have been at this company.
I also want to point out.
We have a standing protocol in place before this during this and after this.
We think it’s simply good governance that if I am unreachable for any reason remember I took a three week trip to Asia so it’s for a minute an hour a day or a week that they are to contact our lead director who will get them the consent the advice and the help that they need so the company continues to go on as usual.
So I will stop there and hand it off to Marianne who will take you through the earnings of the company.
Okay thanks Jamie.
Good morning everyone.
I am going to take you through the earnings presentation which is available on our website.
Please refer to the disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements at the back of the presentation.
Starting now on page one.
The firm delivered strong performance this quarter with net income of $6 billion on revenue of over $25 billion EPS of a $1.46 and a return on tangible common equity of over 14%.
The reported results as you can see on the page include approximately $670 million of firm-wide legal expenses.
In addition to that item there were a number of other smaller items some positive some negative in the result; most notably $350 million of consumer reserve releases.
And we estimate our core performance for the quarter was also $6 billion plus or minus which is among the best we have ever had which is a very good result especially given the challenging environment the market and mortgage which persisted during the second quarter and interest rates remaining low and the cost of control high.
Importantly in the firm’s performance this quarter we are really seeing the benefit of our diversified earnings profile as well as the focus on investing and growing the underlying performance drivers in each of our businesses.
They have translated into net income growth and operating leverage in a number of businesses most notably CBB Commercial Banking and Asset Management.
We also continue to make significant progress against our capital target with a CET 1 ratio of 9.8% firm wide and bank supplementary leverage ratios of 5.4% and 5.6% respectively and remaining compliant with liquidity requirements all while returning $3 billion of capital to shareholder this quarter with both share repurchases of $1.5 billion.
Core loan growth was strong for the quarter at 4% and 8% up year-on-year with encouraging signs across our businesses and NII was up slightly this quarter on a relatively flat core NIM.
Turning to page two before getting into each of businesses a couple of comments here.
You can see circled the adjusted expense for the quarter was $14.8 billion for an adjusted overhead ratio of 58%.
This number does obviously exclude legal expenses but of note it includes a little less than $300 million of expenses related to business simplification which we consider to be non-core including lower incentive compensation on lower CIB revenues for the first half we have updated our adjusted full expense guidance to be $58 billion plus or minus with a caveat that obviously the final number will depend on the performance related compensation for the full year.
We continue to be focused and diligent on managing expenses and operating as efficiently as possible across our businesses.
You can also see on the page the returns generated this quarter by each of our businesses which is driving the strong performance of the firm overall.
Moving on to page three as I said the firm reported a CET 1 ratio of 9.8% up from 9.6% last quarter as we increased our common equity Tier I capital base by over $4 billion principally through net retained earnings.
Risk-weighted assets were broadly flat in the quarter with higher operating risk RWA and some growth largely offset by lower market and credit risk RWA reflecting increased model usage and portfolio runoff.
We're are still on track to reach 10% plus CET 1 ratio by the end of the year as previously guided.
The lower of our two transitional measures and you will recall we exited Basel III parallel at the beginning of the quarter so the lower of our two transitional measures which is technically the measure effected this quarter under the common floor is the Basel III advanced transitional ratio which is also at 9.8%.
And what is on the page with full year information the fully phased in standardized ratio is 10.1%.
We continue to make good progress on our leverage ratio this quarter both the firm and the bank SLR increased quarter-over-quarter by about 30 basis points.
So we're obviously within sight of our 5.5% target for the firm and a 5.6% for the bank we do have a clear path to our 6% plus target.
Finally on this page we continue to have a very strong liquidity position remaining compliant with LCR.
Now moving on to the businesses starting on page four Consumer and Community Banking.
The combined consumer businesses generated $2.4 billion of net income for the quarter and $11.4 billion of revenue and an ROE of 19%.
We continue to see excellent growth in the underlying business drivers with average deposit up 9% in CBB our active mobile customers up 23% credit card sales volume up 12% client investment assets up 19% and crossing the $200 billion and according to J D Power we continue to be ranked number one in overall customer satisfaction as-well-as the mortgage originations among large banks And number one in three of four regions with more business banking customer satisfaction.
Finally across CCB we expect to exceed our headcount reductions outlined at Investor Day.
Turning to page five Consumer and Business Banking.
CBB generated net income of $894 million up a significant 28% year-on-year on net revenue of $4.6 billion with an ROE of 33%.
While we do continue to see some pressure on deposit margins this continues to be more than offset by strong growth in deposit balances the 9% I just mentioned among the highest in the industry.
This deposit growth is driven by strong household growth and record customer retention.
We added 800 000 net households since last year as our new branches continue to mature.
On the non-interest revenue side we continue to see strong year-over-year growth in both debit and investment revenues as we deepen relationships with customers and as we see our global wealth management strategy play out with more affluent customers.
In business banking the momentum that we saw in the first quarter continued.
We have record originations up 46% year-on-year and 27% over last quarter back to levels that we last saw in 2012.
We believe that this reflects a combination of improving industry trends driven by business optimism generally continuing to trend higher and improving banker performance especially in our expansion market where we've been investing and as our positive strategies mature.
Our pipeline continued to strengthen 2Q'14 was the highest level since 2012 and we do expect this positive momentum and strong growth year-over-year to continue in the second half of the year.
Expenses flat year-on-year with efficiency gains in the branches being offset by higher cost of controls that we've spoken about but it was down quarter-over-quarter as cost of investments and controls are moderating.
Turning to page six and Mortgage Banking overall mortgage banking net income was $700 million for the quarter with an ROE of 16%.
As expected the production environment remained challenging and mortgage production pretax income excluding repurchase was a negative $74 million for the quarter a little better than our guidance reflecting higher revenue margin on a mix shift towards retail loans and higher pipeline as well as good progress made in the quarter to reduce our fixed expenses.
At this point market dependent we expect the third quarter results to be broadly similar to the second quarter as more negative.
Originations of $17 billion were flat quarter-on-quarter and down 66% year-on-year which is in a market that we estimate was seasonally up 25% quarter-on-quarter which shows that we continue to lose some share.
Key drivers behind the share loss were the continuation of our strategy to reduce our participation in lower FICO and high LTD government loans as well as the burn out of HART.
In addition we did lose some share in other conventional resulting from price competition as we maintained discipline regarding pricing to required returns.
Mortgage production benefited in the quarter from a repurchase reserve release of positive $137 million driven primarily by refinement in expectations regarding certain residual risks following the settlement in the fourth quarter of 2013.
On to servicing net servicing related revenue of $693 million is down slightly quarter-on-quarter but is higher than guidance due primarily to higher gains on acquired securities and Ginnie Mae loan sales while we do expect to continue to benefit from both during the second half of the year to a lesser extent than the first and these gains can be lumpy.
So we expect servicing revenue to decline in the third quarter to $600 million plus or minus and servicing expenses are moderately down quarter-on-quarter.
MSR risk management was a net gain this quarter of $338 million driven by a $220 million positive model update on slower prepayment fees which remember we would have earned otherwise overtime through [model miss] and which reflects the impact of the burn out of HART [inaudible] momentum.
On real estate portfolios compensation on credit we see net charge off for the quarter of $111 million and reserve releases of $300 million in the purchase credit impaired portfolio reflecting actual and expected appreciation in home prices.
There were no reserve releases in the quarter for the non-credit impaired portfolio although [inaudible] trends do continue.
We do expect to see reserve releases in NCI over the next couple of years in total between $500 million and $1 billion as the credit quality of the portfolio continues to improve and lastly on real estate portfolios in the quarter we added $5 billion of loans to the portfolio.
Finally mortgage headcount was down approximately $5 000 year-to-date and we expect to exceed our investor day target of approximately $6 000 for the full year of 2014.
Turning to page seven Card Merchant Services and Auto net income of $840 million down 33% year-on-year or down 11% excluding reserve releases delivering an ROE of 18%.
While down on declining reserve releases the results do reflect strong underlying metrics.
Sales growth of 12% led the industry for the 25th consecutive quarter primarily due to strong sales engagement of new customers.
Our new acquisitions vintages are performing exceptionally well.
In Merchant Services we have seen strong volume and transaction growth year-over-year with our client sales volume gaining momentum reflecting several large account wins in the quarter.
Strong revenue of $4.6 billion was up slightly quarter-on-quarter but down 3% year-on-year and when you think about the year-on-year decline we’ve reached the point where spread compression and strong fee growth are flat.
So the net decline is driven by high amortization of customer acquisition cost and the absence of fees related to discontinued products in 2013.
Expense was up 8% quarter-on-quarter and $0.07 year-on-year driven by control the timing of marketing investments and this quarter includes $125 million of the legal expense I talked about.
Moving on to credit losses continue to improve albeit at a slower pace and the card net charge-off rate has remained very low at 288 basis points and we released $50 million of student lending reserves in the quarter.
Card outstanding momentum has shifted.
End of period outstanding grew by $1.8 billion or 1.5% year-over-year with growth coming across our product set fueled by the strong sales performance I highlighted.
Core growth is now outpacing one-offs and we acquired over 2 million new accounts in the quarter up 40% year-on-year.
Before we move on a few words on Auto new vehicle sales continue to grow year-on-year and the June start results reached the highest levels since 2006.
We’ve seen the 11th straight quarter of loan and lease growth as our partners continue to outpace the general market which remains competitive.
The auto pipeline remain healthy consistent with the recovery in the auto market.
Moving onto slide eight and the Corporate and Investment Bank.
CIB reported net income of $2 billion on revenue of $9 billion and an ROE of 13%.
In banking total revenue was $3.1 billion down 3% year-on-year.
IB fees at $1.8 billion up 3%.
We maintained our number one ranking in global IB fees per Dealogic and widened the gap to number two.
Revenue growth was driven by higher advisory and equity underwriting fees and loans and underwriting fees were up we had strong and relative performance for the quarter.
The IB pipeline remains solid with an environment supportive of M&amp;A and a large diversified IPO backlog.
Treasury services revenue of a $1 billion was in line with our guidance down 4% year-on-year driven by lower trade finance revenue and the impact of business simplification.
And lending revenue was down $80 million year-on-year driven by low NII that was up 5% quarter-over-quarter.
Moving on to Markets and Investor Services reported markets revenue was down 14% year-on-year versus our guidance of 20% plus or minus with fixed down 15% and equities revenue down 10%.
Included in these results are gains of over $100 million on the sale of market partner shares post IPO.
Excluding this our results would have been down 15% year-on-year.
In fixed the decline was driven broadly across macro products and in commodities with volatility remaining very low and with the exception of a few more active weeks in June volumes also low.
In equities the decline was driven by derivatives where client volumes are highly correlated to volatility levels.
In terms of outlook for the coming quarter and the second half June was a better month somewhat broadly but that momentum has not continued into July so far and volatility remains very low across products.
As such it is our [central case] that the third quarter will face a similar environment through the first half of 2014 and we expect normal seasonal trends.
Security Services revenue of $1.1 billion was up 5% year-on-year primarily driven by higher NII on higher deposit and higher asset-based fees on higher assets under custody.
AUC reached a record $21.7 trillion up 14% year-on-year.
Quarter-on-quarter revenue was up on seasonality in the depository receipt and agent lending businesses.
Moving on to expense total expenses was up 6% year-on-year.
Compensation expense was down 8% with a comp-to-revenue ratio for the quarter of 31%.
And we expect the full year comp-to-revenue ratio to likely end between 30% and 35% rather than at the low end of the range.
Non-compensation expense was up year-on-year by 20% with the quarter including over $300 million of legal expense and a little less than $300 million of non-core expenses associated with business simplification I mentioned earlier.
Moving on to Page nine on the Commercial Bank we have very good earnings from the Commercial Bank this quarter with net income up 6% from last year and an ROE of 19%.
We saw strong performance on key underlying business drivers driving revenue of $1.7 billion up 3% sequentially with gross ID fees up 25% year-on-year driving the first half of the year to a record and on a higher NII driven by higher loan volume and day counts.
We added $3.3 billion of loans in the quarter with growth across the board in all of our businesses.
Our consistent growth in real estate continued with loans up 2% in the quarter and 14% in the year and after a flat start to year we are happy to see C&amp;I growth of 3% in the quarter in line with the industry.
Revolver utilization picked up three percentage points versus the end of last year.
Pipelines are up which should be supportive of trend in the second half of the year.
The environment remains competitive but stable driving some continuous spread compression and we continue to see some pricing pressure to varying degrees in the businesses.
Expense was relatively flat quarter-on-quarter but higher than last year reflecting our commitment to the regulatory and control agenda.
Expect expenses for the businesses of approximately $700 million in the third quarter.
And our credit performance remains exceptional with net recoveries in the quarter.
Moving on to page 10 and Asset Management an excellent quarter in asset management with net income of $552 million up 10% year-on-year and 25% quarter-on-quarter with a 25% ROE and 30% pretax margin hitting our three [inaudible] target.
For the full year these ratios will be slightly lower as the business continuous to invest in both infrastructure and control as well as select tranches of hiring but we’re on track to deliver at our target for the full year of 2015.
Revenue was $3 billion was up 8% year-on-year reflecting an increase in management fees driven by record long term net inflows of $34 billion for the quarter including the benefit of a large institutional fixed income mandate.
This marks the 23rd consecutive quarter of long term inflows driving AUM of $1.7 trillion up 16% year-on-year and we continue to expect strong flows going forward.
Looking at the mix of flows by product we saw continued strength in our multi-asset and alternative flows inline with our best quarter.
In fixed income we had our strongest quarter flows ever and our best quarter in over a year excluding the large mandate I mentioned.
And lastly despite solid equity performance in the quarter flows did not follow as investors showed hesitance to add to their positions at these levels.
Expense of $3.1 billion with up 9% from a year ago primarily driven by higher cost of controls and investment in growth.
Lastly in banking we reported solid performance in both lending and deposits.
Record loan balances surpassed the $100 billion mark up 17% year-on-year and 4% quarter-on-quarter with growth coming from both our U.S.
and our international markets.
We continue to see a solid pipeline for loan demand for the remainder of the year.
And the average deposits were also up year-on-year by 8% but seasonally down 1% sequentially.
Moving on to page 11 and Corporate Private Equity private equity overall had a flattish result driven by net gain on dispositions partly offset by unrealized losses.
And our private equity portfolio declined by approximately $1 billion.
Treasury and CIO reported a net loss of $46 million NII was a negative 10.
That’s up by $80 million by quarter-on-quarter driven by high investment security balances and the continued benefit of higher reinvestment yield.
In the quarter we deployed $27 billion in gross new investment.
Finally on this page other corporate net income was over $400 million.
Included in the results are tax related benefit of over $200 million and as I mentioned earlier we reported firm wise legal expense pretax of $670 million for the quarter of which $227 million is here on corporate.
Moving on to outlook on page 12 we did receive positive feedback from our most recent guidance disclosure in the 10-Q so we replicated it and updated it here.
A few final comments it is too early for us to give specific guidance for market revenues but we do expect the current environment to persist into the third quarter and to the second half and also experience no more seasonal trends.
For the third quarter we generally expect mortgage production to be similar to this quarter a small negative.
We expect firm wide adjusted expenses for the full year of $58 billion plus or minus and expect credit trends to continue to be very strong across the board with consumer reserve releases that will be more periodic and modest.
So to wrap up a very very strong result for the quarter notwithstanding headwinds reflecting the strength of each of our businesses and the benefit of our operating model.
With that operator we would like to open up the lines for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
…that you have shared in the past if you have a parallel shift of a 100 basis points what that will do to your net interest revenue? So Gerald you got cut off at the beginning but you are asking for earning -- the risk on the 100 basis points shift.
That's correct.
It was in the first quarter and we haven't disclosed it yet for the second quarter but it wouldn’t be meaningfully different in the first quarter it was $2.5 billion.
Do you see going forward that changing in the way you are approaching your interest sensitivity as the likelihood of rising interest rates increases in 2015 or should it remain pretty much constant? So I mean the risk is a representation it’s an instantaneous parallel shift.
If you look actually at our disclosures you can also see what a steepening looks like.
So the way I would characterize the way to think about the impact of asset sensitivity and interest rates rising is the way we described it both at our Investor Day and at the Morgan Stanley Conference which is when rates rise whenever that starts which maybe in the second half of 2015 at the short end and the long end continued that overtime that would deliver $8 billion to $10 billion of NII for the firm but clearly the path to get there would be rate dependent and timing.
Tying into the higher interest rates you have been vocal about your funding side of the equation and you what you expect there.
Can you give us an update or more color of how you are positioned for the funding side of the balance sheet should rates rise and how much you expect to potentially maybe move off your balance sheet as it gets re-priced into different types of products? This is Jamie.
I think on the funding side and we said we’ve met pretty much LCR and SFS and we think it will be the [GLAC] or at least we are very close to it.
That's all embedded in interest rate exposure which Marianne gave you and that's our base case.
Obviously if the world changes we may change how we go about and do that.
But that I think it's a very good base case to look at.
We don't have any need to change it dramatically.
You all have to be prepared for the reason that rates raise will obviously will change why people act in a certain way.
And my final question is there has been some talk about the regulators the Federal Reserve maybe increasing the capital ratios for the largest banks to even higher levels than what you are mandated today to carry.
Do you guys have any thoughts on whether that may actually ever get through that they may even raise the current Tier I common ratio numbers? I think we would have to wait and see.
Remember the United States has already gone beyond most other countries and they may just be referring to that that they intend to keep that or how they modify that.
And I think the way that we think about -- obviously we don't know how things may change in the future but between the recent surcharge the buffers that we and other institutions are going to run above that with LCR and SFR already entitled in the framework with capital stress comp testing under [SICAR] under extremely severe conditions it feels like we have a box around it and so we're planning to run the firm based on what we know today with an eye on obviously listening to all other things you hear.
Great and Jamie good luck on your treatment and I hope for a speedy recovery.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Your next question is from the line of Guy Moszkowski with Autonomous.
Good morning.
Jamie first of all let me say it's nice to hear you on the call and that you are sounding good and that the prognosis sounds great and I wish you all the best.
Thank you.
Just a follow-up on the interest rate point for a second I know you guys have been very focused on the potential for a deposit drain as things are handled somewhat differently by the Fed given the current circumstances when they eventually do raise rates.
Is there any change in that thinking of the potential for a trillion-ish deposit drain and maybe a $100 million for yourselves on the basis of the fed minutes from last week which maybe were a little contradictory in terms of the mechanics to that Peterson Institute article which has been I think front of mind in everyone's thinking? So keep in mind the Fed whether they use repo or just sell securities that will reduce deposits.
It's a factor with an absolute formula.
The question is who’s deposits what kind of deposits and when they might do something like that I assume they will be very careful.
I think what we're simply were saying that some of the deposits will come out of non-operating wholesale deposits already have [HQA] some won’t some will come out of retail and just people will need to be prepared for it.
I wouldn't from the category just when these be prepared and be very thoughtful about how we go about that.
And given where you are on LCR do you feel like JPMorgan is completely positioned as it will want to be at that time or is that still just a bill that's going to take place in liquidity between now and year from now or so? I think we're very comfortable where we are.
Yeah and remember that we are running LCR is an important measure it's a regulatory measure you know we are measuring it we are posting it but we run the firm based upon our own internal liquidity tests and we are comfortable with that.
Great.
The other thing that I'd like on touch on is the expense guidance.
Obviously it's ticked down somewhat again and that's probably partly because of the revenue outlook that we’re looking at for this year.
But is there anything implicit in that in terms of what we should expect for expenses beyond 2014 and then maybe you can elaborate a little bit on how you are thinking about core expense reductions given a consistently pretty sticky revenue environment? So I mean really what I would point you to is that the discussions that we had largely at our Investor Day which was to say that we continue to expect the mortgage expense story to play out over the course of the next few years which will be obviously a tailwind for us on expenses both in servicing but more particularly in production.
So that is obviously a focus in 2015 and beyond.
We also are expecting to start on a journey to delivering and we saw that CBB expenses our cost of controlled investment are moderating and Gordon outlined at Investor Day that the CBB business ‘14 through ‘16 as a relative marker would deliver approximately a $1 billion of expense efficiency but the profile of that we haven't been through.
And then Daniel is working through as are all of the other CEOs the expense story in the CIB and being as diligent as you would expect him to be given the environment but one of our positions has always been that we are running this business for the longer term and we are going to be smart about the actions we take on expenses in order to make sure that we protect the franchise but that doesn't mean that we can’t and won't be more efficient across the businesses.
So we haven’t actually given specific guidance at the firm wide level but that’s the backdrop.
And I just want to reiterate that we always have waste cutting like real estate people straight through processing vendors things we think got a little sloppy where we were located but we will never ever ever stop investing in straight through processing better bankers better training chase that marketing EBK is another new stop from branches so don't confuse the two.
We are lumping them together for you internally no one goes to a budget meeting says I get expenses down by cutting expenses on the really important things that we need for the future no one.
We are not going to run the company that way we’d rather earn less money.
Okay.
That's that's helpful.
And then a final one… Including that is paying our people fairly.
Okay.
That's obviously important.
One last one from me there have been quite a few areas where you pulled back in order to ensure the ability to monitor and being compliance third party mortgage origination was one trade finance and in particular correspondent banking internationally another one Is all of the foreseeable pull back in areas of business for control reasons pretty much known now or there other things that we should expect that you might be looking at? Well so I would say that we are it's a matter of good housekeeping that we would constantly be looking at making sure that we are simplifying our businesses where it make sense to do it but as a large matter that macro matter we are working through the things that we talked about some of the things that you mentioned and there were no significant changes.
Okay.
That's great.
Thanks so much.
But we have got a 1 000 correspondent banks we sold CWK it made very well we sold RPS there are a bunch of product lines we’ve either closed down or eliminated and a lot of that’s in the works.
We put a light -- enhanced monitoring our other businesses so we are well along the way but if something comes up that we think we should look at again we’ll look at it again.
Okay.
So actually let me just follow up on it to make sure that we don't over model revenues.
Are there still meaningful incremental revenue declines that we should expect from all of those areas that have been discontinued? The most significant revenue effect that's not yet in our run-rate because the transaction is not yet closed is the exit of the physical commodity business and so obviously when that closes which maybe in the early part of the fourth quarter that would have an impact in revenues both in the quarter and then in our run-rate in 2015.
And we gave you a number at Investor Day I wish I got that number.
Well I could give you the numbers now so at Investor Day we said that the impact in 2014 on revenues would be a decline of $1.6 billion just given the timing of the physical commodities deal the impact in '14 is going to be closer to $1.3 billion of which about $500 million is in our run-rate already.
Is that [inaudible].
Yeah.
And then you annualized the things that will be complete by the end of the year that 85% of everything is also going to get done.
So once we close this year the impact this year will be $1.3 billion.
The annualized impact that we gave was $2.8 billion and that's still our best estimate.
And the important thing is for the franchises as the management commercial banks CIB CCB are all doing really really well and this doesn't affect their ability to serve their clients at all.
And remember also just for the purpose of completeness I'd be remiss if I not state the expenses are also coming out as we take those revenues out and that remember these are in large part businesses that were not at this time accretive to the overall firm’s return so important to remember that.
Great.
Thanks for the completeness of the answer.
Your next question is from the line of Glenn Schorr with ISI.
Hey there.
Hey Glenn.
Hello there.
So we've seen a greater number of sales in the Repo market and it seems to me of just an issue of available collateral but I am curious to get your take how much we're supposed to carry and whether or not some of the actions by treasury can and the reverse repo market can take care of that? Look I think because the treasury the government is still buying a big portion of net treasury issuance and because they are doing it going in the repo market and taking cash out of the system I think that number has maybe gone from $100 billion to $200 billion overtime.
Remember I believe that that Repo can't be re-hypothecated.
So I do think some of the things will cause some issues in the repo market but my guess is that will sort through overtime.
We do believe we’ll see dealers reducing their books in Repo and you have heard a lot of statements about repo and collateral and capital against it so I think that will sort out over time.
Okay.
Good.
It sounds like you are not losing too much sleep over it.
Not yet.
Marianne you mentioned a comment on when you talked about C&amp;I loan growth I just wanted to get a clarification.
Last quarter if I remember correctly it was about flattish on year-on-year basis and you spoke about price competition and some discipline on JPMorgan's part.
This quarter you have a little bit more year-on-year growth still mention the comment about discipline but I just wanted to get a clarifying statement is this growth a little bit better is the backdrop a little bit better and you expect to participate in that a little bit more.
Yeah so I would say that there hasn't been a step shift in sentiment but the sentiment is better.
It feels like year-over-year it’s better quarter-over-quarter and it has allowed up to -- it’s delivered right in line with the industry.
And we do however maintain absolutely maintain credit risk discipline as it relates to the commercial side.
So it is competitive.
It hasn't been the case that we've historically been losing on price it has been more on [inaudible] and on simplification and listing but… I think Marianne mentioned that in almost every category of C&amp;I and on the commercial bank utilization was up by 1% last quarter and maybe 1%...
Utilization in commercial was up 3% at the end of the year.
Since the end of the year.
Utilization is usually a pretty good measure of companies starting to expand and early on it's receivables and inventory.
You haven't really seen in capital expenditures yet and if you look at the U.S.
capital expenditures in total including big businesses they are kind of flat to down that will ultimately be the driver of real growth.
So if you start to see that you are going to hopefully see a stronger economy but utilization is I think is the first sign.
I appreciate that.
The last one is I just couldn't help notice the balance sheet is now at $2.5 trillion.
In your discussions -- I know we can't purchase our way through without jumping a lot of hurdles but do you feel constrained on just sheer balance sheet size I mean you are and the reason I ask I look across most of your franchisees they are growing and they are growing nice and they are growing organically to the investments you have made.
I just wanted to know if anybody is bringing up the issue of just absolute size? No but I just give you a number that like I think year-over-year that balances up mostly to the money we have at the fed even quarter-over-quarter you got this -- we have $350 billion or almost $400 billion at central banks around the world.
We have an investment portfolio of $350 billion we’ve a loan portfolio of $700 billion.
We already told you when they start to reverse QE III some of those will automatically come down.
So our balance sheet is kind of high because of all this huge liquidity and securities in the balance sheet and eventually hopefully there will be more loans which are more productive and less just holding excess cash.
Eventually maybe a little capital return too? Yeah just to illustrate the point if you look at if you are looking at the slides you are looking end of period assets that grew by $40 billion or so.
If you look at the average it was only $18 billion.
We got a lot of volatility around the cash move at quarter end.
So Jamie is right there has been a significant amount of our -- has been deposit and ultimately funds like on deposit with the central bank.
Great I appreciate the answer.
I would say again having said that of course we are there is a natural healthy tension now with leverage roles that we are clearly strategically optimizing the way we use our balance sheet and that would have a natural tension to keep the balance sheet growth if there is growth to be more modest.
And we are also seeing -- we are talking about G50 the big Chinese banks the big Japanese banks and some other banks around the world growing really rapidly.
Hopefully that will reduce our G50 growth a little bit too.
And if we are right about the liquidity drain in QE you will see a bunch of deposits flow out essentially in the second half of next year and you see some of that will reverse.
All right.
Okay.
Thanks.
Your next question is from the line of Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
A couple of questions one FICC one in expenses and one on RWAs.
Just on the FICC line you mentioned that it was a little bit better in the last part of June and then you went on to say that the outlook is for current environment to persist.
So I just wanted to ask a little bit about which environment you are talking about just the overall quarter because the quarter ends up being a little bit better than expected right in the mid part of the quarter.
Are you suggesting that you know the end of June activity is is likely to keep a positive tone to what's you are expecting in third quarter.
Thank you for the question.
Because I want to make sure I am very clear.
So in June we did see an uptick in activity in terms of client activity but volatility stayed very very low and there was no specific catalyst for it no catalyst that would lead up to believe that was necessary to continue and as we have moved into July it so far has being our experience that has not continued at that level.
So it is more -- our guidance for second half is that 15% to 20% the 20% plus or minus decrease that we have seen in the past for that kind of environment is the one that we're facing over the second half.
Now we are not guiding to a number because as you very well know it -- have many -- days into the quarter and things can change that.
So you are going to have to pick your level but we can't predict it any better than that.
In forecast it's our operating assumption it going to stay at low levels for a while.
We know we are going to be wrong in that but you will have to pick whatever you think.
Sure.
Okay.
We run the company planning for low and hoping for better.
Okay.
And that's 15% year-on-year? Yeah.
That's 15% plus or minus down year-on-year? We are not giving a specific guidance it was 20% in the first quarter 15% in the second that kind of environment.
The third quarter’s generally lower and it could be lower than that… Okay.
And then on the expenses you have outlined a couple of different areas that you are working on to get the expenses down.
The question is on -- why in the IB you've got the repositioning cost called out specifically.
Because I'm just kind of thinking aloud that those -- you've got to investigate expense saves in a broad broad sort of areas of the business.
So why call it out in the IB does it suggest that we'll see more repo cost coming through in other areas over the next several quarters as people roll out their expense plans? So we called out the $300 million if that’s what you are referring in the CIB because it in our view anyway is a modestly sized and non-recurring item.
We are not expecting to have similar items like that we may have some but we are certainly not forecasting that we are going to have that kind of level recurring.
Okay.
And the other… So really I'll just give you a sense that in the quarter we’ve built that number and -- what you were to do with it in terms of your models but we don’t consider that to be called.
Okay but in the other areas where you are also working on expense programs you don’t expect that that you are going to have any of those kind of one time repo items repositioning items.
No at this time not significant.
Okay all right and then on the RWAs you indicated that RWAs were up a little bit on op risk down on marketing credit risk and then you went on to say that it was model related is that all your internal models is that based on consultation with regulators I am just wondering why the op rates could have gone up for you given that you had your big settlement a couple of quarters ago? Yeah so first of all these are all the moving parts none of them are materially significant.
So operating risk went up a little bit growth in op a little bit and offset against that we continue to always on board positions on to our proved models continued to develop our models and get approvals for our models so that we can have the most efficient RWA that we can have and so we saw some of that and also portfolio run-off.
So we were just giving you some color that flat RWA is actually the continuation of the work that we articulated at Investor Day that will ultimately drive it down to be closer to $1.5 trillion over the next 18 months.
Well a little inconsistent up-fronting all the negatives fully phased in we are not up-fronting model approvals we expect to get.
Our model onboarding.
A model onboarding or stuff like that there were some of that coming and obviously those need to be approved by regulators.
Got it okay and then Steve said the other day including again CDOs you had some CDOs back in the day does that impact how you are thinking about the op risk charges? Not material.
Okay.
We are doing run off all the time for RWA and everything else is not material and they could be restructured I think those are 2017 now and… All right hey thanks a lot.
Thanks Betsy.
And your next question is from the line of John McDonald with Stanford Bernstein.
Hi Marianne following up on loan growth commentary net interest income dollars seemed a little better than you expected at $11 billion are you still looking for that to be flattish kind of top of the house NII for this year or is the outlook a little better given the loan growth trends.
So we said relatively flat.
It came up slightly in the quarter and obviously we are pleased with that and we told you that we expected core growth for the year to be 5% plus or minus and at this point that would still be our best assessment.
If loan growth does continue to improve and improve to the point where our core loan growth is above 5% then yes we would hope to enjoy that NII benefit.
But as we look forward based upon current rates broadly flat with a little bit above the bias is our outlook until rates start to rise.
Okay In terms of share buy back… Because you do continue to have albeit that everything is a little bit less than it was but you do continue to have offset against that in terms of spread compression.
Okay so with the 5% core loan growth you expect NII to be relatively flat this year and flat to up a little bit next year.
Yes it’s market and slide curve is in fact how things play out.
And then on share buyback could you give us some thoughts about how you are thinking about using your buyback approval for this year did you accelerate some of the buyback activity on price weakness in this quarter and do you expect to do more in second half because the RWA reductions are starting to happen? So first of all obviously what we can do is guided and limited by what we have approval to do.
But yes we did articulate that we were going likely back end our share repurchases as we build to [RT ET1] ratio.
You can obviously see we have built towards that nicely at 9.8% and then yes obviously particularly in the first half of the quarter our price was favorable and we did share repurchases reflecting all of those things.
When we look at the second half without giving specifics because we don’t give guidance on repurchase we have the capacity to do $5 billion more growth over the next three quarters and we have a target to hit about 10% and we will juggle those two things together but that gives us the capacity to continue to do some repurchases.
Okay that’s helpful thanks.
And on the mortgage servicing revenues the outlook that you gave for $600 million roughly does that include any MSR risk management gains or do you assume none in that can you just clarify that? We assume none in that.
Think about the MSR risk management as we generally speaking expect our results to be close to home say plus or minus zero outside of any model updates because of our hedging strategy.
Okay and last question on legal cost this quarter they are mostly in the IB and in corporate any commentary on what type of issues you’re currently accruing for and also could you clarify whether you have any remaining outstanding material mortgage litigation or is that mostly settled from the mortgage area? So as much as I know you want to hear it and we’re not going to talk about the specifics that what we are aiming for and we told you -- we said before that we had very little in the first quarter we have $700 million now.
It’s going to be this way for a while we’re going to have elevated and lumpy litigation cost as work through the issues that you’re aware of and with respect to mortgage we have battled with a large proportion of our NBS risks with the government account policy so we do still have some other civil claims.
We would characterize there is more behind us than in front of us and we’re working through it.
Okay thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Hi.
First why did trading do better than the guidance earlier in the quarter and did that relate to the 8% increase in trading bar which was a little surprising since volatility is still low? Okay so just on the absolute performance so first of all few things primarily contributed to the better performance.
We said 20% plus or minus remember that really could have been plus or minus when you go back three weeks before quarter end.
There was a better activity in June.
So June was a stronger month every day on average produced a strong result than the prior few months in that and we didn’t have line of sight to that when we gave our guidance and when we affirmed our guidance and the second I called out the market partners shared the IPO and we --- post the IPO and generated gains of over $100 million which is a couple of points.
And as far as it’s very hard to predict FICC really reluctant to do it because somehow you think you actually know it’s going to be -- I am couple of weeks.
And the bar jumps around but some of that something around is nearly think of underlying positions [CMDS] and warehouse positions and stuff like that which come and go.
Okay no I always prefer more guidance than less.
And then I have two very simple questions with complicated answer I guess but you talked about loan growth is this the inflection point for loan growth and on the one hand you said while there is some inventory build that’s helping and on other hand you’re not seeing CapEx yet and two quarters ago you said second half of the year loan growth should really accelerate do you still believe this should accelerate from this level is this the acceleration or you’re revising back some of those expectations? So what we said Mike is that what we have seen in the second quarter gives us reasons to be optimistic that we’re going to continue to see growth around those levels in the second half of the year.
Like I said it’s not that we’ve seen a step change but that we have seen generally better sentiment generally better utilization rates generally higher pipelines and the phones are ringing it’s cross geographies.
So it feels like the environment is conducive for us to continue to be able to add.
We’ve been very successful in the business banking space and yes in cards so it’s our belief that we’ll have strong year-over-year in the second half but we are still in the early stages of seeing that happen.
And if interest rates increase at some point that could hurt the ability of commercial and commercial real estate borrowers to service their debt.
How much cushion is there before you think that would become an issue or that’s just not a factor? I just want to add it’s not really a fact of people who are already income producing locked in rates and things like that and they really won’t be effective for people who want to build new things.
But not only on the commercial side but we did look at on the residential side there have been occasion we have rising rates and improving housing.
So depending why rates are going may be the more determinant factor than just the fact that rates are going up.
Rates are going up to able to help the economy and maybe more important than just the fact the rates going up right.
We have not done the same thing in commercial we probably should.
I guess the more general question is what areas in credit are you watching the most I think Marianne you said auto was the best since 2006 and that’s been an area mentioned by regulators is that the point of greatest concern or are there other areas you are watching more closely? Well what we are doing is being consistent on our credit discipline.
And so we are still facing partly in the first half of the year about -- are not participating in some of the growth that others do because we have maintained a line as it relates to particularly structured credit label credit structures and addresses structures rather pricing.
And so we are consistently doing that.
We are not changing that and our credit books across our auto mortgage commercial remains consistent we are not changing that either.
So for us we’re just maintaining our credit discipline but yes I mean it is a very competitive place out there right now across the product and so we are seeing a little bit of that aggressiveness.
We saw it in the quarters coming up we still see now although it’s not worth.
All right thank you.
Your next question is from the line from Erika Najarian with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Good morning.
My questions have all been asked and answered.
Thank you.
Thanks Erika.
Your next question is from the line of Matt O’Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning.
Good morning Matt.
Good morning.
Can you remind us the timing of the private equity sale and how much capital against that.
It was profitably a breakeven business I think you know about 6 billion of outstanding and what does that mean in terms of freeing your capital in the Basel III and SLR? I don’t think we’ve disclosed that.
It hasn’t been a breakeven business over a long period of time.
Obviously hasn’t earned much money in the last few quarters and we are still -- if we go and change something it could be soon.
It won’t be all of what we take it will be a part of it.
And then the part of the number you see I think the $6 billion of total buyback are all heritage investments were made by JPMorgan Chase and et cetera before the Bank One merger.
That will continue.
So they are all eventually that $6 billion will be zero.
And that frees up about $3 billion of equity capital respectively.
Okay $3 billion that’s helpful.
And then other commodities business you gave us the $2.8 billion of annual revenue give-up and said that was ROE dilutive but care to give expenses and capital against that? Yeah so just to be clear the $3.8 billion if you go back and look at Investor Day was all of our business simplification agenda not the physical commodities.
I just pulled out physical commodities as being A a big piece of it; and B us staying in the piece the biggest piece left to happen in 2014 so just to be clear on that.
And then yes the $3.8 billion came with expenses of $3.2 billion again it we didn’t disclose the capital but when you take that into consideration it was at or below our cost of capital not additive to return.
Okay.
And then lastly this is probably an obvious question but the $100 million gain related to IPO would have been booked in the equity trading business when you are talking about the impact to the markets revenues? Actually it didn’t effect.
Okay.
Alright thank you.
Your next question is from Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Okay thanks.
Most of my questions have been asked and answered.
But could you talk just a little bit about how much of the mortgage business cost are fixed and how much you would be willing to let the volume decline?  Yeah so we haven’t actually broken out specifically in that way but I can characterize it for you.
So obviously in mortgage production; the first you know chunk of expenses it’s really variable meaning it’s paying for production on a variable basis to the sales force and then you have a bunch of what we call semi-fixed cost which are effectively the operated the people you know the sort of FTEs and then you do have pre-fixed cost which is the management the real estate the technology when you have a very very slow market which I think you would agree at $1.1 trillion or lower market its very slow then it is hard with the fixed cost structure to make a lot of money in the mortgage business particularly if you are taking a hard line which we are on the types of mortgage product that we want to participate in but over time it doesn’t stop the fact that this is going to be healthy company functioning mortgage market everyone to be [inaudible].
So it’s tricky in this kind of very very small market to but we are focused on fixing our fix cost base and trying to get out as much efficiency as possible.
And we have being spending a lot of time of that doing deep dives and trying to figure out and unfortunately this one won’t be at the end of the year.
I think it is hopefully by the end of 2015 we give you clear sight about how we would be making normal profitability there   Right.
Which may take until 2016.
Yeah.
And it would be in a technical volatile business and we had very very strong performance over the quarter of 11 in ’12 and into the first 2013 and we are now at that cyclical point that cyclical node and we need a lot of things to happen but hopefully when I tell you that the fixed cost space is our number one process or among our number one processes and we are working very hard at it.
Great.
Thanks.
So just of a small point you mentioned a reserve release on the private student lending business.
That was a business that you had kind of talked about potentially exiting I guess back in late last year.
Is that still on the agenda or? We are not exiting just no longer doing it and it's in run-off mode.
Right.
So we we stopped originating new loans but we do have a portfolio of loans that we are managing and as they run off we will experience usual charge off reserve releases they are not exiting.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Derek De Vries with UBS.
Thanks.
I have two questions.
One is kind of a detailed question but I just want to make sure I understood correctly.
You are talking about equity trading revenues and I think you sort of said the decline was attributable to the equity derivatives business.
So can I imply that the year-on-year for cash and prime brokerage businesses were flat and all the decline came from equity derivatives is that what you said? We said it was driven by derivatives cash and prime brokerage the better prime did the better than cash.
Okay.
That's clear.
And then just sort of a more conceptual question I look at your core loan growth of 4% obviously it was accommodated that’s was very strong and I guess about two times the industry level and kind of reconciling that with the comments you made about C&amp;I loan growth is kind of in-line when you are kind of ceding some market share in resi mortgage for all the reasons you have explained to us.
So I was just wondering if you can give some color on those areas where you are clearly taking share and just some outlook on how sustainable that is or is it just kind of a good quarter? So just on the mortgage thing we are giving up share but remember that we distribute a significant amount of mortgages that we produce.
In this quarter we actually portfolioed $5 billion of mortgages.
So we are not losing share in those.
Yeah I understand.
So we are adding to the portfolio for mortgage it's slightly different dynamic.
We are outperforming on sales prices in cards so ultimately that would fuel outstanding growth that hopefully would be better than the industry but clearly it's modest at this point.
I think we are inline if now potentially gaining a little share but we continue to outperform in real estate particularly in most real estate and asset management.
Okay.
And so I mean all those areas are areas you are targeting so they should feel pretty sustainable?  Yes.
Understood.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Wasserstrom with SunTrust Robinson.
Thanks very much.
I just wanted to just step back for a moment and think about you know what's occurred in the context of the key themes from investor day last February.
And it sounds like there is a couple of areas where things maybe are progressing bit more slowly than you thought.
Mortgage it sounds maybe one of them but I wonder if in the context of the goals that you laid out how you feel broadly you are moving against them and whether there has been any real departures from your expectation sort of at the halfway point of the year? So I think you called -- I think you called it well on mortgage.
Obviously the mortgage market and housing conditions outside of [inaudible] are challenging and that looks like it’s set to be a slower journey but if you step back and look at across all of our businesses when I talked about the underlying core performance drivers growing strongly that reflects our strategy.
So we continue to build and grow our businesses demonstrated by those performance drivers as well as simplify and address the control agenda and we're making appropriate progress in both of those.
And it showing in our results.
I mean a quarter where obviously there are some challenges to print over 14 [inaudible] tangible common equity is evidence of the strategy workout.
And if you were to read through the comments I made in asset management we're investing in the sales force.
We are seeing deliver growth.
We have record inflows we are seeing international delivered loan growth it's very consistent.
Yeah and I guess the… We have given you a roadmap on how we are going to get from 7% return on tangible common equity to 14.
We are already at 14.
Right.
So I guess the I mean the real heart of my question is we look at these financial results which are clearly better than expectations against the backdrop which maybe is certainly not better maybe worse than than what we thought at the beginning of the year.
And I wonder if that then suggests that in fact things are accelerating ahead of the timeline or in greater magnitude than the discussion in February.
No I can’t overemphasize this we do not run the company for quarterly profits.
We make long-term decisions on people systems technology products services stuff like that and lot of things drive short term profits but the profit you have in any one quarter relate to decision you made for the last five years and so we feel great about these companies.
The big weak spot which we’ll acknowledge is mortgage and we’re going to put we got great people there we’re going to put elbow to the metal there we’re going to invest some more money in their systems.
We got some catch up to do we got caught in the middle of as you know WaMu origination platforms and we usually look at each of these businesses they are all doing fine and we’re looking at how we can grow them over the next five to ten years.
And that’s what we’re going to do.
I honestly I mean I don’t care whether the FICC was up 10% or 15% or down 10% the next quarter.
I actually think it’s complete waste of time.
Okay and then maybe just lastly one of the themes from for this year has been the narrowing a little bit of the client base based on risk of profitability profile.
I'm just wondering how that’s progressing particularly with respect maybe to the commercial bank? I think most of that’s been done.
So you’ve seen not all of it but the full effect of that in terms of which segments we’re gaining on and which ones we’re going to focus on which ones we are putting hands to monitoring and it’s sort of same thing in the CIB with our correspondent banking.
There may be more we are always going to do good housekeeping.
There are some clients we’ve had conversations with they are still on the books but they will be leaving down the road but none of those things would be material to the future of this company.
That may affect revenues a little bit in the fourth quarter or first quarter next year that’s not why we’re doing it.
We’re doing to protect ourselves run the business properly meet our regulatory and control objectives.
And so this is the last thing from me but does that suggests that maybe we’re getting closer to the point where the reported numbers in terms of the balance sheet the loan expansion and the core numbers will get closer to converging? Think about the core number advantage reported number being primarily driven by the legacy mortgage and credit card portfolio.
So the client activity that we’ve been talking about is immaterial in the context of that run-off portfolio that what’s driving the difference.
Thanks very much.
We will continue to see that portfolio run off and as it runs off and gets smaller we will have less of an impact but it’s been fairly consistent story.
Great thank you very much.
Your next question is from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Thanks good morning.
On the consumer business just one last question about the payment side and we’ve seen really good volume growth metrics and that’s turned in the origination volumes can you talk just about what you’re seeing in the underlying customer as opposed to what you guys are benefiting from activation and on new car growth just your general sense of the customer and spending? Yes so we have a lot of market stats that while we maybe outperforming the market what we see is generally a fairly good picture of what’s happening and what I can tell you is if you see compared to our growth you have still strong high single-digit growth in non-discretionary spend categories driven principally in growth in the space which is not all enterprising but I it’s actually about consumer spending and inflation.
And then if you look at the discretionary growth which is growing even more strongly though in the double-digit territory it’s across the board it’s travel it’s restaurants it’s retail it’s across the board so consumers are spending very strongly in both categories.
And merchant processing we are growing like 12% a year and we’re investing more money to do a better job for merchants there and so all of these things and $35 million people bank online I think it was 15 million who used mobile banking it was 12 million to 15 million who used mobile banking.
So you are going to see us extend products and services all of which hopefully will be merchant friendly and consumer friendly.
And on that merchant piece just can you just explain the disconnect between the volume side continuing to look better and then the transaction growth rates slowing a little bit recently is it a larger ticket size or is there some different underlying things in the metrics?  It’s mostly merchants aggregating their transactions.
So it’s flows through to you guys.
Correct.
Okay great and then a little question tax rate was a little low this quarter to your outlook generally speaking on the tax rate going forward? Yes so I mean our general longer term outlook is on our tax rate is 30% plus or minus just given obviously the pretax prices of the 2014 market it will be slightly lower than that more inline with the quarter.
I don’t know if you mentioned this in other the private equity which was close to zero and bounces around is treasury and CIO which was close to zero kind of will stay there and there’s other corporate a normal rate would be around 200.
This quarter is around 400 because of some of the tax benefits.
Think of that as going back to 200 give or take next quarter for your models.
Perfect.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
Yes.
Thank you very much.
I know a lot of questions have been asked but I want to go back to mortgages a little bit the $16 billion the market was up depending on who you listen to probably in the $260 billion to $300 billion range but you guys stayed relatively flat.
And it looks like really you guys gave up market share with MBS issuance stuff that you sell to Fannie and Freddie and maybe you picked up more market share in the general market.
Of the $5 billion that you portfolio as you talked about was that all jumbos and you could talk a little bit about maybe stepping away from Fannie and Freddie? So of the $5 billion $3.6 million was jumbo about $400 million was [inaudible] and then about a $1 billion of conventional.
But that’s high -- mostly jumbo yes and we’re holding share in jumbo.
And with respect to the market share loss it was principally two things it was principally a strategy that we’ve talked about to do less in the high priced high LTV low FICO space and we priced to the risk adjusted return that we see in that business given the cost of service the loans that default and that’s what the impact has been on our market share and then also the HARP burn out we were very successful in helping our loans over the course of last couple of years our borrowers who are technically eligible are no longer responding.
So we’re seeing that burn out.
The bit that’s really truly the conventional loss which there was some is really on price competition and we absolutely intend to compete on price.
So our FHA volume was way down and we studied FHA and based upon the lawsuits and the premiums and stuff like that we’ve lost a tremendous sum of money in FHA.
We are trying to [inaudible] do better going forward.
Just to give you three numbers we collected $600 million of insurance they disputed $200 million the government called that a fraud.
We reimbursed $600 million to get out of the lawsuit because it was a threatening lawsuit even like in my opinion it was a commercial dispute between FHA and ourselves about that and the whole time FHA collected another $1.8 billion in premium.
So the real question to me should we be in the FHA business at all and we’re still struggling with that.
We want to help the consumers there but we can’t do it at great risk to JPMorgan.
So until they come up with some kind of Safe Harbors or something we’re going to be very very cautious in that line of business.
And Jamie a follow on question on your utilization comments I thought was very good.
But a lot of bankers have talked about as long as deposit is growing it’s hard for their utilization rate to go up and we did see strong deposit growth and we’re still seeing utilization rate.
Should that deposit growth should start to go down if we are seeing an uptick in utilization rates?  I think it slowed down a little bit.
Yeah it went down slightly in commercial.
And last remember there are so many different borrowers in industry so there might be some people are still accumulating deposits or some start to borrow money but in general you’re right.
Yeah so if you look at commercial just as an illustration of your point what we’ve got going on is the utilization rate in the last two quarters have picked up by 33% still much much lower than you would expect them to be overtime which would be probably about 40% but you do see deposits flattening out in fact there’s a little bit of decline.
It’s not absolutely the case at this point that we can say people are starting to spend their deposits and utilize their lines and I think -- is still not really out there but that is what you’d expect in this business we didn’t see strong growth in deposits.
Okay thank you very much guys.
Your next question is from the line of Steven Chubak with Nomura.
Hi good morning.
So Marianne I actually had a question about the presentation that you’d given last month at the Morgan Stanley conference.
You alluded to a targeted loan to deposit ratio of roughly 70% through the cycle and I supposed I was wondering when crunching some of the numbers given the proper treatment for loans versus high quality securities under the LCR whether there is a peak level of loan to deposit ratio or growth that we should think about given the constraints which exist under the new liquidity regime.
So first of all just to make a competitive point with it we didn’t have a target to loan to deposit we were just trying to make the point that obviously as we think forward to the impact of interest rates on our performance overtime we would expect both a mix shift in deposits back towards interest earning MCDs but also expect to see the economy growing and loan growing and that needed to be taken into consideration.
So it wasn’t really a target it was just a simulation to start with that.
It was basically on levels that we have seen at least in parts of the cycle that we were referring to.
And then you are right there is a dynamic where because of LTR we will always have because of our liquidity requirements internal as well we will have liquid assets that will be structurally higher than they would have previously been.
And therefore from a mix effect that would have an impact but at this point given where loans to deposits are I think that would be a high class problem to be talking about.
And remember there are some unused lines there is no loans in the balance sheet they still need a 100% LCR.
So what’s really going to happen is it’s going to be on decline level capital LCR commitments et cetera we just have to manage it at the capital level the desk level et cetera.
Thanks actually that’s a great transition for my next question which relates to pricing in some of the multiple binding constraints on capital that exists today.
And some of the discussions that we had with your competitors have suggested that some believe that it’s still a little bit too early to fully bake in the cost of managing to all the different capital real stats that exist today whether it’s risk based leverage based or even CCAR and it appears that you have been managing more actively through all the different constraints out there and in light of that I was wondering whether you have seen any impact for more aggressive pricing by peers in terms of your relative market share in certain product areas particularly within the CIB?  We see a little bit of this trade finance costs have gone up a little bit in municipal businesses and there you have seen a little more restructuring of the type of business people do.
Remember some of the repricing may not take place in the product.
It may take place in the relationship because all products have lost leaders et cetera but we haven’t seen a huge amount of repricing taking place yet.
And I think if you think about…  I have heard some complaints by the way that some of the revolvers are smaller and shorter not the price as much of it is the sizing and then you’ve heard some commentary in the market that inventories bonds are lower and being gapped out spreads are gapped out so you’re trying to see some of it but eventually I have never seen a business where the costs of goods sold doesn’t eventually get priced in the business.
It doesn’t happen to be priced into the egg or the milk it just has to be priced in the transaction the whole bag the person walks out to the supermarket would.
And I think one way to look at it is to say well we are absolutely managing through this complex environment Basel III Tier I comments still is our binding constraint at the moment and that’s how we allocate capital in the businesses and that’s the sort of primary lend that we are using to price and what you are going to see as Jamie talked about is that the leverage and LTR and other constraints including stressed capital are going to play out at the client level as we just all are becoming more efficient about how we deploy our balance sheet rather than necessarily a re-pricing strategy.
And CCAR we will push the CCARs down to the extent we can we will push the CCAR down -- those things which create CCARness.
Thanks and I suppose could you give potentially any context as to what event may prompt that repricing whether even if the leverage rules are finalized and officially implemented this year do you expect that’s when you will begin to see a lot of your peers begin to reprice some of these effects into their inventory or into their trading securities or is it -- are they likely going to delay at least the repricing until the rules are fully implemented which is going to be a 2018 event?  I wouldn’t hold your breath I mean some people leaving businesses some optimize the decline levels some are having strategic changes and it will happen overtime and we are quite patient about it.
We are in no rush.
We are not going to try to lead it or anything like that it will happen overtime.
As I said you have seen it in trade finance you’ve seen in municipal businesses you have seen it in - I know the rules aren’t final when the rules become final then people may react differently.
All right great.
That’s extremely helpful.
Thank you for taking my questions.
You’re welcome.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
Hi good morning.
I just wanted to follow-up on the SLR.
It seems like the improvement you had sequentially was I think mostly driven by capital in the preferred issuance.
Can you give us sort of where we are in terms of compression trades and the impact is it still more a lot more to come or is that mostly in there and then I guess any thoughts or updates on [exactly] what impact can be and if you expect that to be adopted by the fed? Okay.
So just on the -- yes the improvement at the bank and the holding company was retained earnings plus capital attribution but we continue to work through all of the other initiatives we have to optimize leverage including compression trades and pay-offs and the like.
That is actually happening a little bit more slowly than we have thought just broadly in the industry it still presents an opportunity if not the most sizeable opportunity but we are diligently getting after it.
And then with respect to SCAR we estimate it in clearly it’s the complex calculation so we will be slightly wrong in our estimate.
We estimated it to have a benefit to the firm of 35 points and for the bank of 45 points.
Yes we would expect that at some point it will be ultimately adopted by the U.S.
regulators but that doesn’t look likely to be helping our numbers this year or next.
Okay got you.
And then maybe just I don’t know if it’s not related or not but if I looked at your derivatives receivable on the balance sheet it’s been declining pretty steadily down 20% year-on-year.
Is that reflective of just demand or given low volatility and low activity levels or is there something structural there are you guys actively managing your receivables down or just trying to get a sense you know how much the cyclical versus structural argument? It’s substantially cyclical.
Okay.
I mean I wish we could be -- I wish we could actively manage it down because it’s part of our part of our (inaudible) calculation but the truth of the matter is a factor of activity level.
Okay it’s primary activity levels.
Okay.
And one last one on the CDO question I think earlier I think we saw Citigroup settle with DOJ regarding in the included CDOs I don’t your settlement included that.
Is that something that you think all remains out there or just something unique to them I know you have you did settle one one complaint with the SEC a few years ago just want to get a sense of how you think about that any remaining litigation risk around CDOs? Thanks.
We don’t think it’s significant.
Okay thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Hi thanks.
Just a follow-up Jamie on the FAJ commentary you had.
I’m just wondering about the implications for how you hit the CRA requirements.
Is there any interplay there?  Yes the CRA number is a combination of lower and middle income mortgages.
So we will obviously try to meet to those commitments it include how many branches you have in lower-middle income so we’ll continue to build that.
It’s a function of CDFI like lending to small business or community development funds which we will continue to do.
So it runs a whole gamut and we will meet our CRA commitment.
Yes if you don’t do any FHA that hurts you a little bit but to do FHA and lose billions of dollars that’s a whole different level of shareholder responsibility and so we have got to be very careful how we handle that.
I’m hoping FHA comes forth and comes up with some real bright lines and harbors that make it easy for us to try to do what the government wants us to do but we can’t get penalized severely for some of the things that happen.
Doing in the FHA you have got the Ginnie’s to their 4-year RWAs were lower doing -- getting the same credit for CRA and loans is obviously a little bit more capital consumptive so that’s part of the challenge?  It’s all of that.
Yes okay.
We are going to meet CRA.
We report CRA results every month and like I said it cuts across a wide variety of things that we do for people.
We just did this great thing at Detroit that lots of CRA credits.
We can do mortgages ourselves that we can put on balance sheet that we think are less risky than FHA insurance so we will figure it out.
This is just a category we just thoroughly thoroughly confused about how we got treated how we got to do it going forward and what kind of -- and we’ve spoken to government for some kind of guidance going forward.
Great.
So this is on the reps and warranties on the FHA?  Yes.
Well it’s still…  It’s the reps and warrants that there should be a commercial resolution dispute we don’t have [triple damages] if something goes wrong.
Okay thanks a lot.
There are no other questions at this time.
Thank you.
Thank you for participating in today’s call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the JPMorgan Chase’s Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
This call is being recorded.
Your line will be muted for the duration of the call.
We will now go live to the presentation.
Please standby.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase’s Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon; and Chief Financial Officer Marianne Lake.
Ms.
Lake please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Good morning everyone.
I am going to take you through the earnings presentation which is available on our web site.
Please refer to the disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements at the back of the presentation.
Starting on page one the firm delivered strong underlying performance this quarter with net income of $5.6 billion on strong revenue of over $25 billion up 5% year-on-year reflecting growth across most of our businesses and EPS of $1.36 and the return on tangible common equity of 13% for the quarter.
Included in our results with firm-wide legal expense of approximately $1 billion after tax which relates to a number of matters in large part and estimated amount for FX which was treated as non-deductable tax purposes.
There were also a number of smaller items most notably a benefit of approximately $400 million of tax discrete items in corporate as well as consumer reserve releases of $200 million pre tax.
Excluding these and other non-core items net income was approximately $5.8 billion reflecting strong core performance.
The quarter was characterized by continued strengths in our leadership positions as well as market share gains across the consumer businesses.
Higher levels of market volatility and client volumes than anticipated in CIB and record performance in asset management.
Core loan growth for the quarter was strong up 7% year-on-year while maintaining strong discipline across the board and with encouraging trends in consumer.
We’ve also continued to make progress against our capital targets with a CET 1 ratio of 10.1% and firm supplementary leverage ratio of 5.5%.
All while returning approximately $3 billion as capital to shareholders the quarter with growth share repurchases of $1.5 billion.
Turning to page two adjusted expense that excluding legal was $14.7 billion in the third quarter down approximately 30 million quarter-on-quarter with an adjusted overhead ratio of 59%.
We continued to be focused and diligent on managing expenses although our third quarter adjusted expense may appear elevated in comparison to our full year target of 58 billion it was substantially driven by higher market performance versus our earlier expectations.
If the positive momentum continues in the fourth quarter it’s likely that our total adjusted expense will be above $58 billion but obviously on higher revenues.
On credit despite lower reserve releases firm wide credit costs remained very low driven by reduced net charge-offs.
We expect total net charge-offs for 2014 to be less than $5 billion which is below our previous guidance.
Also included on this page are the returns generated by each of our businesses this quarter.
Of note the commercial bank and asset management achieved 18% and 25% ROEs respectively in line with their previous cycle target.
CCB was at 19% and if you back out the impact of legal expense in CIB its ROE would have been around 14%.
Moving on to capital on Page 3.
The firm reported a fully phased in advanced CET 1 ratio of 10.1% up from 9.8 last quarter reaching our year-end target of 10% plus.
Not on the page but for your information the fully phased in standardized ratio was 10.5%.
As you know the final U.S.
rules on SLR and LTR were published in September on SLR there were no notable changes and as I just mentioned the firm’s SLR was 5.5% reaching our target level and we’re at 5.7% for the bank this quarter.
The LTR final U.S.
rule had some changes versus the NPR remember we have been disclosing our LTR compliance relative to the Basel rules.
The U.S.
final rule is in some ways more punitive but we remain compliant with a more modest buffer.
Moving on to business performance starting with CCB on Page 4.
The combined consumer businesses generated $2.5 billion of net income for the quarter on $11.3 billion of revenue and an ROE of 19%.
I’d like to draw your attention to the right hand side of the page; it shows that the long-term investments we’ve been making in the business are paying off.
Illustrated by the many leadership positions we hold we’re particularly proud of our customer satisfaction rankings.
We’re seeing continued strong growth in the underlying business drivers average deposits were up 35 billion year-on-year an increase of 8%.
Our active mobile customer base was up 22% and credit card sales volume of $120 billion was up 12% on strong new account originations.
Across CCB we’ve reduced headcount by over 10 000 this year against our year-end target of 8 000 outlined at Investor Day and we expect a total reduction of 11 000 or so by year-end.
Finally before I move on as you are aware JPMorgan and certain others in the financial services industry experienced cyber-attacks this quarter.
We are taking every step to protect our customers and our firm but these attacks highlight the need for continued and increased cooperation among businesses and the government to systemically reduce and result cyber threats we are committed to doing our part.
To date we have not observed elevated levels of fraud related to this matter.
Turning to Page 5 consumer and business banking.
CBB generated net income of $914 million up 20% year-on-year business continues to improve its operating leverage with an ROE of 33% up 6 percentage points versus a year ago with revenue up 5% and expense relatively flat.
Underlying business drivers remain strong average deposits of 476 billion were up 9% year-on-year and client investment assets were up 16% to a record $208 billion.
We continued to see strong deposit growth across regions and markets.
In fact for the third consecutive year we led the FDIC survey with the highest deposit growth among the largest 50 U.S.
banks.
Overall we grew our deposit share in 46 of our 50 largest markets nationwide and we remain number one in three of the largest deposit markets.
Moving on to revenue net interest income was up 4% year-on-year driven by strong deposit growth offset by continued pressure on margins.
And non-interest revenue was up 6% with investment revenue growth driven by Chase private clients and with the addition of over 700 000 households driving stronger fee income.
Expense was relatively flat with efficiency improvement in the business being offset by increased cost of control.
Finally on business banking originations the momentum that we’ve seen in recent quarters continued and we believe we've outperformed the industry with loan originations for the quarter of $1.6 billion up 27% year-on-year down quarter-on-quarter seasonally.
This reflects a combination of industry trends improving driven by business optimism generally continuing to remain strong and improving banking performance especially in an expansion market as our targeted strategies mature.
We do expect the strong growth to continue through the remainder of the year.
Mortgage banking on page 6.
Overall mortgage banking net income was $439 million for the quarter with an ROE of 10%.
As expected the production environment remains challenging mortgage production and pretax income ex-repurchase was slightly positive for the quarter a little better than guidance on better than expected expense performance.
Originations of approximately $21 billion were up 26% quarter-on-quarter against the market that we estimate to be up approximately 10%.
Therefore we believe we've gained share and that share gain has been in high quality jumbo and conventional eligible loans which as you know are the segments we are focusing on.
As a remainder with purchase mix up the business has become much more seasonal with volume and profitability peaks in the second and third quarters and lows in the first and fourth.
Given this we still expect the fourth quarter results to be a small negative as previously guided.
Finally on production we had a $62 million benefit in the quarter driven by refinements to our repurchase reserves.
On to servicing net servicing related revenue of 639 million was down 54 million quarter-on-quarter a gain on the better side of our guidance due to gains on the sale of Ginnie Mae loans.
Looking forward into the fourth quarter core servicing revenue will continue to decline and we expect less benefit from other revenue sources such as those from Ginnie Mae sales given lower delinquencies and lower loan modification volume.
As a result we do expect fourth quarter servicing revenue to be $600 million or slightly lower.
Servicing expense increased approximately $25 million quarter-on-quarter due to investments in control and operational improvements.
You will note that this represents a delay in achieving our target of $500 million for the fourth quarter.
However we are doing what's necessary to improve our controls and operational processes and we expect servicing expense to continue to decline through 2015 at its lower pace.
MSR risk management was a modest gain of 76 million reflecting regular model updates.
On real estate portfolios we added approximately $6.8 billion of high quality loans to our portfolio this quarter up from $5 billion in the second quarter.
Loan quality remains very strong.
We've recorded net charge-offs of $81 million and reserve releases of $100 million in the non-credit impaired portfolio reflecting improvements in home prices as well as delinquencies.
Lastly on mortgage headcount was down approximately 6 000 year-to-date meeting our target for the year outlined at Investor Day and we are on track to reduce it by an incremental 1 000 or so by year end.
Turning to page seven Cards Merchant Services &amp; Auto.
Net income of 1.1 billion down 10% year-on-year but up 4% excluding reserve releases with an ROE of 23% reflecting very strong spend as well as balanced growth of $3 billion year-over-year continuing the momentum we saw last quarter as growth in our core business is now outpacing the runoff portfolio.
Overall we saw strong and stable revenue of $4.6 billion flat year-on-year.
Loan growth as well as strong sales volume was offset by spread compression and higher amortization of customer acquisition cost.
Expenses up 4% year-on-year predominantly driven by higher (floor) [ph] expense related to Home Depot and higher auto lease depreciation.
In Card sales growth of 12% led the industry for the 26th consecutive quarter.
This industry outperformance is being driven by the value proposition of our core Chase branded and partner products and the investments we are making in customer acquisition ultimate rewards marketing and customer service.
These investments are driving strong new account originations up 29% and the performance of these new accounts 2013 and 2014 vintages is exceeding our expectation.
In Merchant Services volume was up 15% year-on-year driven by continued strong sales performance.
But transaction growth was up 6% year-on-year lagging sales growth driven by merchant mix and aggregation trends.
In Auto new vehicle sales continued to grow year-over-year with the third quarter up 8%.
We’ve seen the 12th consecutive quarter of loan and lease growth despite a very competitive market and credit losses continued to be stable and low with the Auto pipeline remaining healthy consistent with the recovery in the auto market.
Moving on to credit the environment remains benign.
We continue to see improvements in card early delinquencies and the card net charge off rate was 252 basis points an all-time low.
This quarter we released $100 million of auto and student lending reserves with no releases in card.
During September a new step forward in the evolution of payments was announced Apple Pay.
We are excited to be a key player in a solution that offers improved security and the streamline customer experience.
At the same time we are continuing to develop other innovative payment solutions.
Moving on to page eight and the Corporate &amp; Investment Bank.
CIB reported net income of $1.5 billion on revenue of $8.8 billion and an ROE of 10% or 14% if you adjust the legal expense.
In banking total revenue was $2.7 billion down 6% year-over-year.
IB fees were 1.5 billion up 2% with revenue growth in advisory and equity underwriting fees on strong market activity being offset by lower debt underwriting fees.
We maintained our number one ranking in Global IB fees for Dealogic with particular strength in ECM in Europe and IPOs globally and we remain a go-to-bank for large deals and related financing.
The IB pipeline is strong with an environment supportive of M&amp;A and a strong equity underwriting market.
Treasury services revenue was $1 billion in line with our guidance and lending revenue was down approximately $200 million year-on-year primarily driven by mark to market losses of over $100 million in this quarter versus modest gains in the prior year on securities received from restructuring.
Let’s spend a moment on markets revenue the green shoot and the potential upside to our performance that we’ve being seeing in early September did in fact materialize and our reported markets revenues were up 1% year-on-year despite a strong third quarter last year a quarter in which we significantly outperformed.
In fixed income in currencies in emerging markets a strong quarter and a particularly strong September with pick-up in both volumes and volatility as currency markets benefited from divergence across global monetary policies an average quarter for commodities and credit and an improving quarter for rates.
In equities we saw quite strong performance for third quarter in line with last year’s.
Cash was very strong in EMEA on the back of a strong primary market and equity derivatives results were lower versus a record last year offset by an uptick in prime services revenue on higher balances and continued growth.
Of note customers are taking notice of the progress we’ve been making in building out our electronic trading platform and we’re seeing strong growth in electronic trading volumes up 50% year-on-year in Europe and nearly 20% in the U.S.
Moving on to the outlook for the fourth quarter.
We are pleased to have completed the sales of our physical commodities business and detailed portfolio which were major parts of our business simplification agenda and with limited impacts on ROE overtime.
However these sales will present revenue headwinds in the fourth quarter and based upon their contributions to last year’s results these will drive an approximately 8% revenue decline year-over-year or approximately $300 million.
So outside of the year-over-year decline driven by business exits we are cautiously optimistic that momentum may carry over.
However October so far has been mixed likely on the back of a changing market sentiment around the prospects of global growth and inflation.
Security services revenue of 1.1 billion was up 8% year-on-year primarily driven by high NII on higher deposits down quarter-on-quarter 5% on seasonality.
Assets under custody were $21.2 trillion up 8% year-on-year.
Credit adjustments and other are positive $240 million is driven primarily by DVA and FDA as a result of credit spread widening and refinements to certain assumptions.
Moving on to expense total expense was up 21% year-on-year with a comp to revenue ratio of 32% for the quarter and year-to-date.
Non-comp expense was up 21% year-on-year primarily driven by legal expense but down 2% quarter-on-quarter as increased legal expenses were more than offset by lower cost of business simplification and other expenses.
Just quickly on CIB loans the headline 5% decline for loans is driven by lower client overdraft and trades underlying that traditional credit portfolio and other HFI finance were up by over 10%.
Moving on to Page 9 and commercial banking.
The quarter saw a net income of $649 million on revenue of 1.7 billion with a strong ROE of 18%.
Revenue was down 3% from the prior year and 2% sequentially reflecting yields compression in our lending book as well as business simplification partially offset by higher loan and deposit balances.
Expense of $668 million was in line with guidance and relatively flat year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter despite ongoing investments in control.
Loan balances increased 1.6 billion in the quarter driven by continued strong performance in our commercial real-estate businesses.
CRE loans increased 13% year-on-year and 3% quarter-on-quarter both in excess of the industry and our CRE book have now grown to 14 consecutive quarters.
C&amp;I loans were relatively flat from the prior quarter broadly in line with industry trends.
Of note deposits increased to $5 billion in the quarter mostly in middle market and corporate client banking this is reflective of our clients still managing with very high levels of liquidity.
Having said that utilization rates were up slightly for the quarter and pipelines continued to move incrementally higher across the board.
Outside of lending we continued to make good progress in building our core franchise.
This quarter growth investment banking revenue was approximately $500 million up 12% from last year and on a year to date basis the commercial bank has generated $1.4 billion of investment banking revenues for the firm up 22%.
Card and merchant services revenue increased 7% from the prior year and finally since this time last year we’ve added approximately 500 new clients in targeted industries.
Overall credit performance remains strong with net charge-offs of only one basis point marking the 7th consecutive quarter with net charge-offs in the single-digit or very low or recoveries.
As we think about the coming quarter we do expect current trends to continue we would like to remind you of the one-time proceeds of approximately $100 million that we received in the fourth quarter of last year from a lending related workout.
Moving on to Page 10 asset management an excellent quarter in asset management with record net income of $572 million up 20% year-on-year and 4% quarter-on-quarter with a 25% ROE and a 31% pre-tax margin in line with our through-the-cycle targets.
For the full year we expect these ratios to be below our through-the-cycle targets.
You will see that we changed from reporting our revenue by client segment to reporting revenue by line of business to be consistent with how we manage the business.
So we are introducing sub line of business results for revenues in global investment management and global wealth management.
Overall revenue was $3 billion was up 9% year-on-year reflecting an increase in management fees driven by long-term net inflows including $16 billion this quarter.
This marks the 22nd consecutive quarter of long-term inflows driving AUM of $1.7 trillion up 11% year-on-year.
While we continue to see strengths in our multi-asset and fixed income flows equity flows were flat this quarter.
Asset management expense of 2.1 billion was up 4% from a year ago and up modestly 1% versus last quarter.
In banking we reported strong performance in both lending and deposits.
Record loan balances up 16% year-on-year and 3% quarter-on-quarter with growth coming from both our U.S.
and our international markets and a solid pipeline for demand for the remainder of the year.
Deposits were also a record up 9% year-on-year and 2% quarter-on-quarter.
Lastly as reported client assets of 2.3 trillion were up 4% year-on-year and down 5% quarter-on-quarter.
However as part of business simplification we closed the sale of the RPS business during this quarter recognizing a small gain reflected in GIM.
Excluding the impact of the RPS sale client assets would have been up 10% year-on-year and flat quarter-on-quarter.
Moving on to page 11 on corporate and private equity.
Private equity reported $71 million of net income driven by net valuation gains including a small net gain related to the portfolio sale in OEP which we announced in the quarter predominantly offset by related expenses.
Year-to-date the portfolio balance is down by approximately $2.5 billion and with this sale we expect it to be down by about $4 billion by year end.
Treasury and CIO reported a small net loss of $30 million with NII slightly positive in the quarter.
And other corporate net income at $357 million included in this result were tax related benefits of approximately $400 million as I previously mentioned as well as approximately $500 million pre-tax of legal expense with the remainder of the firm-wide legal expense principally in the IB.
At the firm level our tax rate for the quarter was 28% broadly in line with a normalized tax rate of 30% plus or minus.
Non-deductible legal expenses in CIB were offset by tax benefits here and other corporate.
Before moving onto our outlook page Firm NII was up approximately $320 million quarter-on-quarter driven by lower interest expense in CIB and core NII was up approximately $110 million.
Moving onto page 12 you can see on the page our current outlook which I've already addressed throughout the presentation.
So wrapping up a strong result for the third quarter despite legal expense of $1 billion after tax.
This reflects the strength of each of our franchises and the benefits of the diversified business model.
We have made substantial progress against our control and regulatory agenda as well as business simplification albeit with more work to do and we have successfully executed against our 2014 target for capital leverage and liquidity.
As I've shown you today the investments we are making in our businesses are fueling growth and underpinning strong earnings now and in the future and we remain focused on serving our customers and safeguarding their assets and our company.
With that operator please open up the lines for Q&amp;A.
Can you just give us a sense of what's left in terms of simplifying the model maybe split up between the CIB and consumers if that's a good way of approaching it?  Yes I mean -- I would say we -- I think I can’t remember which quarter it was but several quarters ago we put a slide out in the presentation that showed what the business -- it was last year showed what the business simplification agenda looked like.
I think if you go back and now look at what we’ve done including what we were able to either complete or sign this quarter OEP and the RPS business GSOG commodities we’ve certainly broken the back of most of the business simplification agenda.
Having said that it is an ongoing process and we continue to de-risk clients and industries and continue to simplify our products in mortgage and the like.
So I would characterize that the actions that we’ve taken by the end of this year are substantially all of them but at the margin we continue to look client by client product by product to simplify things.
Okay now as a follow up somewhat related as we think about having more clarity on the capital rules and specifically the supplementary leverage ratio as well as the LCR.
Is there some opportunity for optimization of the balance sheet now that you have more clarity on those rules? So we’ve talked before about the fact that when you take into consideration the combination of the leverage and liquidity rules together with our own point of view on positioning the company for rising rates so therefore our own point of view of being under invested in a duration perspective that we have we believe a relatively optimized balance sheet.
Although it looks like we have a significant amount of cash that is in part non-operating deposits that at some point will either flow out or be adequately paid for by the client return and in other parts is part of our overall liquidity.
I mentioned that subsequent to the U.S.
LCR rules being made final that although we have been reporting previously against Basel our compliance in the 20 plus percent range so a buffer of 20 plus percent.
The U.S.
rules are more punitive in a number of ways most notably that they look at peak outflows in 30 days rather than cumulative and also on higher outflow assumptions across certain categories given that we are now compliant with a more modest buffer.
So we would say that we are largely optimized.
Okay and then just lastly the 300 million of revenue going away in the fourth quarter what would be the expenses and capital against that? So the capital is relatively minimal in comparison to the overall firm so while it obviously is positive for us if not a noteworthy number.
And the expenses just to note that I said the ROE is limited over time this is a business that was still being built and therefore haven’t yet reached the maturity stage or a stage where it was returning its hurdle.
It will take a little bit more time to take the expenses out so there will be a slight lag in removing expenses.
So in the fourth quarter it will be more modest but over time it would be a large chunk of that $300 million.
Okay thanks for taking my questions.
Good morning.
Marianne I was wondering if you could give us some broader context on the core expenses is the principle driver of the updated outlook around the 58 billion is that just comp and can you remind us where you are on the compliance control expenses in terms of leveling off there? Yes so look we had a better third quarter than we have been expecting earlier in the quarter.
We’ll see how the fourth quarter pans out.
So yes it is the case that if we have a better fourth quarter and therefore a stronger second half of the year that our expectations for comp will be higher.
They’ll still be well within our comp to revenue ratio range of 30% to 35% and you saw for the quarter 32% year-to-date the same.
So in large part it’s going to be based on higher revenues in market.
This quarter we also had higher revenues in mortgage and also in corporate so that is the principle driver.
And as we look out further to ’15 and ’16 could you give us a reminder of where you’re looking to reduce the core expense base and get some savings on one or two year basis? Yes before I do that you had a second part to your question on the cost of controls let me just deal with that very quickly.
We talked about the fact that we expect our control cost to reach a peak this year that’s still the case.
So I would say that they are substantially in our run rate by the end of the year.
They will over time be able to come down and they’ll still remain elevated relative to historical because of the new business world we’re in.
But we’re going to be able to become more efficient automate things finish remediations look back so over time that will provide leverage.
In terms of looking out to 2015 and ’16 while we haven’t given specific guidance I’ll just point you to a few things; the first is we do expect to continue to see mortgage servicing expense decline on the back of delinquency and credit trends.
We would also expect to see improvements in the production space there is a reasonable fixed cost base and nevertheless as you saw this quarter we’ve continued to make great progress in residing that expense base.
In the non-mortgage space in the consumer bank Gordon has committed to a $1 billion in ‘16 over ‘14 principally but not exclusively driven by automation and efficiencies in branch staffing leverage and also the branch footprint optimization.
And then while we didn’t quantify it Daniel is very much looking at the expense equation for positive leverage that is reasonably significant over the next two years in the CIB.
So I would say across the board and obviously we’re growing in asset management we’re investing in our businesses notwithstanding.
And then on the legal expense did you give any color in the beginning on what was that for this quarter and in terms of the FX and LIBOR investigations are those at the stage that where reserves can be built or can you offer anything on that? At the beginning what I did say is that there are a number of matters in our legal expenses for the quarter but in large part it does relate to FX and consequently you can read into that the things are further progressed this quarter than last but obviously we can’t comment any further.
And then just in terms of share buybacks and capital levels I was wondering about your thoughts on the prospects for higher G-SIB buffers in the U.S.
and how are you going to balance in the near term your growing your risk based capitals against executing the remaining buyback authorization that you have.
Just to talk about so we did $1.5 billion of buyback this quarter same last quarter obviously we have another two to go in terms of our approval.
We don’t know what the rule is going to be it’ll come out before the end of the year we’ll have to see what that says.
There will be a transition timeline it will transition on the same timeline phase in timeline that the rest of the buffer is transitioning on through to the 1 of January 2019.
So there is no need for us to overreact and rate the compliance so we would do much as we have done over the course of the last two years which is balance continuing to make good progress getting to wherever it is that we need to be which we’re not going to get at this moment against the desire to want to continue to deliver capital to shareholders in the form of increased dividends and repurchases.
And remember you all have forecast where our CET 1 goes up to 10.5 or 10.8 or something like that when the new CCAR rules come out we’ll probably be able to fine tune where it might look like at the end of 2015.
I mean the reality of the situation is sitting at 10.1% wearing good company with the rest of the industry in the context that just given how CCAR operates its highly likely that there will be overall accretion to capital in the industry over the course of 2015 and we’ll be no exception.
So we will continue to accrete capital up towards and potentially above our 10.5.
But we’re not going to recalibrate a target until we understand the rules.
One thing on the target just when you see the rules yourself know that in our 50 to 100 basis points buffer the reason why we had a range was to allow in part to some of uncertainty and things evolving and so we would obviously want to fine tune and put a finer point a point on our buffer.
So it’s possible that a buffer may not be as high as 100% too.
So we’ll deal will all of that when the rules come out.
And we’ve also been remember very careful the purpose here to protect and grow the client franchise meet the regulatory agenda and then we’ll adjust to all these changes as they take place the big ones we’re go to know by the end of the year.
And Marianne just on that point you had some RWA inflation in the first half as you waited some model approvals you are waiting for I believe.
Where are you on those model approvals and your expectations for kind of the ratio of risk weighted assets the total assets as we move forward? So you would have seen our other where it came down slightly in the quarter from the second quarter on the back of model improvements and on later on portfolio run-off.
So we’re starting to see that bend now.
It is the case that as we project forward to the end of 2015 that’s the number that we showed you at Investor Day is still relatively good it’s probably a little higher than that we said 1.5 it will be somewhere between 1.5 and 1.55 by the end of next year.
We’re not in complete control around the timing of model approvals we’re obviously doing everything we can to be timely and then the regulators need adequate time to approve them.
So we kind of been a little bit more conservative potentially about the duration it takes to get models approved but we’re still on that same basic trajectory.
So first question on -- deposit growth has been growth and I guess I would love to see higher rates in loan growth.
But you are positively positioned for the parallel shift up.
I guess my first question is how does that change in more of a flattening environment that we are experiencing right now? Do you capture most of the benefit anyway just getting off zero on the short end? Yes I mean -- yes there is a significant benefit.
If you look at our disclosures you can kind of see the short-end versus long-end impact.
Basically there is a significant benefit coming up off the short-end that we would expect to capture a significant portion of that in the first 12 months but we are obviously are looking for a more normal curve overall overtime.
Okay.
Just -- I know we are not supposed to read too much into it but in everyone's mid-cycle (DFAST) [ph] results I think everyone was calling for -- or the big banks were calling for higher losses and lower PPNR in general relative to your own self-test from the previous year.
Is that conservatism? Because it is a little different relative to the commentary about an improving economy a little bit better loan growth good expense control things like that.
I'm just curious what we are supposed to take away from that mid-cycle.
So obviously not to comment on everybody else's results but our results were in terms of the size of the economic downturn they were relatively in line and our results were relatively in line with a few minor sort of enhancements to our process.
So we weren't actually looking for materially changed results in our mid-year (DEPAST) [ph].
So obviously we haven't had instructions yet we are expecting them absolutely eminently possibly as early as this week in terms of guidance from the regulators on how to think about the bank holding company scenario for 2015 CCAR to the degree that there are more and more stressful idiosyncratic losses or stresses on leverage or other things it could have an impact but we have to wait and see.
Okay okay last one.
There are a couple of articles on rewriting of banker's agreements between major dealers to resolve some of the early termination rights issues which obviously is going towards the Fed's issues on living wills.
A did that actually happen or is that just being talked about? And B does it resolve the issue in the Fed's -- I know you can't speak for the Fed but does it resolve the issue or do you still have the client side to deal with over time?  So Mark Carney of the FSB and the Bank of England Chairman said that two major things remain to finish kind of the too big to fail issues.
One is the how you deal with derivatives and the second is TLAC and that both of those would be done this year.
This is the thing has been done it's a great example I think it was 18 firms who got together and came up in a very complex way globally how to deal with this in a way that the regulators and the Fed put out a press release and Mark Carney has been positive about it and it was industry led.
So we do think it does solve that issue.
So all the buy cycles do it.
It will be eventually all the sales side I mean the other way around all the buy side will eventually want to do it because it’s actually better for the business as a whole maybe not better for one trading desk but it's better for the business as a whole and it's a little coercive.
So that the regulators are basically saying that to do further derivatives you're going to have to adopt these new rules and we think over time a lot of you will do it.
And just one thing that the G18 does put a break to the back of the problem and but we are still awaiting actual regulatory guidance.
So there is still the strong possibility that the guidance will be broader and we would encourage it to be broader if nothing else for simplicity purposes not necessarily because the G18 alone don't really achieve the result.
And we were also in a position where even if the buy side doesn't for some reason that we would be able to manage that risk overtime and it would diminish overtime because in the short duration of the derivatives.
Right.
And as long as the Fed counts that as “material progress by July of '15” I am cool with it too.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Hey a couple of questions.
One is on just RWAs in general.
There were some articles around potentially shifting some of the repo activity to more of an agent role and principal role.
I don't know if that's one of the ways that you could potentially have a light impact maybe on RWAs but on total footings to help with the ratios.
Is that something that's being considered? Yes so I mean our repo business is as you know substantially client driven and our clients are very interested in ensuring that they are giving us sufficient wallet to allow us to dedicate sufficient balance sheet to their business.
So in that sense we continue to see repo as a strategic product for our clients and as cash resource quite frankly.
So it is obviously the case that as we understand any rules but meanwhile leverage rules have been out for a while and we’ve seen leverage reducing the industry overall but we continue to have a strong and healthy repo business.
And would you be supportive of an industry move towards shifting repo to more of a CCP environment or no? We’re okay with the higher margin that's generated margin rules and if they go to kind of a tri-party CCP they’ll be fine too and it would elevate other issues at that point in time.
I mean between the CCP and I think that FSC even put out a framework last night that talked about cross industry including non-financials standardized higher levels of haircut that we are supportive of.
So I think the combination of those two things achieve a great deal.
That’s great.
I asked the question in part because as people are concerned about things like the SIFI buffer increasing and other regulatory capital requirements.
I am just trying to tease out what other options you have to your client facing business but yet maybe shrink the footings in a way that deal with these ratios without having to “break up the bank”? So I mean I think that we would do exactly with this what we’ve done with everything else to-date which is overall we’re only going to put our balance sheet to and allow our clients to use it if the overall relationship over time pays us a sufficient return for that.
We have the ability to do that somewhat methodically and so we’re being very surgical and very strategic about how we use our balance sheet.
But it is a core strategic product for many of our clients and they want to continue to be able to do that.
So yes we could.
I mean if you look at the numbers however you want to cut them.
There is within our repo business we do have a match book.
We have inventory financing as well.
We have clients.
We’ve seen our short term wholesale funding so there are things we could do.
We just don’t want to overreact.
Okay thanks.
And then just separately on the payments discussion.
In your prepared remarks Marianne you highlighted that you are delighted to work with Apple Pay but that you are also working on some other things yourself.
Could you speak to what other things you are doing independently? So I mean we talked before and you will see more over the coming few months about our own wallet and payments capability.
So take Chase Pay and Quick Checkout where we would provide the capability for our customers to be able to have a much more seamless experience also for merchants to have a lower abandonment rates and continuing with the safety and security tokenization and other methods.
So we’re continuing to work on our own proprietary wallet and payment capabilities that will be piloted and then subsequently launched over the course of the next coming months.
And then there's obviously the case that we are out to pilot and in production on our end to end capability including Chase Net.
So we’re signing up merchants at a faster rate than we expected and again you will hear more about that later.
But our ability to now negotiate bilaterally economics with merchants and provide customers with compelling reasons to continue to bring share to us is also something we’re working on.
Our basic philosophy has been that you the customer who want to be able to use your debit cards your credits in a way that you want and then we want to make it available to you whether its Apple Pay in-store apps other people’s wallets these are wallet our own -- all of which will have benefits et cetera.
And as Marianne said we think that we can also be friendly to merchants with data with pricing with simplified contracts.
So we’re trying to make this an ecosystem works better for everybody and is far more secure higher customers on both sides and far more secure.
And I think is it accurate I mean that you mentioned at a recent conference that you were looking to double the spend in cyber security is that right? Yes I was just estimating if I was taking a guess that it will double over the next four or five years.
I mean I think it’s fair to say that what we’re seeing in the cyber space not surprisingly is this relentless constant and evolving set of attacks and we need to be constantly evolving and constantly vigilant in response so it’s entirely reasonable to assume that we’ll continue to increase our investments over the course of the next several years and we’ll -- so it will be larger our we’ll let you know.
I’d like to clarify that quoted in the press not accurately because this is one area where the government and businesses have been collaborating really well.
And for a long time is because all these government agencies and I think we need that because the government sees all kind of attacks and they have a fountain of information.
And then also industry self-collaborates which is we share information with other banks immediately when we see something happening so maybe even if something happens to you you can help one of your brethren avoid a problem like that.
And then cyber goes beyond just yourself its making sure that all your vendors you deal with have proper cyber controls that all the exchanges have proper cyber controls.
So this is -- we’ve identified this as a huge effort we’ve been very good at it the most recent breach which we’re not going to make excuses for.
We’ll invest any and all things we just do to get it right.
Our customers are protected which is critical but we don’t want these things to be happening.
But it’s going to be a battle you’ve already seen a lot of very very serious far more serious than personal data being taken where social security numbers security codes account numbers et cetera.
And we do think that unfortunately there are going to be some wins and losses in this.
This is not going to be one of those things where it’s going to be absolute and we don’t want to be sitting here saying you can absolutely be protected because we think that will put you in a false sense of security.
And those are all great points I mean you could imagine tokenization moving beyond just payments to any interface with clients at some point?  Yes tokenization can be more broadly used and that’s avoided a certain type of fraud but not other type of frauds.
So you have to look at each one of these things and say what does it accomplish? And that certainly helps across the payments phase but there are other areas of vulnerability obviously.
And [indiscernible] security about who came to what systems when they use private computers with private lines as opposed to public computers from home.
There are all these things we are all doing and we’ve had some great people come in audit us and this is one area I suggest to most companies get someone to come who in as an expert at this.
.
We have our own attacker system where we have our own people trying to get through so we’re always trying to look where we might have a weak spot.
I just wanted to follow-up first of all on the question that Glenn asked about the change in the derivatives contracts.
From your perspective doesn't this fundamentally render the contract less attractive for users because of the loss of the automatic bankruptcy preference? And if so would you expect that this is one more potential pressure on the derivatives revenues that you've talked about in the past potentially depressing your revenues by as much as $1 billion? I don’t think it makes it less attractive for the one reason if you look at one contract that someone may have in one fund or something like that it may make it slightly less attractive.
But if you looked at the improved safety of the system I think it makes it more attractive.
So people believe that doing this makes the whole system safer every institution say while on the one contract side I will prefer to have the optimality but for the total I’d like the fact the system is protected and we have time to work all those out.
If the resolution works that is really really good for everybody.
I mean everybody would have preferred that there was a resolution process in place for Lehman.
The pain and suffering would have been far less across derivatives even though they didn’t have the same -- they had more protection derivatives at the time.
And while we are on that topic then another thing that happened during the quarter obviously was the Fed and FDIC rejecting the living wills.
And I was wondering if you could give us a sense for what changes that might have provoked from your point of view in terms of accelerating some of the simplifications that you were talking about earlier? So I think just an important point of clarification for what its worth is the that the FDIC found the industry’s 2013 plans not credible and the Fed did not.
So it wasn’t a joint agency conclusion at that point.
And so we haven’t had to comment on the 2014 plan yet.
Having said that we talking to JPMorgan we made substantial progress even between the '13 and '14 submissions we’re in dialogs with our regulators to understand even more detail of what they found as being the limitations or the vulnerabilities in our credibility of the plans we’re committed to remediation in by 2015.
It has had little bearing on our business simplification agenda because it was already a very broad and appropriate agenda but we continue to work on all number of things around the place critical operations legal entities simplification and we’ll continue to do so.
Remember the FSB led by Mark Carney has made it -- they have said publically that the two big remaining pieces are TLAC which should be done this year and the derivatives stay that would be common harmonization around the globe and those two pieces are going to be in place and make resolution much more achievable.
And we should add that obviously there is a protocol was specifically pointed out in that feedback and the industry voluntarily resolves that issue I think very well.
Yes fair enough.
I mean I think a lot of times the press reports forget to pull together all the pieces like that.
I hate to beat the regulatory horse too hard here but one of the things that we were hearing towards the end of the quarter was that our clients were telling us that they were seeing a significant fall off in liquidity in some aspects of the credit markets in particular.
And I was wondering is there any link between that and some of the new filings that you’ve had to start doing on a daily basis for -- not just you but obviously all the dealers on liquidity? And I think some of the Volcker data gathering has started as well.
And I was wondering if there was any linkage there?  No.
So I mean my point of view on this is that while we have started doing a filing more recently we've been well aware of the requirements for a reasonably long if not very long period of time and have reoriented our business to be compliant in substance with the requirement.
So the fact that we are producing metrics at this point isn't having meaningful impact on our business.
It is the case that we know over the course of the next year between now and the compliance date next July we do expect to as an industry receive feedback on that data and we’ll have to see how that progresses but it's our point of view that our business is compliant.
Industry wide as people push LCR and capital and some of these rules down to the trading desk that you did see a reduction in inventories et cetera but our view is that market making is a critical role in society and it has to take place we have 16 000 clients and so we really do focus on serving those clients and we've electrified more of it some of them will go to clearing houses some of it would be -- but we want to be there for the clients and we will see how the industry sorts out.
Some people in the industry are making much more drastic decisions than others.
And our decision has been to be there to make markets.
And just try to adjust the new rules which may make it a little bit more costly to trade.
But what I think I hear you saying is that the recent imposition of some of these reporting requirements did not in itself have those liquidity impact? I think it wasn't the report reporting requirements I think it was pushing down at LCR the cost of capital the cost of debt and the traders reduced their balance sheets a little bit and they were a little more cautious how to use balance sheet.
And that's industry wide.
And then some people said we simply can’t stay in these areas.
I've seen people exit certain trading areas.
Yes I mean repo is a good example of that where the level of not concerned but the level of dialogue with clients around our willingness to continue to commit our balance sheet to that business has increased because others are less willing.
And so we are seeing some of that visual.
Got it.
And then the last one for me Marianne you gave some clarification around loan growth in the CIB.
But I am not sure I quite understood it.
Basically you said the minus 5% headline number was affected by a couple of it sounded like one time-ish kind of things and what the underlying was.
But as I said I'm not sure I really caught your drift.
Okay.
So let me give you the down piece of it.
One of them is not timing it's just the continuation of a trend where trade finance loans are down substantially year-over-year.
And so when you look at the overall loan balance is being impacted by trade markedly.
And then on the client overdraft side that is something that is a little bit lumpier obviously.
So those two things are driving it down.
But the point to the comment was a little bit not trivialized reported loan growth which was still positive but with those masking underlying performance in our credit portfolio in HFI loans.
So our more traditional credit lending continues to grow and grow at 10% plus pace.
Your next question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
Can you share with us -- obviously the Federal Reserve is asking for more capital for all the larger global SIFI type banks.
What's the minimum cushion would you guys be comfortable running against? You mentioned your 50 to 100 basis points might be a little less.
How low would you go in your cushion for meeting those new capital guidelines when they come out down the road?  So I think -- look a reasonable point of view on that would be at the lower end of that range at the 50 basis point.
So remember when we -- obviously we’ll refine it and would update you but when we have thoughts about having a buffer it’s been it is there in order to protect us from range of issues including capital volatility driven by AOCI we regularly and routinely stress our portfolio to understand how much stress we could see in AOCI in a short period of time and that’s going to be one of the principle drivers.
So I would say that’s the reasonable benchmark for the level that we would go to.
That doesn’t mean we have to have that buffer in totality.
As I said buffers phase in between now and January of 2019.
So whatever we decided it however we communicate that to you that as well as all of the other buffers capital conservation buffer and G-SIB will phase in.
And CCAR may still be a limiting factor so… As Jamie said the reality is that the why CCAR is operating while there has been good progress in the communication and dialog with the regulator the reality remains that it is still not clear either quantitatively or qualitatively exactly how everything is working and therefore its unlikely to be the case that in this cycle that you’re going to see 100% or greater than 100% distribution that’s my view.
Yes.
No regarding the return on equity at Investor Day you guys gave us the through the cycle target of 15% to 16%.
Clearly I would assume that in this year's Investor Day when it comes up if these capital levels are even higher now than what you originally thought when you gave that guidance it probably will be a bit lower.
What lines of business do you think will see the lower ROE targets if you decide that you need to lower it through the cycle from the 15% to 16% that you gave us last year? So I mean just before we sort of get onto the business by business lens on it I mean the reality mathematically is obviously true that if we have higher capital we would prima facie defacto have lower returns.
But the reality hasn’t been that way over time.
So you know acutely that we’ve added significant capital over the last however many years.
And have been able to over time continue to reorient the business and optimize against it to deliver strong returns.
So could there be a decline in returns we will obviously have to see what the rules look like.
Clearly at the moment the most clear and present danger relates to higher G-SIB surcharges on short term wholesale funding.
So in the first order impact of it would obviously have an impact on directly those businesses and products in the CIB but obviously if the company is holding more capital we’ll look more broadly.
But I don’t think it’s a foregone conclusion that you’re going to see a pro-rata decline in our returns and obviously we are continuing to focus on our expenses and making sure that the overall business is as efficient as possible.
Is it fair to say that today’s ROE in today’s quarter of about 10% which obviously is below your through the cycle number.
Is it primarily an interest rate issue that’s holding it back or is there some other issue the high elevated expenses that you’re running due to all the new regulations and stuff? So I mean 10s in ROE 13% ROTCE remember the target is an ROTCE target.
It’s obviously right now in 2014 we’re in a bit of a cyclical low in a number of ways and elevated expenses.
So it’s cyclical lows in mortgage at least for the first half of the year cyclical lows and some secular headwinds in the market space.
Yes we are reaching a peak in terms of control expenses so that is in part contributing reserve releases are low a little bit the credit remains benign but as a relative matter they’re lower.
But we are staring efficiencies in the face across our businesses over the course of the next two years.
So control costs will decline CCP will deliver improvements in expense CIB will also.
Rates will be a meaningful piece.
Clearly you’ve seen our sensitivity to rising rates is relatively significant but it’s not the only piece.
When the economy generally recovers when loan growth recovers and volatility recovers all those things good things happen.
Shifting gears if we look at leverage lending the Federal Reserve has come out recently concerned about some of the underwriting that's going on there.
And I think they even pointed out that leverage lending now will be used in the CCAR possibly from a qualitative standpoint.
Can you guys give us any color on what your understanding is of what is going on with leverage lending today? And will it be included in CCAR? So just to talk about what will included in CCAR the truth is we don’t know.
So what you have seen we have also read but that doesn’t constitute any kind of guidance we haven’t received guidance yet.
So we’re going to have to wait to see that.
It wouldn’t be entirely surprising if there were some sort of leverage stress in that quantitatively I can’t see to qualitatively.
And then yes there have been more stringent guidance on leverage lending from the regulators over the course of the last year.
And we’ve taken a fairly strict line on applying that.
So it has in part been one of the reasons why we believe we have seen lower loan growth in some of our business than we would otherwise have seen.
It’s going to get a little stricter in the refi part of the leverage loans and obviously whatever the terms are we will meet the terms and some of that business will go to non-banks some banks who are not regulated by the OCC and the Fed.
You guys gave us some very good numbers on the mobile approximately usage by your customers.
What’s the penetration rate of your customer base that uses that mobile app? I mean it’s still relative to 20 something million customers in household in the 23 something like that million households in the retail sales space is still relatively low.
And from recollection we’ll check the numbers for you I think is in that 2 million to 3 million range but nevertheless… Mobile is much higher than that.
Mobile is higher okay.
We’ll get back to you.
And then finally you guys talked about Apple Pay… It’s 18 million.
Its 18 I don’t know if that’s individuals or households it’s a huge amount.
You guys mentioned the Apple Pay and the opportunities there.
What are some of the business -- where can you see the growth but at the same time where can Apple Pay cannibalize some of your businesses or are there any that would be cannibalized? Look again our view is to -- if you’re a client and you want to use your Apple Phone to pay with NFC at a merchant that’s fine.
We don’t want to say you can’t use your JPMorgan Chase credit card or debit card.
And like we said we’re going to be in other people’s wallets too and we’re going to have our own which we think will have some competitive advantage.
So will it cannibalize? Sure but we’re not against cannibalizing our own business or disrupting ourselves if we’re building a better business and are gaining share.
Certainly our goal is to gain share.
We do believe a little bit and you know when Jeff Bezos says your margin is my opportunity we want to be the people that come with new ideas and stuff that are getting more of our customers using our stuff and happier.
And if reduces certain margins somewhere so be it.
A follow-up on the loan question from before.
You mentioned a little bit more caution with leverage loans.
In the past you said you didn't want to compete too much in the commercial space if it's getting too competitive.
There's been some current concerns about auto lending with regulators.
So my question is slide 1 highlights that your core loans are up 1% quarter over quarter and the same slide in the second quarter said that core loans were up 4% quarter over quarter.
So my question is are you simply getting more cautious in the loans that you provide or is there a little bit less demand in the market? Really trying to get to is loan growth decelerating? I mean if you look at year-over-year trends they continue to be in there I mean I think the first quarter year-over-year was 4% 8% in the second quarter and 7% in the third quarter.
I think we’re not expecting those year-over-year trends to be decelerate obviously quarter-over-quarter things can be impacted just by the timing of closing loans.
So fundamentally I would say no we aren’t seeing significant deceleration quarter-over-quarter within continued relative momentum solid across the board with obviously more challenges in the C&amp;I space.
Separately your expense guidance is now for over $58 billion you said some of that’s due to comp.
Is any of that increase in guidance due not to comp? Relative through the $58 plus or minus that we previously said no it’s principally in high revenues or higher market performance.
And we always said that might be the case.
So we’re meeting our overhead numbers and the comp itself is bouncing around a little bit.
Remember in the old days we used to break out IB comp in total for that reason.
Separately which capital ratio is your binding constraint? And using that ratio what should we use in our model three years out? And I know that's a tough question with all the moving parts but what's your best guess? So just in terms of what is our binding constraint at the moment it is CET 1 so Basel III advanced capital and risk based capital at the margin so it’s not to say that the other ratios leverage liquidity and the like aren't comfortably around it and even stress capital.
But that is currently our binding constraints.
It’s very hard for us to give you a point of view of where you should do this in your model three years out when we’re staring potentially new rules in the face in the next two months.
As I said earlier we are expecting over the course of the next 12 months that we’ll continue to accrete capital at to or above our 10.5% which is basically in line with what you guys all have in your models.
Beyond that it’s our expectation that hopefully anyway putting new rules aside that by the time we are in our fourth or fifth cycle of CCAR we have made substantial industry-wide progress in the sort of non-quantitative aspects of CCAR where we have more credible resolution and the like that we will be able to be more aggressive in our ability to seek capital distribution capability.
So outside of any changes in rules we would hope at the end of 2015 into 2016 CCAR to be able to have payout ratios are much higher but we will have to see.
Okay.
And then last question on the supplement page six this is a smaller item but it just kind of stands out.
Your rate on trading liabilities declined from 48 basis points down to 12 basis points in just three months.
Is there anything unusual there?  Yes there is.
So about half of that I would call -- approximately half of that I would call relatively normal but included in that result there is actually a one-time item associated with accounting for a previous interest accrual that we released in the quarter which is one time you should expect that interest expense to go back up next quarter is something more normal.
And how much what was the dollar amount of that impact?  A little less than $100 million.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Just wanted to follow up with two quick questions.
The first is Marianne if we put together everything that you have said on expenses so far in this call is it fair to assume that without rates the adjusted efficiency ratio of 59% can continue to improve in 2015 and 2016? Yes.
So I think – yes it is it is our belief that we should be able to manage the ratio to be able to improving overtime ultimately getting down to something much more in the mid-50s so that is dependent on revenue growth associated with rates but not limited to rates.
So in the absence of rates but by the way just to point out that is still our case that based upon continued improvement in the domestic economy the rates will start to rise in the middle of next year.
But having said that even without rates we would hope to be able to continue to maintain the discipline to have that ratio be broadly flat to down.
Great.
And the second follow-up question is given your expectations for rates to rise in the middle of next year are you still -- and the progress that you -- continued progress you make on deposit share are you still expecting $100 billion in deposit outflows in that case?  So since we talked about the $100 billion estimated deposit outflows associated with liquidity draining out in the system remember that was predicated on believing that it was possible that the Fed would use the reverse repo program in much more size and is likely to be the case today for two reasons.
One is that obviously they've made changes to the term deposit that allows them to now be LCR eligible which is helpful in terms of providing another tool in that toolkit and the second is that in September as you know the RRP was capped in total at $300 billion.
That cap may or may not be permanent I am sure it will be recalibrated over time but it looks like it will be unlikely to reach the $1 billion that would have driven the $100 billion so at $1 trillion that would have driven a 100 billion.
So you can make your decision about whether its $300 million or $500 million in the foremost of time and scale our operating deposit outflows back relative to that knowing of course that it's already in operation at $300 billion right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Brennan Hawken with UBS.
So appreciate that the repo book is substantially client driven.
Was maybe hoping that you guys could give us some sense for how much of your repo book is firm financing versus facilitation?  Brennan we haven't disclosed that.
A large chunk of it is client driven that's what we will say.
Okay.
Worth a shot.
The larger chunk of it the larger chunk of it.
We've also lengthened the firm financing part of it.
Yes.
To be more compliant with LCR et cetera.
Right.
Okay that is fair.
And I just wanted to try to square something here and maybe I am reading just a little too much into it.
You had said that October on the capital markets side has been a bit mixed.
But you have also at the same time brought up your expense guidance and it seems like its driven by expected or potentially a component of comp and capital markets.
So are those two at odds? Are you just more optimistic that maybe what we're seeing here in October is not necessarily some sort of dramatic shift but a temporary bout in bad volatility? Or how can we square those two? So I would square in to it the first is we already did have a better performance in the third quarter than would have been anticipated in our previous guidance given that that guidance was given during the sort of harder times of the second quarter.
So that’s already in our run rate so to speak in terms of the comp that would accrue to that.
And then if you sort of go back and in the form of the time look at the trends because I did say if the performance continues into the fourth quarter.
So it will depend.
We’ve always said and evidently maybe we should strip out comp from our adjusted expenses.
But we’ve always said that the adjusted expense absolute number in any period is obviously going to be calibrated to the performance of the market related businesses.
And clearly you would wave in good revenues every day at 32% comp to revenue ratio.
So that’s really all we were saying nothing more subtle than that.
And then appreciate that there is not much color potentially to be added on this charge tied to FX.
But just is it possible to let us know if it’s tied to a particular geography? No it’s not possible to talk about anything more detail I am afraid.
Suffice to say that we are working with a number of regulators across a number of jurisdictions.
All right that is fair.
And then last one for me.
So in looking at the NIM simulation that you guys have provided and then taking a look at that in light of the interest rate shock disclosures you've got in your Q's it looks like a 200 basis point rate shock adds about half of what you are looking for in a normalized rate environment.
So I guess does that mean that subsequent years sort of the benefit of rolling the portfolio into higher rates is going to exceed the higher deposit cost by about $4 billion to $5 billion? And is there a particular time period that we should think about that or is it going to be too heavily influenced by competitive dynamics? So you are right that when you roll forward during the first 12 months you do get the benefit of being able to continue to reinvest deposits as they mature up the curve in terms of their underlying investments.
So that is the compounding effect of what you’re seeing in our earnings and risk shock.
But what we showed I think and I am going to cease to recall it but maybe it was in the Barclays conference in 2013 is that you would expect once rates start to rise if they rise in a somewhat expected fashion so obviously it depends on what rate cost you want to put on that that you could expect the accumulative NII to be in our impact in three to four years.
And remember the benefit is more for the first 100 a little bit less to the second 100 a little bit less to the third 100 a little bit less to 400 because there is increasing re-pricing of deposits at that level.
And we don’t know exactly what the yield curve will be four years out.
And also we do embed in that our own estimates of competition and re-pricing.
That’s a very good point actually Brennan.
All scenario does contemplate not only a more normal loan to deposit ratio more normal interest bearing versus non-interest bearing deposit and also a higher feature on retail deposits just given the LCR competitive dynamics the technology advancements and the like.
So to the best of our ability we’ve tried to bake that in and that’s included in our number.
Just a tactical follow-up just on the balance sheet.
With the non-interest-bearing deposits basically being the fastest growing category of the balance sheet and the resulting asset the deposit with banks also being the fastest-growing asset on the balance sheet.
Just within that context of what you just walked through with Brennan I am just wondering what changes structurally with the way you think about reinvesting in the securities portfolio with rates as low as they are now.
Loan growth is okay but to your point you are being somewhat selective on -- and want to be careful with pricing and credit.
So just from a -- more so taking the next year or so out how are your thoughts changing at all with respect to what you do with these deposits given that they might actually not flow out as much given that change to the RRP function? So the deposits there were -- so in part not totality in part the deposits that were likely to outflow through the RRP were non-operating deposits.
And non-operating deposits we do not count for significant liquidity value in the firm we fundamentally has an on deposit at central banks at the Fed and so if they stay so we’ll come back to whether we would be willing to let them stay but if they stay they will continue to basically be treated in that way and they are not included in terms of our assumption around asset sensitivity and forward looking NII.
Obviously over time we are in the same ways we talked about repo we are looking at non-operating deposits for our client in the context of their overall relationship and so that is another valuable use of our balance sheet with leverage capital alike against it and in the fullness of time we’ll expect the overall relationship to pay for that but we are going to wait and see some of those dynamics play out.
So other than that I will just go back to the earlier comment I made that we do have a high level of HQLA and not in cap nor in securities but it is in order to make sure that we have adequate liquidity both under our own stresses most importantly but also under LCR and NSFR and we feel good and add modest buffers relative to them.
In the typical quarter end we have a lot of large clients leave a lot of deposits here which obviously are not necessarily good for us in terms of LCR or capital etcetera and we will be looking at how we manage those client relations overtime too.
The other thing I remember is securities portfolio is as rates go up the duration of that extends on its own.
Correct.
And so we will be managing that and yes we might invest more than 1 point but we are in a very conservative position right now.
Yes okay.
Got it.
And then secondly just two quick ones on mortgage.
Default servicing costs have pretty much stabilized the last couple of quarters at a good level that you had talked about getting down to $500 million total by the fourth.
And I am just wondering how much more room is there given that improvement in underlying trends that you're continuing to see for that to be a benefit to that cost side of the equation going forward?  So we are continuing to see credit trends improve delinquencies come down modification pipelines all the metrics are coming down obviously they are coming down from a much smaller place this year than they were last and the year before.
So the pace of improvement or the relative pace is slower but we are expecting that to continue down through 500s and into the 400s in 2015.
And then just more longer term you know that we are focused on ensuring that through the next cycle we have a smaller delinquency portfolio and so a more normal level would be substantially less than this.
Okay.
And I noticed that your [multiple speakers].
Sorry that's a longer term view.
Yes.
And I noticed also that underneath the origination improvement this quarter there was a decent jump in correspondent.
I am just not -- I just wanted to ask if you are doing anything differently in terms of market share opportunities on the mortgage side now that things have shaken out a little bit or any change in your underlying philosophy on where you are looking at originations?  Yes so I mean we talked last quarter about the fact that we had loss share a combination of things primarily our strategy around the government mortgage space but also a little bit of share in what I would call in our target segment.
So we've made that back.
So in some part it's just continuing to leverage our balance sheet properly due very granular marginal pricing to really focus on changing and improving our customer operating processes.
So across the board we just continue to get very granular and try and be as competitive as we can.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Chubak with Nomura.
Marianne I appreciated the color you had given on the RWA guidance.
I suppose one thing that we have been hearing from a lot of clients or at least concern from clients is this notion of regulatory gold plating essentially the US regulators adopting tougher standards than those that are being enforced in other areas around the globe.
And I just wanted to get a sense as to how that's informing your thinking about RWA mitigation plans.
You reaffirmed the guidance at Investor Day but what should we expect in the event that a tougher capital as well as TLAC requirement is in fact enforced against US G-SIBs? So just to be very clear maybe it's actually slightly higher than Investor Day in terms of our guidance.
So look obviously any guidance that we give you and no good deed goes unpunished but any guidance we give is always predicated on based upon what we know today and so if something changes that would change that point of view will obviously have to recalibrate it.
But just prima fascia having the requirement to have extra long-term debt or lots of building capital and/or capital wouldn't necessarily prima facie change the overall RWA we have.
You have to be careful to ensure that by having higher levels of capital does not incentive to want to stretch in the credit box.
So we have very tight credit discipline.
So I wouldn’t see that being a material change the outlook but obviously if there is a change in rules that directly affect RWA that would do.
And then just switching gears to the investment banking outlook that you had given.
I appreciated the color which sounded quite constructive on the backlogs for M&amp;A and ECM.
And I guess not just you but the industry in general hasn't given much commentary on the outlook for debt capital markets activity.
It has been challenged this year.
I think that was something which many of us had expected just given the strength that we had experienced over the last couple of years.
But I didn't know if you can just provide some updated thoughts on that revenue stream in particular.
I mean look it is the case that a lot of refinance has already happened.
So the debt maturity wall is smaller although rates are lower than we may have expected at this point in time.
So I would -- so therefore yes it is reasonable to assume that there is going to be some continued headwind but having said that I think there is going to be windows of opportunity.
So we’re going to -- M&amp;A and ECM are more constructive and likely to be more buoyant but I think that capital market still has windows of opportunity.
There are no further questions at this time.
Folks thank you very much for joining us and we will talk to you soon.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the JPMorgan Chase's Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
This call is being recorded.
Your line will be muted for the duration of the call.
We will now go live to the presentation.
Please standby.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase's Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon; and Chief Financial Officer Marianne Lake.
Ms.
Lake please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Good morning everyone.
I am going to take you through the earnings presentation which is available on our website.
Please refer to the disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements which is at the back of the presentation.
Starting on Page 1 the Firm reported net income of $4.9 billion and EPS of $1.19 and the return on tangible common equity of 11% on $23.6 billion of revenue for the quarter.
Included in our results with total legal expense of $1.1 billion or approximately $1 billion after tax in large part an incremental amount for FX.
As we go through the presentation I'll call out other notable items.
For your reference we've included the EPS impact of those here in the front page.
In total they contributed a net positive $0.12 to EPS.
So adjusting for legal expenses as well as these items give net income of $5.5 billion and an EPS of $1.33 reflecting solid co performance.
I am going to skip over Page 2 and I am going to go straight to the full year result on Page 3.
The Firm reported record net income of nearly $23 billion and record EPS of $5.29 and return on tangible common equity of 13% on nearly $98 billion of revenue.
Excluding legal expense which remains elevated net income for the year were $24 billion and return on tangible common equity 14%.
You can see on the page of the bottom that adjusted expense $58.4 billion in line with guidance and down $150 million from the prior year despite the impact of incremental cost of control as well as continuing to invest in our businesses.
A final couple of points for the year.
Core loan growth was strong at 8% year-on-year and net capital distribution for the year was approximately $10 billion including record dividend of $6 billion.
Turning to Page 4.
The Firm's fully phased in as on CET1 ratio was 10.1% flat to last quarter.
With earnings and portfolio run off offset by capital distribution and an increase in risk-weighted asset were dominantly driven by high account party credit risk.
In terms of 2015 outlook we expect to add 50 basis points or more to this ratio.
Similarly the Firm's fully phased in standardized ratio not on the page also remained flat at 10.5%.
The Firm's SLR was 5.6% and the bank's SLR improved to 5.9%.
And given the recent FSB proposal which added our best estimate of TLAC at approximately 15% excluding Basel which will be refined as the rules are finalized.
Moving on to Page5.
And we before we move into each of the businesses this quarter we changed the presentation of preferred dividend in our lines of business and show the impact here on the page.
For the company preferred dividend was and continues to be below the line.
However we historically allocated the cost of preferred stock to the businesses as net interest expense or contra revenue.
With the corresponding positive impact in corporate NI.
In order to have a cleaner trends and better pay comparability we are now presenting preferred dividend below the line at each of our LOBs which is particularly important given recent increases in preferred issuance.
You can see on the slide and the change in methodology has no impact on Firm wise financials no on LOB returns on equity.
But LOB revenue net income and overhead ratios improve additionally the adjusted affects contra revenue ratio in the CIB.
So from here throughout this presentation and also in the supplement all numbers in all periods consistently reflect this change.
Moving on the business performance.
On Page 6 the Consumer &amp; Community Bank.
The combined business is generated $2.2 billion of net income for the quarter.
And an ROE of 16% on nearly $11 billion of revenue.
Excluding the impact of losses related to non core portfolio exits in card the ROE was 18%.
Consumer &amp; Community Banking continues to deliver strong underlying performance maintaining our number one ranking in customer satisfaction among largest bank for the third year in a row by ACSI.
And in addition we continue to deepen relationship with our customers.
Average deposits were up 8% year-on-year with both across regions and markets.
Record plan investment assets were up 13%.
Our active mobile customer base was up 22% and credit card sales volume was up 10% on strong new account originations.
Across CCB we outperformed our expense target for the year and have reduced headcount by 12 000 this year exceeding Investor Day guidance by roughly 4 000 and over the last three years headcount is down approximately 32 000 across the consumer businesses.
Turning to Page 7 Consumer &amp; Business Banking.
For the fourth quarter CBB generated net income of $861 million up 8% year-on-year and an ROE of 31% on improved operating leverage.
Net interest income was relatively flat year-on-year but down slightly quarter-on-quarter on low deposit margin.
For the first quarter of 2015 we expect continue to put compression in CBB deposit margin driven by lower investment rate will drive a modest decline in NI quarter-over-quarter.
Noninterest revenue continued to grow up 6% across investment debit and other fees.
With the addition of approximately 700 000 net new households.
And expense was relatively flat with efficiencies self-funding fund investment.
Finally in business banking the momentum we have seen in recent quarters continued with loan origination for the quarter of $1.5 billion up 18% year-on-year.
Businesses remain relatively optimistic and banker performance continues to improve.
Mortgage Banking on Page 8.
Overall Mortgage Banking net income was $338 million for the quarter and a 7% ROE.
We reduced expenses for the year by $2.3 billion outperforming our $2 billion target.
Moving to the top of the page production pretax income excluding repurchase was slightly positive for the quarter which was better than guidance on higher volumes and revenue margins.
The origination market was more robust due to strong rate rally but we estimate it was down about 5% quarter-on-quarter seasonally.
Against which our originations were $23 billion up 8% quarter-on-quarter reflecting corresponding share gains in jumbo and conventional.
So this quarter we increased volumes we gained approximately 100 basis points of market share estimated and realized higher revenue margins.
Expenses were flat quarter-on-quarter despite the increase in volumes and we continue to focus on controlling costs.
On to servicing net servicing related revenue of $624 million was down slightly quarter-on-quarter on low balances with servicing expense of $560 million also down slightly.
On real estate portfolios we continued to add high quality loan to our portfolio.
We added another $10 billion this quarter up from $7 billion last quarter.
Recorded net charge-offs of $111 million and reserve releases of $100 million in the non credit impaired portfolio.
Lastly headcount was down over 7 500 for the year and approximately 22 000 over the last three years.
Moving on to Page 9.
Card Merchant Services and Auto net income of $980 million down 7% year-on-year with an ROE of 20%.
If you exclude reserve releases net income was up 2%.
The strong momentum in our business continues with very strong spend as well as card balance growth of $3 billion in the year.
Revenue of $4.5 billion was down 4% year-on-year but up 1% adjusting for losses related to portfolio exit that went through the quarter's result.
With an adjusted revenue rate for card shown on the page of 12.2% in line with our guidance.
Strong loan and sales growth was offset by spread compression and higher acquisition cost as we continue to add more customers.
In 2015 expect a revenue rate to remain at the low end of our target range of 12% to 12.5%.
Expense was down 6% year-on-year predominantly driven by remediation cost included in the prior period.
In Card we led the industry for the 27th consecutive quarter gaining nearly 500 basis points of share during the same period.
And this quarter we saw sales growth of 10% driven by enhanced client acquisition and reward strategies.
In Merchant services volume was up 13% year-on-year driven by continued strong sales performance.
And in auto result continues to reflect steady growth in new vehicle sales as well as stable used car value.
This was a 13th consecutive quarter of loan and lease growth with average balances up 5% year-on-year.
And coming into this year the pipeline is strong which reflects continued strength in the auto market.
Finally on credit in card we continue to see improvements in early delinquency and we released $150 million of reserve this quarter.
You can see the net charge-off rate adjusted for portfolio exit was down slight at 248 basis points.
In 2015 expect the charge-off rate to decline modestly.
For auto credit losses were higher on balance growth and as a charge-off rate start to trend off from historical lows.
Now moving on to Page 10.
Corporate &amp; Investment Bank.
CIB reported net income of $972 million and an ROE of 5% on $7.4 billion of revenue for the quarter.
Adjusting for legal expense ROE would have been 11% for the quarter and 13% for the year.
In banking IB fees were $1.8 billion up 8%.
We continue to ranked number one in Global IBCs per Dealogic number one in the U.S.
and we moved up to number one in EMEA this year.
Record debt underwriting was driven by M&amp;A related financing strong advisory fees for the quarter contributed to the full year increase up 24%.
And equity underwriting was down from a strong quarter last year but in line with the overall decline in market issuance.
We continue to procure on more deals than any other firm for both the quarter and the year.
And the fee pipeline continues to be strong into 2015 with the favorable environment generally across most products.
Treasury services revenue was up 3% and lending related revenue of $264 million was down $129 million year-on-year given mark-to-market gains in the prior year.
Moving on to markets revenue of $3.6 billion down 13% year-on-year but as guided excluding business simplification the core business was down 5%.
Fixed income was $2.5 billion down 14% excluding business simplification driven primarily by lower result in credit related and securitized products and with rate markets remaining challenging.
However currencies in emerging market had a strong quarter with higher volatility leading to increased productivity and our remaining financial commodities business is doing well.
In equities we saw strong performance for the quarter up 25% year-on-year at $1.1 billion.
Derivatives was very strong one of the best fourth quarter in recent years largely driven by Asia as plan activity increased on central bank action.
Cash was solid driven primarily by EMEA on the back of a strong ECM result.
With respect to markets revenue for the first quarter of 2015 business simplification will continue to drive a negative year-on-year variance.
For the quarter approximately $500 million or 10% with the corresponding expense decline of approximately $300 million.
Securities services revenues of $1.1 billion was up 6% year-on-year including high NI on high average deposit.
Asset under custody were $20.5 trillion flat year-on-year with market appreciation largely offset by significant client exit.
Credit adjustments and other shows a loss driven by net CVA losses as well as the inclusion of nonrecurring DVA/FVA valuation adjustments totaling approximately $200 million.
Moving on to expenses total expenses up 14% year-on-year compensation was down 6% from the fourth quarter of 2013 and down 4% for the year with a comp to revenue ratio for the year of 30%.
The increase is driven by non comp; none comp expense primarily by over $900 million of legal expense as well as higher control related expenses with those being partially offset by business simplification.
Moving on to Commercial Banking on Page11.
This quarter saw net income at $693 million with an ROE 19% on $1.8 billion of revenue.
Revenue was up 4% sequentially and flat year-on-year excluding the one time proceed of approximately $100 million from a lending related workout that was included in the prior year.
Continued deal compression in our lending but as well as the impact of business simplification it is being offset by higher loan and deposit balances.
Quarter-on-quarter revenue increased on better fee revenue and was incredible story for investment banking this quarter with record gross revenue of $557 million up 11% year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter.
For the full year Commercial Banking client generated $2 billion of investment banking revenue for the Firm reaching our goal.
Expense was in line with guidance slightly higher year-on-year and flat quarter-on-quarter due to the ongoing investment in controls.
In loan balances we saw an increase of $4.7 billion our best quarter of growth since 2011 driven by strong performance in our commercial real estate businesses as well as both in C&amp;I portfolio this quarter.
Our CRE have now grown for 15 consecutive quarters and for the quarter grew 4% ahead of the industry.
C&amp;I loans grew 3% this quarter in line with the industry and with pipelines remaining solid.
Finally in terms of credit performance an exceptional year another single digit net charge-off rate for the quarter at eight basis point and a slight net recovery position for the full year.
Moving on to Page 12.
A solid quarter in Asset Management with net income of $540 million on $3.2 billion of revenue.
Last year included a mark-to-market gain of approximately $100 million.
Adjusting for that revenue was up 4% expense of $2.3 million was up 3% and net income up 5% on positive operating leverage.
This quarter marks the 23rd consecutive quarter of long-term net inflow at $10 billion driving AUM of $1.7 trillion up 9% year-on-year.
And we achieved the number one ranking in 2014 for global net inflow in active long-term mutual fund.
We continue to see strength in our multi asset and fixed income flows and although smaller equity inflows outpaced the industry.
Banking had record loan balances up 11% year-on-year with growth coming from both U.S.
and international market and record deposit up 6%.
As reported client assets of $2.4 trillion were up 2% both year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter but excluding business simplification client assets would have been up 8% year-on-year.
Lastly for the full year we will continue strong investment performance.
This was a second consecutive year of long-term net inflows of over $80 billion.
Driving a fifth year of record revenue and second year of record net income with 23% ROE and 29% pretax margin.
AUM loans and deposits were also record for the year.
Turning to Page 13.
Corporate &amp; Private Equity.
Private Equity reported $107 million of net income primarily driven by private equity gain of approximately $450 million partially offset by a little over $200 million of related goodwill impairment.
This past Friday we completed the spin off of one equity partner and the investment professionals have formed the new independent company OEP Capital Advisors.
At the same time we closed on the sale of a portion of our private equity portfolio through a group of private equity firm.
OEP Capital Advisors will continue to manage both the investments we sold as well as the investments we've retained.
And closing this transaction had no significant impacts to fourth quarter financials.
Treasury and CIO reported a net loss of $205 million but remember this is after the impact of the change in how we allocate preferred dividend.
Firm NI was $11.3 billion flat quarter-on-quarter.
And finally in other corporate net income was $645 million including in this result were tax related benefit of approximately $500 million partially offset by contribution we made to our foundation of approximately $150 million and close to $100 million pretax of legal expense.
So to wrap up 2014 was a record year for both net income and EPS with the 13% return on tangible common equity despite elevated legal expenses and despite headwinds from capital market mortgage and the low interest rate environment.
We maintained excellent customer satisfaction result and we gained share in many of our businesses.
Delivered on our commitment including business simplification control and expense discipline and we also met our capital target for the year while returning $10 billion of net capital to shareholders.
So with that we will open to Q&amp;A operator.
You can open up the line.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Your first question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning.
Hi okay so a couple of questions.
One is on the GSIB proposal.
Obviously it looks like you are at the 450 over the 7% minimum.
And I know we can't exactly see because we don't have all the rules around the short-term whole sale funding rule but I am wondering will you line up in that bucket if you are close to the low end of that range? Is there anything that you could do to move down a bucket? So Betsy obviously two things.
The first thing is that the most important time period when this is going to matter is when its in full and compliance and through the transition period in 2017 and 2018.
So result in the 450 bucket as we understand is based on 2013 results that we had to work over the quarter next three years to make sure we are maximizing every basis point of GSIB and every dollar of capital to the fullest extent to deliver return.
So rather say that to move down a bucket it is in general term is fairly significant thing to do.
Just given the types of things are driving the overall score.
But we are not complacent about it.
We worked a near extreme granularity to make sure that from the very first basic point that we are certain we are maximizing the return opportunity for that within the context of the bucket we are in.
So it would not be a trivial exercise to move down but we are focused on making sure that we are optimizing the resources that are our most binding constraint.
Right.
It is a bit of challenge because it is relative to global peer so how do you run the business the follow on question is how you run the business when you have been used to trying a gain as much market share as you can but now gaining market share kind of works against you on this G-SIFI? I think it is probably worth mentioning that while we were in the -- or look like we might be in the highest bucket relative to our peers there were peers that were in higher bucket and they are not constrained by GSIB but CCAR.
So it is likely to be the case.
We continue to believe it is likely to be the case that you're going to see the differential in required capital for a variety of reasons not being as wide as might be implied by the GSIB.
And so the key question is whether we are delivering the right shareholder value and incremental capital which we clearly thing we are and can continue to do.
And so it is -- we are trying to thread the needle as you say about making sure that we are as focused as we can on maximizing the use of that scarce resource but within the bucket that we end up being wherever that might be that our key priorities to deliver the highest ROE and the shareholder value we can particularly in the world where others maybe more constrained by balance sheet or leverage.
So it is a fine dance and it's what we are working through.
We'll obviously keep you updated as we continue to progress our plan.
Okay.
I assume we'll hear more on Investor Day.
And your next is from the line of John McDonald with Stanford Bernstein.
Hi Marianne.
Just kind of following up on Betsy's questions.
Your hope is to grow or I guess your expectation is to grow the common equity Tier 1 from the 10.1 today to -- did you say 50 basis points this year you hope to add to that? Yes.
50 basis points or possibly more.
Okay.
And I guess could you give us some sense of what the assumption embedded in there are in terms of RWA mitigation I guess kind of street estimate and earnings and some expectations for capital return? And I guess is that pace enough to get what you see as the new GSIB buffers where it look to us you might have to be at 11.5 12 or is just a timing question? And you have time to get to 11.5 12.
If you could walk through that would be helpful.
Thanks.
Okay.
Let me start at the beginning which is -- if you look at our Basel III advanced RWA on the slide it is just little over $1.6 trillion when we were in Investor Day last year we said that we expected to be able to provide reduction to that by the end of 2015 to get the number closer to $1.5 trillion on the back of near model related benefit and et cetera.
It is still the case so that's the direction we will move in whether we get exactly to $1.5 trillion or slightly over will depend on the timing of some of those benefits but that's direction where we are going.
So call it from a little over $1.6 trillion to a little over $1.5 trillion and we will give you an update at Investor Day.
With respect to the assumptions at the end of the day we generate a lot of capital and if we need to comply more quickly than we intend to do then we can clearly pull those levers.
But we have always over the last couple of years have the approach of wanting to have a reasonable sense of urgency but a measured pace to get in where we need to be over the course of a transition period as well as preserving the optionality to continue to increase dividend and do buybacks.
That continues to be generally our philosophy.
And if you take I think I said this before and don't read anything into this with respect to capital asks or anything else but if you take analysts estimate for the next two three years and take a $1.5 trillion or even slightly higher RWA basis you can continue to add 50 basis points of capital a year as well as have meaningful buyback and capital distribution capacity.
And 50 basis points a year from a little over 10% over three or four years get see to the other side of 11.5.
So that just an illustration of capacity we have not necessarily a sort of commitment in terms of glide path but that's the basis upon which we feel like we will be able to add 50 basis points this year which is on a fully phased and advanced basis which is we think an appropriate glide path.
And we haven't really started to manage GSIFI which we are going to do now.
Okay.
And just a follow up on that is on TLAC.
You mentioned in some of the notes here that you might feel any potential short fall to the current TLAC with additional common equity tier 1 which I assume you mean as opposed to kind of debt issuance or preferred just wondering why you think that would be the best approach since you might already being building set one for GSIB buffer.
John she didn't say that.
We are going to meet our common Tier 1 with the bucket we think is appropriate and we would fill the rest of TLAC with debt supporting debt or preferred we need to.
Yes.
I think John it is something you are looking at that we confused you; I apologize for that -- for the purpose of clarity.
We expect to grow into GSIB buffer which would be at two different TLAC with common equity and whatever they got maybe when the rules are finalized on TLAC somewhere between nothing and something more meaningful that's likely to be in debt issuance.
Okay got it.
That's what I thought.
I was just looking at that footnote 10 on page 20 maybe we just we could take a look at that afterwards.
I apologize.
We will take a look at that.
Next question is from the line of Guy Moszkowski with Autonomous Research.
Good morning.
Just wanted to talk about expenses and initially focusing on the litigation charge of $1 billion after tax.
It is pretty clear as you said that the bulk of it goes to the investment bank and that it affects as you said but should this give us a sense that you now feel that it is reasonable that you have reasonable and probably basis to think in terms of what your settlement would be --say with the DOJ or are there other elements that drove the increment? So Guy both the reserves that we take in the quarter represents our best estimate based upon facts and circumstances as you know that must be the end of the quarter with respect to ongoing dialogue and investigations but they are not concluded so as much as we would like to we can give you no assurances with respect to the final conclusion.
And that's really what we can say about where we are on the FX matter.
Okay.
And then more broadly on expense just given that we've seen another decline in net interest margin that we've got flattening yield curve environment and quite a bit of sluggishness elsewhere.
And of course all the regulatory capital requirements that continue to build.
Should we expect that revisit your $58 billion-ish expense target in someway to bring that meaningfully down? So just one quick thing on NIM before I talk about expense.
Just --we kind of manage the NIM -- NIM can be reasonably volatile purely as a feature of the amount of cash that we have in our balance sheet.
What you saw this quarter in terms of NIM which was five or six basis points decline whether you are looking at firm or core is in very large part driven by incremental cash balances close to $50 billion.
Which leave there for days.
Some of which there for days some of which is an accretive from an NI perspective will be at modestly.
So I think the more important measure for us anyway quarter-over-quarter is that our NI was flat.
So and then just in terms of the flattening yield curve we are more geared towards and so right to move and we still expecting that to happen in second half of the year.
And so what really matter for us is Fed funds not withstanding the overall yield curve.
With respect to expenses yes we will give you more updates at Investor Day.
But I can continue to reiterate what we said in the past which is we would continue to expect to push our adjusted expense absolute dollars downwards over the course of the next several years.
And in combination with hopefully an improving economy and better interest rate move towards the 55% plus or minus -- the 55% over head ratio over the medium term.
So you would expect-- you should expect our adjusted expenses in 2015 to be down but we continue to have albeit that we reach the peak in second half of the year we continue to have elevated cost of control and some of that leverage will be more in 2016 and 2016 than in 2015.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Hi I'm following up on the expense question.
If you look at slides 2 and 3 it looks like your adjusted efficiency ratio of 61% in the fourth quarter and 60% for the year got worse from 59% either the prior quarter or prior year.
So it's gone the wrong direction and I thought you said that you had some peak in costs in midyear and I hear what you're saying about guidance at Investor Day and adjusted expenses in 2015 down but can you give any more ins and outs on why you think the efficiency ratio on a core basis should improve? So a little bit it was driving efficiency ratio in second half versus the first half is seasonality in revenues and year-on-year revenues were down slightly.
So obviously it is a little bit elevated relative to 59% to 60% ratio but obviously the absolute dollars on a downward trend.
And hopefully what we are going to see in combination over the course of the next year or two is we will continue to look at efficiency in our controlled spend.
As I say we are going to be looking at that in 2015 relative to the exit 2014 right.
So you are going to see more of that leverage in 2016 and 2017.
We will continue to bring mortgage cost down cost within the branches down and but affecting against that hopefully we will have stronger performance in some of our businesses and show some expense growth.
So overall trending down and but revenues are positive story and they were down year-on-year.
It's been three years kind of stalled progress with overall efficiency.
I know you have some of your reasons with regulatory costs.
You mentioned 2016 and 2017 benefits but can investors see an improvement in efficiency expenses for revenues in 2015? Well so Mike we will give you the low down at our Investor Day you will see absolute reduction in dollars and we will give you the outlook for the efficiency ratio then.
Next question comes from the line Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning.
You had some good loan growth in consumer and in particular credit card in the fourth quarter.
I'm just wondering how much of that is kind of normal seasonality versus maybe some strengthening underlying demand for the consumer.
So I would say a bit of both actually as obviously as you articulate we do seasonality but we did reach an inflection point during the year where we started to see more -- a little bit more demand anyway to greater extension.
But I'd say our outlook for credit card outstanding gross for 2015 is sort of modest low single digit growth not higher than that.
So a little bit of both and but we are flatted by seasonality in terms of the fourth quarter.
Okay then just separately in terms of the sharp decline in energy in general and I guess oil specifically how do we think about some of the puts and takes with your customer base? Obviously this should be good for the consumer maybe mixed for corporates and institutional.
There might be some risk to certain countries.
Like how should we think about this holistically and how do you try and stay on top of this? So JPMorgan taking in three pieces.
Yes we think it's very good for the consumer on balance and also for the economy on balance despite strengthening dollar.
So we think that the consumer spend consumer even quite expenses likely to be positive as a result.
From a trading perspective there are pluses and minuses.
The oil price volatility contributed to the softer quarter in the credit space but was hopeful as it related to the currency the commodity space so in fact net-net mutual to maybe even slightly favorable.
And then with respect to our traditional credit exposure to the sector it is about 5% of our overall credit exposure and well secured top of the capital structure where it is name by name analysis that we do.
We feel comfortable with where we are right now.
It is cyclical business and we are expecting downgrade but we are not facing any meaningful issues in the face right now.
Overall oil is a reasonable positive for the economy and consumer and so for JPMorgan from the financial perspective a modest issue positive or negative.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Yes good morning.
My primary question is there's clearly been a lot of ink spilled recently in conversations again about a potential breakup of JPMorgan especially relative to the higher capital buffers that could come from the Fed.
And I guess Jamie could you remind us of how you're thinking about the benefits of keeping the franchise consolidated for the shareholders versus some of the conversation that investors are having today about breaking up or shrinking the bank in order to step down on your capital buffers? Yes.
So first I dispute the fact that some investors there are some people wrote about it as a possibility because of excess capital and that's true you have to hold more capital things be equal it will reduce your returns.
But even the people wrote about that talk about these superior franchises the benefits of synergies the good the company brings to there.
So the first way to look at a business first and foremost has been and always will be what do you for customers.
Not what you do for yourself and your return et cetera.
And on the customer franchise and every business were gaining shares we have good returns we've got good market shares.
We've got good customer sat levels.
The synergies are huge both expense and revenue synergies et cetera and some not all disappear under the various schematics of a breakup or something like that.
That's number one.
And the question is now you are bearing after capital how bad is that relative to that and for the most probably we will able to manage that.
We've talked about products repricing and managing GSIB managing CCAR managing LCR managing SLR and we are going to maintain the franchise manage it-- we still think we get good returns.
Now there is a point to which the capital drag would be so high that you may want to consider alternatives but just remember they are not simple.
Like anything you do every company will have to have cash management global tradability every company general ledgers and HR things and data centers and nerve data centers inside the security and it just-- it isn't that simple process.
But so far the company has earned good returns in all these businesses to wrap this crisis.
And I am going back to 2010 2011 and 2012 and that's a sign of stability.
In fact even Mike Mayo had a report which there is a slide that shows the volatility of returns.
And we among the lowest with the better returns.
So that is proving it.
but the model works in the business standpoint yes we have to carry more capital and will manage that over time.
Erika just add to that we are still in a period of flux as it relates to in a broadly rule not just capital rule and we are in a period that got to relate to the competitive environment.
And it would be for us it would premature to take these strategic decisions that we don't think would add shareholder value in what is a very sort of challenging influx and cyclical low for the environment.
So we preserve optionality.
We think we are generating significant shareholder value significant synergies and any discount could arrive regardless.
And remember the capital stuff is not an element is not -- what they are doing now is not a size of riskiness; this company has been a fortress company.
It has delivered decline so its diversification is the reason why you said less volatility of earnings was able go through crisis and never loss money ever not one quarter.
And so in the real life crisis gets fine any future crisis we are going to do fine.
There is reason you have big global multi national banks.
And they are so big global multi national including government.
This company movies $6 trillion to $10 trillion a day you are not going to do that as a small bank.
And you are not going to syndicate out of $20 billion bridge loan and you can't do certain things globally in 20 countries if you are in 20 countries.
So you got to figure out what model you have and does it make sense.
And it's not necessary comparable to all other companies.
So all model make sense to you you have seen return in it.
Understood.
And just a follow-up question to that Marianne if we look at the GSIB scoring process not the proposed Fed process and we think about the five pillars that drive the buffers it seems like if we look at publicly available data that where JPMorgan really sticks out is under the complexity pillar.
Is there any way to move that down without giving up significant meaningful revenue and is that the bucket of focus in terms of potentially managing buffers from here? So you are right the complexity bucket does stick out.
Just for what it look we are looking at each bucket and we are looking at a very granular level because obviously we need to look at the whole thing in combination.
And the complexity bucket Jamie said I think earlier if he didn't I just repeat.
OTC derivatives there is now drives a large chunk of it.
Clearly we are going to do everything we can in terms of netting and housekeeping and everything to reduce stock meaningfully is to have a meaningful impact on our client flow business.
Level three assets is second piece and obviously to the degree that those things are -- by definition they are less liquid and so a result -- Does that not make them bad? That does not make them bad.
They are just less liquid and as a result we obviously will take a look at whether or not there is opportunity to reduce that.
But again it is also relative to market size.
And then finally our AFS portfolio which to have in a complexity bucket is not intuitive to all of us and over time that may reduce but right now it is a very core part of how we think about structuring the interest rate risk management of our balance sheet.
So we are going to look at it but we are going to get very very granular.
And there is no silver bullet.
I'd add so years we can drive it down without damaging the franchise.
Right.
It is about looking at the first 10-20 basis points not the last three or four.
Your next question is from the line of Glenn Schorr with Evercore ISI.
Hi thanks.
Can we revisit the energy conversation for a sec? I mean in my experience when any asset class falls this much so quickly it's usually pretty bad and I heard your comments and I completely agree that it's great for the consumer and net-net positive but am I doing the math right? If it's 5% of your outstanding is that on the $743 billion of loans? That's commercial.
Commercial okay.
Because what I want to get at is you made a comment it's 5% of outstandings; a lot of it is secured.
I'm sure you have some reserves against it.
It's just -- it seems like an odd thing.
I know it's early and we'll see if it stays down here but it seems like a big deal and yet it doesn't seem like a big deal to you guys.
So I just want to make sure that we talk about what your exact exposures are and why you feel better than most people I talk to.
So our exposures are about $46 billion about 5% there are just no credit portfolio and about two -- 70% of its investment grade about two third is in the sort of CIB so these are large well capitalized company.
And the others are in the commercial bank name by name we understand that what looks like these are asset based loans top of the capital structure names we know and we are going to see downgrades and we are not suggesting that there isn't going to be some stress and we don't where oil may bottom.
But yes we do have reserves.
We have reserves based upon a long history of day that include cycles; it seems cycles before like this.
And so we will take downgrade maybe --we may need to take more reserve but it doesn't feel like it say very significant issue or imminent series of charge -off rates now.
For us there will be companies that are more invested in oil that may have different issues.
And then there is a secondary effect which obviously you all can predict like Russia Venezuela.
So Russia we have exposure.
Venezuela virtually none and other countries.
And there is another secondary effect.
If you are talking about commercial or even consumer real estate Dallas Denver Houston.
As you saw in 1986 1989 and those all slight negative.
But not again -- for us they are not mutual very well diversified.
And for us who have the other side.
General consumer credit will be better not worse.
And you can argue and I don't spend too much time on it.
But that even retail will be better.
There are whole bunch other beneficiaries of this change of credit.
So some will be worse and some will be better so for net-net for us it's just not that big deal.
It is a perfect legitimate thing we all be concerned about for companies which are very concentrated in oil or even commercial real estate companies concentrated in oil areas.
So that's not something that we need to worry about.
So we are watching it closely and to Jamie's point we are paying attention to our real estate portfolios in those geographies so that's going to be overall sector on geographical differences and how to this plays out and we are paying attention to that.
It is a good example of diversity helps yes.
Yes.
I appreciate that.
The only related follow-up I have is I don't know if the same thing is happening in oil.
I know in and around October 15 when we had wild swings in the 10-year people talked about less liquidity at the banks being a partial contributor.
I'm curious to see if you think there's something to do with that on the oil side too because everybody's been downsizing commodities.
And then the bigger question is does anybody care about it are the regulators watching and paying attention and do you think some of this is contributing to the bigger volatile swings we're seeing? On the first point I think there is probably some true to the less liquidity but it is more about over supply and lack of global growth simulating demand than it is I think a liquidity story from a capital market perspective.
Sorry Jamie you are going to -- I would just add that when you are look at -- I am surprised that people so surprised when commodity moves like this.
Commodities move like this my whole life.
And obviously the supply and demand imbalance and Marianne mentioned that United States supply has gone up by 5 million barrels a day for the last five or six years.
People are little surprised that the production that was positive about Libyan Iran and Iraq and some other places a lot of people need oil revenues but the other things that surprise people with slightly increased demand not I say slightly China and some other places and the other one that surprised people is OPEC.
Instead of OPEC making some kind of move to reduce supply they didn't.
But to me oil commodities have kind of evolve to oil is at even more evolve to so in the oil business you got to prepare for something like that.
That is the way it is going to be.
And that's the way for to us like.
And yes speculation inventory and all these things may affect in the short run.
Remember there is a focal point at which oil the margin with dollar can be produced and I think our economies says that's $75 oil deep drilling in the Gulf of Mexico and around the world.
And one data recover that because the world still will use more oil and need more oil et cetera and in the meantime you got to manage around the volatility and I don't think any of that had to do with trading.
Not a -- but had to do with fundamental supply demand and balances and people getting prepared for it and taking views and not us I am talking about oil companies and you read about countries who hedged it and countries who didn't and companies who hedged companies who didn't and I think it is a legitimate concern about liquidity in markets that when we have volatile markets or violent markets how much liquidity will remain but I think you there you are talking more about-- which you saw a little bit in treasuries but it is about credit.
And it's possible.
We just don't really know.
So we are little worried about it.
But we will there hopefully making healthy mortgage for our clients when the times come.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
Good morning.
Marianne I just wanted to follow up on some of the regulatory discussion that we've had.
You mentioned back in December that you felt that even though at the 11.5% buffer there may not be as big a difference in terms of capital requirements between you and some of your US peers as the initial numbers may initially indicate.
It sounded like that may have been a focus on the short-term wholesale funding buffer which obviously hasn't been released.
You mentioned in December you felt that that would be around 50 basis points in terms of at least a starting point for you all.
Is it your sense that there could be calibrations above and below your level of 50 basis points or do you think at this point it could be a blanket number across all of the big banks? No.
Look obviously we need to get clear on what the final rules and calculation that's like; I don't see it being blanket number.
I think it is pretty evidence that it intended to be least measured relative to the size if the one measure that's not measured relative to a market share but relative to the size of your operation and so consequently depending upon how the math works out it could be differentiation for other people.
But my comment were not necessarily driven by whether or not somebody else going to be more punitive will penalize by short-term wholesale funding but by the fact that GSIB hasn't been and it is unlikely to be the binding constraint for some our competitors.
For some of those it CCAR stress for some it is leverage on CCAR stress and as a result they already are running at or above the level that maybe implied and that may continue to increase.
So here we have a situation where the transition period the glide path is a four year period where it temporary run looking to put a glide path together that measures all of our objective over the next few years where others are after approaching 11%.
So we will see obviously had phased out in the medium term or in short term I should say certainly in the short term we have a reasonably level playing field.
And the competitive landscape is changing and we are working very hard to make sure we are maximizing a return on every dollar we had.
And the reason it went for 2.5 to 4 wasn't because a short term also funding because it doubled it basically doubled the number on a new methodology.
And so and I think when you spoke at 50 base point above you also made a short term wholesale funding buffer you terminate buffer over required number to handle volatility.
Yes.
So the buffer yes totally volatility driven the 50 basis point is the best estimate of what the short term wholesale contribute to the -- Added to it yes.
That is GSIB requirement also.
We will say my view it is not a blanket though you could see some people differentiated in that sense.
Fair enough.
And then Marianne just for a follow-up in terms of your outlook for GDP I think in December you also mentioned that you expected around 3% GDP growth is kind of your operating assumption.
A little stronger in the second half than the first half.
Given your comments on when you think rates are going up it doesn't sound like that has changed very much but given your conversations about oil and some of the other growth numbers that have come out has that changed very much? So I mean obviously if you get sort of granular -- We moved into 3.1% Obviously if you get granular to different specific and countries you have a different answer but as a general matter no as a general matter for U.S.
2015 over 2014 according to 2.5% and globally closer to 3%.
Your next question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Jamie you were very clear on the success of the global franchise that you guys have built and the success that you've been having with it.
Is there any evidence that you're seeing some pricing increases or you can generate some pricing increases because of this franchise? And if not yet what do you think it's going to take where you'll be able to really get some better pricing because of the value of the franchise that you present to your customers? Yes so it's a tough question to answer.
We've seen some pricing changes in trade finance a little bit in prime broker not really in credit but I do think that you are going to see some in credit.
So over time but that's not because of JPMorgan.
That's just because the market is going to reprice some of these things it is more expensive to do.
And we do expect that will happen somewhere over time.
And remember the other thing which is really important we manage this by client.
So you can actually do a better job in LCRG SIFI CCAR by client and not change pricing just change mix.
And so we are working 100 different ways to figure how to get good returns to shareholders while doing a good job for clients.
Remember we have more opportunities to do that.
So whenever we talked to a client they don't want some of our balance sheet capability but they -- and they maybe willing to do other business with you to make sure they get it even the pricing doesn't change and it might be good for us.
And then as a follow-up in the Corporate &amp; Investment Bank the world now has been operating under the Volcker rules since July of 2014.
Can you share with us is there any secular trends that you're seeing because of that? And I noticed that your compensation expense as a percentage of revenue was a real low 27% versus 35% a year ago.
Is that reflective of the changes because of the Volcker rule? I mean it just a Volcker rule so we have accommodated Volcker rule which we have to do in private equity and investment and hedge funds and Marianne mentioned that we closed the sale of couple of billion at private equity stuff.
And even the CLO issue is a very temporary thing.
The only question the CLO is should people be forced to sell greater than the -- they are all going to run off in three to seven years.
So not a question of bank -- and that is not a material issue to us we are going to accommodate that.
The other thing that's important of Volcker is now the remaining one.
How it affects market making and obviously they are the clients are going to be concerned.
Do you have a good market making? There are always rules around.
It would accommodate those reporting your client demand aged inventory different ways of reporting volatility in trading and now you have capital liquidity all the trading is try to get make it safer but also so people can markets and we hope at the end day that will happen.
If there needs to be adjustments because new clients are going to say this isn't working for us.
The other thing I'll mention about liquidity spreads are kind of the same in credit.
But the size you can trade is much smaller which to me it is early indicator if something goes wrong you are going to have gap that spreads quicker and wider than it might have before.
So but at the end of the day we hoped to be able to be a good market maker earned returns for shareholders and obviously we got-- we have to playing out probably Volcker and all the other regulations stored in them.
I think the thing to -- think about when you look at the come to revenue ratio just for the purpose of clarity if you look at the fourth quarter of last year excluding DVA and FVA it was above 20 % to 26% closer to in line year-over-year and that's evidence when you look at the full year ratio of last year 31% to 30%.
So they are with the low end of our range of 30% but within the range relative to the performance and there was a big negative impact in the CPI on a revenue basis last year with DVA /FVA.
And I just say that we always allocated capital to investment bank.
And we've had HBA adjusted returns and stuff like that.
So as you allocate more capital all things being equal that number comes down a little bit.
As you kind of disciplined and try to do that properly.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Chubak with Nomura.
Hi good morning.
So first question I have is on actually the debt capital markets business.
Clearly the results were quite impressive in the quarter.
Certainly better than what the public proxy suggested and I was hoping you could give some additional color as to what drove this strength and then maybe how that informs your outlook in 2015 given that on the last earnings call Marianne you noted that there could be some pressure on that business certainly going into next year or now this coming year? Well I mean I think if you look at the 2015 dynamics there is going to be three principal things 2014 was a year of larger deals and 2015 is still got a good pipeline.
So we are expecting to have reasonably strong -- at least start the year and probably strong year.
And it is very driven in the fourth quarter and likely to continue to be so by sort of M&amp;A related financing and so the downside we talked about is just less sort of maturities to be refinanced but nevertheless some.
But we are going to continue to have support from the M&amp;A side with respect to be fairly strong in 2015.
So you got some puts and takes for what we think is going to be a solid to good year in 2015 maybe not and maybe not a record but certainly a good year.
And so JPMorgan maintained a number one share in Global Investment grade number one share in Global high yield number one share in loans indication and which we hoped to maintain next year too.
And those are very powerful positions to have.
Certainly.
And switching gears for a moment just back to the capital discussion I just wanted to get a better understanding as to what drove the RWA inflation in the coming quarter.
It sounded as though it was really primarily a function of counterparty credit risk inflation.
I just wanted to get a better sense as to whether that was driven by some of the pressures on the corporates in the oil and energy space and also whether your $1.5 trillion target that you reaffirmed whether that does contemplate the potential risk for further inflation in the coming quarters if those pressures continue.
So just I mean certainly well I think to put into context I think that the RWA growth was $12 billion so nevertheless a growth but not a huge number up.
A chunk of is with regular way CVA which just in part has got to do with just no more market dynamics right now and spreads wider and volatility higher but a chunk of it is unrelated to that.
And as we look forward to the end of next year at $1.5 trillion well just to be clear I think I said $1.5 trillion or maybe slightly higher but nevertheless in a lot of big numbers the same trajectory it more at risk from just the timing of our ability to execute on granular segmented model model approval and internally with regulators than necessarily any sort of market dynamic not withstanding that will factor in.
So I would say the bigger risk to achieving that unless sort of market pricing impact from CVA but more so ability for us to get the right timing of that model benefit.
Then I think like two thirds of model and one thirds is run off stuff we know that's going to happen.
And other thing as Marianne mentioned the advanced we are at 10.1% just generalize with 10.5% and yes the advance will change spreads gap out advance will go up but standardized won't.
So eventually we think standardized can become the binding constraint not advanced.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Thanks good morning.
My question was on the Consumer &amp; Community Banking business.
There are a couple of moving pieces this quarter with the sale of the card results but also underneath that it looked like a couple of the fee-related areas might have been a little soft.
I was just wondering if you can try to disaggregate that for us and was there anything that was also more of a one-time in nature or seasonal about those businesses this quarter.
So obviously we talked about the cards portfolio that's driving some revenue decline also some elevated credit charge-offs.
We have been experience and I think we guided to the low end of our 12.5% revenue rate change and we guided to that last quarter the quarter before at a 12.2% in that range and what we are experiencing is spread compression is largely offsetting the strong interchange and other fee growth from the product volume but when you acquire new customers and you pay the premium to acquire new customers that gets amortized to your results in the first year.
So in years when you are net acquiring new customers you will have a small net drag on your fees and on your revenue rate resulting from amortizing those premiums for the benefit of those strong relationships and the increased outstanding and spend sales volumes you get in future years.
So we have been on a journey for the last two years and we continue to be on it way there is some impact associated from the fact that we are now acquiring new customers each of which we believe returns hurdle for us or more than hurdle for us is accreted over a period.
Okay.
So it's a today versus tomorrow thing.
And then on a follow-up coming back to the energy discussion you mentioned that it would be net to the consumer business and I just wanted to ask you to flesh that out for us.
As you think about the benefits that you'd expect to get from the decline in oil prices is it growth is it spend is it credit? How would you disaggregate that and give us an understanding of either magnitude or just time to see that benefit? I wouldn't spend too much time trying to build this into your models if I were you but it is quite clear that when you add $800 a year to the consumer cash flow statement that they consumers on average spend most of that.
And I think you are seeing it in spend.
And you are seeing in car sales and you are seeing in retail spend you've seen it -- and it is also quite clear it helps consumers.
It helps their credit.
I mean broadly.
I mean we are not going out and saying that we are going to reduce credit cost and auto card and a bunch of stuff by kind of 15 basis points.
I mean just you know it is going to be there.
Just like you know was there when they are in the flipside.
People spent a lot of time talking about how much gas price is hurting consumers and why shares down at Walmart Family Dollar store et cetera.
This is just the flipside of that.
And if you just look at the consumer spending specific if you look at four quarter analyzed up 4.7% is the best consumer spend basis in 2003.
So it is already taking effect in consumer spend and the disposable income as you say we are already expecting a new cost sales to grow next year but all of this is going to support the continued strong that we see in consumer.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research Group.
Good morning.
Just want to follow up on the card fee income discussion.
If you looked at your new accounts opened year-over-year you were flat.
You're starting to seem -- you seem like you're starting to lap that higher amortization of acquisition costs.
So is it fair to assume that we are at least getting closer to an inflection point where we're going to see fee incomes more track more closely with growth in spend or is there something else going on there? So you are right we are close to where -- we are close to lapping the acquisition cost dynamic not discloses but in the near future.
But what you are going to continue to see is that we have a portfolio that in one off and as those lows run off they were loans that were high up and high rate loans than the ones we are originating right now.
And as a result you are going to continue to see some spread compression in 2015 again against which you are going to see strong interchange.
So I would say yes ultimately and in the fullness of time you are going to start to see the interchange growth outpace the spread compression but for a period of time there going to be somewhat of wash.
Right but I was just speaking specifically to the fee income where you were down I think 7% year-over-year.
I would think that would start to turn positive at some point.
Yes.
Okay fair enough.
And maybe just one quick question on the expense side.
You talked about the simplification impact on revenues and expenses.
You're still at sort of a net negative about $200 million pretaxes.
Should that get closer to zero? Is it just it takes a little longer to get the expenses out versus the revenues or is that going to be a permanent drag? So there is a -- overall the rate of income asset is not ultimately going to be necessarily zero but when you think about in the context of the capital and the relative returns it was not accretive our returns.
And so we have the differential between 500 and 300 for the full year it is still not zero.
There is a slight lack.
Clearly the slight lack taking out the expenses and but this is overall small net income impact but for overall mutual to positive benefit on the return.
Okay got you thanks.
And regard these all that remember that our rationale for business simplification included a bunch of different reasons included activities that were core to our core clients' activities that were outsized in terms of operational and other risks as well as those that were returning hurdles.
So there are other reasons to simply your business and they will have other ancillary benefit.
Your next question is from the line of Brennan Hawken with UBS.
Good morning.
A quick question on derivatives and equities.
You guys highlighted the strength there.
Were there any one-timers in those results because it certainly seemed like 4Q was volatile.
Also did the uptick in equities VAR have anything to do with the revenue trends there? So no specific one time items in the derivative and equities derivate performance.
And the uptick VAR has to do generally speaking with high levels of volatility that it does with anything in terms of risk direction.
Equity derivatives largely Japan and Europe and Asia they increase -- South Asia yes.
And that's true across -- That's the actual volatile -- is an example of volatility did actually help.
If you look at equities in total and particularly in the prime space there was a small one time item but not in the derivative space.
Got it.
And that change in VAR due to volatility was sort of across the board in the buckets not just in the equities VAR? It is not a significant increase in VAR but yes we had -- you see increase in CPG VAR on spread widening and volatility increase in equities I mean just year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter we have seen an increase in volatility.
Okay.
And then sticking with capital markets thinking about how we're starting the current quarter it does feel a lot like deja vu here in the beginning of the fourth quarter where the markets are beginning with some pretty unconstructive volatility.
I know we're very very early going but is that a fair comparison to make and are we starting off on a pretty tough foot here? Obviously there's a lot of road to hoe here but any comments on that would be helpful.
I mean this quarter more than any quarter it is like really honestly too early to make any comments of any note regarding trading performance particularly given that the holiday sale mid week so reality the situation is dramatically nothing has changed from the end of the fourth quarter but there is no big new news in the first few days of trading.
Great.
Last small cleanup one on capital markets.
I know you've mentioned that there's going to be a lag from business simplification but was any of the declines in comp in CIB tied to business simplification here? Just trying to think about how much of that drop might have been due to some other items aside from -- It got year on clean up; it had nothing to do with business simplification.
Perfect thanks.
And I think if you look at our revenues excluding SVA/DVA year-over-year that's on reasonably line with comp.
And your next question is from the line of Paul Miller with FBR.
Yes thank you very much.
On the mortgage banking side you're definitely picking up market share from probably your -- you were shedding market share up until probably the second quarter of this year and one of the chatters out there is that you've gotten more aggressive in the correspondent markets and the comment you made Jamie back in I think June of this year was that you wanted to get out on -- maybe not get out of but lessen your exposure to those low FICO high LTVs i.e.
FHA loans.
I was wondering if you are still trying to lower your market share in FHA loans.
Can you make some comments about being more aggressive on the correspondent side too? I think they are two different issues.
One is the correspondent business properly done is fine and obviously we do look at their credit underlying because we had a back up over that 5 to 10 years correspond single loan over business and if we did a bad job we had pay for that.
So you have to be more careful and do business with a proper kind of people.
We have reduced our share of FHA loan just because the ongoing two reasons.
One is the ongoing liability in the production side where the insurance was worthless over time.
And the second is the just to cost to servicing FHA loans when they are going default and they have a much higher chance of going to default than not.
So those are two reasons to do less.
And that maybe I'll change over time but we are still in the same place in that.
And just on the share gains they are in jumbo and commercial conforming loans not in the government space.
So yes we are -- we are competing aggressively on price but with the right capital allocation with the right hurdle.
And these are loans that are very high quality that we are willing to put on our balance sheet done with correspondence that we have confidence in the financial status off.
And then some of the rule -- on a follow-up -- some of the rule changes you're seeing coming out of GSEs that try to spur I guess loan demand is you're seeing the GSEs starting to do 3% down payment loans.
Is that something that JPMorgan would go down underwritten correctly or is that just too risky? So I mean the GSE you could always get loan up to 97% in the government space because in the agency space with mortgage insurance we've seen some movement from the FHA on GSEs and mortgage insurance payment.
All of which I think is intended to try and help credit availability which we would generally support.
It doesn't change our strategy however which is that we are much more focused on originating in the very high quality jumbo and conventional conforming space.
But yes probably underwritten we will do agency loans in the programs that they have available.
And your next question comes from the line Eric Wasserstrom with Guggenheim Securities.
Good morning.
Just a couple of follow-up questions.
Marianne you talked about some of the loan growth that you've experienced and expect to continue to experience and also the driver of the RWA reductions.
But can you just help us understand what we should expect from your GAAP balance sheet given that a portion of the RWA reduction sounds like it is coming from runoff? Yes I mean look we have over the last I think two years and a quarter two plus years or so we've seen an inflow of cash of between $300 billion and $400 billion on our balance sheet.
And so our balance sheet size has grown slightly over the course of the last several quarters in the last year.
But the vast majority of the growth is driven by incremental cash and there are two principal reasons for that.
One is as we have been looking to become compliant with our and with U.S.
rules on liquidity which we are compliant with -- and this was happened for a while but the other is also that we've been receiving increased non operational cash flow and whole supply and so to the degree that cash is accretive from NI perspective and that we on balance sheet or leverage constraint and it is a key part of relationship with that client.
That may not be a bad thing.
And but to the degree that it is not a key part of the relationship that we are going to be disciplined about trying to manage that balance.
So I would say underlying that we would expect our balance sheet to not be growing and certainly not significantly but cash can be the volatile factor.
Sure.
I guess I was thinking about it more from the perspective of the loan portfolio.
It sounds like the expectation is --.
Yes so we saw loan growth year-over-year 8% gross 3% reported.
We feel pretty good about the demand for loan across our business particularly those have been performing strongly now consistently like business banking like prime mortgage on the portfolio commercial real estate even also and we are continue to be optimistic about C&amp;I and even cards.
So yes we would expect to see robust loan growth into next year and hopefully on the back of a continued improvement in the economy.
Got it.
So if I were to summarize all of the guidance that you gave today with those comments it sounds like the expectation is for modestly higher net interest income fee income reflecting whatever volatility we suffer from in the capital market space an absolute decline in operating expense but likely some increase in the provision.
Is that generally correct? I do the NI one for you and on the back of robust loan demand and rising rates in the second half of the year which is our current central case and we would expect NI to be up in the second half of the year flattish in the first half of the year obviously those two things if they payout then that wouldn't be the case.
And I like you draw your end conclusion on rest of it.
You're using the implied curve effectively so that changes and obviously you will expect second half of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer &amp; Co.
You've been consistent about -- on the issue of dividing the firm up into constituent companies about the strategic benefits of it all but I wonder if you've done any contingency planning on what if it ever came to the fact that it was too much of a drag to keep it all together? And I guess the question I have is is it even possible to unscramble the egg and specifically the issue I'm wondering about is you've got over $160 billion of debt at the parent company level.
If you were to break the Company up into a consumer bank a wholesale bank and an asset management business just for argument's sake is there a way to fairly allocate that debt to the three various lines of business or how would one even go about that? Look the unscrambling it would be extraordinarily complex.
And it would be extraordinarily complex in debt in systems and technology and people and where certain things go and the businesses would start competing with each other right away which I think is perfectly reasonable if they are all separates in the loan and so look we are very conscious of the narrative which had become out there about this but it is far more complex than that.
The right way to look at it as we have this great franchises we have a lot of time to manage through this.
And that is our objective not unscrambling egg.
We are going to manage through it and we can manage almost every single part of it over I think over a long period like five or seven years.
Don't think of over six months or a year.
There is nothing we couldn't settle in it drive down sell manage and that would be probably far easier than the alterative.
Even if it led to lower growth but it wouldn't necessarily to lower returns.
So just keep in mind that obviously we can do the right things at the end of day for shareholders.
It might be lower growth and better returns and managing through then not doing certain things at all.
Marianne mentioned for example the amount of deposits we take in.
Or it might be that we limit and restrict in our deposit we take at quarter end.
We do it accommodate clients but all those non operation deposit will directly into the Federal Reserve.
That's what Marianne said.
We do it and maybe make some Fed gains 25 basis points there and maybe paying the client something.
There are some clients we don't charge to take the quarter end.
And they are doing business with us and we don't want their quarter end balances.
So we have a lot of leverage we have a lot of time and we will do it very intelligently over time.
Not just damages franchises because of current narrative.
And the other thing I want to point out about the current narrative which kind of surprises me that people don't mention when you all talked about P/Es and some of the parts P/Es are temporary.
P/Es change over time and the real question we should asking is is the E going to be much higher or much lower under scenario A or B not just what the P/E going to be.
So that gives a lot of scenario your Es going to be held lot lower.
And that towards the effect of the P/E change.
And PE itself is temporary.
JPMorgan is already earning it is across the capital and you compare it to P/Es to lot of cousin who aren't earnings across the capital.
I mean people expecting the dramatic growth in earnings which they will.
And so you -- it is just-- you really got to have much more forward looking view over P/Es would be what values would be what earnings would be what the franchise would be than just some of the parts breakup based on current P/Es and false comparison.
Just some of the people out there feel a comparative they are not real comparisons.
We are not in the same business as those people so but we are sure conscious.
It is not to say we are not going to do the right things for shareholders over time.
We will there are other ways to do it.
And the other thing which I think is important too is that we compete globally.
Remember we have to be very conscious who we are competing with and what they are going to do over time.
And my guess is you can have some very large very tough global competition over the next 20 years.
They are not going to wait they may have currently lower G50 charges but I am not sure if can be true 10 years from now.
Now particularly the Chinese banks get bigger and bigger and some other global competitors decide they wanted to be in there global businesses.
Your next question comes from the line of David Hilder of Drexel Hamilton.
Good morning.
Thanks very much.
On the question of legal costs and I realize you'll refresh your disclosure in the 10-K but can you say anything about whether there are other cases or buckets of cases out there that have the potential to cost $1 billion in any one quarter? No.
I would refer you to -- I mean if you look at 10-Q from last quarter that would give you a sense for the things that are outstanding.
We will obviously update and refresh in the K but I am not going to discuss specifically all of the remaining cases.
David I think again in either way people I know we know we caused problem if you all because we have just one big quarter by quarter type stuff I wouldn't look at this is quarter by quarter issue.
If you owned a 100% of this company the better way to look at it is it is going to cost us several billion dollars more of somehow plus or minus another couple of billion before we get to normal-- what I call normalized legalized basis.
We disclosed all that stuff in 10-K.
And I think our RPL if you ask me it is actually fairly decent way to look at what those might be.
And we give you an RPL number which is something has not gone to the P&amp;L which possible and we can't make something which is lumpy not lumpy and we can't make something which we can bucket and putting out if you could we would all the reserves now they were done.
We can't.
Understood.
Thanks very much and for your comments on the -- It is a number and the important part is the shareholder I want to deal with that acknowledge our mistakes try to have fortress controlled balance sheet try to stop stepping and in dog shit which we do every now and then.
And build the customer franchise the important part.
When you have a market cap of $230 billion I want to make that worth $500 billion 10 years from now.
The several billion dollars that we are going to have to pay for legal of this-- and we want to fix it.
And it is unfortunate we do these to you all but it is unavoidable right now.
Right.
Well I would agree with all of that.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC.
Good morning.
Two questions.
Marianne we had some numbers last week that indicated rising delinquency in auto loan portfolios and I think your commentary about your losses this quarter kind of confirm that.
Are the numbers right now aberrational or is this a seasoning trend or how do you see this? Yes so I mean I can talk for JPMorgan very specifically that we are seeing the charge-off rate remember we've had charge-off rates for the auto business that have been relatively low for an extended period and now we are seeing them revert back to something more normal.
And when we think about pricing the business and through the cycle we concentrate on more normal level of charge-off.
So this isn't surprising to us.
Having said that what we are also seeing in terms of just the broad competitive space is is not a rationality necessarily but longer duration higher LTV more sub prime origination.
And JPMorgan we are low LTV than the industry and very concentrated on the near and super prime space.
So as a part of that we are just not participating in but even for our own portfolio you are going to see some of those charge-off rate trends up to something a bit normal but that's how we think about the business through the cycle.
Do you feel confident that this is not sort of the canary in the coal mine with regard to perhaps other consumer segments? I mean I hate to say I'm confident about anything but that's not our expectations Again it is very good question into the full year went into the mortgage thing.
We are sub prime was an early indicator freedom prime.
But when we look at credit card we don't think it is early indicator credit card.
We will be very conscious.
As Marianne said auto did unbelievably well through the crisis shockingly well we will all say so maybe there is return to norm.
But we are going to be paying a lot of attention.
And the lines where origination now that the very further right side of 700 FICO loans with LTV zone and the industry loan is 100%.
Jamie one final hopefully final question on the breakup issue.
We all listen to what you say about the strategic value of your businesses and the complementary nature of the businesses et cetera.
And it all sounds very logical.
But in Washington there is still a belief that your company in its present form is a danger to the global financial system.
Is there any -- in your view is there any level of capital that is going to mitigate the too big to fail issue or does it go beyond that? I think Nancy views and facts are completely different okay.
This company was a -- what was a port in the storm in the real crisis in 2008 and 2009.
And that was after we booked -- we had no issues whatsoever.
Okay we had a lot more capital now we are more conservative now.
We've got less credit exposure to percentage of balance sheet.
We got less risk to the percentage of balance sheet got more long-term debt we got more liquid assets.
We got more -- so it is even more too today.
The fact is the company is a powerful thing.
People when they talk about risk they are just talking about stock-- lot of they feel look at the size there it scares them.
I completely understand that.
But that isn't the determinant and I don't think we should be making shareholder decision based on views the people don't mess like really no.
And so if the regulators then they want JPMorgan to be split up then that's what have to happen.
We can't fight this federal government.
That's their intend to-- maybe their intend what it is if you are going to carry more capital you got a modest value business model over time to carry capital.
That one we think that we can earn a superior return still versus other banks and carry the higher capital and modify our business model over time without taking drastic action.
And remember again you got to look forward in this.
America has been the leader in global capital market to the last 50 or 100 years it is part of the reason the country is so strong.
I look as a matter of public policy.
I wouldn't want to see the next JPMorgan Chase to be a Chinese company.
And because someone is to be serving the global multi national around the world and all the things that mean the knowledge and experience and research and capabilities and so I think if you look ahead 10 years you are going to have large global companies to compete.
And you may have to be slightly small we might otherwise have been so be it.
But if you can do that and do it good return for shareholders we should do that.
And your next question is from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
Thank you.
Marianne can you tell us -- obviously you've built up your HQLA in the quarter and your net interest margin came down.
How much of the margin pressure was due to the increase in the HQLA? So I will tell you that - and to answer the question maybe just slightly differently but with the same basic point that we have -- we added the resorting increasing cash of about $45 billion or little bit more than $45 billion in the quarter and not drove the vast majority of the five to six basis points decline in them.
And are you guys -- I notice that the deposits at the central banks as you pointed out grew very largely in the quarter.
Is this a level that now you're satisfied with? And also connected with that what as outsiders should we look at that will drive the LCR ratio either higher or lower in terms of your calculation that you're going to be doing on a quarterly basis going forward? So what it takes what we have in deposit with the central bank if any deposits that we have that is excess operating or none operating that we don't think has any significant or any liquidity value to the company.
On the whole there is a rule on deposit with central bank and earning a very small amount of interest income and there are some parts and they try net-net for something slightly accretive.
And so that was driving the amount of cash to the degree that we have more non operating cash that would drive that.
We complaint with LCR under the U.S.
rules with appropriate but modest buffer right now.
And that based upon what we think is a fairly forward leaning point of view about what true operating deposit really are.
So as we think about what the cashes is in customer's account like really require to operate our businesses and know more.
So we think we got a forward leaning point of view on that.
So I think the rules for the U.S.
final and I think our ratio for U.S.
LCR right now will be stable for a period of time.
And if there any changes either to the U.S.
rule which we don't have any line of sight on or if we are required to make changes or require to make changes to our own internal liquidity framework that could cause us to add liquidity but that's something that will inform you as we go through time.
If you look at our balance sheet okay we got always real stuff; we have always $500 billion at central bank around the world.
We have like $300 billion plus of AA + securities of very short duration.
We have like $300 billion of repo on security and stock borrow which is all secured in commodities by top credit with the proper haircut and stuff like that.
And with our capital base of equity and capital $200 billion preferred stock of $30 billion TLAC of debt of $150 billion plus our loan is just $700 billion which probably always been riskiest part of our balance sheet.
And it would achieve like 70 and so this balance sheet this company is unbelievable.
Totally agree.
One last thing on those deposits of the central banks I know some of the big custody banks indicated that they were going to charge their customers that have euro deposits because the ECB is now charging for the deposits at the ECB.
Did you guys do that in the quarter and if so how did the customers react when you passed on that cost to them? So for Fed institutions and non bank -- for bank and non bank financial institutions yes we passed on the over night rate for our customers and it is basically on their operating cash flow.
So it is what we are doing is passing through the cost if operating cash for their business so there was -- In euro.
Yes in euro.
So there was no significant reaction at all.
It is market -- It is very hard; I mean not going to be taking deposit at a loss.
That is just very temporary to help our client.
So I think everyone understand that.
And there are no other questions.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Bye thank you very much.
Talk to you soon.
Thank you again for joining today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the JPMorgan Chase’s First Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
This call is being recorded.
Your line will be muted for the duration of the call.
We will now go live to the presentation.
Please standby.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase’s Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon and Chief Financial Officer Marianne Lake.
Ms.
Lake please go ahead.
Thanks operator.
Good morning everyone.
I am going to take you through the earnings presentation which is available on our website.
Please refer to the disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements at the back of the presentation.
So starting on page one the Firm reported net income of $5.9 billion for the quarter and EPS of $1.45 a share and the return on tangible common equity of 14% on revenue of nearly $25 billion up 4% year-on-year reflecting strong performance.
The quarter was characterized by constructive environment supporting growth trends and underlying performance.
We saw higher levels of volatility and client activity on the back of a number of macro events driving higher market revenues.
We also saw strength across IB fees and core loan growth was strong up 10% year-on-year.
Included in the results was Firmwide legal expense of approximately $500 million after tax; outside of legal other small and notable items on a net basis did not contribute significantly to the results which means that a more core earnings number would have been well the other side of $6 billion.
Adjusted expense which excludes legal was $14.2 billion down $100 million from the fourth quarter with adjusted overhead ratio of 57%.
And outside of a modest reserve built oil and gas which I’ll come back to credit trends remained benign and Firmwide net charge-offs remained low at $1.1 billion.
We continued to make progress against our capital targets reaching Fully Phased-In CET1 ratio of 10.6% while returning over $3 billion to shareholders in the quarter.
Finally we’re pleased that we did not receive an objection to our capital plan and the Board announced its intention to increase the quarterly dividend by 10% to $0.44 a share and authorized gross share repurchases of $6.4 billion.
Before I move on you’ll notice we streamlined our earnings press release for the quarter to simplify the format and focusing on key messages.
Skipping over page two turning to page three on our balance sheet.
As I said the Firm Fully Phased-In CET1 ratio Advanced with 10.6% up about 45 basis points quarter-on-quarter with earnings model benefit and the combined impact of portfolio run-offs and other RWA reductions being offset by capital distributions.
The Fully Phased-In Standardized CET1 ratio was 10.8% up from 10.5% in the fourth quarter of 2014.
While we made very good progress during the first quarter the pace of capital accretion during the year would be linear particularly given the timing of model benefit.
We continue to expect our ratio to be 11% plus or minus at the end of this year.
The Firm and the Bank SLR improved slightly from last quarter at 5.7% and 6% respectively.
On the next page on page four we’ve added a new page on our balance sheet given the objectives we outlined at Investors Day on non-operating deposits.
So turn to page four.
As you look at the balance sheet it’s important to note both on an average and on a spot basis.
You look on the left our average balance sheet is higher by $46 billion which reflects a significant ramp up in deposit in the fourth quarter but if you look next to that you can see on a spot basis the March is actually relatively flat to December.
And if you move to the right end of period deposits are also flat quarter-on-quarter but with a relatively significant mix shift towards retail deposits with other deposits down $24 billion predominantly driven by client actions related to non-operating deposits reflecting good progress towards our goal and what has effectively been a matter of weeks since Investors Day.
We’re actively engaged with our clients and working with them to implement plans to further reduce these deposits and we expect the second quarter to be meaningful in this context.
We’re still committed to our goal of reducing them by up to $100 billion by the end of the year.
Moving on to NIM and NII it’s the high average cash balances on deposit growth as well as some asset reductions that drove the 7 basis-point compression in NIM.
And in terms of NII day count was a large driver of the decline.
Going to page five on Consumer &amp; Community Banking the combined consumer business has generated $2.2 billion of net income for the quarter and an ROE of 17%.
Revenue of $10.7 billion was up 2% year-on-year driven by healthy growth in balances and in non-interest revenue partially offset by spread compression.
Revenue declined 2% sequentially reported or 4% if you were to exclude the loss in the fourth quarter associated with portfolio exits in card.
And this decline is driven by seasonality in NII as well as fewer days in the quarter.
We remain focused on the customer experience and on our strong customer satisfaction rankings and we continue to grow households and see very low levels of attrition.
And with deepening relationships our average deposits are now over $0.5 trillion up 9% year-on-year.
We have record client investment assets up 12%.
Our active mobile customer base is up 22%; part sales volume up 8% and our overall loan book grew for the third consecutive quarter with core loan growth of 15% year-on-year.
And across CCB we remain disciplined on expense management.
Year-on-year expenses were lower by nearly $250 million and our headcount is down about 1 900 so far this year.
As you will recall that at Investors Day we committed to reduce expenses by about $2 billion in 2017 relative to 2014.
And while it will not be exactly linear you should assume a meaningful down-payment towards that $2 billion in 2015.
Moving to page six Consumer &amp; Business Banking CBB generated net income of $828 million for the quarter up 10% year-on-year and with an ROE of 28%.
We continue to see robust performance across our drivers.
Average deposit balance growth was up 9% up $39 billion from last year.
And in Business Banking the momentum we saw in 2014 carried over into 2015 and supported loan originations of $1.5 billion up 2% year-on-year but with average loan balances up 6% also driven by higher utilization rates.
These underlying drivers helped offset the impact of the low rate environment.
NII was down 5% quarter-on-quarter in line with our guidance on lower deposit margin which was down 12 basis points driven by lower reinvestment rates as well as day counts.
NII while down seasonally quarter-on-quarter was up 5% year-on-year due to strong client investment and debit revenues.
Expenses were down 3% year-on-year reflecting continued improvements in branch efficiency.
Mortgage Banking on page seven.
You will notice we’ve simplified the reporting for Mortgage Banking here; it’s now consistent with the other CCB lines of business.
But the additional detail by sub line of business is still available in our earnings supplement.
So overall net income was $326 million for the quarter.
Originations were strong at $25 billion up 7% quarter-on-quarter as we maintained share in a larger market and realized higher revenue margins.
And we added $15 billion of high quality loans in the quarter to our balance sheet driving slightly higher NII quarter-on-quarter despite fewer days.
Although production was higher our total revenue declined quarter-on-quarter on lower repurchase benefit and lower servicing revenue.
Expense of $1.2 billion was down 6% quarter-on-quarter and down 13% year-on-year.
But excluding legal would have been down 19% year-on-year over a $0.25 billion despite higher volumes as we continue to tightly control our costs.
On credit we continue to see improvements in home prices and delinquencies and released a $100 million of NCI reserve this quarter.
And you can see the net charge-off rate of 30 basis points was down 25 basis points year-on-year.
Moving on to Card Commerce Solutions &amp; Auto net income of $1.1 billion down 3% year-on-year with an ROE of 22%; when excluding reserve releases net income was up 11%.
In the quarter we moved our commercial card loans to the CIB to align with the client relationship.
This was a $1.3 billion reduction in card loan balances and relatively modest impact of less than $50 million on each of revenue and expense.
Revenue of $4.6 billion was relatively flat year-on-year with the card revenue rate of 12.2% in line with guidance on solid sales growth and reflecting continued investments in acquisition.
And in auto we saw solid loan and lease growth partly offset by spread compression.
Expense was up 2% year-on-year predominantly driven by higher auto lease depreciation.
In card we saw end of period loan growth of $3 billion excluding the commercial card transfer I just mentioned and we saw sales growth of 8%.
This sales growth is lower than recent growth rate which has typically been in the double-digit reflecting the impact of lower gas prices estimated to be about 200 basis points as well as generally competitive environment.
In commerce solutions were gaining share; volume was up 30% year-on-year driven by continued strong spend as well as the addition of new merchants.
In auto results continue to reflect steady growth in new vehicle sales and stable used car value.
It was a 14th consecutive quarter of loan and lease growth with average balances up 6% year-on-year.
Year-to-date the pipeline remains healthy reflecting continued strength in the market as well as the strength of our manufacturing partners.
Finally on credit card delinquency rate and net charge-offs remained low.
On page nine the Corporate &amp; Investment Bank.
CIB reported net income of $2.5 billion on revenue of $9.6 billion and an ROE of 16%.
Revenue was up 8% year-on-year as market conditions in the quarter benefited both investment banking and market and our businesses performed well.
In banking our IB fees of $1.8 billion were up 22% year-on-year.
We continue to rank number one in Global IB fees with 8.6% share up 100 basis points since last year.
Advisory fees were up 42% which was a strong start for both JPMorgan as well as the market with some large transactions.
In fact this is our highest first quarter on record and we saw share gains of 150 basis points.
Debt underwriting fees were up 16% driven by acquisition financing; aside from that debt issuance was generally lower and equity underwriting fees were up 13% in a market that was up only 4%.
Our wallet ranked improved to number one both globally and in the U.S.
Looking forward for IB fees we have some notable large transaction in the first quarter and so we do expect the second quarter to be lower although our pipeline remains strong.
Treasury services revenue of $1 billion was down 2% year-on-year mainly driven by lower deposit NII and lower trade finance revenue.
And lending revenue was $353 million up 9% given dividend on restructured securities.
Moving on to markets revenue of $5.7 billion was up 9% year-on-year but if you exclude business simplification both total markets as well as fixed income market would have been up 20%.
A number of macro events occurred in the quarter including central bank actions the Swiss Bank decoupling stronger dollar and oil price volatility which supported market performance broadly and currencies emerging markets rates commodities and equity.
In fact equity had one of its strongest quarters up 22% with strengths in derivatives and cash in particular across the U.S.
and Asia.
The first half of the quarter was particularly strong.
The market has absorbed a number of macro events at this point and recent sentiment is that the Fed will act later rather than same as this year.
As a result while we are still seeing good client flow and volatility is also elevated it is somewhat lower coming into the second quarter.
With respect to business simplification in the second quarter it will have an overall neutral impact to our P&amp;L but will have or drive $300 million decline year-on-year in revenue with a $300 million offset in lower expenses.
Securities services revenue $934 million was down 9% year-on-year driven by two factors: First the impact of change in presentation supply and revenue sharing agreements in our ADR issuance business.
Effective this quarter these pass-through payment declines will be treated as a reduction of revenue having formally been treated as an expense but with no P&amp;L impact.
Second at the end of the fourth quarter of last year there was a significant client exit and the revenue impact of this is reflected in this quarter’s result.
For the remainder of 2015 given those two facts we expect securities services revenue to be in the range of $950 million to $1 billion a quarter depending on seasonality.
Lastly on expense total expense was $5.7 billion up 1% year-on-year with the comp to revenue ratio of 32% for the quarter flat year-over-year and an overhead ratio of 59%.
Non-compensation expense declined due to business simplification partially offset by higher legal expense year-over-year.
Moving on page t 10 on the Commercial Banks it was a strong quarter with respect to the underlying fundamentals in this business another record quarter for investment banking revenue with gross revenues of over $750 million.
In absolute dollars it was our strongest quarter ever for loan growth adding over $5 billion in loans across C&amp;I and CRE and resolved the utilization with asset highest level since 2009.
Credit quality remained exceptional with continued low net charge-offs of only 3 basis points.
So overall financial performance for the quarter was solid; net income was $600 million on $1.7 billion of revenue and an ROE of 17%.
Revenue increased 4% year-on-year driven by record investment banking revenue which was up nearly 70% on increased equity underwriting and M&amp;A activity was partially offset by continued yield compression.
Expenses increased 3% year-on-year as we continued to invest in controls but our overhead ratio was consistent with the prior year.
We’re reaching a peak in control cost in this business and you should expect expenses to stabilize from here.
Loan balances increased 11% year-on-year and 3% quarter-on-quarter.
C&amp;I loans grew 4% sequentially in line with the industry driven by higher utilization in our corporate client banking book.
And in CRE loan growth was 3% continuing exceed the industry on strong activity in both multi-family lending as well as real estate banking.
Finally on credit and reserve for the full Firm we added a little over a $100 million to reserve relating to oil and gas exposure this quarter majority of which was here in the commercial banking.
We review our energy exposure on a name-by-name basis and under a range of commodity price assumptions.
This quarter’s reserve build was at downgrade in the E&amp;P portfolio and if the current price environment continues it’s reasonable to expect some further reserve builds during 2015 but relatively modest.
However in the context of a funded portfolio of $15 billion this is a very modest build and is fully within the range of our expectations at this part of a cycle for energy.
And although we’re taking reserves it is not clear that it will translate into credit losses as the industry and our clients are not standing still but actively working to manage liquidity and leverage in the face of lower prices.
Moving to page 11 and asset management: A good quarter in asset management; net income of $500 million and ROE of 22% and 27% pretax margin on $3 billion of revenue.
Revenue was up 7% year-on-year driven by flows and higher banking balances.
And expense of $2.2 billion was up 5% year-on-year primarily driven by investments in infrastructure and controls and including modest legal expenses.
This marked the 24th consecutive quarter of long-term net inflows of $16 billion driving record AUM of $1.8 trillion up 7% year-over-year and client assets of $2.4 trillion.
This strengthened multi-asset and equity flows.
In banking we reported strong balances in both lending and deposits.
Average loan balances were up 8% year-on-year and average deposits up 6%.
And we reported strong investment performance with 79% of mutual fund AUM ranked in the first or second cortiles over five years.
Turning to Corporate and turning to page 12 Treasury &amp; CIO reported a net loss of $221 million but the result included a loss in the quarter of $173 million pre-tax primarily due to a timing impact of cost associated with certain non-operating deposits we planned to exit.
On Other Corporate as we’ve completed the spin-off of OEP and other portfolio sales during the first quarter the remaining private equity business is not expected to be a significant contributor to the Firm’s earnings.
Therefore beginning this quarter and going forward we will be disclosing our corporate private equity results as a part of Other Corporate.
This quarter private equity contributed a modest positive to the results.
Also including the results for Other Corporate was $300 million pretax of legal expense which is largely offset by a $177 million of net income on tax items.
Moving to page 13 and the outlook I’ve addressed most of this guidance through the presentation; I just want to highlight a couple of items: First in CCB and the consumer businesses a couple of geography points relative to analyst models.
We guided in the fourth quarter to expect the first quarter’s consumer bank revenues to be down on deposit margin compression; we saw that this quarter as expected and we expect deposit margins to remain impressive as rates remain low.
In the mortgage bank at Investor Day we guided for revenues to be down approximately $1 billion for the year on lower servicing revenues as well as lower repurchase benefit.
We saw some of that this quarter and that guidance remains.
Against that as I said earlier across CCB we do expect to deliver a meaningful portion of the $2 billion expense reduction guidance in 2015.
Finally on this page asset management for the full year expect the pretax margin and ROE to be at the low end of through the cycle target range.
So wrapping up a strong result for the quarter in a consecutive environment we saw strong market and transaction activity despite continued margin compression.
The performance continues to reflect the strength of each of our franchises; strong market revenue and IB fees; 9% growth in retail deposit; 10% core loan growth and good progress against our capital our balance sheet and our expense commitment.
With that operator please can you open up the line to questions? And your first question is from the line of Glenn Schorr with Evercore ISI.
Just one quick clarification question on the performance and actually this was great.
You mentioned pretty much across the board.
Do you think there is any seasonality; any one-time events; block trades anything like that that would lift such good performance in the quarter? It wasn’t anything particularly noteworthy in terms of one-time events; it was really quite broad particularly in derivatives and cash.
The performance was I would say solid year-over-year because we saw strength in the America this year but we had strength in Europe last year.
And I think the first quarter 2014 wasn’t particularly strong so I think we were flatten a little bit with a relative comparison but it was a really strong absolute and we think strong relative performance.
And maybe just a related question but I’m not sure which line it would flow through.
For my understanding you guys and others have been pushing or talking with prime brokerage clients to help improve our ROEs in the business.
Is part of that following through and just better equity performance more business with clients? Yes this is where it would be.
I wouldn’t say it’s a driver but we are as we said and the whole industry is looking to work with clients to optimize the use of balance sheet and improve return.
So we think some of that but I wouldn’t say it was a key driver.
Okay.
Switching gears in Jamie’s letter you talked about -- mentioned the need to push the new G-SIB rules to the product and the client level.
And it piqued my curiosity.
And I am just curious how different is that from what you have already done? In other words each step of the way you have been early and adapting and pushing out to the desk level.
How your capital charge is? Is this just meaning more of the same meaning higher capital charge higher capital charge or is this something different there that you need to do? No I mean it is more of the same.
Obviously G-SIB took on a slightly heightened focus when we had some doubling happen in the proposal in December.
So we’ve always been measuring and monitoring and tracking G-SIB at a very granular level but we are obviously on a path now to aggressively manage it which means that we are going to be just a little bit more focused on that constraint and uniquely also with advanced capital standardized limit balance sheet caps; the like.
So it’s more of the same honestly than just a heightened focus on this given the U.S.
proposal and given the impact of at least at this point FX translation.
And different than RWA it affects certain products more than others and we pointed non-operating deposits stuff like that; certain businesses more knows we’ve pointed out clearing and certain clients more than others we’ve pointed out financial institutions.
So just kind of a multivariant theme; it’s not mystical.
And we are actually already planning to re-price some of these businesses to get an adequate return on use of capital and we’re seeing other people do that.
That’s right.
I mean we maybe in a different position with G-SIB but others are leverage constraint.
And just generally speaking we are starting to see a lot more discipline around balance sheet and pricing is following somewhat generally.
Your next question is from the line of John McDonald with Bernstein.
I was wondering on net interest income given outlook for how the net interest income dollars could trend from here assuming that you don’t get much help from higher rates what are the key drivers and what’s kind of your outlook for NIM and NII dollars for the year? So again assuming for a second that rates don’t rise into the backend -- at the end of the year I mean come back to that if you look we would expect our NII dollars to be stable to slightly up because we’re still seeing growth in our interest earning assets.
Obviously this quarter we were down some on day count; it was a big chunk of the quarter-on-quarter reduction.
So we’re really going to see the biggest lift in NII when we do see rates rise we see when that is.
And similarly on our NIM we would expect NIM to be stable particularly given as we talked about what we’re seeing early on NIM more particularly over the course of the last year or two have been this significant increase in cash and we’re going to see some of that at least stabilizing term as we start to reduce our non-operating deposits and we should see our NIM relatively stable and again start to rise when rates rise.
[Operator Instructions].
And your next question; it comes from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America.
Good morning.
On the CCAR do you expect any potential surcharges on the CCAR to come out when the U.S.
final rules on SIFI buffers come out? And in addition to that have you learned anything from the CCAR in terms of the transparency of the process; is there progression in terms of the back and forth of the regulators as either through the CCAR process and their expectations? So taking your first point Erika obviously I don’t know the next time we’re going to and will likely get CCAR instructions including the rules and the minimums is likely to be sometime towards the end of this year for the next CCAR cycle as we get prepared to deliver that.
So all I can say is what you know which is clearly the door was left opened for the minimum to be increased or potentially to include some element of the surcharge.
We are hopeful that that won’t be the case because we would say the surcharge should be carried in baseline times to be used in stress and to have all firms to end up well capitalized afterwards but have no more insights than that for you.
With respect to the dialogue with the Fed it’s definitely much much further progressed than it was two years and three years ago and every year it gets better in terms of the bilateral conversations and it’s constructive.
I don’t think however you could today or will likely ever be able to characterize it as transparent and clear maybe potentially by designs in terms of understanding or being able to reconcile exactly what their models do and what theirs results are driven by.
So I won’t be able to clarify for you what changed in there is also what this is between us and theirs but the dialogue itself is definitely more constructive and more bilateral and more continuous.
Your next question is from the line of Matt O’Connor with Deutsche Bank.
The drop in the adjusted expense is I think about 3% year-over-year came in little bit better than we were thinking while revenues were also little bit better.
Obviously you’ve got a lot of cost saving programs underway that you mentioned earlier on the call and at Investor Day.
But should we think that maybe you are running ahead of schedule or that the cost saves could be more or is it just lumpiness as we go quarter-over-quarter? I think the best way to answer that is that we are still firmly with our guidance of adjusted expenses being $57 billion plus or minus by the end of the year or for the year sorry.
Obviously we will always try and outperform that but I wouldn’t characterize one quarter as a change in our guidance at this point.
And then just separately obviously a big company out there announced its exiting most of its banking assets and just wondering if there is any interest or appetite within your commercial bank to bulk up the acquisition there in terms of the asset purchases versus the complete company? I mean the most important thing obviously in all of that is that we were delighted to be able to partner with the large company on their strategic transformation and that’s the most important thing about that transaction for us.
I am not going to comment specifically on whether or what JPMorgan will be interested in terms of asset purchases.
We are much more focused on partnering strategically with the company.
Your next question is from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Hi this is Chris Spahr on behalf of Mike Mayo.
I just had a question relating to your CET1 ratio guidance.
Do you give any kind of guidance on the Tier 1 leverage by -- ratio by the end of this year given your CET1 of 11%? No we haven’t given any specific guidance Chris.
Do you think there is any way you will be able to manage that ratio higher in the context of this year’s CCAR? In the context of the CCAR we just had? Yes.
We expect our -- it’s little complicated this year and we sort of articulated at Investor Day because we’re going to move at some point whether it’s a third or fourth quarter to have standardized the RWA be our binding constraint.
So 11% plus or minus is our target on CET1 and that’s what we said.
Your next question is from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
Marianne you mentioned that treasury service revenues were down due to the trade finance revenue area.
And I noticed on the balance sheet that trade finance outstandings have dropped meaningfully on a year-over-year basis.
Can you share with us what’s going on in that line of business? There is a couple of different things one was a little specific.
We had a portfolio of loans that we held for sale and subsequently exit from the balance sheet which drive some of it but in addition to generally a competitive environment and lower demand particularly in Asia.
And then second you mentioned that you obviously had a very strong advisory business in the quarter and you gained market share of 150 basis points.
Do you have any sense of who you took the market share from; was it European investment banks or U.S.? Not specifically; I will tell you that while we’re obviously delighted with the performance it was a relatively strong market and there were some larger transactions.
So we’re happy with the gains but I can’t specifically comment on where it came from.
Your next question is from the line of Eric Wasserstrom with Guggenheim.
I just wanted to follow-up on your energy comments.
Could you help us understand what events it was that led to reserve building; was it company specific events in the form of bankruptcies or just something else in your internal ratings migration? Yes it’s definitely moving assets.
So basically if you think about the E&amp;P portfolio in particular when we think about the redetermination somewhat semiannually of the borrowing base and look those companies on a client specific name-by-name basis and with some contraction in the borrowing base networks and downgrades that drive our reserving methodology; it doesn’t mean that we feel that those companies are necessarily in significant difficulty but that’s the way the reserving methodology works.
And as I said we do this on a client-by-client basis.
We’re comfortable with our exposures and clients looking to manage their own defensive position.
So it’s not clear that they will necessarily be realized in losses in fact it’s implied curve rather than flat to long order prices is in fact how things play out it’s possible that there will be very little in a way of credit loss we’d assume.
And just on the last point your view on that is because of recovery in prices rather than restructuring actions or things that your clients are undertaking; is that fair or is it bit of a …? Both.
Your next question is from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
I just wanted to see if I could just follow-up on the energy point.
Obviously you have the reserving and then you mentioned the 200 basis-point impact on spend.
I am wondering if you just expand the discussion of energy; are there positive offsets that you’re starting to see in the businesses elsewhere either in terms of whether it’s credit or borrowing or investment banking opportunities that maybe popping up? How do you -- can you summarize the benefit if at this point you can see any positive offsets? First of all just on the contraction in spend given volatile prices it’s pretty typical in this part of the cycle that you would see lower energy prices in the first instance drive savings rates up and you see consumer spend for the energy dividend so to speak lag back.
So it’s the fact that we saw that happen in the first quarter; it’s not atypical and it doesn’t mean that we don’t expect the spend to grow and for that energy dividend to ultimately translate into high spend also; it’s more of a normal timing phenomenon is our expectation.
But with respect to other activity -- yes we saw active equity capital markets with defensive -- some defensive issuance and generally I think it’s a positive overall for the businesses and for the economy.
And my follow-up question is just with respect to the security services business you mentioned the change in presentation and then there was the client loss.
Is there a way you can help us understand just what the organic growth rate of the businesses adjusted for the reclassification just whether it’s on a sequential quarter or year-over-year basis? Not readily but we can get back to you.
Your next question is from the line of Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
Maybe just talk go back to the capital ratio issue for a second.
You noted that standardized your 10.8 and then you still feel that will be your constraining factor by the end of this year.
So if you’re already at 10.8 your target is 11; I know it’s plus or minus but it does seem like maybe you got three quarters and 20 basis points.
So is there anything unusual you’re expecting in the coming quarters or is it just hey you can never know quarter-to-quarter but all else being equal looks like you can probably hit 11 if not better; is that a fair way to think about it? Yes nothing specific to call out in the second half of the year and we should hit 11 if not a little better yes.
And as you look at the surcharge the G-SIB surcharge more the proposals do you feel better or worse; you feel -- is there any areas where you think you can pull the lever more significantly to improve that ratio or lower the charge? I would say seven weeks or six weeks whatever it is after Investor Day that the messaging hasn’t really change which is we have every intention of aggressively managing the score doing as we talked about earlier in a very granular way.
And we’re already working on that.
And you see that in the most obvious state which is in reduction already to-date in non-operating deposit.
But we continue to work on all of the things so derivative notional compression level three assets financing and obviously we’re still thinking about what the response should be in terms of risk intermediation or clearing.
And so I think six weeks on from Investor Day the story is the same.
We feel we are fully committed to ensuring that we are closely within the 4.5% bucket and we may not stop that but we’re only a few months into this.
You have a question from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
Marianne going back to the reserve build which obviously was done for the oil and gas as you mentioned can you share with us in the corporate and investment bank I know on a total dollar amount relative to the corporation it’s not significant but there is a big increase in the non-accrual loans from 110 to 251 in the quarter.
Can you give us some color on what drove that? Yes I would -- obviously you noted it’s from a small base so that’s notable.
There are two specific exposures that were moved for non-accrual.
One of them was moved on a somewhat of a technicality sovereign downgrade which we fully expect to recover on but that’s just the way we have to present it; and other smaller piece was one other isolated exposure.
So I wouldn’t over think it right now; it’s two exposures and it’s $200 million.
And that was not oil and gas related obviously it’s in the CIB area that was in the commercial bank? The first the sovereign downgrade was -- did have oil and gas underlying exposure but again it was on a technicality rather than on the fundamentals of the company.
And we fully expect to recover on that.
But focus on the very very smaller number.
Your next question is from line of Brennan Hawken with UBS.
You highlighted the Swiss franc as a tailwind for FICC.
Could you maybe size that for us? No I will just say overall our sense is that the market is neutral relative to the event we happened to be able to benefit from it; some others will be neutral and some may have lost that.
So these things happen regular way in trading businesses and it just happens to be the case that that event and the volatility it drove is good for us and our franchise.
And I think it’s fair to show you that we’re in a business where expertise matters and risk decision matters and we were able to capitalize on both of those not just for the Swiss franc but also for the other macro events in the quarter.
Sure I know that the higher volatility of course would drive higher volume.
I was just talking about the event specifically and if there was some one-time gains involved in that so that we can kind of adjust for a core figure here? No I wouldn’t characterize in this one-time gain; I would categorize in this one of a number of items that drove our performance in the business.
And then on the energy front a lot of the focus was on the CB and the energy exposure there but you all mentioned that there is exposures in CIB too.
Can you give us maybe an update if there was any changes in any of those exposures or loans this quarter? I mean overall in the total Firm the reserve built that we took was a little over $100 billion four-fifth of which was in the commercial bank.
So we did experience; we do all of this on a name by name basis so we did across our portfolios but the majority was in the CB E&amp;P portfolio.
Your next question is from the line of Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
On your deposit discussion about pushing out I think you said during your Investors Day that you’d like to get about $3 billion of the non-core deposits off the balance sheet.
And I know you said that you hope to make progress in the second quarter.
How should we model that out and what type of benefit have you modeled out to the NIM with that $3 billion of deposits? It was $100.
$100 billion I am sorry.
No worries $100 billion.
I mean look at the end of the day you can see that over the course of the last -- since over the third quarter of 2012 our cash balances grew by couple of hundred billion dollars and that has been a very large contributor for the compression in our NIM not the only one.
So as we push out the non-operating deposits we would expect to see that help but remember we’re still growing retail deposits.
So if you look at this quarter in particular even though we reduced our non-op deposits related to client actions by about $20 billion and the majority of that $24 billion we have flat deposit.
So we’re continuing to grow the good retail deposit.
So I would say it would be a tailwind but it will be a tailwind for stabilizing and slightly improving NIM outside of rate rises.
And then real quick on your professional services professional services was down like from $2 billion to $1.6 billion.
Is that mainly due to some of that legal cost maybe starting to go away from the crisis? I am sorry off the top of my head I can’t remember the number you are saying.
But no our legal expenses; forget the legal expense that relates to reserves that we’ve taken and the settlements that we reached.
Regular way expense for third parties in legal isn’t down substantially quarter-on-quarter or year-on-year just although at some point it will be.
Your next question is from the line of Steven Chubak with Nomura.
Marianne I was hoping that we could dig into the RWA progress that we saw in the quarter.
And specifically I was hoping that you could just aggregate how much of the sequential decline that we saw was a function of the planned mitigation actions and model benefits that you’ve cited versus actual FX driven declines? Because assuming that the U.S.
dollar strength persists all else equal one could surmise that we should expect RWAs in a long-term context actually coming out below that $1.5 trillion target that you’ve cited in the past? So specifically with respect to the quarter I would say that the wholesale parameter update -- our wholesale credit parameter update model benefit is up about a half of the RWA reduction with the other half coming from regular way portfolio run-off as well as some reductions in market risk associated with market risk positions; reductions in private equity; reductions in commitment systems some position in reductions rather than driven specifically by FX.
We’re running above $1.5 trillion now.
And we said we’re going to manage both the advance and standardize to that number over the course of next couple of years.
So its FX -- its currency translation is at tailwinds and we would hope to do better but at this point let’s get there.
And another question on capital but relating to CCAR Marianne you’ve noted on this call and in the past that you don’t expect CCAR to be JPMorgan’s binding constraint longer term.
But just given the reduction that we saw and that ask [ph] or the need use the mulligan in the last exam; I was just hoping you could cite some of the plan mitigation actions that you expect to pick so that we could see you guys get on the path towards delivering on that 55% to 75% net pay out target.
At the moment CET1 ratio launching into CCAR was 10% or below 10% not the 12% that we expect to run out when once we build our capital to our target level.
So you are right that right now on the CCAR Tier 1 leverage was our binding constrain both last year and this year.
So a combination of our capital strategy around how we think about the issuance of preferred together with balance sheet actions will be how we think about mitigating that limitation in medium term.
But ultimately it doesn’t change the fact that once we get to our target assuming that is the 12% that we articulated at Investor Day but again we don’t think we should be leveraged constrained.
So we’re going to work on that obviously and we’re continuing to build capital but when we launched into CCAR we won at that level.
Your next question is from the line of Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC.
Jamie you warned in your annual letter about the possibility of another flash crash.
Yesterday I think Simon Potter at the Fed warned about it and cited HFT is one of the issues.
Larry Summers warned about it about a week ago.
Are these warnings going anywhere; I mean are they being translated into action anywhere in the system? To give it a little perspective I also spoke in that the banking system is much stronger to start with and every bank in the system is much stronger.
So just trying to think through what are the effects of some of these things.
And we look at that kind of a warning shot across the bow.
What I would worry about more is what happens in a stressed environment.
I think people are paying attention to what’s going on in the markets and there has to be changes down the road; there might be some changes that are relevant to that.
Secondly Marianne a question about commercial banking; the returns in commercial banking have remained in sort of the high teens over the last number of quarters then it’s certainly respectable sort of 17% to 19%.
Is there anyway those returns improve materially or as rates go up or does that get offset by competitive factors? And are we at sort of a normalized level for that business? The best way to think about that is through the cycle target that those that we Doug Petno put out at Investor Day which is 18%.
So that doesn’t mean to say that we won’t benefit when rates rise in this business; it’s very competitive and spreads are compressing and there is a lot of factors going on but through this cycle 18% so with some years below and some above.
The question on core growth and security services outside of presentation changes and client exists is currently in the low single-digit.
So obviously a little bit muted because we’re working on balance sheet optimization but certainly growing and in the low single-digit.
But in terms of looking at advisory and who we are gaining share from principally European banks.
No more questions? There are no more questions.
Thanks everybody.
Thank you for participating in today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to JPMorgan Chase’s Second Quarter Earnings Call.
This call is being recorded.
Your line will be muted for the duration of the call.
We will now go live to the presentation.
Please standby.
At this time I’d like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase’s Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon and Chief Financial Officer Marianne Lake.
Ms.
Lake please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
I’m going to take you through the earnings presentation.
It’s available on our Web site and please if you could refer to the disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements at the back of the presentation.
So starting off on Page 1 the Firm delivered strong performance this quarter.
Net income of $6.3 billion EPS of $1.54 and a return on tangible common equity of 14% on revenue of $24.5 billion.
The quarter’s performance was characterized by strong underlying fundamentals across each of our businesses with stable NIM and NII good growth in fee drive as well as strong IB fees good expense discipline with adjusted expenses flat quarter-on-quarter at $14.2 billion and an adjusted overhead ratio of 58% and low levels of charge offs and core loans up 12% year-on-year.
We also made significant progress on our balance sheet and we’ve delivered on our non-operating deposit commitment.
While there were no significant items this quarter there were some small items that are worth calling out.
On the positive side we had consumer loan loss reserve releases of a little over $300 million as well as a little under $300 million of a benefit in DVA/FVA on wider spreads.
Against that we saw reserve builds across wholesale of $250 million of which approximately $140 million related to oil and gas as well as Firmwide legal expense of a little less than $300 million.
If you take those four items and net them together they contribute to zero to net income.
So finally included in the result is $330 million of a benefit from tax discrete items.
If you adjust all of those our net income is strong at $6 billion.
Skipping over Page 2 and on to Page 3 we continue to make progress against our capital targets with the Firm’s Advanced Fully Phased-In CET1 ratio retain a 11% up 35 basis points quarter-on-quarter and Standardized Fully Phased-In with a 11.2%.
The improvement to both ratios was driven by net capital generation along with an overall reduction to risk weighted assets primarily from lower risk across market and counterparty credit as well as some data enhancements with loan growth offsetting run off.
We continue to build Tier 1 capital adding $3.4 billion of preferred stock this quarter and we return $3.6 billion of net capital to shareholders including $1 billion of net repurchases and dividends of $0.44 a share.
Preferred issuance together with a reduction in average assets drove the Firm’s SLR to reach 6%.
For more details on our balance sheet reduction turn to Page 4.
The last quarter I told you that you should expect us to make meaningful progress on our balance sheet in this quarter and we did just that.
Year-to-date our balance sheet is down over $120 billion on a spot basis driven by a reduction of over $100 billion of non-operating deposits across our wholesale businesses partially offset by continued growth in consumer deposits.
We also saw a $36 billion reduction in trading assets and secured financing as we continue to make progress simplifying our balance sheet.
On the previous page you may have seen that HQLA was down $82 billion this quarter primarily reflecting those lower levels of cash.
However the firm remains LCR compliant given the significant outflow assumptions that was associated with those deposits.
In addition the reduction in deposits together with strong core loan growth resulted in improved loans deposit ratio up 5% since year-end.
These balance sheet actions translated to relatively flat NIM up 2 basis points quarter-on-quarter and NII.
Quarter-on-quarter the reduction in cash drove a 4 basis point improvement was partially offset by lower yields and as I said Firm NII was flat.
Turning to Page 5 and Consumer &amp; Community Banking.
The performance for the combined consumer businesses was characterized by sequential revenue growth on stronger fee revenue and positive operating leverage generating $2.5 billion of net income an ROE of 19% and an overhead ratio of 56%.
Revenue of $11 billion was down 4% year-on-year driven by mortgage but up 3% quarter-on-quarter on seasonally higher credit and debit sales volume as well as higher MSR revenue.
Our focus on customer experience continues to drive growth broadly and we’ve 19% core loan growth driven by mortgage.
Also our active mobile customer base is up 22% to over 21 million customers and we’re the largest and fastest growing among major U.S banks reflecting our strategic objective to have a best-in-class mobile offering.
We remain focused on our commitment to reduce expenses by $2 billion in 2017 relative to 2014 while continuing to self fund investments in the business.
In the first half of this year expenses were down approximately $0.5 billion versus the same period last year and our headcount down roughly 6 000 year-to-date.
Moving to consumer business banking on Page 6 CBB generated net income of $831 million flat quarter-on-quarter and down 8% year-on-year with an ROE of 28%.
Net interest income was flat sequentially with modest spread compression offset by deposit growth and NIR was up 7% seasonally and 2% year-on-year on continued strong client investment and debit revenue.
Expenses were up 1% year-on-year largely due to increased legal costs.
Excluding these expenses were down 2% due to continued improvements in branch efficiency.
We continue to see robust performance across our drivers with attrition well below industry averages.
Average deposit balances up 9% or $41 billion year-on-year and we’re pleased to see that 30% of this growth is driven by our investments in Business Banking and CPC and new builds.
Client investment assets were a record up 8% to $16 billion and in Business Banking Average loan balances were up 6% with loan originations flat against a record last year and in a highly competitive environment.
Stepping back and looking forward to the second half our NII is stable and will increase when rates rise.
Non-interest revenue is growing solidly and expenses will decrease so we expect positive operating leverage.
Mortgage banking on Page 7.
Mortgage net income was $584 million for the quarter.
Originations were $29 billion up 19% quarter-on-quarter on seasonal increases in the purchase market.
We continue to execute our strategy of adding high quality loans to our balance sheet.
Totally $19 billion this quarter and the origination pipeline continues to look strong.
Total revenue increased sequentially primarily driven by higher MSR revenue but as you can see -- you look at our non-interest revenue it’s down $500 million year-on-year.
We still expect non-interest revenue to be down about $1 billion for the full-year in line with previous guidance.
Expenses of $1.1 billion were down $200 million or 15% year-on-year and down 9% quarter-on-quarter despite higher volume as we continue to manage down our costs.
On credit we continue to see improvements in home prices and delinquencies and as a result we released $300 million of NCI reserve this quarter and you can see our charge-off rate were 21 basis points.
Moving on to Page 8 Card Commerce Solutions &amp; Auto.
Overall net income of $1.1 billion up 30% year-on-year and an ROE of 23%.
Revenue of $4.7 billion was up 3% year-on-year on Card sales volume and Auto loan and lease growth partially offset by spread compression.
The Card revenue rate for the quarter of 12.4% was up quarter-on-quarter seasonally.
Expense was down 4% year-on-year driven by lower legal expense with a recent settlement regarding debt sale and collection practices having previously been reserved.
And in Card we saw core loan growth of 3% and sales growth of 7% with delinquency rates and charge-offs remaining low.
Commerce Solutions continue to experience strong growth with volumes up 12% year-on-year driven by continued strong spend and the addition of new merchants.
We’ve recently signed several new strategic clients including Chevron Cinemark Gap Inc.
Marriott and Rite Aid.
Together they represent an incremental 5% to our volume and the majority have signed up for ChaseNet.
Lastly in Auto results continue to reflect steady growth in new vehicle sales and stable used car values.
We saw average loan and lease balances up 8% year-on-year and the pipeline is healthy.
Moving to Page 9 and the Corporate &amp; Investment Bank.
So before I dig into the numbers we did make some reporting changes this quarter.
If you look at the top of the table investment banking fees is now named investment banking revenue and principally this now incorporates the revenue share with the commercial bank here in this line rather than in the market revenues where it was previously being reported.
Additionally trade finance revenue which was previously reported in treasury services is now being reported in lending.
So digging into the numbers the CIB reported net income of $2.3 billion on revenue of $8.7 billion and an ROE of 14% reflecting a strong result in a mixed environment.
In Banking IB revenue of $1.7 billion is up 4% year-on-year.
This quarter we continued to rank number one in global IB fees with 8.2% wallet share and widening the gap for number two.
We ranked number one in fees in North America and EMEA and gained share improving to number two in Asia.
Another strong quarter for Advisory up 17% year-on-year as activity levels remained high.
We maintained our number two ranking and grew share by over 100 basis points from last quarter.
Equity underwriting fees were down 5% from a strong prior year for IPOs in EMEA with lower wallet share as we gave back some of the outsized share gain we had in the third quarter.
This quarter we ranked number two globally with strong performance in the U.S on acquisition finance and follow on.
Debt underwriting up 1% and we maintained our number one ranking with strength in high grades also on the back of the healthy M&amp;A market.
Treasury services was down 2% year-on-year on lower net interest income and the lending item of $302 million was down 32% year-on-year primarily driven by losses on restructured securities.
Given the reporting changes we’ve made going forward we should expect that for treasury services revenues would be about $875 million plus or minus per quarter and lending approximately $350 million and that’s given the trade finance transfer.
Moving on to markets revenue of $4.5 billion was down 1% year-on-year excluding business simplification and the gain in the prior year on the IPO of market which we previously disclosed but with strong relative performance and rates and in equity markets.
Fixed-income revenue was $2.9 billion down 10% year-on-year similarly adjusted.
In macro products the quarter was dominated by EMEA with a bond sell off and economic and political uncertainty including Greece.
This uncertainty slowed the momentum we saw in the first quarter and kept clients from the sidelines in currencies in emerging market but drove strong performance in rates.
Credit and Securitized products were down on a continuation of general weakness in the market.
And as I mentioned equity market had another strong quarter up 27% year-on-year on revenue of $1.6 billion with strong performance in all three regions relative to last year and outperformance in Asia particularly China and Hong Kong on the back of client interests first to participate in the rally and later to hedge.
Looking forward business simplification would drive a 9% decline year-on-year in third-quarter markets revenues with a corresponding decline in expenses.
And as I look into the third quarter in analyst models I see relative to our markets results this quarter you have revenues in markets going up sequentially.
We’re fully expecting to see normal seasonal declines in the third quarter markets revenues.
Security service revenues of $1 billion was in line with guidance up seasonally on the European dividend season.
And moving on to expense -- total expense was down 15% year-on-year at $5.1 billion and an overhead ratio of 59% and we successfully executed the expense reduction associated with business simplification and with lower legal expense.
Compensation expense down 4% year-on-year comped a revenue ratio for the second quarter 30% flat year-on-year.
Moving on to the Commercial Bank.
In commercial Banking the underlying businesses continue to perform well with strong loan growth up $6 billion quarter-on-quarter and record end of period loan balances with good credit fundamentals and low non-performing loans.
We also saw continued momentum in IB revenue off of a record last quarter which was driven by a large transaction.
However we added $187 million to reserves in the quarter reflecting the select downgrades including oil and gas.
Despite this BAU credit performance at the portfolio as I said remained very strong.
This drove net income of $525 million on revenue of $1.7 billion and an ROE of 14%.
Revenue was flat year-on-year driven by continued spread compression in loans and deposits partially offset by growth in loans and flat sequentially despite the record investment banking performance in the first quarter.
Expenses were up 4% year-on-year on increased control related staffing and down slightly quarter-on-quarter.
For the rest of the year for each quarter we expect expenses to remain around $720 million.
Loan balances increased 12% year-on-year and 4% quarter-on-quarter.
C&amp;I loans grew 3% sequentially in line with the industry with middle market growth being somewhat challenged by strong competition but with more strength in corporate client banking driven by short-term financing activity and new facilities for our existing client base.
CRE loans grew 5% and continue to exceed the industry on strong activity in both commercial term lending which had record originations in the quarter and in real estate banking.
Moving on to Page 11 and Asset Management net income of $451 million on revenue of $3.2 billion reflected solid growth up 6% year-on-year and 6% quarter-on-quarter.
Driven by continued net long term inflows marking the 25th consecutive quarter at $13 billion with strength in North America and multi-asset flows driving record AUM of $1.8 trillion up 4% year-on-year and client assets of $2.4 trillion.
In addition we have record loan balances which were up 9% year-on-year.
Expense of $2.4 billion was up 17% year-on-year primarily driven by legal expense and to a lesser extent the impact of moving an asset to held-for-sale.
Adjusting for those two items expense would have been up more in line with revenue and margins in line with our targets.
Lastly we reported strong investment performance with 78% of mutual fund AUM ranked in the first or second quartiles over five years.
Turning to Page 12 and Corporate Treasury &amp; CIO reported a net loss of a little over $100 million and other corporate reported net income of $552 million which included a benefit on discrete tax items I previously mentioned.
So on Page 13 is our outlook page any guidance that I was going to gave I made through the presentation the page is here for your reference.
So to wrap up strong reported and strong underlying results this quarter across our businesses and an environment that continue to remain somewhat challenging with double-digit core loan growth with broad-based strength in our underlying drivers and with continued execution and excellent progress against our capital our balance sheet and expense commitments.
So with that operator we will open up the line now for Q&amp;A.
Great.
And your first question comes from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America.
Hi good morning.
Hi Erika.
Good morning.
My first question is the capital progress has clearly been solid this quarter.
Last week however there seems to have been more support in the Fed in terms of including the SIFI surcharge in the CCAR test.
And I guess the question is in two parts: one what do you think the chances are of the -- any or all of the CCAR surcharge or the CET1 surcharge to be included in CCAR; and two what are the next steps in terms of business model adjustments if that did pass? So to do -- obviously we don't have any particular insights.
I think the comments you are referring to comments about the support for evaluating the possible inclusion of some or all of and really that -- it hasn't changed relative to previous comments and the door has clearly been left open for that but we have no further information and so far it's evaluating the possible inclusion of some or all of the surcharge.
So we are just going to have to I suppose wait and see.
Meanwhile as you know we are -- and by the way it happens for us it happens for everyone and we’ve shown you before not that -- good outcome but we’ve shown you before that we think that regardless the competitive peers set that we have is going to cluster at or around similar capital levels.
And so if everybody have to increase their minimums it's going to be a similar position for everyone.
Meanwhile we are continuing to execute on everything that we have already told you we are going to do to optimize our capital.
And our commitment is to go to firmly within the 4.5% bucket for the surcharge and if we believe we can do it and it’s economic and it’s not going to hurt our clients we may go further.
So we will respond when we see the rules and we're not going to stop continuing to do the best we can to optimize our returns based on scarce resources.
Got it.
And just the second question is you’ve clearly made also progress in terms of your deposit mix.
As we potentially anticipate a rising rate environment for the back half of the year given what the regulators have done in terms of saying okay here are the good deposits here are the not so good deposits how should we expect the pace and magnitude of retail deposit repricing or pass-through if the Fed does raise rates in the second half of this year? So we actually haven’t really changed our point of view since Investor Day and previously about the fact that we are expecting retail deposit and there are other people who have slightly different views but we are expecting retail deposit to reprice higher and faster in this cycle than in previous rising rate cycles given the competition so good high quality LTR compliant retail deposit given the advancements in mobile banking given the awareness in the general environment around low rates and the desire to participate in rising rates.
So when we think about our sensitivity and our reprice we model it in assumption that it’s going to be higher -- somewhat higher.
Your next question is from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Hi.
Good morning Mike.
Hi Mike.
I see your markets revenue are down 1% year-over-year the way you look at this but I’m trying to reconcile that with Jamie’s comments two months ago at a New York conference where you said there is repricing in rates derivatives prime brokerage clearing and trade finance.
I’m guessing its just risk off.
So can you shed more light on what type of repricing you’re seeing with any specific examples because the transparency for us on the outside is pretty weak? Yes.
So obviously when you talk about trading when you have two months to go in a quarter you don’t always -- you don't know the exact number.
And repricing is a complex issue.
I mean I just give you some very specific things and I will tell you why it's hard to figure out exactly what shows up.
Clearing we definitely seeing people start to charge for clearing and effectively charge the balance sheet 25 50 basis points.
It is a small business.
I don’t think it's going to dramatically affect those lines.
Prime broker we have seen similar type of thing.
Repo there seem that people are charging pretty much for repo we need to get a return on it.
Exotic derivatives which are again very small of being repriced to I would say full capital and liquidity.
Muni credit has probably been repriced a little bit against the small market.
If you go to credit and trading so credit we are really not seeing any repricing effectively in commercial credit.
You’re seeing a little bit mortgage to make up for the extra costs in mortgage.
You’ve seen a little bit in auto got more aggressive not less aggressive so trade finance you’ve seen a little bit of repricing and I know these are not all trading numbers.
What you don’t see Mike is that in a lot of cases when you may reprice a little bit you’re also sharing business so that you have -- so you are protecting your margins by because AML cost your -- you’re not do certain types of business anymore.
An FHA the lifetime cost of servicing you cut back on FHA volumes etcetera.
So you're protecting your margins but you're actually shrinking your revenue in some cases.
That's happening a little bit in clearing in prime broker and stuff like that.
You want your best clients.
In other categories clients are like deposits we haven't seen repricing effectively.
I don’t think of non-operating deposits.
On the other hand some clients are saying lets restructure relationship to make more sense for you JPMorgan and I’m willing to give you other business which is not credit sensitive etcetera.
So it's kind of a whole of the amount of things taking place in there but the goal is to get a proper return to your capital not necessarily to show revenue growth in that line-item.
It’s very easy to show revenue growth.
And just one follow-up.
When you think … I think mostly what you see in trading is just volume related and spread related et cetera.
And even in trading spreads are narrow but breadth is also very low which means spreads get gap out pretty quickly which eventually could be good for trading.
So it's unclear.
So when you say a little repricing I mean is it bigger than a breadbox? I mean is this -- are we talking about basis points or 1% or 5% what you're talking about here? I'm talking about basis points 20 basis points 15 10.
That's all we need is some of these things get a adequate return on capital as we currently look at capital.
Your next question is from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Question on the deposit shrinkage.
You obviously finished the program you announced at Investor Day.
Just wondering if you're going to take it further what the impact on revenues has been and do you expect that the full benefit to NIM is already in 2Q or -- in the 2Q numbers we’re going to see more benefit in 3Q from the actions you took? So -- hi Betsy.
So what I said and hopefully it was clear is that we actually exceeded our commitments so we actually shrunk our non-operating deposit by more than $100 billion and not just grew our consumer deposit but we are also able to grow also operating deposit.
So we had a good mix shift both in consumer versus wholesale but also within wholesale.
And so we feel very great about that.
There are two priorities off that.
The first is protecting that position to making sure that we’re able to not have inflows of those deposit size as the industry continues to absorb them.
But the second is we will likely look to potentially push a little farther but if we get harder and harder each margin the next $5 billion or $10 billion as you get more and more closely aligned operating accounts in operating business and we have always said that we want to do this for the right reason for capital efficiency but not do it in a way that its going to materially harm our clients.
So that's the lens … And the parts also we made in level 3 assets derivate receivables certain balance sheet items RWA so the efforts are optimized the balance sheet for G-SIFI etcetera is not going to stop.
That we’re going to continue to do.
But its not -- I don’t anticipate us launching another and announcing another program.
We’ve already done a little better.
We will continue to try and do a little better.
In terms of revenue impact not very much right now as you might very well know because you can see that the balance is much more on a spot basis than on an average basis but the equation looking forward will be much the same as said at Investor Day approximately 25 basis points revenue on approximately $100 billion average for half a year but that would be some expense benefit on FDIC cost etcetera so not a very big number.
I think that was the question? Yes and the NIM benefit should flow into 3Q as well? Little bit yes.
Your next question comes from the line of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
Hi good morning.
Marianne I was wondering if you could remind us about the timing of your expense reduction targets in the Consumer and Investment Bank specifically if you read the $57 billion in adjusted expenses for ’15 how much of the ultimate cost saves does that $57 billion target for this year in Corporate? How much would you have achieved already in ’15 and any thoughts on the trajectory for remaining saves after this year? Yes so let me do this in two parts and I'm going to start with the consumer businesses where the commitment is actually a couple of years old and we are sort of well low on our way to delivering against the commitment $2 billion in ’17 versus ’14 and its not exactly linear but you can consider it to flow through time and if you look at the CCB page on whatever page that is I think we show that for the first half of the year our expenses are down over the first half of last year by $0.5 billion.
So that gives you a sense where how we’re tracking.
On the CIB obviously the commitment is somewhat newer at Investor Day this year 2.8 billion in ’17 versus ’14.
I would characterize that in sort of two parts.
$1.5 billion is business simplification.
The majority of business simplification not all but the majority will come out of our run rate in 2015 and we’ve already seen that in the first and second quarter when you’re seeing the $300 million $400 million expense reductions in each of the quarters on business simplification.
The other $1.3 billion which is all the reductions in technology and operations and headcount is going to be things.
We are working on it actively.
We have programs we have people but it's going to be more of a 2016 and ’17 benefit.
So if I have to look at the first half of ’15 versus the first half of ’14 take the 500 in consumer and business simplification in the CIB space that’s probably the right way to size it about a quarter so far this year.
A quarter of the total? Yes.
Okay great.
And then a quick follow-up is on RWA.
Any update to your year-end RWA targets and thoughts about how we should think about potential RWA levels longer-term? So RWA advance RWA is down $36 billion $37 billion 1536 we said a little greater than 1.5 we're still in track to be 1.5 or a little greater 1.5 advanced at the end of the year.
Standardized right now is at 1.5 so pretty close to 1.5 trillion again the target at the end of the year 1.55.
So that’s a little better but obviously on the standardized you have somewhat put pressure as we continue to grow those really great loans that we’re growing.
And so if you look to our Investor Day targets we’re still hoping to maintain the discipline around both of those at approximately 1.5 through time.
Your next question is from the line of Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo.
Good morning.
I’m just curious in terms of your core loan growth.
You mentioned that that’s up about 12% year-over-year.
Can you give us a sense as to where that’s growing the strongest and where you are seeing a bit -- perhaps where you’re seeing a bit more weakness within the core loan growth specifically? I would say -- yes of course.
I'll do it in three parts.
First of all it's growing pretty solidly or strongly so either in-line or in some -- in many cases better than industry across most of the product categories.
The one that’s growing the most strongly because of the way we’re portfolioing loans is mortgage.
So that’s driving some of that outperformance and the one that is most challenging but still growing is middle market.
Fiercely competitive competitive everybody is chasing that sector.
But you can go through the businesses so we had 6% loan growth 6% to 8% loan and lease growth in Auto 6% Business Banking 19% core in consumer 4% in commercial so 3% core in card.
So it’s solid to strong pretty much across the board most competitive in middle market and flattered by portfolio and mortgages.
Okay Marianne.
And for my follow-up I noticed I guess you were quoted in an earlier meeting today suggesting that there could be further provisions for the oil and gas portfolio.
There has been some media reports prior to this week about regulators potentially looking a bit more carefully at your portfolio as well as a number of other banks.
Can you give us a little more color as to how you’re thinking about the potential trends there and any comment you might want to give in terms of where the regulators are focusing? So what I said earlier is not inconsistent it’s entirely consistent with what we said last quarter.
We built results modestly from oil and gas last quarter on the back of the spring redetermination of borrowing base.
We built another modest reserve at this quarter and we said we don’t -- we might expect more reserves in the second half of the year there’s another redetermination cycle in the fall and its -- I’m not going to say likely but its possible we’ll be selectively downgrading some time.
If none of that is out of our expectations its completely sort of normal levels considering the cycle and how we think about the credit we’re still very happy.
And we’re not going to make any comments on regulators.
Those reserves do not mean we’re going to have losses? Correct.
So we’re reserving for downgrades it doesn’t necessarily mean that they’re going to be catalysis.
Your next question is from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Thanks.
Marianne I just wanted to follow up on that last point.
Your commentary about credit so the second half is in line you’re $4 billion plus and you had a $1 billion of charge offs this quarter again.
So on that point just one question about where you continue to see underlying improvements Card obviously is still above your guidance.
But can you give us some of the thoughts about where any existing improvement can come from? So I mean credit like charge offs have been very benign across the wholesale space.
They’ve reverted to somewhat more normal levels in auto.
So I’m not expecting that to be big step changes in the underlying charge offs in the wholesale space.
We’re continuing to see improvements at a slower pace in mortgage but at 21 basis points we’re sort of getting down there.
And Card well its slightly above at the 2.6% above our 2.5% its also pretty much getting there.
So its one of the reasons why we said expecting second half to look like the first half in terms of order of magnitude and expect net-net low for long.
And then to your point about not expecting to be much loss from the energy provisioning and that we could see energy provisioning plus this quarter you had a nice $300 million release from the NCI portfolio.
Is this kind of fit for reserve release and can you talk about your outlook there? Yes.
So I would say in the non-credit -- sorry just to clarify the comment on oil and gas we said they will not necessarily translate into losses and we’re not going to predict which ones will or won't.
On the reserves for non-credit impaired portfolio we are continuing to see improvements in charge-offs as well as home prices albeit a little bit more gradually.
So I would still expect there to be more reserve releases over the course of the next 18 months in hundreds of million of dollars in total not billions any longer of course.
We have $1.8 billion reserved right now.
In the non-credit in the purchase credit impaired space clearly that life of loan model and so we’ll continue to evaluate that model against parameters that we have and expectations.
So that will be what it is at the time.
And in Card we’re not expecting any significant reserve actions.
Your next question is from the line of Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
Hi.
Good morning.
Maybe we can just ask a question on card fees.
That’s been an area where growth in card fees have been pretty flat for a while as you ramp up reward spending.
We saw a pretty nice jump quarter-over-quarter at some of that seasonal but it was a little stronger than what we saw the last couple of years.
Are we getting to a point where you’re lapping some of these higher reward costs in growth and new accounts we should start to see that revenue line track more closely with spending or is this something unusual this quarter.
So you’re obviously right all the underlying phenomena are still there we’re still seeing spread compression but we’re seeing very strong growth in spend.
We aren’t quite loud yet on new accounts going through the revenue rate.
We will eventually be but it’s a good thing to be adding these new accounts that would drive new strong spend in the future.
So I would say our near-term guidance is that we’re expecting our revenue rate to be at the lower end of that 12% 12.5% range.
And yes over time as spread compression abates and we continue to drive strong growth with the quality of our products and our partnerships we would expect that to start too agile.
Okay.
And on the card loan side it seemed like you saw a decent uptick this quarter.
You’re starting to get past some of the run off and seen more of a core driver? Yes so I mean we told you we would hope to drive core loan growth in the card space low single digits.
In this quarter it was 3%.
I just want to emphasis.
Marianne mentioned it but emphasis Chase Paymentech which you’re seeing really good growth probably 50% fast in the industry.
But we’re also signing people with Chase Paymentech combined with ChaseNet we’re running real volume across it and we’re signing up a lot of folks that act for ChasePay.
So the strategy of ours is kind of coming to provision and we hope it will be a good driver happy customers and good growth in the next 10 years.
Your next question is from the line of Steven Chubak with Nomura.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So first question on capital.
I just want to get a sense as to how we should be thinking about preferred issuance plans going forward now that you have met the 150 basis point RWA target? Yes.
So obviously we don’t give you lots of details on our issuance plans.
You’re right one of that the drivers for us to issue in part not exclusively was its not -- as you know we were Tier 1 leverage constraint in CCAR and so as a result of issuing this we not only helped TLAP but we help our CCAR stress capacity and at we’re about 164 RWA.
So I mean we’re not going to talk about board issuance but we made progress.
Okay.
And just a follow-up regarding Marianne your comments about the trading outlook for at least in the near-term.
Recognizing its still very early days in the quarter since the very start we’ve seen -- well obviously we’ve experienced a number of global shocks and on the regulatory front we do had that that Volcker implementation deadline which is looming.
So taking all those factors into consideration how should we be thinking about the near-term trading outlook? So to start with Volcker we aren’t expecting Volcker to have an impact in the near-term trading outlook.
We’ve been talking very consistently over an extended period of time about the fact that we reshaped our business through time to be compliant in substance and in form with Volcker.
And so while that was real reshaping of the business the last 18 months has been to really focus on getting operationally ready around the reporting and the metrics and it’s been hard work and we are ready.
So I don’t expect it to have a direct impact on near-term trading.
Clearly over time we need to continue to sort of evolve the feedback lead with regulators but that will be entirely gradual.
With respect to the trading its too early for us to say anything specific about the second quarter -- sorry the third quarter except to say we are -- all other things equal we would expect to see normal seasonality from the market levels.
Nothing has changed that fundamentally wouldn’t have us expecting normal seasonality in the third quarter.
I just want to point out that trading if you look at it over a long period of time it’s been -- we’ve become very consistent.
I think in 2014 we had no trading loss days and even this year going a hand full of trading loss days.
And obviously some areas are up and some are down but our shares are high.
I think we’re doing a great job servicing clients.
We’re adopting all the new roles like 15% of interest rate swaps are on CES today and I think 95% of FX trading by transaction is electronic.
You can do a lot of that on your mobile phone or iPad now.
So the business is actually doing fine.
The returns on risk are very good.
We need to report that but kind of return on bar are very good.
So it’s become a much more stable business that clients need over time.
And just to add to that I would say that we also talked about in the sort of period of transition towards more normal economy and rising rates.
You might see some shops like this.
We weathered both the EMEA bond sell off and China well and it just speaks about the strength of our risk management discipline and we generally do pretty well in more difficult markets.
Your next question is from the line of Paul Miller with FBR.
Yes.
Thank you very much.
You guys had a very decent mortgage banking quarter in the second quarter with rates going up.
We know that that the refis have started to come down but the purchase market has been stronger I think than people expected in the second quarter.
What do you see going into the third and fourth quarter especially with the new regulations come out with the disclosures with [indiscernible]? So with respect so we saw a stronger seasonal purchase market and we actually gained a little share in the purchase market in the quarter and refi held up pretty well because of the pipeline is coming into the quarter but we are expecting that to both seasonally in purchase and in refi to pull back down to normal levels in the third seasonally and so no direct impact from the disclosure requirements.
And part of the quarter we get reserve take downs we don’t double count that that may not be there next quarter.
Correct.
Okay.
And then could you talk a little bit about the tax -- or my follow-up question on the tax rate.
Should we be modeling in 20% to 30% going forward is that 25% just an outlier? So the way I think about it is our normal tax rate for the year is 30% or minus.
Just given the way tax reserving is it’s usually bias to being fairly conservative and so as you know we have seen discreet tax gains periodically some of them not insignificant resulting from completion of settlements and audits with tax authorities.
So not to say that you should necessarily model in directly 30% but we don’t predict or forecast the tax benefits.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Your next question is from the line of Matt O’Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning.
Good morning.
The equity trading has been very strong the last couple of quarters both for you and for others assuming it continues the rest of this earning season.
And as you step back and think about some of the drivers there you mentioned some repricing we’ve obviously seen some deepening of some markets increased volatility.
Like can we think about there being potentially a long-term secular recovery in the equities trading or do you think its more just stocks are going up as global QE or too early to tell? It’s definitely the later and I think it’s perhaps a little too early to tell on the former.
Okay.
And then just separately what type of mortgage loans are you adding.
Are these jumbo? Are they fixed rate? Jumbo.
Yes.
So over half a jumbo the other half are conventional conforming CCAR.
Okay.
And I guess are you choosing to add some mortgage loans instead of securities because you’ve got a smaller securities book than a lot of peers and it seems like there’s capacity to add there.
So well we have a fairly large securities portfolio and our decisions around that are in part driven by our overall interest rate risk positioning.
But with effect to the mortgages it’s fundamentally a best execution decision for us.
We will portfolio alone where it makes economic sense to do it relative to distributing it other than jumbo where clearly they would always go on our balance sheet.
And if you could put a jumbo on a higher ROE than a Fannie/Freddie you would do that.
Yes.
And part of the invest proposed for liquidity and obviously because it’s non-operating policy down portions of that will come down too.
Your next question is from the line of Glenn Schorr with Evercore ISI.
Hi thanks.
I just want to follow-up on the conversation in fixed income and I agree with you it seems like you weathered the whole Greece and China is doing pretty well.
The fill out on the lack of liquidity and the fixed income markets gets a lot of attention you guys had the most market share had the lowest standard deviation in the business as the liquidity provider that’s a good thing for you.
But curious on how you’re thinking about preparing for what seems to pretty serious issue and how serious of an issue do you think it is that in terms of the potential disruption? So I mean we have -- there’s been a lot of press and reports including recently on market liquidity and there are numbers of factors playing into it.
Its true that liquidities in some cases has dried up quite quickly when there’s been extreme volatility and its been on itself but the reality is that we talked about the fact that that was likely to be a phenomenon and that happened more frequently as we transitioned to a more normal environment and we are very disciplined about how we trade into our clients and generally we’ve been able to weather them very well.
I’ve had generally community we haven’t I mean not that we know but we haven’t got any stories or clear stories around the EMEA bonds settled for other things this quarter.
So I think it’s definitely an issue one that we need to watch one that has multiple recourses and one that we’re generally taking in our stride.
And if I look at the big picture and we pointed out the financial system like in the United States banks are much more sound trading books are more capital liquidity the whole system is better off.
So you can't look at one piece and say what will that do? The second is that these -- obviously there’s less liquidity in the market place and it’s a whole bunch of factors.
It’s hard to tease out exactly which one.
But trading books are more capital more liquidity.
I think people are little worried about potential Volcker Rule violations they’ve been a little more cautious.
There are obviously structural changes in electronic trading HFT and each business is slightly different.
So not every -- I would say everyone is expecting exactly the same.
It’s also true that system is pretty resilient to what happened with currencies and that’s a good sign.
I think what we are going to be really cautious about is when markets aren’t that good.
So JPMorgan is fine.
We are not talking about whether or not JPMorgan is going to have a hard time with liquidity we are not.
The question I really would have is when markets are tough will there be a feedback from this violent markets will there be more volume or less volume.
As someone was quoted other day saying their markets always pull back in when there are tough times that is true.
The question is will it be harder and worse or will it feedback into the real economy.
Its not will there be lack of liquidity.
Like during the crisis there were two market makers out there and we were one of them and so you need them a little bit.
But it doesn’t stop markets from gapping out.
So we’re not saying this is terrible but you just be very cautious about it and we are always trying to be very cautious.
Speaking of cautious the last one I have is on living wills.
I know we have a little bit of time before we hear anything.
But if you look at the comments from the previous year what they want is you all to address.
It seems like there was a massive amount of progress made.
I’m not sure what you can tell us but give us your thoughts on progress made and then maybe timing on when we might hear the regulators thoughts? Yes I can tell you that obviously we took the feedback from the regulators as the industry did exactly as you would expect entirely seriously put loads of resources and efforts to bear in making as much progress as we thought was humanly possible over the course of the period and we feel that we made very very significant -- I would agree with you the industry but JPMorgan specifically made very very significant progress in addressing the feedback between getting it and the July submission date.
And obviously we feel like we have a credible plan that’s not to say that we won't continue and some of our plans and you saw it in some others disclosures we’re going to continue to work very hard at simplifying our legal entities structure over the next few years and interconnectedness and operational resiliency and all the things and reporting readiness all the things that are going to make it even better.
So we think we made very very significant progress.
We think our plan is credible.
We don’t know exactly when we’ll get feedback probably in the fall.
And we respond to every single thing regulators raise with the huge resources to meet their needs and it will probably be iterative over time about whether it will make more demands this year et cetera and -- but I think this is 50 page public part that you can actually read and it shows you that’s 50 page summary of a -- I think a 200 000 page detailed report.
Your next question is from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Marianne you mentioned a couple of times about the competitiveness in the middle market lending space.
Can you give us some color on what you’re seeing whether it’s underwriting standards and what kind of product type in the middle market that is most competitive? I mean it’s very broadly competitive and we compete obviously with state banks regional banks and non-banks and its not that we are loosing loans and deals and most often on price.
It’s normally on price of holds or non-banks taking whole deals or on structures.
But its very very competitive and everybody likes the sector for growth and everybody likes so everybody is trying to make progress and we’re being very very disciplined and as a result of that slightly lower growth in the industry average.
And you might not want us to always grow at the industry average; you want us to hold through to discipline.
And remember if you look at the whole relationship side I forgot the exact number but if you look at middle market relationships I think somewhat like half maybe even a little bit less of the revenues are from the lending.
You guys have made great progress with the penetration of the mobile banking app that you’ve created as well as online banking and you can -- you showed us that your branch count is down over a 100 branches on a year-over-year basis.
What do you see for the branches as you go forward? Is that trend line likely to continue as you continue with the increased penetration from the mobile app? So the way I would characterize it is we had a period of time following the Wampum merger where we were in new market and we didn’t have the right distribution footprint where we were building.
We said about a year and half ago that we felt like we had the right footprint as a matter of about 5600 and that now we’re around perfecting that which is about consolidating certain branches where it made sense building new ones where it made sense consolidating together where it made sense.
So you would see I think Gordon said approximately 150 net down in each of the next couple of years and that’s probably still the right way to look at it but its really perfecting that it worth moving branches to the areas we like whether the high density of affluence.
And then as you know really looking at the nature of branches as a footprint the way we’re using them the way we’re staffing them importantly moving them to more advise and less transaction more automation.
So definitely responses to the evolution in customer preferences and mobile and online is not only a fantastic customer experience evidenced in our experience that but it’s also a lower cost to serve.
So we’re also improving the profitability of the very highly transactional customers.
So I mean I think Gordon used the word omni-channel.
It’s we have a place for everything in our fleet and branches are very important.
And we’re just going to be evolving them to continue to meet customer needs.
And one add is that we are thinking about attacking a new city for the first time like in a major way because we want to see how that works out.
Your next question is from the line of Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer.
Hi I was just curious about the reduction of the non-operating deposits and I would have expected that to come mainly out of the Corporate and Investment Bank and -- but when you look at the disclosures on your average asset level it’s essentially been $850 billion plus/minus each over the last five quarters.
So where is the shrink really happening or how do we see it? In the non operating deposits within the wholesale deposits the majority is the CIB but not quite two thirds and then you’ve got the Commercial Bank and you’ve got a little bit in Asset Management.
So it is the majority of the number but there often sizable numbers particularly in the Commercial Bank in the financial [indiscernible].
And then when you look at our overall balance sheet you see cash going down because of the deposits.
You see securities going down but strong loan growth offsetting and then small reductions in trading and secured financing.
But then I look at like total assets in the CIB its $845 billion this quarter versus $846 billion last year.
It just doesn’t look like a whole bunch came out of there.
It looks like it all came out of the … Are you doing year-over-year? You’re starting the wrong time period.
Are you starting at the year end or year-over-year? Well if you go length quarter its 865 to 845 it just -- I’m just curious it doesn’t seem to mesh up to ...
Well we’re getting more operating deposits too.
Yes.
So we talked about the the deposit reduction is overachieving in non-op and improving mix in operating.
So trust me and I’m not looking at what you’re looking at so I do trust you but trust me that 68% of it is CIB.
Okay.
Now where you see it in your public disclosures its -- it all looks like its coming out of corporate and other which is down more than a 100 length quarter.
So I was just kind of curious how it all works because it didn’t … We’ll clarify it off this line because we [indiscernible].
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Eric Wasserstrom with Guggenheim Securities.
Thanks.
My questions have been addressed.
Thank you.
Thank you Eric.
Your next question is from the line of Brennan Hawken with UBS.
Hi good morning.
Just following up on the markets discussion curious whether or not you’ve seen some of the drama around Greece impact the M&amp;A discussions in Europe this quarter and maybe an update on the IB Bank backlog at this point? The M&amp;A we don’t Greece has expected the M&amp;A dialogue very much because it’s been very active pretty much around the world.
And mostly around the world it’s also like European companies coming to America American companies going to Europe et cetera and those conversations continue … I’d say a lot to Europe.
A lot to Europe.
So Greece had no real effect in that.
Greece is a very very small percent of the Eurozone in total.
So economically if not a driving factor for most of the companies they are.
Psychologically maybe it’s going to affect some people but I don’t see why a company that has its own ambitions is going to change them because of Greece.
And I’ll just -- with affect to the backlog I would say it’s very good.
We did see a tremendous amount of some of that we’ve almost never seen before of the EU American companies financing in euro because it’s cheaper to do that even if you swap back to dollars.
So a lot of American companies go to Europe to do that.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
And then on security services I know that you all highlighted that it’s up quarter-over-quarter on the seasonal strength for the dividend season but it was down year-over-year.
Can you help us reconcile the year-over-year decline? Yes I think if you go back to last quarter Brennan and take a look at the remarks in last quarter we talked about the change in presentation of some expenses versus revenues for the ADR business that drove a reduction but just a classification issue and then in addition we did loose a large client at the end of last year and that is having an impact.
So I think if you go back and look at the second quarter hopefully that will make it clear.
And so the guidance when we did those when we made that presentational change and obviously we talked about the client exit a few quarters ago the guidance well as given those we would expect the revenues to run between 950 seasonally and this is obviously a strong season and therefore its that through 950 to a billion seasonally and therefore its at the billion.
Marianne gave you all very specific guidelines which you don’t normally do on treasury services investor services and expenses in the commercial bank because a lot of you have your models wrong.
And Sarah finds it very frustrating that she can't get it corrected quarter after quarter.
So we said here is the number that is actually our best guess.
So please put in your third and fourth quarter models and revenue mortgage revenue is another one which has been ongoing for us and what’s the other one so we can just get on the table whatever it is.
Your next question is from the line of Nancy Bush with NAB Research.
Good morning.
Jamie you made a comment about attacking new markets and that sort of tags on to what I was going to ask which is whether there are any of the old WaMu markets where you’ve not been able to expand as aggressively as you’ve wanted to and you might be thinking about exiting.
So I’m just wondering can you just tell us how you feel about individual markets right now? So Nancy it’s really important.
When we talk about these numbers by the way RWA and branches we are not making commitments to anybody.
That’s our best guess knowing what we know it but we reserved the right to change that on a moments notice whatever reason it makes sense for the company and the clients.
And so branches it is very important that you look at branches city by city and do you have the right footprint.
So if you remember the old AMP which never changed its locations and it never changed its sizes and it failed.
So every any retail business should always be adding in the new communities subtracting in some having the branches adjust the new reality was getting bigger against smaller in our cases getting smaller.
But we’re not getting smaller because we’re guessing at this stuff.
We are getting smaller because the less need for operations in branches now and people are doing far more on mobile phones like that.
So we actually do it city by city.
We don’t set an overall guidelines that you have to do X Y or Z it’s city by city.
And so for the most part in the WaMu footprint I think Florida and California for the most part city by city we went in and added what we thought we should have.
WaMu then we also added on top of that small business private banking some middle market other business that WaMu wasn’t even in and those are -- was part of the expansion of those businesses too and so when I said a new city I’m talking about what we’ve never really done -- I was talking about the way back to BankOne and the stocks we did the merger with JPMorgan is going into a city De Novo that we’ve never been in.
And there you’ve got to look at how many branch you’re going to open how long its going to take and so we do want to do one of those and that will be -- will have nothing to do with WaMu because there are places that WaMu wasn’t.
Okay.
Another geographic question I get that Greece is not that important to the Eurozone and events of the past couple of weeks seemed to have been a lot of theater frankly.
But the events in China in the last couple of weeks have been somewhat worrisome.
So I mean have your plans for China changed at all given what seems to be a retreat from open markets there? No.
I don’t think there’s been a retreat from open markets there either.
So remember we’ve always said about China you’ve got to look and plan for long run which we do in all businesses.
So McKenzie has reports that shows that they’re going to have 25% of some of the Fortune 1000 and that was 10 or 12 years enormous growth in their company.
Their company is growing overseas.
Their company is doing more M&amp;A.
We did that one unique transaction where ChemChina bought Pirelli in Italy.
And obviously when we have a unique network we can help the Chinese company and the Italian company at the same time.
So we’re building there for the long run.
As a risk management tool we’ve always said that the way we treat that is we will be prepared for very tough times.
And I think it’s a mistake not to grow because you’re going to have tough times.
I have never seen an economy didn’t have tough times.
So if you went back to United States when JPMorgan was building JPMorgan back to 1850-1860 look every single time that you panic because America had a recession there would be no JPMorgan.
So we’re not going to change.
What we’ve seen with the officials in China is that they’re very responsive to changes and you could argue whether they should have got in that involved in the stock market and you can’t manipulate stock markets and but they’re very responsive to lending to -- they have changed their reserve policies their RMB policies the QFII policies the Hong Kong Shanghai Connect.
Not everything they do is going to work but they still seemed very committed to more and more market reform more and more of taking SOE rationalization -- SOEs and taking them public so some market discipline there creating more of a consumer society and what we’ve always said and I think they’ve the wherewithal to meet their kind of short-term objectives of growth.
But we expect that they will have bumps in the road.
We expect that and we’re going to look right through that and the fact that their -- and also the market went from $4 trillion value so its $10 trillion economy.
It went from $4 trillion market value to $10 trillion now its back to $6 trillion.
I think those are the numbers.
And the American stock markets has done that roundtrip a couple of times itself.
And so the American economy is $18 trillion.
I think our stock market is 25.
And so there will still be huge opportunities there.
If they ever completely reverse what they’re talking about doing you will see it in far more significant ways than getting involved in this stock market.
Your next question is from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Oh hi.
Thanks.
Just a quick follow-up.
Marianne earlier on you were talking about deposit betas and for a lot of very good reasons expecting that deposit betas will be a little bit faster this time around.
But could you round out the conversation as to how you’re thinking about how your NIM is going to traject in a rising rate scenario? Because I got a few questions on whether the deposit betas being a little faster means that the NIM trajectory is likely to be different from last time rates rose for you guys.
So Marianne you showed a NIM thing that NIM will go back to 265 to 275.
And remember when we say deposit beta it is byproduct by -- and it’s got gamma.
So the first 25 basis points the second are a different 25 basis -- different in the third 25 basis points and it’s a pretty intensive analysis trying to get it accurate.
That’s what we’re trying to do and it’s all in that number that we present it and we don’t think that’s changed dramatically.
As Marianne said we’re assuming that whatever happen in the last cycle this one will be worse.
In other words you will gather less of the benefit from rates going up than we have in the past.
Okay because the last time rates rose your NIM didn’t move up that much.
Well listen there is a unique.
Yes its.
There is a unique circumstance when you’re at zero.
I mean there are lot of things that happen when rates go to 25 basis points that there will be -- you will pass very little of that on and we also see that -- we will see that money market funds.
We will see that in some forms of deposits etcetera.
The Beta gets high; it gets much higher as rates go up.
If I had to guess I’d say we’re conservative not aggressive.
Your next question is from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
Hi.
This is actually Steve Duong in for Gerard.
Just two follow-ups.
You had mentioned the credit downgrades; I believe you’ve said oil and gas.
Where there any other sectors and if there were just some figures on them? Yes the credit downgrades included oil and gas and we called it out just because in total oil and gas was $140 million of our total net 250 reserve build but also I said that there was select names it’s like a dozen names.
So not really like there is another sector just its very discrete names.
Okay great.
Thank you.
And just a second follow-up can you just give us your mortgage duration and how far you’re willing to take it? No no we are not going to give you that.
We disclosed -- when you say mortgage ratio obviously we build into all of our models mortgage duration and you guys can calculate that yourself by looking into disclosures in 10-K that show mortgages at 3% 3.5% 4% etcetera.
And obviously we can change that at will with our investment portfolio and things like that.
It’s all in the NIM already.
So obviously we have negative convexity in our portfolio.
And there are no further questions.
Thank you everyone.
Wait.
Before you all go I just want to tell you one of these days I’m not going to come in this call.
I’m not doing it because I want to avoid it I don’t like it.
And obviously if anything is important or really bad I’m not going to ever try to avoid bad news here because we like to tell the whole truth nothing but the truth the good bad and ugly.
But Marianne has started to do such a good job that I’ve become unnecessary to be in all of them and I can obviously go do other things.
So don’t be surprised if one of these days I don’t show up don’t read anything into it.
Thank you for being here.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to JPMorgan Chase's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
This call is being recorded.
Your line will be muted for the duration of the call.
We will now go live to the presentation.
Please stand by.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase's Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon and Chief Financial Officer Marianne Lake.
Ms.
Lake please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Good afternoon everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
I'm going to take you through the earnings presentation which is available on our website.
Please refer to the disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements at the back of the presentation.
Starting on Page 1 the firm reported net income of $6.8 billion EPS of $1.68 and a return on tangible common equity of 15% on $23-1/2 billion of revenue.
If you exclude tax adjustments legal expense and net reserve releases our adjusted performance was $1.32 a share with a 12% return on tangible common equity.
And we've only adjusted for these three items because other small items that might be considered non-core netted to zero.
Underlying results were somewhat mixed on the back of market conditions.
The consumer business had strong performance with loan growth across products driving overall firm-wide core loan of 15%.
In the corporate and investment bank we saw outperformance in investment banking revenue and solid trading performance.
Commercial banking revenue was down driven by lover IB revenues in a declining market.
And asset management revenues reflected lower market levels driving weaker client sentiment and transactional revenues.
There were two significant items this quarter.
First tax benefits of $2.2 billion the size of which speaks to the complexity of tax methods during the financial crisis.
We took appropriately prudent position in our tax reserves and now we've reached resolution on those matters.
The majority of this is in Corporate with a portion in the CIB.
The second item is firm-wide legal expense of $1 billion after tax relating to a range of matters but including the recently announced CDS settlement.
Also reflected in our results is a net reserve release of $281 million pretax which reflects a little less than $600 million of consumer reserve releases as favorable credit trends continue offset by a build of a little over $300 million in wholesale approximately $160 million of which is additional reserves associated with the oil and gas sector given expectations that energy prices will remain lower for longer.
Getting over Page 2 and turning on to Page 3 and our balance sheet.
We continue to make progress against our capital targets and as expected advanced and standardized fully phased in CET1 ratios in line with each other at 11.4% this quarter.
Also we continue to expect the standardized ratio will be our floor from here.
And the improvement to both ratios was driven by net capital generation.
We also built Tier 1 in total capital adding 1.2 billion of preferred stock and 1-1/2 billion of subordinated debt this quarter.
We returned $2.7 billion of net capital to shareholders including $1 billion of net repurchases and dividends of $0.44 a share.
Firm and bank SLR were at 6.3% and 6.5% respectively with the increase driven almost equally by capital generation and a reduction in average assets.
While we're on the balance sheet you can see on the call-out on the page that on a spot basis our balance sheet is down $160 billion year to date and an incremental $32 billion this quarter as we reduced non-operating deposits by over $150 billion exceeding our commitment.
Total deposits are only down $90 billion reflecting growth in more stable balances particularly consumer.
Finally with respect to GCIB we estimate that today we are squarely in the 4% bucket given actions taken and final U.S.
rules as compared to 4-1/2% at the beginning of the year.
Now let's turn to Page 4 and consumer and community banking.
The combined consumer businesses generated $2.6 billion of net income and an ROE of 20%.
Revenue of $10.9 billion was down 4% year on year driven by mortgage on lower net servicing revenue.
We remain on track to deliver expense reductions versus our $2 billion commitment and year-to-date expenses were down around $600 million reported and over $700 million adjusted for legal expense.
Our headcount is down 10 000 year-to-date and more than 40 000 since 2012.
Underlying business drivers are strong and based on the 2015 FDIC deposit survey which just came out we grew our deposits nearly two times the industry growth rate.
Average loans are up 8% with core loans up 23%.
Our customer base continued to expand.
We added 900 000 households during the year and our active mobile base is up 21%.
Moving to Page 5 consumer and business banking.
CBB generated strong results with net income of $954 million and an ROE of 32%.
NII was down 1% quarter on quarter and 7% year on year driven by spread compression offset by continued growth in deposits.
And non-interest revenue is growing solidly up 5% quarter on quarter seasonally and 5% year on year on continued strong debit and investment revenue.
Overall expenses were down 3% year on year on lower headcount from branch efficiency.
We continue to see robust performance across key drivers.
Average deposits were up 9%.
And we grew deposits in all of our top 50 MSAs and gained share in nine of our top ten.
Client assets were up 3% but down 4% quarter on quarter broadly in line with the market.
And net new money was positive $3 billion for the quarter.
Business banking loan growth remained strong with average loan balances up 6% year on year and originations up 4% from a strong 2014.
Next mortgage banking on Page 6.
Overall net income was $602 million for the quarter.
Originations of $30 billion were up 41% from the prior year and up slightly quarter on quarter as we benefited from a strong pipeline and continued improvement in the purchase market.
We continued to add high-quality loans to our balance sheet totaling $19 billion this quarter.
Total revenue decreased sequentially primarily driven by lower net servicing revenue on lower MSR risk management.
We expect non-interest revenue to be down around $250 million year over year in the fourth quarter.
Expenses of $1.1 billion were down 13% year on year despite higher volumes as we continued to manage down our costs.
On credit we released $575 million of reserve including $200 million in the non-credit impaired portfolio and $375 million in the purchase credit impaired portfolio reflecting an improvement in both actual and expected delinquencies and the sustained improvement in home prices.
Finally our net charge-offs were $41 million and approximately $60 million normalized.
And this is a reasonable estimate for the near term.
Moving on to Page 7 card commerce solutions and auto.
Overall net income of $1.1 billion with an ROE of 22%.
And revenue of $4.8 billion was up 2% year on year on higher operating lease income in auto as well as card revenue up slightly reflecting higher NII on volume spread and lower interest reversals offset by the impact of changes to some of our co-brand partnerships.
On our partners we were thrilled to announce the renewal of two of our key partners United Airlines and Southwest Airlines.
We look forward to continued investment and growth in these important relationships.
And while we repriced to the current competitive market our ROE target for the card business in total remains unchanged.
However expect the revenue rate for the fourth quarter to be 11.75% plus or minus.
Expense was $2.2 billion up 8% year on year driven by higher auto lease depreciation and higher marketing spend.
On drivers we continue to see strong year-over-year growth in volumes and transactions across our businesses.
In card core loan growth was 3% sales growth was 6%.
Commerce solutions volumes were up 11% driven by continued strong spend from existing clients but also from the addition of new merchants.
Lastly in auto results continued to reflect steady growth in new vehicle sales and stable used car values.
We saw average loan and lease balances up 9% and the pipeline is good.
Finally on credit the net charge-off rate for the quarter was 241 basis points and we expect net charge-offs of around 250 basis points over the medium term.
Turning to Page 8 and the corporate and investment bank.
CIB reported net income of $1.5 billion on revenue of $8.2 billion and an ROE of 13% adjusted for legal taxes and reserve.
In banking it was a strong quarter with IB revenue of $1.5 billion up 5% year on year.
We continue to rank number one in global IBCs and rank number one in North America and EMEA&gt; It was another outstanding quarter for advisory up 22%.
We grew wallet share by 150 basis points year over year maintaining our number two ranking.
Equity underwriting fees were down 35% generally in line with the market but from a particularly strong prior year.
This quarter we ranked number one both in North America and EMEA.
Debt underwriting was up 17% driven by higher non-investment grade fees.
We maintained our number one ranking gaining 30 basis points of share.
However expect (these CM fees) be down year over year given the current pipeline.
Treasury services revenue were flat quarter on quarter but down 4% year on year on lower deposit spread with underlying transaction volumes remaining stable.
Moving on to markets.
Revenue of $4.3 billion was down 6% adjusted for business simplification with mixed results in fixed income but another strong performance in equities.
Fixed income revenue was $2.9 billion down 11% adjusted.
In macro products we saw a strong performance in currencies and emerging markets driven by higher activity on the back of market volatility in Asia and Brazil.
Rate was down slightly given a particularly strong September of last year.
And commodities was down on low levels of client activity again compared to a strong prior year.
It was a low quarter in credit with lower volumes as clients were on the sidelines given the challenging market conditions.
Equity markets had another strong quarter with revenues of $1.4 billion up 9% year on year driven by reasonably broad strength across products and regions with good performance in cash but particular strength in Asia and derivatives.
Security services revenue was $915 million versus guidance of $950 million given depressed market levels which impacted both revenues and assets under custody with emerging markets which is one of our more profitable segments being hit particularly hard.
If markets remain at these levels fourth quarter revenues will also be lower than previous guidance.
On credit we saw a reserve build of $232 million including $128 million for oil and gas.
Finally on to expenses total expense was up 2% year on year at $6.1 billion.
Compensation expense was down 13% with [inaudible] revenue ratio of 30% in the quarter and non-compensation expense was up 14% driven by higher legal expense partially offset as we realized the expense benefits of business simplification.
Moving on to commercial banking on Page 9.
Commercial banking generated net income of $518 million on revenue of $1.6 billion and an ROE of 14%.
Revenue was down 5% quarter on quarter driven by lower investment banking revenue as we saw fewer large transactions in the quarter.
However the pipeline for the fourth quarter is solid and we still expect record gross IB revenues this year exceeding $2 billion.
Expenses of $719 million were in line with guidance.
Loan balances were a record at $162 billion up 13% year on year and 2% quarter on quarter driven by continued outperformance in commercial real estate where quarter-on-quarter growth of 4% exceeded the industry across both multifamily and real estate banking.
C&amp;I loans were flat in line with the industry.
Mature markets were relatively flat but we saw growth in our expansion markets up 4% quarter on quarter.
Credit performance of the portfolio remained strong with no net charge-offs and an $84 million increase in reserves included a modest build for oil and gas.
Overall while results were mixed this quarter the underlying fundamentals of the commercial bank remained strong.
Pipelines are trending higher in C&amp;I and remain robust in commercial real estate our expansion market loan balances are up 20% year on year calling activity is up substantially across client segments and we've added around 400 new middle market relationships this year.
Moving on to Page 10 and asset management.
Net income of $475 million with a 28% pretax margin and 20% ROE.
Revenue of $2.9 billion was down 5% year on year driven by lower markets which also drove lower transactional revenue as well as the sale of retirement planning services in 2014 which drove $70 million of the year-over-year decline.
Looking forward to the fourth quarter expect revenues to show normal seasonality from this low base assuming current market levels.
Expenses were relatively flat.
And AUM of $1.7 trillion and client assets of $3.3 trillion held up well and were relatively flat year on year with negative markets and outflows driving a 4% sequential decline.
We were not immune to the impact of interest rate uncertainty in equity markets and while we did experience overall modest net outflows we had positive flows in our less market-sensitive multi-asset class and alternative platform.
In banking we had record loan balances of $109 billion up 7% year on year driven by mortgage which was up 19%.
And lastly we continued to report strong investment performance with 81% of mutual fund AUM ranked in the first or second quartiles over five years.
Turning to Page 11 and corporate.
Treasury and CIO's [ph] result for the quarter were both close to home.
The corporate reported net income of $1.8 billion driven by tax benefits.
And finally firm-wide NIM was up 7 basis points quarter on quarter given the mix shift away from cat and securities towards higher loan balances and on an overall smaller balance sheet.
Loans are the primary driver of nearly $250 million improvement in NII and given market implied NIM and NII should be relatively flat in the fourth quarter.
Finally our loan-to-deposit ratio improved 8 percentage points year to date to 64%.
Turning to Page 12 and moving on to the fourth quarter outlook.
A few items to call out.
First you'll see we updated our adjusted expense target to $56-1/2 billion plus or minus for the full year which is better than our previous guidance and would equate to the fourth quarter adjusted expense being relatively flat to the third.
We're expecting core loan growth of 15% plus or minus to continue in the fourth quarter.
And finally on markets revenue.
Starting with business simplification which will drive a 2% decline year on year in addition we expect to see normal season of the clients in the fourth quarter versus the third.
And looking back over the last three years that client has been on average about 15%.
And so far in October across asset classes the markets are pretty quiet.
Obviously we're only two weeks into the quarter and it's too early to give a specific guidance but based on those facts alone analyst estimates appear high.
Wrapping up overall the Company performed quite well against the backdrop of interest rate uncertainty and volatile markets.
We continue to invest in our businesses and the underlying drivers are growing strongly and we're gaining share.
And we have more than successfully delivered against each of our capital balance sheet and expense targets.
And just before I finish on one of those investments we're making I want to update you on the progress we're making on our payment strategy.
We continue to capitalize on our leadership position in payments.
We have unparalleled assets in our issuing scale we have the largest wholly-owned merchant acquirer our own closed-loop network in ChaseNet and now a digital wallet in ChasePay which will be launched more broadly this year.
The beauty of this is that we're able to bundle all of these capabilities together to provide better pricing and experiences for merchants including access to data as well as a better and more relevant experience for customers.
We expect to process more than $50 billion of Chase card volumes over ChaseNet in 2016 and Gordon will share more details at Money 2020.
With that operator please open up the line to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question will come from the line of Glenn Schorr with Evercore ISI.
Hi.
Thanks very much.
So I'm curious the capital markets related commentary I guess there could be hangover effect into fourth quarter and I'm guessing that's the primary driver behind your analyst estimates appear high on fourth quarter.
But could we talk about what you're actually seeing in terms of where the financial markets are maybe drawing the line meaning are the deals that underwriting you expect to fall off in the fourth quarter based on your pipeline is that a function of timing that you think could come back next year are these marginal deals where markets are drawing the line? I'm trying to get at the ultimate question of is this the first time that SIC [ph] could actually grow in 2016 just because of the beat-down it took in the back half of this year? So there are a couple of different questions in there and maybe I'll try and separate them.
My comments about the seasonality in the fourth quarter were most particularly towards markets revenues and less so towards the IB revenue space.
With IB revenues it's a mixed story so talking now about the sort of banking revenues rather than the markets revenues.
So the pipeline for M&amp;A remains very constructive and really pretty good.
So we're expecting to continue to have strength in M&amp;A in the fourth quarter.
With ECM you saw obviously a pretty sharp falloff in activity in the third quarter.
We have seen the pipeline in ECM to the degree that that shows you visibility in the fourth quarter which is somewhat limited we have seen that build up.
And so there is possibility that we'll be able to pull through some of that into the fourth quarter.
But that will depend upon how the markets behave.
With respect to DCM our sort of guidance there was that you know commentary really to the strength of the fourth quarter last year and on relative basis the pipeline is down.
And it's really to do with the normal refinances are slowing and the maturity wall is smaller.
But it's still healthy just not going to be at the same levels that we saw last year.
Maybe just to follow up.
In SIC [ph] in general I know none of us have a crystal ball but the slowdown in activity that we see some of the clients sitting on hand maybe you could separate that between any providing of liquidity and marks along the way because we did see a real wide credit spread widening in the quarter.
Yeah.
I mean look the situation for us in markets was one where you know where there was volatility regardless of how you want to characterize it and people were acting - our clients were acting on the back of that we were able to capitalize on that flow we were able to intermediate for our clients but our capital (risk makes) money and so we did pretty well where there was volatility.
And where there wasn't it was more about to your point more about low levels of activity people on the sidelines.
So it was just tougher to make money because less was happening rather than anything else more significant than that.
But so far in the fourth quarter I mean we're two weeks in it too early to say but there's not been a tremendous change in the landscape.
Your next question is from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Thanks.
Marianne can you talk a little bit more about the card business and try to help us understand the card revenue pressure that we saw this quarter into the fourth how much of that is the NII side of things and how much of that is kind of the partner repricing and how far past the fourth quarter do those resets continue before growth can overcome it? Yes.
So I would -- so looking at the revenue rate guidance so remember our guidance previously had been you should expect our revenue rate to be at the low end of the 12% 12-1/2% range.
The most important thing we want you to take away from talking about our co-brand partners is that we feel great about having signed up United Airlines and Southwest Airlines and partnering with them again for the medium term.
And the economics of those deals on a standalone basis are still really very good but the cobrand space is very competitive and when any of those contracts are going to be renegotiated at this point they're going to be renegotiated to competitive levels.
And so it's really the fact that we're seeing that is going to come through in our revenue rate in the fourth quarter which is going to push it down to below 12%.
And it doesn't change the fact that the ROE target for the business is still 20% and that the economics of those partnerships is still good.
And remember these -- UCR: Just giving the numbers.
It's $200 million a quarter for four quarters until last.
Got it.
Okay.
And my second question just on you know in this tough revenue environment first of all can you just give us a quick update on the progress on the expense plans and then you know any - does anything change given how tough this revenue environment has changed as far as either accelerating or digging in again? I know your prior comments have focused on obviously always needing to invest but in terms of just your focus as you think about next year and building the expense budget against the environment that we're seeing.
Yes.
So I would say first of all we gave some expense goals in Investor Day to both consumer businesses as well as for the CIB.
And those were I think pretty sizable goals $2 billion in 2017 versus 2014 for the consumer businesses and $2.8 billion in 2017 versus 2014 for the CIB.
And we are working through that we are on track in both of them.
I think I said earlier that adjusted the consumer businesses in the three quarters so far are $700 million down year over year in expenses.
So against the $2 billion target we're certainly getting there.
And on CIB we expected 2015 to be mainly about forcing out those business simplification expenses and we've essentially done that too.
So we're on track we're pushing hard.
We still have work to do.
We are always going to be diligent on our expenses and generally speaking at Investor Day we also said we're going to on or down which is actually pushing hard to keep them down but not at the expense of good investments in the business.
So obviously we are going to respond appropriately to the revenue pressure but not overreact.
I've spoken my whole life about good expenses and bad expenses.
You know bad expenses are wastes things you don't need you don't [inaudible] through processing things like that.
But we want certain expenses to go up.
When we find marketing opportunities in card we're going to spend.
If the investment bank does better the comp accrual [ph] is going to go up.
So that's how we run the Company.
It's not ever going to change.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Hi.
Just to follow up to that last question.
So of the total $4.8 billion of expense savings how much have you achieved? And if you're on track why did the adjusted overhead ratio go backwards at 60% in the third quarter versus 58% in the second and 59% last year? So Mike thanks for that.
So $700 million if you adjust for legal expense in the consumer businesses year to date we'll do some more in the fourth quarter.
And year to date on business simplification which I think in total was about $1.5 billion we've done $1.3 billion.
So in total that $2 billion so far obviously more work to do in 2016.
With respect to the adjusted overhead ratio it speaks a bit more to seasonality of revenues than anything else.
All right.
And one follow-up.
Clearly it's due to revenue.
So the question Jamie if you could answer this a simple yes or no question is the economy getting stronger or weaker? And the reason I asked that the jobs report from a couple of weeks ago seems to imply the economy is getting softer yet your loan growth actually -- your core loan growth accelerated and you're guiding for a faster loan growth in the fourth quarter.
So is there noise in that loan growth figure or is the economy based on what you're seeing getting stronger and the jobs number is misleading? It's not a yes or no on.
I'll start and then you can yes or no at the end.
So Mike we would say that the U.S.
economy is doing pretty well there.
We're seeing good demand for loans in the consumer space and reasonably good sentiment in the business banking space and our core loan growth numbers do show that.
So there's nothing particularly funky in the loan growth numbers.
We do our very best to show them in the right light.
I would take a slightly different perspective on the jobs report the non-firm [ph] payrolls and not to sort of overthink it but while I know it was somewhat lower than people were expecting or possibly hoping for it still at around 140 000 was almost two times what would be required to have stable unemployment.
So you know it's only one report too you can't overreact to it.
So it's not that we're seeing anything that's causing us any concern and our outlook for the fourth quarter is pretty solid I think.
Jamie anything? Nothing to add.
Your next question comes from the line of John McDonald with Bernstein.
Hi Marianne.
You saw some very good improvement in the GCIB surcharge from the 4-1/2 to 4 probably came a little faster than some of us expected.
Do you have good momentum there to do more there? And how are you thinking about the trade-off the cost benefit trade-off of pushing further down on that GCIB bucket? Yes.
So we did better than we had targeted for -- on our non-op deposits.
We went -- we worked very very hard but we told you we would on derivative notionals compressionals or Level 3 assets.
It is absolutely the case not to diminish the amount of what we've done and the progress we've made that we obviously went after the most impactful you know least impactful to the clients most impactful to the ratio with the less revenue give-up first [ph].
And so we made great progress.
It becomes increasingly not exponentially but increasingly more difficult for every next basis point.
So that's not to say by the way that we aren't continuing to work very hard at it and optimize and that we won't push further but we're not at a place right now where we're going to target anything structurally below this except for over the longer term just continuing to work through it.
And our overall capital target we're at 11.4% now our overall capital target still in the short to medium term is still 12%.
Okay.
Thank you.
I just want to add in the new world we have to obviously monitor and push down to all the business levels GCIB CCAR [ph] Basel LCR and SLR and we want to optimize all of them.
So we're only doing this for a couple of years now as we embed it in our systems it was a better way to track and monitor it.
Over time I would expect the GCIB will come down a little bit.
So you know it only comes down in lumps you've got to make a big difference to go from 43-1/2 but when I say over time I'm talking about years.
I'm not talking about anything that's this quarter.
We're very comfortable where we are today but over years yeah you might change your business strategy but I think it's a better thing not to be an outlier in GCIB.
And your next question is from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
Thanks.
So just a question on the capital getting to 4% now with a goal over time to get to something lower 3-1/2 3.
Does it also give you more room for capital return request next year Jamie? It has nothing to do with next year Betsy.
When I say over time just it's happened that JPMorgan built a global corporate investment bank 70% of it is financial institution and 30% corporate.
We easily could have been built the other way around it's who you focus on over time.
So when I say over time it might be quite easy for us to say over five to six years let's focus more on the corporates and less in financials and that will affect your GCIB fairly substantially.
So that's what I'm talking about.
It's nothing to do with CCAR [ph] for next year or anything like that.
A couple of really small points on CCAR [ph] for next year for what it's worth is we were constrained in CCAR [ph] by leverage.
We have issued $6 billion of preferreds in the year.
We are reacting to try and make sure that we are managing our binding constraints or our most binding constraints.
So we're working on that.
The other thing to note is that we're at 11.4% as we sit here now so we're not gliding a long way from where we need to get to.
And both of those things together with obviously our profitability should mean that we have incremental opportunity.
But our range is 55% to 75% and we hope to be in that range.
Okay.
And then just TLAC [ph] I know we're still waiting for the Fed decision but we did get FSA [ph] recently anything in there that you can respond to us to how you're prepared for TLAC [ph]? So just a couple of things.
First of all I think the FSB [ph] thing was a sort of leak so it's as good as it is.
I will tell you that the news on structured notes was not strongly positive but we hadn't banked on it being.
So not entirely pleasing but not disappointing relative to our sort of models and expectations.
Other things to pay attention to anyway are there's no change to the internal TLAC [ph] assumptions.
The holding -- the clean holding company rule is one that we're watching out for.
But fundamentally -- and then there was the timing.
Is there going to be a substantially elongated transition period? I would call it all sort of fairly marginal so it hasn't changed the overall picture for us.
We're at around 16% and we'll figure out the FSB [ph] that's leaked out wasn't shockingly different and we'll see how the Fed respond.
Your next question is from the line of Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
Good afternoon.
Just maybe a question on NII and NIM.
I think Marianne you said it would be relatively flat in the fourth quarter yet you're still expecting some pretty strong loan growth.
Just want you know if you can maybe discuss why you think it would remain flat in that scenario? And maybe a bit longer term in an environment where we're looking at lower for longer potentially in the rates how do we think about the NIM a little bit over the intermediate term? Okay.
So with respect to the fourth quarter we are expecting our loans to grow and overall net-net sort of rotation of our cash and securities to loans would be supportive of NII.
But remember the biggest boost to our NIM was associated -- or one of the big boosts to our NIM was associated with changing the mix reducing our overall cash balances and so where [inaudible] going on.
The outlook for the fourth quarter being relatively flat was associated with market-implied rates which are relatively flat.
And so in the law of big numbers that plus or minus a few basis points is what we're expecting.
With respect to looking out to 2016 obviously we don't know what's going to happen with the curve.
If rates stay very flat we should still have upward pressure on our NII associated with the change in mix of our balance sheet.
So the fact that we've got a smaller interest-earning asset base and more loans and less cash and less securities should be supported even on flat rates.
We don't know when rates will rise but if market-implieds are followed or if the Fed does or anything like real estate then that will be even more constructive.
And remember in the first year we got the biggest benefit from shortened [ph] rates in the first 50 basis points of them.
Right.
I was hoping you would know when rates go up but thanks.
No.
Unfortunately not.
Thanks.
Your next question is from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America.
Yes good afternoon.
My question is on the credit outlook.
The consumer reserve release has continued to offset the wholesale reserve build.
And I'm just wondering how should we think about how much is left on the consumer side over the next several quarters especially given the 23% loan growth that we saw this quarter and your note saying that this momentum should continue? Yes.
So I would say that first of all with respect to purchase credit impaired with this release we did on the 375 that's our baseline expectation for that portfolio.
So our baseline expectation is no material incremental reserve.
Obviously if things improve and they're sustained then there may be more reserve releases.
But I wouldn't try and model those.
With respect to the non-credit impaired portfolio we talked about you've seen our charge-offs at normalized 14 basis points.
Our portfolio quality is really getting quite high.
We're fighting through most of the significant risks.
So reserve releases will be more modest and a little bit more periodic.
And several hundred million dollars next year maybe 300 plus or minus but not significantly more than that.
And just my follow-up question following on Ken and Mike's question on expenses maybe I'll ask it another way.
Over the past few quarters your adjusted overhead ratio was 58% to 60%.
You noted that you think that net interest income could grow next year even if rates stay low.
Could you potentially slide below the 58% to 60% band that you reported over the past two quarters relative to you know you mentioned efficiency target of 55% if rates actually normalize? Yeah.
I mean look our efficiency target at 55% was over three years or so and we still will be driving to get to around that level but it does as you quite rightly mentioned includes not just rates rising but a fair degree of normalization in rates.
So we'll see what happens in 2016.
Obviously it's possible.
But we're not going to call an outlook on rates next year.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking my call.
First of all Marianne if I could in terms of some of the credit numbers that you mentioned in terms of the oil and gas provisions.
They seem pretty modest in the scheme of your more than $20 billion of exposure to that industry.
How are you thinking about the redetermination process that started this quarter? And how would you guide us in terms of thinking about what the provisions could be in the fourth quarter following the redetermination this quarter? Okay.
So we've taken some modest reserves in the last few quarters and our overall reserve number obviously is consistent with our expectations based upon the outlook for oil prices.
There was a redetermination cycle that we reserved for in the first quarter and so there will be another one in the fall.
We've been as forward-leaning on that as we can be.
Obviously I'm not saying that there may not be any net incremental reserve build but we're not expecting them to be significant.
A lot of companies have tried to adjust their expense basis and otherwise help their position.
So if energy prices stay around these levels and recover slowly we're expecting net not to have material incremental reserves in the next quarter.
We may see some.
Okay.
And then in terms of mortgage banking you noted that production -- the production amount was actually up quite nicely year over year but the revenues in terms of production and also in servicing were a bit weaker certainly on a quarter-over-quarter basis but the expenses were relatively stable on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
Is there something going on there that we might see further improvement in the expense space in the mortgage side of the business in the fourth quarter or are we sort of -- are you at where you think you need to be in terms of the $1 billion to $1.1 billion a quarter in that business? So just let me deal first of all with production quarter over quarter revenues.
Margins are down -- margins are down for two principal reasons.
So remember quarter over quarter at least on a closed loan volume we were at a consistent level.
Margins are down because we moved -- our mixed shift towards correspondent from retail towards purchase from refi as well as capacity in the industry you know more capacity in the industry and therefore less constraints.
So the production quarter-over-quarter revenue is more of a margin number than anything.
With respect to year over year I do want to make this clear with respect to the guidance year over year that we should expect non-interest revenue for the mortgage company in totality to be down $250 million that brings our total year-over-year NII [ph] down around $1 billion maybe a little more which is what we guided to at Investor Day.
And it's more off the back of lower repurchase reserve releases lower gains on Ginnie Mae sales and [inaudible] against [ph] the you know sort of non-fee-based revenues that are to do with third-party UPB as well as runoff in the UPB.
So it's consistent with our guidance.
It wasn't fully reflected in everyone's models.
I think there was a third part to your question but I have -- oh expenses yes.
Thank you.
And on expenses in the -- there are two -- so we continue to work very hard in our expense equation both in terms of managing down the -- particularly in the servicing space by the way managing down the default inventory in a number of different ways but also investing in our operating model so in technology to improve the production operations cycle process also in our site strategy.
So no we are not done.
We continue to work very hard at it.
We have made great progress but we continue to work hard at it.
And your next question is from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Hi.
We've seen some assets change hands and you guys have been mentioned as a buyer for some of the other assets that are out there.
Just wondering on what the ability and appetite is out there to buy loans.
So look obviously we're not going to comment on anything specific.
We would be willing to take and we do take a look at things when they come up.
And if we are able to price for the risk and it's in a client segment or an entity [ph] we like we might be interested.
But there's no -- we have no special comments on it.
What we're really interested in is growing our underlying core loans with our customers that we can continue to do business with.
And then just separately following up on energy how exactly do you kind of reevaluate the portfolio? Is it as a default cap and that's where there's a big boost to reserves or you get in front of that? So not if default [ph] happen.
I mean it's to do -- it depends on whether it's reserve-based lending or whether it's not.
But as companies are either downgraded or as they are experiencing change in financial condition or the borrowing base is redetermined we will act accordingly.
We try to be as forward-leaning on that as is possible but it's not you know we don't have perfect insight until some of that information becomes clear.
So that's the process.
And the reserve-based lending you basically take essentially current prices you discount at a discount rate you assume expenses you have to really engineer your cores [ph] and things like that and you see if you can make -- roll over the loan at a sound call it 65% LTV and we think it's pretty good.
That's what we're here for to lend to clients particularly in tough times.
You can't be a bank that every time something goes wrong you run away from your client.
And then we also do things like stress test that down to $30 oil maintain $30 like 18 months and say which -- how much more reserves [inaudible] put up? And I think somewhere and you correct this number Marianne we're not in the same room that if that happens we think we're going to have to put it in $500 million or $750 million in reserves which is just not something we worry a lot about.
Your next question is from the line of Steven Chubak with Nomura.
Hi good evening.
Good evening.
Marianne I appreciate your commentary on the preferred issuance that you guys have done so far throughout the year.
It looks like you're now above the 150-basis-point target.
You alluded to that being a function of efforts to manage to your binding constraint on the CCAR [ph].
I just wondered if you guys have a sense as to what -- how you guys are thinking about issuance plans going forward.
Yeah.
So it's obviously a really great question.
Unfortunately we really don't guide to our sort of forward-looking issuance.
You're right we are above 150 basis points right now.
And we're also working on our leverage balance sheet.
So we're working at the sort of dials exactly as you would expect us to but we are not going to make any comments about forward issuance.
Understood.
Had to give it a shot.
Yup I got it.
So just moving to the investment banking side and maybe trying to just dig a little bit deeper into some of the guidance you've given on M&amp;A.
It looks like the backlogs and expected completions for the fourth quarter are quite healthy at the same time post the August volatility some of the historically strong M&amp;A indicators like market cap CEO confidence those measures appeared to be deteriorating.
I just wanted to get a sense as to how you're thinking about the M&amp;A outlook beyond the fourth quarter just given some of the weakness that we've seen in some of those measures.
Yes.
So the pipeline for 2016 is building up so we don't have perfect visibility yet.
We think obviously the deals that were being done in 2015 were skewed towards larger deals and we think there may be flown in 2016 but it looks pretty healthy for us so far but it's building up.
Okay.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
Marianne can you share with us you mentioned that you've built out 400 new relationships in the middle market area of the commercial bank.
But when we look at the loans outstanding they're essentially flat on a year-over-year basis whereas the corporate client business has grown very rapidly.
Can you give us some more color behind what's driving those numbers? Yes.
I mean I think over the last several quarters and forgive me if I'm slightly wrong but I don't think I'm entirely wrong our sort of C&amp;I growth has been broadly in line with the industry.
Remember that over the course of 2013 and 2014 we did a lot of work on simplifying our businesses and that had an impact on the pace of our loan growth.
But our mature markets are performing well.
We're seeing growth in our expansion market.
We're adding new clients.
We're calling our prospects.
So everything is set to continue to see growth more going forward than we have in the past.
Okay.
And then you talked about the reserve build in the CIB about $128 million was for oil and gas and the total number was $232 million.
What was the other areas that required reserve building this quarter? There was about in CIB there was about $47 million of metals and mining about net-net $20 million of BAU growth and then just a few other normal BAU puts and takes downgrades upgrades.
Other than those three things there was no one specific fall-out.
Your next question is from the line of Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer.
Mine were asked and answered.
Thank you.
Thanks Chris.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
Yes.
On your mortgage banking side I've noticed that your jumbo loans -- or not your jumbo loans that your residential loans in your balance sheet's grown.
Are they mostly jumbos are they coming out of your normal production that $29 billion and you're selling less to the government? Can you add some color around those numbers? So of the $19 billion that -- of the $19 billion that we put on our balance sheet around 10 just a little over 10 was jumbo.
The rest was conventional conforming.
And then are they mainly ARM loans or are they fixed-rate loans? We'll have to [inaudible].
I think the jumbo is like a third ARM.
I've got to confirm that these are all fixed.
That's what I remember.
We'll confirm for you.
Your next question is from the line of Eric Wasserstrom with Guggenheim Securities.
Thanks very much.
Marianne if I can just follow up on some of the consumer credit quality metrics.
At the Investor Day and subsequently Gordon was indicating unsurprisingly just given the very low levels that the expectation should probably be for some moderate rate of deterioration and yet we haven't seen it.
And I'm guessing that's partly because of the underwriting that's occurred over the past few years.
So my question is what are the circumstances in which we should expect more significant deterioration there? Is it only macro or is there something else competitively that could influence that at this stage? So you are right that at this kind of 2-1/2% one of these base point levels in card it does speak to the quality of the loans we're originating and the engagement with the customers which is much more now about driving yes some NII but really really good spend and therefore lower credit quality.
It's sort of an integrated equation.
We're expecting given our originations and the runoff portfolio are the worst loans running off in the portfolio that we're building is really very very clean.
We're expecting that those charge-off rates to be low for the short to medium term the readout for the next year for sure.
There will be a combination of things that would drive that.
It would -- but largely it would be environmental.
We don't expect at this point we have made changes to our credit books but they aren't material changes and we'll continue to test our appetite to want to do that and that may have an impact.
But we're originating the vast majority of our cards in the super-prime sector.
And is -- are the dynamics similar in auto as well? Similar yes.
I mean we're compared to the industry our originations are skewed to the prime space.
And our LTVs are lower.
And the -- our durations are in line or lower.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Brennan Hawken with UBS.
Yes hi.
Just a quick one at this point.
Equities Marianne you highlighted strength in Asia which I think probably was better than maybe some had expected given some of the volatility.
So could you give us some color on the trends you saw in that region in your equities business? Well I would -- the biggest comment I would make is that there was a lot of volatility particularly in China in the second part of or the last part of the second quarter.
We were -- we did pretty well we helped our clients we didn't have significant open risk position we weren't very directional so we were able to do well in that situation.
Also in the reverse also on currency moves.
So really -- it really is the comment I made about we're here to serve our clients.
They were transacting.
We were able to do risk intermediation [interj] for them.
And so we kind of made money on both ends.
Thanks for that.
You have another question from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
Hi.
Thank you.
Hi Marianne.
Quick question on your consumer business.
You guys have shown very strong steady growth in the mobile users.
I think it's over 22 million in this quarter that's up from 18 million a year ago.
Can you share with us what percentage of your customers are actually mobile users and how does that compare to a year ago? And where do you -- what does Gordon think what's the penetration rate that you think you can finally get to there? So let me just talk qualitatively for a second and we'll get you some numbers.
But we're focused on mobile and digital primarily because it's going to be great for the customer experience.
It's what our customers want.
And also because it's a significant enabler for reducing cost to serve and improving efficiency.
So we've been very focused on whether it's quick deposit whether it's quick pay whether it's our mobile wallet whether it's our mobile app and we've been seeing great results.
I'm off the top of my head not able to tell you the penetration rate but we can get back to you.
Okay.
And is there any evidence that you guys can point to where you're actually taking market share from other banks because your mobile products are just more superior than some of the smaller regional banks and community banks? I can tell you that we are growing our deposits nearly twice the industry that -- so I think that's a reasonable indication for a bunch of different reasons and that we have a very highly rated app -- I think the most highly-rated bank app but we'll check that too.
Okay.
And then finally your asset yields jumped this quarter which was good to see of course.
Can you share with us how the Fed funds rate went up as much as it did sequentially? And also your securities yield went up in the quarter sequentially.
Can you give us some color behind both those numbers? Thank you.
So on the Fed funds and reverse repos we had moved towards higher-yielding for example emerging market assets.
So we got some higher yield there.
We saw some yield on our trading book moving out of assets of emerging markets.
So just a bit of puts and takes.
And on securities was it significant? I'm sorry I'll come back to you.
Operator any more? There are no further questions.
Thank you everyone.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to JPMorgan Chase's Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
This call is being recorded.
Your lines will be muted for the duration of the call.
We will now go live to the presentation.
Please stand by.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase's Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon and Chief Financial Officer Marianne Lake.
Ms.
Lake please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everybody.
I'm going to take you through the earnings presentation which is available on our Web site.
Please refer to the disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements at the back of the presentation.
Starting on Page 1 the firm reported net income of $5.4 billion EPS of $1.32 and a return on tangible common equity of 11% on $23.7 billion of revenue.
Included in the result is legal expense of $400 million after tax for a range of matters and we continue to put some issues behind us.
This is reflected in a reduction of more than $1 billion to our reasonably possible loss estimate this quarter.
In addition we recognized the benefit of a settlement reached of $300 million after tax which related to moneys owed to Washington Mutual in connection with a failed savings and loan institution.
We've shown these on the page as legal related and the benefits recorded in revenue in Corporate.
Much like we saw in the third quarter the overall company's performance benefited from diversification across our businesses.
We saw strong growth in consumer drivers on the back of improvement in the U.S.
economy in large part generating core loan growth of 16% for the company.
Global markets remained challenged across a number of fronts leading to lower client activity and lower inventory.
Against this backdrop the CIB delivered solid performance across products.
And in the quarter we continued our trend of strong balance sheet capital and expense discipline and exceeded targets.
Shifting to the full year's results if you skip over Page 2 on Page 3 the firm earned record net income of $24.4 billion and record EPS of $6 a share and a return on tangible common equity of 13.5% on revenue of nearly $97 billion.
Revenue was down 1% or $1.3 billion driven by non-core items most notably by business simplification in the investment bank and also in private equity.
Adjusted our underlying businesses were up modestly.
We're very happy with our expense story for the year.
We delivered adjusted expense of $56 billion down $2.4 billion and a 2 percentage point decrease in adjusted overhead ratio.
And while we did have a modest benefit from the strengthening dollar this year we also self-funded incremental investments.
Credit performance was strong in line with our expectations with net charge-offs at $4.1 billion.
With obviously the biggest area of stress in wholesale being oil and gas against which we built about $550 million in reserves this year including $124 million this quarter.
And as the outlook for oil has weakened we would expect to see some additional reserve build in 2016 but prices would need to remain at this level for an extended period for them to be significant.
We also built $68 million of reserves in metals and mining including $35 million this quarter.
We're watching the sector closely and similarly if commodity prices remain at current levels we would expect some additional reserve build but would not expect them to be significant.
Finally net capital distributions for the year were approximately $11 billion including dividends of $1.72 a share.
Turning to Page 4.
Starting on the top left overall our average balance sheet is down $100 billion year-on-year and our spot balance sheet down over $200 billion with of course the biggest driver being the reduction of approximately $200 billion of wholesale non-operating deposits ultimately reflected in lower cash balances.
In addition you can see notable reductions in all other balance sheet categories except for loans which reflects the 16% core loan growth we achieved.
Some portion of the other wholesale balance reductions were purposeful and will be sticky particularly the decrease in short-term wholesale funding balances.
The remainder resulted from volatile markets and general deleveraging driving risk of and lower inventory across products.
As client demand for leverage grows we will likely put some of that balance sheet back to work.
Moving to the right.
The story on deposits continues to be a very positive one as we delivered some incremental reductions in non-operating balances while consistently growing retail and operating deposits.
On the bottom left overall NII was up about $300 million driving a 7 basis point improvement in NIM.
The increase in NII reflects a mix shift to loans but also includes gains on certain securities and the impact of the rate move in December on this quarter's NII was not significant.
Looking forward to the first quarter expect firm NII and NIM to be flat to up slightly on higher rates and mix substantially offset by the absence of those security gains as well as normal seasonal day count.
However for the full year with the December rate hike alone so in a rate flat scenario together with the loan growth that we have seen and expect we would expect to deliver about $2 billion of incremental NII.
Perhaps the highlight of this page on the bottom right is that based upon the actions we've taken throughout the course of 2015 we believe that we have just reached the 3.5% Method 2 G-SIB bucket and that we are in or close to the 2% Method 1 G-SIB bucket.
So the task ahead is to solidify this position which we'll talk more about at Investor Day.
Turning to Page 5.
We're ending the year well ahead of our capital targets with the firm's advanced fully phased in CET1 ratio at 11.6% and our standardized fully phased in ratio at 11.7%.
The improvement to both ratios was driven by net capital generation along with an overall reduction in risk weighted assets.
With net loan growth being more than offset by lower market risk reductions in derivatives as well as secured financing balances.
And these deliver a more meaningful reduction under the standardized approach.
But with reference to my earlier comments on redeploying balance sheet a portion of this reduction will likely reverse in the near future.
Firm and bank SLR were at 6.5% and 6.6% respectively.
Finally we returned $2.6 billion of net capital to shareholders this quarter including $1 billion of net repurchases and common dividends of $0.44 a share.
Let's turn to Page 6 and consumer and community banking.
The combined consumer businesses generated $2.4 billion of net income on revenue of $11.2 billion and an ROE of 18% for the quarter.
And full year expense was down by nearly $1 billion or half of our commitment if you adjust for legal and $150 million of incremental investments this year.
Going forward we will look for opportunities to further reinvest.
You can see headcount was down by 12 000 for the year and nearly 43 000 since 2012.
The fundamental business drivers remain strong.
Year-over-year average loans were up 11% with core loans up 25% driven by mortgage but with strength across products.
Average deposits were up 10%.
We added nearly 600 000 households and our active mobile customer base continues to grow up 20% to roughly 23 million customers the largest of the major U.S.
banks.
Moving to Page 7.
Consumer and Business Banking.
CBB generated strong results for the quarter with net income of $968 million and an ROE of 32% on relatively flat revenue of $4.6 billion.
Although NII was flat quarter-on-quarter it was down 5% year-on-year on spread compression largely offset by that 10% deposit growth.
And excluding an $85 million gain on the sale of a branch non-interest revenue was down 3% seasonally and up 4% year-on-year driven by higher service fees and strong debit volume.
We expect NII to show normal seasonal declines in the first quarter.
Expenses was down 3% year-on-year on lower headcount from branch efficiency and additionally client assets were up 2% and Business Banking average loan balances up 6%.
Next Mortgage Banking on Page 8.
Overall net income was $266 million originations in the quarter were $23 billion down seasonally and we continued to add high-quality loans to our balance sheet $16 billion for the quarter and totaling $70 billion for the full year.
Total revenue of $1.7 billion increased 8% sequentially on strong loan growth as well as on higher MSR risk management.
For the full year our non-interest revenue was down relative to 2014 by $1.2 billion brought in line with our guidance and that downward trend will continue.
As servicing balances continue to decline and as we expect production margins will compress in the smaller market.
We expect the decline in 2016 to be around $700 million.
Expense of $1.2 billion ticked up this quarter related to exiting the OCC's consent order but it was down 10% year-on-year as we continued to manage costs.
Finally on credit net charge-offs of 13 basis points reflects the quality of our portfolio.
Moving on to Page 9.
Card commercial solutions and auto.
Overall net income of $1.2 billion and an ROE of 24%.
Revenue was $5 billion up 10% year-on-year driven principally by two non-recurring items.
The first was a loss in the prior year of over $200 million that related to non-core portfolio exits and a gain we saw this quarter of about $160 million on the IPO of square.
Adjusted the revenue rate was 11.9%.
And in terms of core performance business drivers were strong and growth offset the impact of co-brand renewals on non-interest revenues while driving growth in NII.
Year-over-year we saw growth of 12% in auto loan and lease balances 6% in card sales volumes 3% in cards core loans as well as 12% and 14% in merchant processing volumes and transactions respectively.
Expense of $2.2 billion flat quarter-on-quarter but up 4% year-on-year reflected higher depreciation on auto lease growth.
And we expect expense to be relatively flat into the first quarter as we continue to invest.
While on auto 2015 set a record for new car sales with strength in the fourth quarter continuing through December and we gained nearly 40 basis points of share year-over-year with the strength of our manufacturing partnerships driving growth.
Finally on credit in auto net charge-offs were 50 basis points and while higher they were still below our long-term expectations and in card the net charge-off rate was 242 basis points for the quarter 251 for the year and given our underwriting discipline client selection and the improving economy we expect net charge-offs to stay at these levels in 2016.
Now turning to Page 10 and the Corporate &amp; Investment Bank.
CIB reported net income of $1.7 billion on revenue of $7.1 billion and ROE of 10%.
In Investment Banking for the full year we continue to rank number one in global ID fees and number one in North America and EMEA.
In M&amp;A we maintained our number two ranking and grew wallet share by 50 basis points.
In ECM we ranked number one globally up from number 3 last year and in DCM we ranked number one across high yield high grade and loans.
Banking revenue for the quarter of $1.5 billion was down 11% driven by lower debt underwriting fees.
It was another outstanding performance in advisory fees up 43% in the third quarter in a market that was down 12 largely driven by North America.
Equity underwriting fees were down 4% in a market down 12 with the U.S.
remaining somewhat slow but a resurgence of large transactions in Europe and Asia.
And debt underwriting fees were down 43% from a record last year where we saw an unprecedented number of large fee events.
Treasury services revenue was flat quarter-on-quarter but down 4% year-on-year on lower deposit spreads.
In markets a number of factors contributed to a quiet fourth quarter overall across products.
Investor risk appetite was significantly dampened by a series of market events and clients retrenched and derisked early.
With that backdrop the markets businesses delivered $3.6 billion in revenue in line with our expectations and normal seasonal trends.
With adjusted revenues down 16% sequentially and 1% year-on-year.
In Fixed Income rates markets were up given U.S.
and ECB monetary policy actions offset by year-on-year declines in currencies in emerging markets as the strong dollar and emerging markets uncertainty being persisted as well as the commodities on reduced hedging and declines in credit on all those same things plus a number of single name corporate events.
Equities delivered solid results flat excluding the exit of broker dealer services last year with strong performance in Europe being offset by lower deal flow in North America and Asia compared to a strong prior year.
With respect to the first quarter reflecting low levels of client activity we were light risk going into the year-end and inventory was low and so far our trading businesses are performing well.
But as you know it is early and difficult to predict how the quarter will play out.
Security services revenue was $933 million in line with guidance given the continued impact of lower emerging markets on asset based fees.
For the first quarter expect revenue to be approximately $900 million which includes seasonality.
On credit we saw a reserve build of $76 million which included $63 million related to oil and gas.
Finally expense of $4.4 billion was down 20% year-on-year mainly driven by lower legal.
The comp to revenue ratio was 26% for the quarter and 30% for the full year.
Moving on to Page 11 and the Commercial Bank.
The Commercial Bank generated net income of $550 million on revenue of $1.8 billion and an ROE of 15%.
Revenue was up sequentially but relatively flat year-on-year with NII up 3% on higher loan balances despite spread compression offset by lower IB revenue from a strong quarter last year.
However for the full year it was a record for Investment Banking with gross revenue of $2.2 billion up 10% from 2014.
Expense of $750 million included $50 million of impairment on leased corporate aircraft.
On the reassessment of residual values the remaining balance sheet value of this portfolio is modest.
We saw record average loan balances of $166 billion up 14% year-on-year with growth in Commercial Real Estate of 17% exceeding the industry as we continue to invest in this business and gain share.
In C&amp;I loans were up 11% largely driven by corporate client banking of on the back of several large transactions.
Finally credit performance of the portfolio does remain strong with only 4 basis points of net charge-offs.
However we did add $100 million to reserves $60 million of which relates to oil and gas and $26 million for metals and mining.
Moving on to Page 12.
Asset Management.
Asset Management reported net income of $500 million with a 27% pretax margin and 21% ROE on revenue of $3 billion down 5% year-on-year driven by lower performance fees in alternatives.
Expense of $2.2 billion was also down 5% year-on-year roughly equally explained by lower performance fee driven compensation as well as a benefit from refining the value of the held for sale asset.
Assets under management of $1.7 trillion and client assets of $2.4 trillion were down 1% and 2% year-over-year respectively.
We saw mixed flows in the fourth quarter resulting in long-term net outflows of $9 billion with solid inflows in equities being more than offset by weakness in fixed income and the loss of select mandates.
However we had strong long-term investment performance with 80% of mutual fund AUM ranked in the first or second quartiles over five years which should be supportive of future flows.
And for the full year we had positive long-term inflows of $16 billion.
In lending we had record balances of $110 billion up 7% year-on-year driven by both mortgage as well as traditional loans.
Turning to Page 13 and Corporate.
Treasury and CIO reported net income of $138 million for the quarter.
Included in this result is a pretax benefit of $178 million relating to certain securities held at a discount that were called at par.
And this was in our NII.
Other Corporate net income of $84 million included a net benefit of $60 million after tax for the legal related matters we discussed earlier as well as a contribution to our foundation this quarter of $150 million pretax.
Turning to Page 14.
I've given you some guidance throughout the presentation and this page is for your reference.
Obviously when we get to Investor Day we will give you a comprehensive outlook for each of our businesses for the year.
So in summary a solid quarter and a record for the full year both in terms of net income and EPS which even on higher capital translates to a good return on tangible common equity of 13.5%.
We exceeded our targets on expense management generating positive operating leverage and improving our adjusted overhead ratio by 2 percentage points.
Delivered strong core loan growth of 16% materially changed the mix of our deposit base including growing retail deposits at 10% and made meaningful progress on our balance sheet our G-SIB surcharge and capital levels.
With that operator we'll take Q&amp;A.
Your first question comes from the line of Brennan Hawken with UBS.
Good morning Marianne.
Good morning.
So curious about whether or not you all have seen the stress we've seen in some of the credit and equity markets and some of the volatility impacting M&amp;A velocity appetite amongst Boards and C-suites broadly in your conversations and throughout the IB? So I mean again I would say that the pipeline coming into 2016 in M&amp;A was good solid up in fact.
Obviously volatility can dampen the confidence of Boards and CEOs.
Dialogs are pretty active and we think the types of deals that we'll see in 2016 will look different.
But I think in the first couple of weeks it's not being particularly strong and we do need to see some of the stability come back I think for us to really see that conversion start to pick up.
And just by different is that a reference to the size or can you be a bit more specific on what you mean? Yes.
Less mega deals more mid-sized deals more cross border it's a little different.
Actually more deal count less big mega deals could be very constructive for revenue but we're likely to see it be a little bit different in 2016.
But honestly the pipeline is good.
And yes.
That's helpful.
North America will be a tough comp.
It was very strong in 2015 but Europe could be very constructive.
Terrific.
Helpful.
And then you referenced energy prices staying this low would lead to a significant reserve build you expect in your energy book.
Can you maybe give a little bit more color around that? How would you define significant and how long would oil need to stay down here in order to see some of that reserve action? Yes.
So the way we do our reserves just for context because I think it's important is obviously the oil price outlook is important and instructive and it's very clearly going to drive how we think about probabilities of default and loss given default [for certain] [ph] customers.
But I think it's also the case just for context to know that it is very name by name specific specific conditions at clients matter greatly and so when we do these estimates they are directionally correct and order of magnitude correct but that's just for context.
Oil we said last quarter if oil reached $30 a barrel here we are and stayed there for call it 18 months you could expect to see reserve builds of up to $750 million and that assessment hasn't fundamentally changed.
So it is not the current market expectation that oil will flat line.
It is the expectation right now that there will be a modest recovery.
Based upon that we would expect to take some additional reserves but for them to be more modest less significant.
But that's kind of the range if oil's at $30 and stays here for a long time up to $750 million.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Hi.
I wanted to follow up on the oil and gas question.
It just seems as though $124 million in additional provisions for oil and gas could be low at least based on the one year forward prices for oil which are still in the 30s and so my question's for Jamie.
As you look back how does the oil and gas situation today compare to prior periods of stress? We have 2002.
We had the TMT meltdown when you were at Bank One you reduced the lines of credit.
You got ahead of that early.
In 2007 you weren't exactly at the start but then you adjusted and you said hey this is a big issue.
Now we have oil and gas which could be another industry specific stress and you're only taking additional provisions of $124 million.
Is that going to be enough and one year from now are you going to look back and say whoops we didn't get ahead of this enough.
I think we try to be very conservative always and so we're not trying to put up as little as possible.
You know me I'd put up more if I could but accounting rules dictate what you can do.
And these are baskets -- the real risk is in producing wells cash flows are down surprisingly the cost of getting the oil out of the ground has also dropped dramatically and probably much more than most of us would have expected.
So you take these producing wells you take the cash flow you discount you discounted it 8% or 9% you lend against it.
And so these are our forecasts.
Our energy book isn't that large relative to JPMorgan Chase.
We're not worried about the big oil companies.
These are mostly the smaller ones that you're talking about these reserve increases on.
I also think Mike just a -- And the forward curve is -- at the end of the year for 2016 is like 41 or 42 or something like that.
Forty eight.
So hey Mike the other thing to know about the sort of profile of reserves three things.
The first is it's not linear.
So just the oil price decline and the decline in the forward curve that we saw towards into December and to the end of the year that's the impact it had on our reserves.
It's fallen significantly in the first two quarters.
That was not a knowable condition and we can't reserve for that at the end of the year.
That's why we said we would expect to take some more reserve increases in the next couple of quarters.
But again it's a name specific thing and lots of other conditions at clients' matter including their hedging their cash flows the level of security all those things.
And how do you use CDS to help protect yourself on that portfolio? We don't.
Okay you don't.
And then the last follow-up.
Do you intend to keep lending to the oil and gas companies as they run into problems? On the one hand you have the risk of throwing good money after bad.
On the other hand if you stop lending as much and you have the high-yield market retreating and you have private equity firms retreating maybe it becomes a liquidity crisis for some of the oil companies.
Which is it do you lend more or less to the oil and gas sector? The oil folks have been surprisingly resilient.
Remember these are asset backed loans.
A bankruptcy doesn't necessarily mean your loan is bad; have to be a little bit careful.
There is also Mike a philosophical thing a bank is supposed to be there for clients in good times and bad times.
So it's not a trading market where you try to support clients.
So then we can responsibly support clients we are going to.
And we lose a little bit more money because of it so be it.
We've done that around the world.
We did it in 2007 2008 and 2009.
We tried to do responsibly.
If banks just completely pull out of markets every time something gets volatile and scary you'll be sinking companies left and right.
Your next question comes from the line of John McDonald with Stuart Bernstein.
Hi good morning.
Marianne I was wondering if you could remind us where you are on your expense reduction targets in the consumer and the investment bank and how does that translate to some thoughts about the expected trajectory of total firm-wide expenses for this year? So let me just deal with where are against our targets.
So the most notable targets were $2 billion in the consumer businesses in 2017 versus 2014 and $2.8 billion in the CIB in 2017 versus 2014.
You probably heard my comment but to clarify on an apples-to-apples basis we're halfway through on consumer.
We have done $1 billion this year.
You don't see that 100% translate into the results partly because of legal expense which is not something that we particularly can predict and hopefully won't see that forever.
Also because we intentionally decisioned in 2015 in the fourth quarter in particular mostly to increase our investments in the consumer businesses by $150 million.
So we've achieved the $1 billion.
We chose to reinvest a portion of it.
Another $1 billion we're on track for.
We will potentially reinvest some of that too and Gordon and we will talk to you about the basis for that at Investor Day.
On the $2.8 billion in the CIB we're $1.3 billion through at the end of the year and we talked before about the fact that the first $1.3 billion is largely on business simplification.
We've had the revenue decline.
We need to have expense decline and we worked hard to deliver that and we have.
The next chunk is to do with technology and operations and infrastructure and organization and it's harder.
And so we will continue with them on track to deliver it but it's going to be a job through 2016 and into 2017.
And how does that all net into an outlook for this year if you're willing to give us some thoughts on that.
Yes I can give you some thoughts that won’t totally satisfy you which is our core expenses will continue to trend down on the back of delivering against them.
We will make investment decisions that we think are good for the company accretive for shareholders that will respend some of that money.
And so we'll give you that shrink and grow at Investor Day.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I was wondering if you could talk to us a little bit about the benefits from rates as they come through obviously your commentary that NII will be even flattish in the first quarter adjusted for day count and even with some securities gains in the numbers this quarter presumes that a nice helper from that first move.
And you guys are really conservative on your deposit beta thoughts when you talked about them previously.
I know probably haven't seen much change yet but you how are you expecting the deposit behavior to act and there has been any change to your modeling expectations about what might come through as we get through the first couple of hikes.
So just on NII yes we are seeing embedded in that sort of NII flat to slightly.
We are seeing a nice lift associated with the rate hike in December across businesses as well as the continued benefit of the mix towards loans in our balance sheet but we were flatted in our NII this quarter by $178 million on securities gains in CIO.
So that's going to mean the comparison is changing and day count is obviously seasonal.
So that's being dynamic.
We are seeing the rate benefit.
We do expect to see it as I said in my remarks for the full year.
Look we think we are appropriately conservative on deposit meters.
It is not -- it is way too early to have any idea.
Virtually nothing has moved yet.
And so our job and what we are doing is paying very close attention to the competitive landscape.
These deposits that we're talking about that have the high basis are valuable deposits with valuable clients for us and we want to be competitive and pay fair rates.
But it's so early in the movie that we haven't changed much in our modeling assumptions.
Okay.
And my second question if I can ask an ex-energy credit question.
A lot of concerns we're going to get into some type of broader deterioration of which your numbers showed no signs of heading towards --what are you looking for? Are you seeing any signals of ex-energy changes in either delinquencies or watch trends and are you still comfortable with kind of that low 4s type of charge-off expectation that you guys had talked about previously? Thanks.
So energy metals and mining we're watching very closely industries that could have knock on effects like industrials and transportation but we're not seeing anything broadly in our portfolio right now.
We're just watching very closely which is why -- now obviously you can take our reserve build number and you can say it's almost essentially all made up of oil and gas and metals and mining and behind the scenes we've had upgrades and down grades of a number of other different companies across sectors but nothing particularly thematic yet but we're watching.
Now you point out that credit card Commercial Bank middle market large Corporate credit is as good as it's ever been.
Obviously it's going to get a little bit worse.
I wouldn't call it a cycle per se.
If you have a recession you will see a normal cyclical increase in all those losses.
We're not forecasting a recession.
We think the U.S.
economy looks pretty good at this point.
Your next question -- So based on that with the obvious caveat of what happens with oil prices and energy over the course of the near future yes we would still expect our charge-offs to be relatively low.
Your next question comes from the line of Glenn Schorr with ISI.
Hi thank you.
So I think you talked about some of this Marianne in terms of the method 2 of surcharge now estimated at 3.5.
I'm just curious I think if the numbers are right you took down notionals and there is about $4.321 trillion in level three assets $50 billion in non-op deposits.
You've said that you don't want to be an outlier so you're whittling that down.
I'm curious of the driving force behind it what kind of revenue give-up there is in such a move like this because we like it and thoughts on the go forward.
Yes.
So look we talked about achieving 4% last quarter I think and for disclosure we were quite close to 3.5.
At that point it becomes increasingly compelling to want to look at the margin for what you could do to get within the bucket and so that is what we did in the fourth quarter is spend time really focusing on getting to that achievable boundary which we thought at that point its was.
And remember if not nothing in the year that we started the year thinking we would exit $100 billion of non-operating deposits and while there still could be some volatility in that number of course we've almost doubled that or doubled that in fact.
So we got some wind to our backs in doing it.
It's also the case that when you get the entire business and company attuned to the sense of urgency and desire to want to be increasingly efficient in this way that at the margin in our 100 different things little benefits accrue.
So we're at about 3.5 we're just inside the 3.5% bucket as best we estimate it.
It's not as much important whether we're basis points or surcharge points below or above it it's much more what we do now to get safely in the bucket.
And that's going to still take work.
So that's why he we'll obviously talk to you more about this at Investor Day.
In terms of the give up from an economic perspective we wouldn't have done it at any cost.
We have done it because we think it is important to do because we think it's going to be constructive for the company and because the revenue give-ups were not significant but they weren't zero either.
But to be able to reduce a constraint that is in one way or another likely to bind us in multiple ways in fact likely to bind us.
It was a -- I think very good trade.
It was done effectively client by client.
Yes.
Make sure we are trying to do the right things for our clients not just jamming our balance sheet down and hurting people.
Fair enough.
I just had one quick follow-up on Ken's last question.
If two-third of the economy is consumer led.
You look at all your early stage delinquencies like Ken said.
And Jamie to your comments things look okay.
I hate putting words in your mouth but what do you think the disconnect then is between what's going on in the markets versus what's going on in the trends in your business both in terms of growth and forward-looking credit books.
The U.S.
economy has been chugging along at 2% to 2.5% growth for better part of five years now.
In the last two years it has created 5 million jobs.
And when you look -- if you look at the actual household formation car sales wage people working it still looks okay.
Corporate credit is quite good.
Small business formation it's not back to where it was but it's quite good.
Household formation is going up.
So obviously market turmoil we all look at it every day but I'm not sure most of the 143 million Americans look at it that much who have jobs and you have a big change in the world out there.
People are getting adjusted to China slowing down.
When you have commodity prices go down like that there are big winners and losers.
The oil companies are the losers.
Consumers are the benefit.
Brazil gets hurt.
India benefits.
South Korea benefits.
Japan benefits.
And those kind of terribly worse and hopefully this will all settle down.
It's not the beginning of something really bad.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Foran with Autonomous.
Hi.
The disclosure around the oil and gas is really helpful.
And I was wondering if you could just walk through something similar on metals and mining.
So you gave us the -- I think you said $68 million of full year reserve build and you gave us the not significant if things stay where they are.
Can you give us the balance and then is there a comparable $500 million to $750 million stress test for oil and gas or stress case is there a comparable what is the stress case if broader commodities in metals and mining comes in worse.
Okay.
So our total reserves on balance sheet for metals and mining notwithstanding we built $60-odd million.
This year it's over $200 million.
So the coverage ratio is pretty good.
The exposure is about -- I haven't got the precise numbers in front of me.
They're a third the size of our exposure to oil and gas.
So that 2% of our overall wholesale credit exposure.
So considerably more modest which is why if energy prices and general commodity weakness and stress stays where it is right now even for an extended period we would think that the incremental reserves would be considerably more modest.
And it's also that one is mostly name by name.
Yes for sure.
It's not big asset based reserves.
It's the big corporate credits name by name.
And so both oil and gas and metals and mining in our portfolio oil and gas is close to 60% investment grade and metals and mining about half.
And then on I guess staying with credit on home equities and the whole issue of free cash from interest home-made amortizing.
Can you kind of lay out how it's progressed relative to your expectations so far and also remind us how big the allocation of the reserve is against that and I guess not to lead the witness but is that an area where things are trending early days better than expected and could provide some buffer against maybe anything else that happens on the C&amp;I side? Yes.
So with respect to home equity reclass remember the majority of the problematic home equity underwriting for 2005 to 2008.
So here we are at the beginning of 2016 with sort of [indiscernible].
But we're monitoring it closely and we have some reclass that have happened obviously interest rates are low.
Home price appreciation on the other hand [indiscernible] and there are puts and takes.
We've been monitoring I would say at the margin or more than at the margin at early stages coming in better than we had modeled and remember from an incurred loss perspective we would consider these reclass risks to be largely incurred.
So we tried to reserve them to the best of our ability so we feel good about our reserve but I think we disclosed them.
But so far from a performance perspective I would say slightly better than our models but we continue to monitor it because it's still relatively early.
Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Marianne I know that the Basel committee put our their fundamental review of the trading book proposal this morning so clearly no one's had time to really go through it in detail.
However I'm sure you've already gone through the prior proposals and done the QISs for the last couple of years.
The proposal is better than what had been -- the ruling is better than what the proposal most recently had been.
Just wanted to get a sense from you as to how you can manage to this 2019 implementation timeframe.
Are there things set in motion already or is this something that you would start from here? And if you could just give us some broad strokes on how you think about overall impact that would be helpful.
Yes.
So obviously you'll forgive me because we've been on call since it came out but yes we have been working on this for years.
The problem with this particular rule is as you stated based upon the four QISs that were done there were some -- I would characterize significant challenges with respect to the rules as written and we were expecting there to be a number of meaningful changes and there have been.
In many cases meaningful improvements.
But it's very technical and there's been a lot of changes so we need to suture it to figure out net-net everything.
Although it is clear that net-net despite factors the faith and intention of the committee wasn't necessary to increase market risk capital across the industry it will be higher but by how much it's really going to need to be sifted through and for that same reason for both those same reasons I'm sorry for the reason that the rule has not been stable and there have been significant questions many of which have been either addressed or partially addressed many I guess that have not.
It would have been premature to have taken any actions in advance of figuring out where this has landed and you as you know the period so the comply is three years.
So it's more of a start from here to figure out how to manage with this after we sifted through the details.
So I wish I were able to give you a little bit more of a detailed answer but we're going to need to take the time to go through it.
Right.
I totally understand that.
And I guess my basic question is you can take action as opposed to just deal with what the current decision would be for you.
There are actions that you can take to reduce the impact.
Well there are always actions we can take to reduce the impact.
And so we have to think about them in the context of our overall capital optimization program and again if there are -- if some of the things that we hope -- and honestly I've been on call since it came out.
Some of the things we hoped were going to be addressed have not.
They could have had or may have meaningful impact on the specific types of activity.
And we will have to react accordingly.
And yes we will take actions if that's the right answer.
I wish I could give you more details but we just need to go through it.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Chubak with Nomura.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
So I had a couple of questions on capital.
The first relates to the RWA progress which did surprise positively in the year by about $50 billion ahead of expectations.
And I was just hoping you can give a better sense Marianne just given some of your prepared remarks as to how much of that incremental $50 billion reduction was a function of more proactive mitigation efforts maybe even tied to the mitigation efforts that you guys had talked about which should presumably remain in the run rate versus balance sheet shrinkage that may be due to the risk loss environment that we're experiencing today.
Yes.
So I would say that based upon our sort of fourth quarter balance sheet given that market risk was a driver given that balance sheet levels were a driver particularly on standardized we could give back on standardized as much as 10 to 20 bps of capital of the 10.7% capital accretion.
But the bigger points on the RWA outlook is that we expect to be bound over the medium term by standardized and standardized is going to always have a neutral to upward pressure as we continue to grow these high quality loans.
So even though the RWA is being at the 1.5-ish trillion dollars sooner than we expected is obviously good news regardless of how much that may in the short-term reverse.
Our job is going to be to continue to become more efficient to try and keep it there just given the natural upward pressure of the standardized calculations.
We can become more efficient in advance but we're unlikely to be bound by it in the medium term.
So that's what we're focused on.
I wouldn't take the 1.5 trillion in read through that we'll be continuing to decline from here on standardized.
We'll be continuing to work hard to make sure that we can grow those loans that we love but that have [indiscernible] under a standardized basis.
Understood Marianne.
That's very helpful.
And then maybe just switching gears to the G-SIB surcharge.
Clearly the progress surprise positively getting down to 3.5% I was just wondering how you guys are thinking about establishing minimum capital targets.
I recognize you'll likely lay that out at Investor Day.
Just want to get a better sense as to what methodology are you employing in terms of thinking about a management buffer and all the different binding constraints that you have to manage to day-to-day and thinking about through the cycle target that you guys would like to manage to.
Okay.
If I missed something at the end remind me.
So in terms of how we think about buffers just really conceptually the firm manages and the Board has set for the firm a risk appetite.
That risk appetites has a number of features and capital depletion in a stress environment is one of them.
And so when we think about setting buffers we think about it just broadly you in the contexts of allowing ourselves enough room to absorb losses within our risk appetite and not have to take premature actions from a capital perspective.
So but having said that our buffer has been pretty consistent at the 50 basis point level for a reasonable period of time and we'll update you on all of that at Investor Day.
With respect to our target it's a little bit more complicated than minimum regulatory capital because as you say we're bound potentially by multiple constraints and one of them may be CCAR.
Plus -- well it is CCAR I should say because as you know the first two quarters of this year our capital distribution plans have already been approved.
And we haven't done CCAR but this is not any kind of prediction but it wouldn't surprise you to know that it's unlikely we will pay out 100% of our earnings in CCAR going forward.
So we are on a path to continue to accrete capital though we would like to move in our payout range.
So given that we're still moving towards our 12% target and we will update you if any of that changes at Investor Day.
We'll also as you know potentially going to understand whether or not the Fed changes any of the CCAR parameters and whether that has an impact.
So at the moment the best we know is that we're going to continue to accrete capital albeit more slowly as we hope to move up in the payout range.
But we haven't done CCAR yet.
And that's if the rules don't change.
So 12% is for now.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Wasserstrom with Guggenheim Securities.
Thanks.
Marianne if I could just clarify your NII comment from the very beginning of the call.
Do I understand correctly that the $2 billion of incremental NII that you've cited is just a function of the repricing dynamic as they move through your balance sheet or is there also I guess a contribution from loan growth? So think about in a rate scenario when you can pick whether you believe the market or whether you think the market is or whether you believe the [indiscernible].
And I think it's going to be data dependent.
So we're not going to have a stated opinion on that.
But because of the mix in our balance sheet in 2015 as well as our expectation of continued loan growth we would expect mix to contribute about half of that and the first 25 basis points about the next half because we are more sensitive to the front of rise and the first 25 basis points.
And you can see that in our earnings and risk disclosures.
So even if we see nothing else.
Obviously we believe and the market believes that you're going to see a couple more hikes.
That would be on average another 25 basis points.
That would be incremental NII again.
Great.
Thank you.
And so I know we just touched on RWAs but how do you suggest we think about GAAP assets for this year? I would say I would think about them in a somewhat similar directional way given that our balance sheet ended below $2.4 trillion.
A little bit of it market delivered a lot of it purposeful.
But we do intend to continue to gather deposits and extend loans and portfolio loans as well.
So while you will see some security balances decline and the like I would say again net modest growth about modest and very lending driven.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
Hey good morning.
I just wanted to -- I had a follow-up question on fixed income trading.
I think Dan Pinto has talked benefits from higher rates and so I guess number one I wanted to see if you had had any thoughts on that have you seen any initial benefits to spreads in the fixed trading market with the first rate hike.
In contrast you've had a couple of competitors announce or at least reported that they're cutting headcount.
That seems to be a little bit in contrast to the expectation that fixed income to pick up with higher rates.
So if you could sort of talk through your thoughts on fixed income.
I do notice that you did mention 1Q is off to performing well.
So maybe that's part of it too.
But if you could help on that that would be great.
So in terms of the impact of rates obviously there was a lot of monetary policy confusion broadly in the fourth quarter the ECB underwound the Fed.
There was a lot of confusion.
By the time the rate hike happened it was obviously pretty well understood.
We did see strong activity or strong client activity relatively speaking on the back of that in the rates business more so than necessarily about spreads.
With respect to the fixed income business we've always been very disciplined about how we think about the staffing levels and expenses in that business.
We've managed it very carefully.
The compensation has come down across the trading businesses and it wouldn't surprise you that some of that -- a lot of that has been in fixed income.
And business is upscale and productive.
So -- So you still feel pretty comfortable with your outlook that things could improve and market share gain potential as competitors pull back.
You've even in fixed income -- we have a very good fixed income operation globally around the world.
Rates themselves don't filter through fixed trading directly.
I think what Danny was talking about if you have a healthy economies and confident investors you have more volume in things like that.
We do see a little bit of repricing taking place.
Prime broker repo conduit some of those run through FERC.
That is going to take place as the world adjusts to new -- all the new capital requirements.
And obviously a lot of seasonality in the business which you've experienced for the last decade.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
Hi good morning.
My questions have been asked and answered.
Thanks Erika.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Hi.
If we look at credit spreads in the bond market even ex-energy they've widened considerably and I'm wondering if this has resulted in wholesale credit being repriced at all.
I realize the bond market doesn't set bank loan pricing but just wondering if you've been able to reprice some of the wholesale customers or expect being able to do so.
We've seen no real repricing in loans on the balance sheet.
You have seen a little bit of it people are getting other revenues to make up for their credit exposure.
Yes.
I mean think about the bank loans as being relationship loans that need to be sort of in the context of relationship and everybody is they -- They bought them.
They really repriced in 2008 and 2009.
Banks were continue to lend up at existing price but these were long-term relationships.
Bank loan not reprice like the markets do.
I guess I wonder why like we saw pricing in the debt markets come in considerably over the last several years.
C&amp;I pricing came in.
I realize it might take some time.
But I would think there's some opportunity for some repricing around the edges no? Well we haven't seen it.
Also it's very very competitive.
Everybody has been chasing these loans.
And so that's a factor too.
So we haven't seen it yet.
The number at middle market lending if I remember correctly if you look at it by client 60% of the revenues are not loan related.
So clients they also know what the relationship is to the bank.
While we need to make a good return on capital capital tied to a client is only partially loan related.
That capital on its own doesn't earn an adequate return.
Simple lending on its own generally not an adequate return business.
Your next question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Jamie to follow up on your comments about maybe some better pricing in prime brokerage and repo because of the capital requirements or requiring you guys to raise prices can you expand upon that? Do you see it growing where you could get even better pricing going forward because of less competition.
Can you give us more color there? I think the better way to look at it is people seem in certain of our businesses and I mentioned those and there are some other ones capital has been deployed people have adjusted to the new rules and you've seen pricing go up.
But it goes up a lot.
I wouldn't count on it going up a lot more from there.
The markets are going to be competitive at that point.
The use of balance sheet the cost has gone up.
Not loans but most of the other stuff.
And remember we think about our prime brokerage business going hand in glove with equity.
That's correct Marianne.
And so while the repricing is helpful and everybody is going to continue to always observe their pricing.
We built our platform internationally Europe we are seeing strong demand for our traffic product.
In Asia we're adding clients.
We've got the wind to our backs.
So it's an important business to our clients.
You're right there are some other people potentially not going to be as aggressive and if we can take share we certainly will.
Great.
And then the follow-up question is obviously the FASB is coming out this quarter with the new loan loss reserve methodology the current expected credit loss versus what we're using today.
Obviously the incurred loss model.
There's going to be a true-up for everybody.
Have you guys given any thought that when this goes into place when you may take that true-up assuming say you have to implement it by 2019 or something like that would you do it much before that or can you give us some thoughts on your thinking about what's going to happen.
Well obviously we expect any transition adjustment to go through equity.
If we are able to adopt it early we might do that.
I'm not aware that we are.
Your last question comes from the line of Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
Thank you very much.
We know that you implemented a new disclosure form in the mortgage banking space trend.
Did that have any -- you guys had very good mortgage banking results.
Did that have any impact whatsoever on your operations in the mortgage bank? So yes obviously it was -- I think if you add up other servicing rules print them out put them on the floor and stand them next to me they're a foot taller.
They are very complicated.
There's a lot of operational complexity to complying.
And we're working very hard at doing that.
I would say in the quarter we did as part of being cautious about making sure that we're complying our cycle times were a couple days few days worsened.
And so volumes our origination volumes are a little lower than we would have otherwise seen that's a lot.
And that's just timing and it's just days.
But not really from a financial results perspective because of the way we recognize revenue.
So I would call it a little bit of teaming products across the industry by the way not just us nothing significant.
We are going to get the work finished and so it talks.
It is what it is.
And then a follow-up question on your portfolio.
You look like you grew your residential loans by about $11 billion.
Last quarter you said it was a mix between agency and jumbo.
If it's a big chunk of it's agency can you give us your thoughts on portfolio of that agency product.
Yes.
so it's about 60% jumbo 40% agency or conventional performing and it's a better execution decision.
So when we look at the better economics between selling or portfolioing the mortgage we'll generally choose the better economics but we also prefer the annuity nature of the NII the lower servicing risk and the better capital efficiency.
So it has been the case over the course of the last several quarters that it has been the best execution to portfolio of these mortgages and actually they are generating a nice return on equity.
And you do have a follow-up question from John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
One quick follow-up Marianne.
You've had some pretty big tax gains the last couple quarters running below 30% of your tax rate.
At some point do you pull forward future benefits and run with a higher tax rate in the future.
We have had pretty big tax gains over the course of the last -- most notably over the last quarter of course the last couple of years.
Most of those related to the sort of call it 2003 through 2008 tax period when we were going through the financial crisis and so some of the matters were more complex and we took appropriate reserving decisions on that.
There are many less of those very complicated matters ahead of us and so we wouldn't expect to see the same sort of size of tax benefit going forward as we've seen in the past.
But we had some this quarter.
So we'll have a few and generally speaking they are because of the nature of the reserving perhaps generally speaking we take a conservative approach and bias to the positive but it could be much more plus or minus zero at this point.
So what's your natural tax rate if you don't have those.
Is around 30 or is it closer to -- ? Thirty.
Thanks.
You have another follow-up question from the line of Brian Foran with Autonomous.
Hi Brian.
I was wondering if I could just sneak in on credit cards.
Do you think the competitive environment has hit a plateau and on co-brands are there any kind of large upcoming repricing events and is there any bigger than a bread box size you can give on Marianne? So do I think it's plateaued? I think it remains incredible competitive generally particularly in the co-brand space.
So plateaued at a very competitive level I suppose.
But in terms of -- I'm not going to talk about any specific names actually Brian in terms of the potential for repricing.
It's an important part of our business and we're going to defend our business.
Thank you very much.
Your next question is a follow-up question from Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
Hi Gerard.
Thank you.
Hi Marianne.
If the regulators lift the dividend payout ratio in this year's CCAR to 40% would you guys consider lifting your dividend payout ratio something closer to that? Well it's a Board decision and so neither have we received that guidance from the regulators nor have we done CCAR and had that discussion yet with the Board.
But we have generally said that the Board likes to have the flexibility to increase dividends over time and we have had our dividend most recently sort of at or close to that soft cap.
So we would love that capacity and I would imagine that over time it may be used but again it is a Board decision not a management decision.
Thank you.
And then just one last follow-up.
On the G-SIB buffer obviously you guys have done an incredible job in bringing it down to where it is today.
When do you expect the regulators to put you into that bucket assuming you guys are obviously looking at the same types of numbers? So from we do have -- so first of all I would say the following.
Right now my understanding and if I'm wrong forgive me is that your spot balance sheet two years prior that would drive your two years forward.
But the reality is if you want my opinion given that we're going to be reporting quarterly going forward and because of the likelihood that G-SIB may or may not feature into CCAR.
I think it's going to be less important necessarily what you're at any one moment in time but where you are projecting to be or stay.
I suspect that we will get the benefit potentially of this not today.
We disclosed our balance sheet.
But I think it's going to need to be a little bit more dynamic going forward as it guess potentially introduced into stress test.
Great.
Thank you.
But I don't know that.
At this time there are no further questions.
Thank you everyone.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.